as wireless, films and publications to raise the ne-  cessary money. Paragraph 1 was adopted.
2. PUBLICATIONS.  Subject to a remark by the Canadian delegate  that five or six (instead of twenty) good and wide-  ly circulated pamphlets would be enough, pa-  ragraph 2 was adopted.
3. FELLOWSHIPS.  Paragraph 3 was adopted without discussion.
4. FIELD CONSULTANT GROUPS.  The FRENCH delégate pointed out that experts  sent to the devastated countries should exercise  ‘great tact and he suggested that they should not  be parties, but individuals — psychologists, so-  ciologists — who would get into direct touch with  the schools.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate agreed, and sug-  gested that the second sentence in paragraph 4  should be amended as follows : ‘ Unesco, at the  invitation of governments and in co-operation with  voluntary agencies, could organize the despatch  of qualified experts to visit war-torn areas. ”  Dr. WILSON proposed that the first sentence  should be amended to read : ““ It is equally  desirable to send to damaged areas individual per-  sons or groups of qualified specialists from more  fortunate lands. ”  Sieh these amendments paragraph 4 was adop-  led. :
5. YOUTH SERVICE CAMPS.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate asked whether  the question of Youth Service Camps was also  being studied by the Programme Commission and  the Education Sub-Commission.  Dr. WILSON replied that the question had two  aspects, an educational aspect, which was the con- |  cern of the Education Sub-Commission, and the  relief aspect, which was on the agenda of the Re-  habilitation and Reconstruction Commission. He  explained that six international organizations were  engaged in organizing youth camps, but that there  was no liaison between them, and that Unesco’s  task should consist in co-ordinating and encoura-  ging their work.  The CANADIAN and CHINESE delegates thought  it would be better if fellowship funds were used to  send students from devastated countries to more  fortunate countries rather than organize Youth  Service Camps.  Dr. WILSON, supported by the delegate of CzE-  CHOSLOVAKIA, was of opinion that Youth Service  Camps, by bringing young men and girls from  different countries into contact with one another  in their daily lives, and by helping to establish  friendly links between them, were an important  factor in creating better understanding between  nations. He thought that government collaborat-  ion was necessary in the maintaining and organ-  om  ising of these camps, It was a special form of  student collaboration. The expenses were often  paid by the families or national bodies concerned.  As in the awarding of fellowships, the selection  would be made through Unesco.  The DANISH delegate stated that his country had  invited three hundred Polish and Czech students  to come to Denmark to pursue their studies. They  had been able to meet during vacations and follow  courses under their own professors. On that basis  - he proposed to add to Unesco’s programme the  possibility that countries undamaged by the war  might invite groups of students, teachers'and even  children from the devastated countries. He sug-  gested that the Commission take the advice of  experts in these matters, who had been author-  ized by the London Conference to assist the pre-  sent Conference in the capacity of observers,  On behalf of Poland and Czechoslovakia, the  CHAIRMAN warmly thanked Denmark for her very  generous reception of students from those two  countries.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA associated him-  self with the Polish delegate’s thanks to Denmark.  He hoped that one day Czechoslovakia might come  similarly to the aid of children from other coun-  tries, and thought that the bonds of friendship  between young people created by these visits were  a pledge of future peace.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1946 at 2.45 p. m.  Chairman : Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom).  later M. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).
5. YOUTH SERVICE CAMPS (continuation).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES underlined  the importance of youth service groups in the  formation of mutual international understanding.  He considered that the sums necessary for these  camps should not come from fellowships, but  that donations on the part of charitable organ-  izations should be encouraged.  He proposed two amendments to Item 5. The  first sentence of the first paragraph would read :  “In co-operation with students’ organizations and  all other interested agencies, Unesco should seek  to encourage the establishment of youth service  camps and to provide for the equitable distribut-  ion of such camps in the devastated regions in  the course of the summer of 1947. ”  The first sentence of the second paragraph  would read : ““ If Unesco were to take the ini-  tiative in organizing such camps, this is not to  say that Unesco would bear the main costs of  such establishments... ”  This proposal was presented in English and, from  the rest of the discussion, it emerged that there  was considerable difference between the French and  the English texts of Item 5. It was therefore de-  cided to redraft both these texts in order to bring  them into line; the discussion would be resumed  when the new texts had been circulated to dele-  gates.
140 —   The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  thought that this problem should be envisaged  from the widest angle; he moved the reference  to the Education Sub-Commission of the following  questions : (I) reception of students and pupils’  organizations from the devastated regions in thé  more favoured countries, for education and assis- -  tance; (2) organization of journeys in foreign coun-  tries; (3) exchange of correspondence; (4) assis-  tance to all youth services.  The proposal of the South African delegate was  adopted.
6. EMERGENCY ACTIVITIES,  The FRENCH delegate agreed that Unesco must  have an emergency fund for the more imperative  requirements, but he did not think that this acti-  vity should be too extended, Unesco’s essential  task being to approach official or private national  or international organizations, in order to obtain  their assistance and to intervene financially only  - when these organizations were unable to do so.  On an observation of the UNITED STATES de-  legate, the FRENCH delegate proposed that Item 6,  first paragraph, last sentence, should be amended  as follows : ‘“ Hence. the necessity of establishing  a small reserve fund, which, in an emergency,  might be used and regarded as tacitly renewable. ”  Item 6 was adopted with this amendment.  RESOLUTIONS PROPOSED FOR CONSIDERATION  BY THE RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION  COMMISSION  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the  text of the resolutions. (Document Unesco/C/19).  Resolutions Nos. 2, 3 and 7, paragraph I.  After a long discussion concerning resolution  No. 2, proposed by the United Kingdom delegate,  No. 3, proposed by the United States delegate  and No. 7, paragraph 1, proposed by the Greek  delegate, it was decided, on the suggestion of the  Danish delegate, to suspend the meeting for a quar-  ter of an hour in order to enable the represen-  tatives of the countries having presented these  resolutions to agree among themselves, with the  help of the French delegate, in order to present  a single and clear text in English and in French.  The meeting was suspended from 4.15 to 4.40 p.m.  When it was resumed, the Chairman announced  that it had been possible to reach an agreement  and that the typescript would be circulated the  next morning for discussion.  Resolution No.1 (presented by the Polish delega-  tion).  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate thought that  the proposals of the Polish delegation were so  important that it was impossible to approve them  without having had time to consider them. He  proposed that they should be referred to the Exe-  cutive Board.  The CHAIRMAN preferred that the discussion of  this question should be adjourned till tomorrow  morning in order to enable the United Kingdom  delegation to study it more thoroughly. The Com-  mission agreed to this arrangement.  Resolution No. 4 (presented by the Uruguayan  delegate).  It was decided to refer this resolution to the  Sub-Commission on Education.  Resolutions 5 and 6 would be discussed when  the original French texts had been circulated.  Resolution No. 7 (presented by the Greek dele-  gate). .  The GREEK delegate recalled that paragraph 1  had been incorporated with Resolutions 2 and 3.  He suggested that paragraph 2 should be discus-  sed during the examination of Item IV, b and c,  of the Agenda. This proposal was adopted.  Resolution No. 8 (presented-by the Iranian dele-  gate).  The CHAIRMAN proposed that this resolution  should be referred to the Executive Board for  study from the legal angle.  The IRANIAN delegate urged that his ideas  should be taken into account in the recommen-  dation referring his resolution to the Executive  Board. He emphasized Item 2 : creation of an  international foan fund for the assistance of coun-  tries to enable them to undertake their cultural  ‘reconstruction themselves.  In order to prevent this extremely important  question from being rejected by the Commission  owing to an insufficient study of the matter, it  was decided to refer it to the Executive Board,  with a recommendation reflecting the opinion of  the Iranian delegate.  Resolution No. 9  The CZECHOSLOVAK delegate asked 1f contact  had heen already established with international  organizations and in what way they had reacted.  Dr. WILSON explained that the Technical Sub-  Committee had approached international organ-  izations; meetings had taken place, letters had  been exchanged, some of them had sent observers  to the Conference. It was certain that many of  these organizations would approve the creation of  a council for the co-ordination of their activities  and of an Executive Committee of that council.  The SouUTH AFRICAN delegate had some doubt  as to Unesco’s competence in this matter. He pro-  posed that the Legal Advisers should be consulted  and that the question should be referred to the  Executive Board.  Dr. HUxLEY explained that Unesco had a per-  fectright to conclude agreementswith non-govern-  niental international organizations. This principle  had been approved by the General Conference, and  Unesco had even been encouraged to promote  the creation of new international organizations. A  Committee had already undertaken to establish  relations between them; it would be easy to trans-  form it into a council.  The CHAIRMAN put resolution No. g to the vote.  It was adopted unanimously.  — I41 ——   Resolution No. 10  Resolution No. 10, proposed by the Belgian de-  legation, and scconded by the French and Greek  delegations, was unanimously adopted.  FIFTH MEETING  Heid on 27 November 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : M. B. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).  RESOLUTIONS PROPOSED FOR CONSIDERATION BY  THE RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION  COMMISSION.  (Doc. Unesco /c/19) (continuation).  It was decided that some of the resolutions  would be set aside, either because they had al-  ready been dealt with, or because it was advisable  to postpone their diseussion.  Resolution No. 1 was referred to the Executive  Board for consideration. '  The Meeting then dealt with the text which  the délegations of the UNITED STATES, FRANCE,  GREECE and the UNITED KINGDOM proposed to  substitute for paragraph 2, page 5, of Document  C/11 (English). This text was approved.  Resolution No. 2 submitted by the UNITED  KinGpou delegation, which provides for the mo-  dification of Recommendations Nos. 2'and 3 (ap-  pearing on page 5 of the English text of C/11)  and for the addition of a Recommendation No. 4,  was then taken up.  With regard to the proposed alteration to Re-  commendation No. 2, the CHAIRMAN considered  that this Recommendation should be taken as  adopted, by virtue of the approval given to the  text submitted jointly by the delegations of the  UNITED STATES, FRANCE, GREECE and the Unit-  ed Kingdom. A  The United Kingdom delegate having stated  his views on the amendment to Recommendation  No. 3 and on the adoption of Recommendation  No. 4, these items were also considered as appro-  ved,  Resolution No. 3, proposed by the UNITED STA-  TES. and Resolution No. 5, proposed by FRANCE,  were considered as adopted by virtue of the Com-  mission's approval of the text submitted jointly  by the delegations of the United States, France,  GREECE and the UNITED KINGDOM.  The same decision was taken in regard to the  first part of Resolution No. 7, proposed by the  GREEK delegation. The second part of this Reso-  ution would be considered when the question of  Unesco’s relations with other international organ-  izations was reviewed.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that Proposal No. 9  and paragraph 1 of Proposal No. 10 had already  been adopted. As there were no objections made  to paragraphs 2 and 3, the latter were also con-  sidered as approved. -  The discussion then began on Resolution No. 11.  The Curnese delegate hoped that Unesco would  continue the work undertaken by Unrra. The  GREEK delegate expressed the same hope. The  UNITED KINGDOM delegate pointed out that when  pursuing the task undertaken by Unrra, unless  precautions were taken, there was a danger of  encroaching on other international organizations,  such as the World Health Organization. Unesco’s  ‘ functions must be clearly determined.  The FRENCH delegate supported the United  Kingdom delegate and proposed the addition to  Resolution No. 11 of a motion which the French  delegation would communicate to the Chairman  and which would provide for the establishment  of an organization to continue the work of Unrra  in the material field, and stipulate that Unesco  should concern itself with questions of an intellect-  ual character and with vocational training.  The CHAIRMAN proposed the adjournment of the  discussion on this question until the problem of  Unesco's relations with other international organ-  izations was dealt with.  The meeting then turned to Resolution No. 12,  After taking into consideration the observations  by the UNITED STATES and FRENCH delegates, the  CHAIRMAN suggested that the first part of this Re-  solution could be submitted for the Commission’s  approval and that they should wait until the Sec-  tions were in a position to send in more detailed  reports before taking up the second part.  The Danisu delegate suggested that the first  part of a project which he had communicated to  the Chairman, concerning the assistance to be  granted to teaching staff, should then be consid-  ered. :  The CHAIRMAN proposed that this question  should be postponed until they had dealt with the  Resolutions submitted to the Commission.  With regard to Resolution No. 13, it was pro-  posed to alter the English text in order to make  it quite clear that national organizations will be  able to operate not only in war-devastated coun-  tries, but in any other country. In reply to a ques-  tion by the UNITED KINGDOM delegate, the CHAIR-  MAN pointed out that these organizations could  be under either government or private control.  Resolution No. 14 was adopted.  With regard to Resolution No. 13, the FRENCH  delegate proposed that the term ‘‘ countries re-  ceiving assistance ’’ should be substituted for ‘“ im-  poverished countries ’’. The Resolution was adop-  fed with. this alteration.  The CHAIRMAN stated that Resolution No. 17  would be considered in conjunction with Ttem 4  (c) of the Agenda (co-operation with private in-  ternational organizations).  The Meeting then dealt with the alterations to  be made to the draft of the second paragraph of  Article V concerning Youth Camps (Document  C/11, English text page 9). After a short discus-  sion, the delegates of the UNITED STATES, FRANCE  and the UNITED KINGDOM agreed upon the sub-  stitution of the following text for that which ap-  pears at the beginning of paragraph 1 : “ Even  if Unesco takes the initiative of organizing camps,  this in no way implies that... ’’ The reason for  this proposed alteration was that it was not nor-  mally Unesco’s responsibility to take the initia-  tive in this respect.  The proposal submitted by the DANISH delega-  — I42 —