ing a stand on the matter of freedom of education,  Unesco would be interfering with the domestic  policy of governments, and a difference must be  made between respect for teachers’ individual  opinions, which nobody disputed, and the organ-  ization of education in the State, for which the  governments must be responsible.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES suggested  that the proposal of the Chinese delegation be sub-  mitted to the Director-General, who would appoint  a Commission to study it. This proposal was ac-  cepted, The CHINESE delegate withdrew the three  points submitted and asked that only the general  principles be considered by this Sub-Commission.  The proposal was then adopted.
3. INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES OF STUDENTS  AND TEACHERS.  The Sub-Commission adopted a proposal by the  delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM concerning in-  ternational exchanges of students, teachers and  youth leaders. This proposal was seconded by the  delegate of FRANCE, who wished that these ex-  changes should extend to leaders of adult cultur-  al movements.
4. ANNUAL CELEBRATION  OF THE COMITY OF NATIONS.  The Sub-Commission adopted the following  proposal by the BRAZILIAN delegate : ‘“ The Sub-  Commission on Education recommends the adop-  tion of a special day devoted to the celebration  of the comity of nations. The aim of such a cele-  bration of mankind, bringing in all ages and all  peoples, would be to promote every year a sense  of historical continuity and international solida-  rity. It should be observed throughout the world  on the First of January, so that each year should  open on the keynote of universal brotherhood ”.
5. PROBLEMS OF THE RECRUITMENT, TRAINING AND  SALARIES OF TEACHERS; ScHOOL BUILDINGS AND  MATERIALS.  A proposal by the AUSTRALIAN delegate for  ‘the comprehensive study of the teaching pro-  fession, of the demand for teachers, of problems  of recruitment and training and of their status  and remuneration ”’ was altered, and the follow-  ing amendment, proposed by the UNITED STATES  delegate : ‘ that Unesco be a Clearing House for  such studies already carried out in the Member  States and that the Director-General maintain the  appropriate contacts on these matters, ” was adop-  ted.  Two other proposals by the AUSTRALIAN dele-  gate for similar studies regarding educational me-  thods and school architecture and equipment were  rejected by the Sub-Commission.  The following proposal was then adopied :  *“ That Unesco should recognize the fundamental  value, both from the point of view of Education  and of creating individual goodwill, of schemes for  the exchange of children, students, teachers and  youth leaders, members of professions. Unesco  should act as the Clearing House for information  on all such schemes, whether governmental or non=  governmental and whether international or bi-  lateral, and should give every possible stimulation  to such activities ””.
6. TEXTBOOK OF Civic EDUCATION.  The delegate of ECUADOR suggested that a com-  petition should take place throughout the world  for a textbook of civic education, which would deal  with man’s duties towards : (x) his country, (2)  the cuitural group to which he belongs, (3) hu-  manity.  The delegate of EGYPT and the CHAIRMAN con-  sidered that this question fell within the compe-  tence of the Social Sciences Section.  The delegate of ECUADOR maintained his mo-  tion, which was rejected.  The work of the Education Sub-Commission  came to an end with the study of these questions.  A report would be made by the Rapporteur in  conjunction with the Chairman, Vice-Chairman,  and Secretary of the Sub-Commission.  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 4 December 1946 at 12 noon.  Chairman : Mr. G. D. STODDARD  (United States).  The Meeting considered the report (Unesco/C/  Prog. Com./S. C. Educ. 7), which was circulated  to members, and it was agreed that the addition-  al items to this draft would be referred to the  Co-ordination Committee.  The CHAIRMAN read a proposal which had al-  ready been submitted to the Co-ordination Com-  mittee, stating “ that the project concerning an  International University contained in Document  S. C. Educ. /2, page 3, should be separated from  the projected survey on training in international  relations, and linked up with the study of Educat-  ion for International Understanding (S.C.Educ./7  Ia). ”  Ye also stated that two other projects had been  communicated to the Education Sub-Commission  by the Rehabilitation Commission and that these  two projects were covered by the programme in  its present form.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate considered that this  study could be carried out as provided under Sec-  tion I (a) document 7.  The CHAIRMAN explained that this amendment  was supported by the United States delegation.  The INDIAN delegate suggested the addition of  the words ‘ and higher educational establish-  ments ’’ after the words ‘“ primary and secondary  schools ”’.  The CHAIRMAN considered that this proposal  was most appropriate and would extend the scope  of the project.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate seconded the amend-  ment.  The amendment was adopted.  The Representative of the Co-ordination Com-  mittee said that he had no comments to make.  The CHAIRMAN asked the Meeting to consider  — 155 —      the duplicated report (Document Unesco/C/Prog.  Com./S. C./Educ. 7).  The UNITED KINGDOoMm delegate asked if this  document must be adopted as a strict record of  the decisions taken or whether alterations could  be made.  The CHAIRMAN replied that the main object was  to ensure that the document was a true version  of what had been adopted, but that a few amend-  ments could be admitted within those limits.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate said he would  like to see mention made of the very important  task allotted to the National Commissions.  The NORWEGIAN delegate supported the United  Kingdom delegate’s proposal. :  The FRENCH delegate thought that Unesco’s re-  lations with national or international organizations  whose aims were similar to its own, should be  mentioned in the text.  The representative of the SECRETARIAT read a  suggested text to be inserted as an Annex to the  Document : .  “The Education Sub-Commission emphasizes  the importance of the assistance which can be  given by the National Commissions in carrying  out the general programme. The International  and National Organizations can also play a si-  milar part in the fulfilment of this programme. ”  The UNITED KiNGDoM delegate approved the  wording of the first sentence and suggested that  they should vote on it separately.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate proposed to'emphas-  ize the optional and non-obligatory character of  National Commissions, and asked that this should  appear in the Preamble of the document and not  in the body of the text.  The FRENCH delegate stressed that the second  paragraph should be voted upon at the same time  as the first. '  The Povrisn delegate remarked that the Nation-  al Commissions were supposed to include all na-  tional organizations whose aims were related to  Unesco’s and that the opening of direct relations  with national organizations might have serious  political repercussions.  The CHAIRMAN put the two following proposals  to the vote :
1, The Education Sub-Commission considers  that the National Commissions or national or-  gans of co-operation can play an important part  in the encouragement and implementation of  the programme outlined above. Unesco strongly  urges them to assume this responsibility.  The proposal was adopted.
2. After the words “ national organs of co-  operation " add the words “ together with other  national and international organizations. ”  The INDIAN delegate seconded the motion and  proposed the inclusion of the words “ qualified or  competent national and international organiza-  tions.” °°  The CHAIRMAN suggested the word ¢ interes-  ted, ”  — IS  The FRENCH delegate preferred qualified. ”  _ The CHAIRMAN approved “ qualified ” and read  the new text to be added to the Preamble  The INDIAN and FRENCH delegates expressed  their approval of this text.  The proposal was adopted by nine votes to one.  The CHAIRMAN submitted for discussion and put  to the vote the whole of the report, to be taken  as the official report of the Sub-Commission.  The CHINESE delegate proposed the adoption  of the report.  The representative of the Co-ordination Com-  mittee pointed out that the delegates had never  been consulted on the question of priorities.  The CHAIRMAN said that the matter had been  referred to the Executive Board and to the Direc-  tor-General, and asked if this interpretation was  approved by the meeting.  The CANADIAN delegate supported this propo-  sal.  The representative of the UNITED NATIONS rais-  ed an objection in regard to paragraph (a) Sec-  tion IV, considering that it would be courteous  to mention the United Nations before the World  Health Organization.  The CHAIRMAN said that he felt sure that such  was the original intention of the Sub-Commission.  He then reverted to an objection raised by the  Indian delegate concerning paragraph (b) of Sec-  tion I. The INDIAN delegate’s proposal was to de-  lete the clause concerning the age-limit (35) and  to substitute the words ‘“ young members of the  teaching profession. ”  He considered that the best procedure would  be to include a note in the Annex to the ef-  fect that the Secretariat preferred to send young  teachers, without saying so in the text of the  report.  This deletion was accepted.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate raised the question  of priorities. The programme of the Sub-Com-  mission had to be examined by the Budget Com-  mission and by the Programme Commission. The  latter might have to drop certain projects and  it was therefore necessary to classify them. Con-  sequently he proposed that a special sub-commit-  tee be set up to determine this classification.  The CHAIRMAN asked that a vote should first  be taken on the Report.  The Report was adopied.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal for  the establishment of a Special Sub-Committee to  determine an order of priority for the various pro-  jects. a  This proposal was adopted. BE  He then proposed that this Sub-Committee  should be composed of the following countries :  Australia, France, China, United Kingdom and  Czechoslovakia, together with the Chairman of  the Education Sub-Commission and the Rappor-  teurs.  This proposal was adopted.