2. More general : the agreement must be dealt  with as part of Unesco’s activities, on the one  hand, and of those of the other specialized agen-  cies on the other hand. If the draft were adopt-  ed, pending a general solution of the question,  nothing would have been settled definitely. He  proposed a resolution, according to which the  General Conference’ would invite the govern-  ments of States Members to make arrangements  for granting privileges and immunities to the  representatives of Unesco proceeding abroad on  official duty.  M. WARENDORF (Secretariat) emphazised that  the privileges and immunities granted to Unesco  aimed at facilitating execution of the aims and  objects of the Organization. As to journeys abroad  by representatives and experts of the Organiza-  tion, the facilities granted should be not merely  political, but also economic.  Replying to a point raised previously by the  delegate of the UNITED STATES, M. Warendorf said  that, for technical reasons, it would be more diffi-  cult to conclude an agreement between Unesco  and the French Government, if the Convention  were not adopted as laid down.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM asked  for a vote on the proposal of the United States.  The delegate of GREECE stated that, if the  French Government was prepared to renew the -  statute of immunities during the transition period,  a vote must be taken immediately, and the  General Conference must be asked to pass a  resolution recommending other States to take  similar measures without delay in order to est-  ablish a uniform system of rights and privileges.  The CHAIRMAN then read the motion presented  by the United States.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA proposed the follow-  ing amendment :  “ Pending the conclusion of a General Con-  vention defining the privileges and immunities  of specialized agencies, their officials and repre-  sentatives of Member States, the General Con-  ference requests the Government of each Mem-  ber State to grant appropriate facilities to such  representatives and officials of Unesco as may  visit or pass through that State in the course  of their official duties. ”  The motion was adopted as amended.  The draft agreement with the International In-  stitute of Intellectual Co-operation was then dis-  cussed.  M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) stated that the In-  stitute, which had been founded in 1924 by the  French Government, would close down on 31st  December, 1946. Its assets had been transferred  to the League of Nations, which at the Twenty-  First Assembly in Geneva in April 1946 ‘transfer-  red its rights to the United Nations. The Econo-  mic and Social Council recommended that the Ge-  neral Assembly of the United Nations should assign  to Unesco certain of the rights to the property of  the Institute.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM observ-  ed that the Instrument specifying the functions  of the Institute was ratified in 1938 by fifteen or  sixteen countries, and he asked the Secretariat  whether this Instrument was still in force, in which  case the transfer might give rise to certain difficul-  ties. +  The delegate of the UNITED STATES replied that  under the terms of the Instrument, eight ratifi-  cations were sufficient to ensure its validity. As  this condition was still fulfilled, the Instrument  had remained in force to this day. Referring to  the transfer of activities, he proposed the following  two alterations to the text:  I. Article 2, relating to the Programme of the  Institute, provided that Unesco should continue  the work and, in particular, complete certain  tasks undertaken by the Institute, which force  of circumstances had compelled it to suspend.  He proposed to add at the end of the sentence  .the words : ‘‘ to the extent to which they are con-  sistent with the aims and purposes of Unesco. ”
2. Article 4, relating to the staff : he proposed  to substitute for it the text proposed by the  Commissions engaged in drafting the staff regu-  lations.  M. SEYDOUX asked that this question be defer-  red to a later meeting.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1946 at 10.40 a.m.  Chairman : M. Luis Alberto SANCHEZ (Peru).  The discussion was resumed on the draft agree-  ment between Unesco and the International In-  stitute of Intellectual Co-operation.  The CHAIRMAN submitted to the Sub-Commis-  sion the amendments of the United States dele-  gate to Articles 2 and 4 of the Agreement. These  Articles were adopted in the following form :  Article 2. — PROGRAMME OF THE INTERNATIONAL  INSTITUTE OF INTELLECTUAL CO-OPERATION.  Within the framework of the programme to  be adopted by the General Conference in the  course of its first Session, Unesco shall endea-  vour to ensure the continuity of the work done  by the International Institute of Intellectual  Co-operation since 1924 and in particular to  complete certain tasks undertaken by the Insti-  tute, in so far as the Conference may see fit.  Article 4. — STAFF OF THE INTERNATIONAL INSTI-  » TUTE OF INTELLECTUAL CO-OPERATION.  Allowing for equal conditions of capacity  and merit, and for the principles laid down by:  Unesco for the recruiting of staff, special consi-  deration shall be given to applications from  the former members of the Institute who, by  the experience they have acquired in the Insti-  tute’s service, are able to make an effective  contribution to the work of Unesco.  M. de BroNAy (Secretariat) suggested two mi-  nor amendments : page 4, last paragraph of the  English, to read : ‘“ In view of the resolution ap-  proved by the General Assembly of the United  Nations granting to Unesco... ”’; Page 5, Art. 3 (b)  Utilization of these assets : the first phrase would  read: ‘ In view of the decision of the United Na-  tions... ”’  The first of these proposals was adopted.  As regards the transfer of the assets of the Inter-  national Institute of Intellectual Co-operation to   Unésco, the BELGIAN delegate, supported by the  UNITED KINGDOM delegate, proposed that the list  of these assets should be preceded by the sentence :  ‘The United Nations shall enter into possession  of the said assets on the following conditions... ”’  This amendment was adopid.  The Agreement between Unesco and the Inter-  national Institute of Intellectual Co-operation was  adopted as a whole.  Since the French ard the. English texts of the  agreement did not exactly.coincide, it was decid-  ed, on the proposal of the AUSTRALIAN delegate,  to appoint a drafting committtee to draw up a  definitive wording for the texts approved by the  Sub-Commission. - - .  The FRENCH delegate read out the following tex  “Whereas the International Act of 1938 was  designed to facilitate the activity of the Inter-  national Institute of Intellectual Co-operation,  without modifying its statute, within thé frame-  work of the League of Nations;  ‘‘ whereas the dissolution of the League of  Nations entails automatically that of the Inter-  national Committee of Intellectual Co-opérat-  ion and of the Institute which is its executive  body;  ‘“ whereas the said International Act of 1938
1s henceforth purposeless;  ‘“ The French Government, which convened  the conference for the drawing up of the Iter-  national Act of 1938, will approach the Govern-  “ments of the ten existing states that ratified the  Act of 1938, in order to secure their agreement  to the cancellation of the said Act. ”  The Sub-Commission took note of this statement  and unanimously expressed its’ satisfaction.  The CHAIRMAN submitted for discussion the  draft agreement between Unesco and the Interna-  tional Bureau of Education.  M. de BrLoNAY explained that this agreement  had been prepared by a committee composed of  Messrs, Arnason (United States), Carneiro (Bra-  zil) and Seydoux (France). He explained that, for  the moment, it would be difficult to incorporate  the Bureau in Unesco and that the agreement sub-  mitted was therefore of a provisional character,  The UNITED States delegate proposed an  amendment to paragraph 2 of Article V: “Once  the definitive agreement has been concluded and  subject to approval by the General Conference  of Unesco, the international conferences on edu-  cation shall be convened by Unesco. ”  This amendment was adopted.  Qn the proposal of the United States delegate,  seconded by the FRENCH delegate, it was decided  to amend paragraph 2 of Article VITI as follows :  the first phrase would read : “ Should the defini-  tive agreement prescribe the merging of the two  organizations within the framework of Unesco... ?*;  this would be followed by the text of Article 4 of  the agreement between Unesco and the Interna-  tional Institute of Intellectual Co-operation.  This amendment was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then opened the discussion on  the principles laid down for Unesco’s relations with  non-governmental international organizations.  M. de BLONAY said that many private interna-  tional organizations had activities which came  within the framework of Unesco. Relations had  already been established, and the Preparatory  Commission had drawn up the principles on which  collaboration with these organizations should be  based.  The UnrrED KincDoMm delegate expressed his  general agreement with the principles, but wished  to submit two amendments :
1. Paragraph 2 was an internal matter con-  cerning the Secretariat acting on the instruc-  tions of the Director-General, and he proposed  that this Article should be suppressed.
2. Article 6 mentioned working agreements  and he proposed that this term should be repla-  ced by ‘‘ arrangements ”’. It was necessary to  distinguish between agreements of a legal and  formal character and those which were purely  administrative.  The UNITED STATES delegate had two other sug-  gestions : —
1. To add to Article 5 a ‘‘ and of its commis-  sions. ”
2. Article 5 € was not quite clear : financial  assistance might be interpreted as continued as-  sistance. Unesco should not undertake to assist  organizations which could not possibly be self-  supporting, but should aid only those which were  likely to succeed.  He proposed the following addition “ and which  contribute to the aims and objects of Unesco. ”  Finally, he proposed to suppress paragraph 4  No. VI on page 16 of the English text : “ recur-  rent grants-in-aid ”.  Other amendments were proposed to Article VI,  paragraph 2 and to Article V (C).  The CHAIRMAN suggested that a Drafting Com-  mittee should prepare a new text of the same  substance, but with a different wording, in the  light of the various amendments submitted by the  United States, United Kingdom, Greek, Polish,  Australian and French delegations.  This committee would include delegates from  the following countries : United Kindgom, Uni-  ted States, Belgium, France, Egypt, Mexico and  Australia.  This committee would probably be able to sub-  mit the new text at the next meeting of the Sub-  Commission on Monday, 2 December.  The draft agreement with the International  Council of Scientific Unions was then submitted  for discussion.  M. de BLONAY read a resolution presented by  the Natural Sciences Sub-Commission, recommen-  ding that the Sub-Commission on Legal Questions  and External Relations should approve the text  of the said agreement as a whole.  There was discussion on Articles 2, 3, and 8 d.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Drafting Com-  mittee should elaborate a new wording for these  Articles. Following a statement by the NETHER-  LANDS delegate, the CHAIRMAN announced that  the Drafting Committee would merely modify the  wording of the agreement.