Mr. R. H. Hin (United Kingdom) supported  the United States delegation’s proposal that the  Secretariat should be given some latitude.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Thursday, 28 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : M, CIBULKA (Czechoslovakia).  The Sub-Commission resumed the discussion of  ITEM I : POPULAR LIBRARIES (Green Book, En-  glish text, pages 72 and 73; French text, pages 80,
81 and 82).  It also examined the proposal contained in do-  cument Unesco/Prep. Com./L & M/12 :  II a. — ORGANIZATION OF CONFERENCE  ON POPULAR LIBRARIES.  M. CAIN (France) stated that this Conference  could be organized by the Secretariat, and that  it would be advisable to send to every country  a questionnaire which should constitute the ne-  cessary documentation for the Conference.  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat) assured him that  Unesco would take an active part in calling this  Conference, and that a questionnaire would be  drawn up as rapidly as possible, with the assis-  tance of experts.  The UNITED STATES delegate emphasized the  necessity of inviting educationists and social scien-  tists to this Conference.  The organization of the Conference was appro-  ved, subject to the suggestions made above.  Item 2 : BARRIERS TO THE FREE CIRCULATION OF  PUBLICATIONS (Green book, English text, page 74;  French text, pages 82 and 83).  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat), in submitting this  ‘question for discussion, pointed out that currency  restrictions came under item 4 : International  Clearing House, and that the question of copy-  right would be discussed by the Mass Communi-  cation Sub-Commission. »  The proposal contained in the Green book was  accepted.  A number of proposals were made by various  delegates.  The BRAZILIAN delegate proposed the following  recommendation : that it would be advisable to  exfimine the question of lowering customs duties  and postage and railway rates.  The UNITED STATES delegate stated that he was  in favour of the recommendation, which he in-  terpreted in a very wide sense.  M. CAIN (France) said that the French delega-  tion associated itself with the recommendation,  and wished to know if it was proposed to set up  a special body to examine the question.  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat) replied that this pos-  sibility had been taken into consideration, as well  as the holding of mixed Conference of Experts,  Dr. ZUCKERMAN (Secretariat) suggested that the  discussion should be resumed when the Committee  was examining the question of the Bank for pu-  blications.  Item 2 was approved, subject to the suggest-  ions made above. -  ITEM 3 : DOCUMENTARY REPRODUCTION (Green  book, English text, pages 74 and 75; French text,  pages 83 and 84).  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat), after stressing the im-  portance of the question, first proposed that the  services of an expert in methods of reproduction  should be secured; and, secondly, that a small com-  mittee of experts should be convened, as soon as  possible, for the purpose of laying down certain  standards to which machines for reproduction  should be required to conform.  These proposals were accepted.  The following suggestions were made by dele-  gates :  M. CAIN (France), after referring to the destruc-  tion of precious books during the war, proposed,  on behalf of the French delegation, that lists of  unique works and manuscripts, which it was essen-  tial to safeguard, should be prepared; and that  appropriate measures should be taken for this  purpose. He also proposed to consult legal experts  on the questions of copyright in connection with  microfilms.  M. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded M. Cain’s pro-  posal.  The NETHERLANDS delegate suggested that not  only unique works, but also library catalogues  should be reproduced by means of microfilm.  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat) was entirely in agree-  ment with M. Cain, and said that the question  would be examined by the Secretariat.  Item 3 was adopted, subject to the above sug-  gestions.  ITEM 4 : INTERNATIONAL CLEARING HOUSE FOR  PUBLICATIONS : REHABILITATION (Green book, En-  glish text, pages 75-77; French text, pages 84-86.)  Dr. ZUCKERMAN (Secretariat) submitted these  documents and emphasized that the Libraries and  Museums Section was working in close contact  with the Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Sec-  tion on this subject. He also drew delegates’  attention to item 5 (d) of document Unesco/Prep.  Com./L. & M./13, and asked them to do all in  their power to ensure that the lists in question  should reach the Secretariat before 1 April, 1047.  He also stressed the question of the assignment  of books looted by the Nazis; and that of an Inter-  national Bank for publications.  Various suggestions were then made by dele-  gates :  The UNITED STATES delegate proposed :  (a) That Unesco should invite all devastated  countries to submit reports describing their  needs.  (b) That the Executive Board should pre-  pare a supplementary budget, providing for  direct aid to devastated countries, on the under-  standing that Governments would not be com-  pelled to contribute to this budget.  (c) That Unesco should encourage the grant-  ing of travelling scholarships to librarians.  Dr. ZUCKERMAN (Secretariat) pointed out that  — 163 —      the budget of the Libraries and Museums Section  made provision for scholarships; and that assis-  tance to devastated countries was provided for  in the budget of the Reconstruction and Rehabi-  litation Section. |  -The DANIsH delegate submitted proposals :
1. that Unesco be made responsible for the  disposal of books looted by the Germans and  taken to Germany during the war;
2. that a World Jewish library be set up  under the auspices of Unesco:
3. that a Special Committee be set up to deal  with these matters.  Mr. CARTER supported the Danish delegate’s  proposal concerning Unesco’s role in Germany, but  pointed out that Unesco could not set up an Ad-  visory Committee. on its own authority; he further  considered that experts should be appointed, not  only in connection with the establishment of a  Jewish library, but for all libraries. ‘  \ The NEw ZEALAND delegate took up the pro-  posal contained in the Unesco programme con-  cerning the Herziana Library and the ex-German  Archaeological Institute’s Library in Rome, and  asked if it would not be possible to grant a direct  subsidy enabling the immediate re-opening of these  libraries.  This proposal was supported by M. Julien CAIN  (France), who further suggested :  I. that these questions be examined by the  Rehabilitation Commission, which would con-  sider what could be done in this respect in
2. that the projected Clearing House for Pu-  blications should have a permanent and not  a temporary character.  The BRAZILIAN delegate emphasized the impor-  tance of such a Clearing House, and suggested  that, after having dealt with the urgent task of  rehabilitating libraries destroyed during the war,  the Clearing House should send to impoverished  countries books considered to be basic works in  each discipline.  In reply to the question raised by New Zealand,  the UNITED STATES delegate, speaking more parti-  cularly as Chairman of the International Union -  of Academies in Rome, proposed :
1. that Unesco should be empowered to settle  the question of the ownership of the German  libraries seized by Italy during World War I;
2. that a subsidy be voted for the immediate  re-opening of these valuableinformation centres.  He further suggested that, in view of the issues  raised during the discussion, a report should be  submitted to the Reconstruction and Rehabili-  tation Commission.  The proposal for the establishment of an Inter-  national Clearing House for Publications was adop-  ted with all the suggestions made by delegations.  ITEM 5 : BIBLIOGRAPHICAL SERVICES :  WORLD BIBLIOGRAPHICAL AND LIBRARY CENTRE.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) explained the aims  of this project. :  The Secretariat’s proposal concerning biblio-  graphical services was approved.  ITEM 6 : COMPILATION OF BIBLIOGRAPHIES.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate called the atten-  tion of the meeting to the tasks to be-assigned to  a World Bibliographical centre. LL  The proposal for the compilation of bibliogra-  phies-was approved.  ITEM 7 : ARCHIVES.  Mr, CARTER emphasized that the question of  archives was one of the outstanding features of  Unesco’s work, and explained its main aspects.  The BRAZILIAN delegate proposed : |  I. the establishment of a Unesco ‘‘ Archives  Section ’’ parallel with the Libraries and Mu-  seums Section;
2, the summoning of an international con-  ference of experts, if possible in 1947;
3. a detailed survey by Unesco of all ques-  tions relating to archives. .  Mr. CARTER observed that the establishment of  an Archives Section was the responsibility of the  Director-General, and that the summoning of a  meeting of experts should be left to the initiative  of the parties concerned, rather than to Unesco.  Subject to these reservations, the Brazilian de-  legate’s proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that Item No. 7, con-  cerning the interchange of archivists and libra-  rians, be dealt with at the same time as the inter-  change of Museum officials.  This proposal was approved.  The CHAIRMAN added that the next meeting of  the Sub-Commission would first deal with the ques-  tion of museums, but some proposals relating to  libraries might afterwards be submitted.  THIRD MEETING |  Held on Friday, 29 November 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : M. CIBULKA (Czechoslovakia).  The meeting opened with a discussion on the  Chapter on Museums. (  Dr. MorLEY (Secretariat) began by emphas-  izing the important part played by museums in the  civilized world. He said that the Museums Section  had already received suggestions from many  countries, and would be open to receive any  suggestions which might be given by.the profes-  sional associations which it served. The Museums  Section aimed both at receiving and disseminating  opinions received from professional but not officfal  sources.  Mr. Leigh ASHTON (United Kingdom) submitted  the following proposal. Chapter IV of the Report  on the Programme, which was the outcome of  talks and deliberations in London, was not suff-  ciently definite. Dr. Morley’s additional report  was admirable, and in spite of certain differences  of opinion was acceptable to all parties and could  very well serve as a basis on which to work.  M. Julien CAIN (France) seconded the British  proposal.  Mrs. RUSSELL (United States), Mr. R. A. FALLA  (New Zealand), and M. Mario BARATA (Brazil) fully  agreed with the British proposal, which was adop-  ted.  — 164 —