| THIRD MEETING  Held on Friday, 20 November 1046 at 10.0 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. E. ALZONA (Philippines).  At the opening of the meeting, the Sub-Com-  mission returned to the consideration of point H.  — Study Centre for International Relations —  where they had left off the previous day.  Aîter a short discussion, it was decided that a  Committee of three would study the question and  make a report to the Sub-Commission.  The Sub-Commission then examined the follow-  ing points.  I. — THE PROMOTION OF INTERNATIONAL  UNDERSTANDING.  On the proposal of the DANISH delegation,  Point I was withdrawn from the programme.  J. — INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION.  On the proposal of the CHINESE delegations  the meeting adopted Point J.  K. — NATIONALISM AND INTERNATIONALISM.  At the request of the UnIrED KINGDOM dele-  gation, Dr. Awap explained that ‘the purpose of  the project was to bring national feeling — which  was at the same time valuable and potentially  dangerous — into harmony with international-  ism. To attain this end, it would be necessary for  sociologists, historians and philosophers to study  the question.  The delegation of the UNITED KINGDOM stated  that the National Commissions would have to  initiate studies. The delegation of INDIA took up’  this idea and added that it would be necessary  for an international committee to carry out fur-  ther objective study.  After the SECRETARIAT had assured the meeting  that all its observations would be noted, the  project was adopted.  L. — PuBLic OPINION SURVEYS.  The Sub-Commission adopted Point L without  discussion.  M. — CULTURAL ASPECTS OF POPULATION  PROBLEMS. .  Dr. JounsoN (United States) asked the meeting  to study the problem on a bigger scale than was  contemplated in the report; the Secretariat agreed.  The delegation for AUSTRALIA proposed that  for 1947 the question be left in the hands of  experts, who would study the problem of nation-  alism and internationalism.  The delegation of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  moved that, in order to help the Budget Com-  mittee, it was essential that the various projects  be given an order of priority.  * This motion was seconded by the UNITED.  STATES delegation, which asked that all the pro-  jects adopted be submitted to the Sub-Commis-  sion for the granting of priorities. Adopted.  The Sub-Commission then adopted a motion  of the AUSTRALIAN delegation recommending that  Point M should not be studied in 1947.  At this stage the Sub-Commission returned to  the examination of Point H (Study Centre for  International Relations).  The AUSTRALIAN delegation objected to a mo-  tion from the Committee that had been set up  to study this question. It did nat want the Sub-  Commission’s acceptance of the principle to be  entered in the text of the motion.  A motion from the DANISH delegation, recom-  mending that the discussion of the question be  postponed, was rejected.  After a short discussion, the meeting adopted  the following motion :  ““ The Sub-Commission approves the principle  of a Study Centre of International Relations  and takes note of the report on such establish-  ment as proposed by Sir Alfred Zimmern. It  recommends that the following action be ini-  tiated in 1947 : Framing of definite proposals  before the next session of the General Confe-  rence. Organization of three short series of  classes, as an experiment. ”  N. — THE EFFECTS  OF MACHINERY UPON CIVILIZATION.  The discussion revealed two tendencies : one,  that of the delegations of IRAN and CANADA, which  judged that the project should not be granted  high priority, the other, that of the delegation of  the UNITED STATES, which thought that the  problem was an extensive one and fell within  Unesco’s field.  For the sake of cohesion, the delegation of the  UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA requested that the Se-  cretariat combine projects K, L, M, N into one.  After a short discussion the following UNITED STA-  TES’ motion was adopled.  ““ That the Secretariat prepare a new text of  projects K, L, M, and N, which would bring  into relief the relations of these projects with  the protection of peace, as well as the imme-  diate importance of their application, and thus  enable the Sub-Commission to determine the  priority to be granted to these projects. ”’  To a question put by the BELGIAN delegation,  Dr. Awap answered that the work of -Unesco  would be made known through publications, which  would, however, only be put into effect after 1947.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Friday, 2g November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. E. ALZONA (Philippines).  Sub-Commission studied the various points of  the programme relating to Philosophy.  A. — CORRESPONDENCE.  After a short introduction by M. HAVET, Secre-  tary of the Sub-Commission, and at the proposal  — I76 —   of the FRENCH and UNITED STATES delegations,  the meeting adopted point A,  B. — BIBLIOGRAPHY,  M. HAVET explained that, with regard to biblio-  graphy, it was a question of giving support to the  International Institute of Philosophy and thus  enabling it to do better work.  A question asked by the UNITED KINGDOM dele-  gation gave rise to a discussion on the matter of  publications.  After the FRENCH delegation had asked that,  for the present, only the question of publications  should be discussed, the UNITED STATES delega-  tion stressed the necessity of granting subsidies  to existing international organizations and of fos-  tering new organizations.  The NETHERLANDS delegate considered it was  indispensable to create small drafting committees  in cach country.  The delegate of INDia stated that, to insure the  efficiency and impartiality of such organizations,  it was essential to sce that they did in fact repre-  sent all countries and all tendencies.  The FRENCH delegation moved that the project  be accepted, it being understood that, according  to the requests of the delegations of the NETHER-  LANDS and INDIA, drafting committees would be  organized in all countries without limiting the  number of delegates. It added that there was no  risk of partiality, since this bibliography must be  complete.  She motion of the FRENCH delegation was adop-  ted.  C, — CLEARING HOUSE.  After M. HAVET had explained that this ques-  tion was closely linked to the previous one, the  Commission adopted the project.  D. — TRANSLATIONS.  The UNITED STATES delegate moved that the  Secretariat prepare a unified plan of translations,  common to the various Sections, which would be  submitted to the next General Conference.  The UNITED Kincepou delegate proposed the  following motion :  “1, That National Commissions be requested  to deal actively with the question of transla-  tion in 1047 and that Unesco do not undertake  this work in 1947.  ““ 2 That the Secretariat launch a co-ordina-  ted project of measures to be undertaken by  +  Unesco in 1947 in the field of translation.  The NETHERLANDS delegate seconded this mo--  tion.  Adopted.  E. — PUBLICATIONS.  The UNITED STATES delegate moved that pre-  ject E be delcted. .(  The FRENCH delegate seconded this motion.  Adopted.  F. — Contacts. G. — TALKS.  M. HAVET (Secretariat) pointed out that points  F. and G. were closely linked and that the ques-  tion of talks and contacts was more clearly ex-  plained in the Green Book (French text, pages 129,
130, English text, page 114).  There followed a discussion in which the dele-  gates of FRANCE, SOUTH AFRICA, NETHERLANDS  and the UNITED KINGDOM took part. The SOUTH  AFRICAN delegate proposed that this project be  suppressed in the 1947 programme. The NETHER-  LANDS delegate informed the Sub-Commission  that an International Philosophical Congress  would be held in Amsterdam in 1948 and, on be-  - half of his delegation, requested Unesco’s assis-  tance in this congress. The UNITED STATES deleg-  ation proposed the following motion :  “That the Secretariat study to what extent  it would be advisable and practicable to esta-  blish international contacts between men learn-  ed in the fields of social sciences, letters and  philosophy, and in particular international mee-  tings of experts in various fields relating direct-  ly to the aims of Unesco; that the Secretariat  make a report on the results obtained for sub-  mission to the next General Conference; and  also that it be authorized to organize a few meet-  ings which would directly serve the purpose of  Unesco, in 1947.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM seconded  this motion on condition that work was started  as soon as possible.  The FRENCH delegate seconded the motion and  agreed with the observations by the delegate of  the UNITED KINGDOM.  Adopted.  H. — HUMAN RIGHTS.  M. HAvET (Secretariat) pointed out that the  Mexican delegation to the Preparatory Commis-  sion particularly requested this project.  The FRENCH delegate moved that it be accepted.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM seconded  the motion.  Adopted.  I. — TrACHING OF PEACE.  The delegate of ECUADOR proposed that a com-  petition be organized with a view to preparing a  text to be subsequently submitted to the govern-  ments and which would explain to children :
1. Their duties towards their country, their  cultural group and humanity.
2. Human rights and the fundamental liber-  ties of Man. 1
3. The purposes of international organizations.  He proposed the following motion :  «“ That in order to develop in the young the  sentiment of intellectual and moral solidarity of  the human race, without weakening the senti-  ment of national and cultural solidarity, Unesco  organize a world competition for adoption of a  text for the teaching of civic ethics, ™  The BRAZILIAN and FRENCH delegates seconded  this notion.   Dr. Huxiey (Executive Secretary) pointed out  that similar proposals had been made to the other  Sub-Commissions and they were considered pre-  mature.  The BELGIAN and UNITED STATES delegates  found this project premature and the CHINESE de-  legate thought it raised practical difficulties; the  delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM di sapproved the  idea of a competition and opposed the motion.  The motion was rejected by ten votes to eight.  The Sub-Commission took up the examination  oi point I. The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM  moved that this project be postponed.  The UNITED STATES delegate seconded the mo-  tion.  Adopted.  HUMANISTIC STUDIES.  Dr. Awap (Secretariat) explained that, since the  report on Humenistic studies had been prepared  after the Green Book was published, it was to be  found in Annex 1 of Chapter VI, Unesco/C/2. He  also pointed out that this report was not pres Sented  in the form of separate projects; it would therc-  fore be advisable to set up a small Sub-Committee,  which would study the report and compile a list  of projects to be submitted to the Sub-Commis-  SION.  The UNITED STATES delegate seconded the Se-  cretariat’s motion.  Dr. AwAn moved that the Sub-Committee con-  sist of a representative of CiniNa, the UNITED Kinc-  DOM, UNITED STATES, FRANCE, N ETHERLANDS, and  AUSTRALIA.  Adopled.  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Monday, à December 1940 al 3-p. mn.  Dr. E, ALZONA (Philippines). Chatrman :  M. Hota (Denmark) read the report of the Sub-  Committee on Humanistic Studies and submitted  the text for discussion.  The UNITED STATES delegate said that the re-  port seemed to offer no wider basis than the ra-  dius of action of the International Institute of  Intellectual Co-operation. te added that the Unit-  ed States delegation proposed the establishment  of study sections, of which he gave seven examples.  Their results would be submitted to the General  Conference and the programme for the next year  would be fixed accor dingly He suggested two prin-  ciples :
1. to study and define in 1947 the basic prin-  ciples for the direction of work;
2. to study, also in 1947, the applications of  these principles,  The delegate of the United States mainly com-  plained of the lack of scope and breadth in the  Sub-Committees draft. After a discussion he pro-  posed this resolution :
1. To set up, during the coming year, study  sections whose researches would deterinine in
1947 the future plan of work.
2. Fo study in 1947 the applications to be  made of the studies conducted by these sec-  tions.  The delegate of the UNIOX OF SOUTH ARICA  asked what was the relation between the United  States resolution and the fundamental principles  of Unesco, namely, contribution to world peace  and prosperity. He pointed oui that paragraph A  of the I'rench plan for establishirg priorities con-  tained concrete study proj cots,  After due reflection the UniTin STATES and  DENMARK presented a joint proposal in the form  of a resolution submitted by the United States  with a Danish amendment. The programme would  include : 1. The United States resolution; 2. À  number of urgeat tasks mentioned in the Sub-  Commitiee’s report.  The delegate of IRAN raised the question of  priorities and thought that not enough importance  wus given to the relations between the different  cultures.  The United States resolution was put to the  vote and adopted.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA remarked that  among other things the programme of study in  paragraph 7 was much too big to be carried out  in 1047.  The CHAIRMAN said that, though these projects  were for 1047, the programme was [aicly elastic  and the question of priorities would settle the  order in which they would be worked on.  Îtem 2 in the Sub-Committees report was put  to the vote and'adopred.  The Unirzn Kixopom delegate said that the  question of referring studies to the National Cor-  Hussions of States Membe rs had not been raised,  She thought that item 7 was a typical example  of a case which fell within the competence of the  National Commissions.  Items 3 and + were put to the vote and adopied.  The Uxiren States delegate, supported by the  delegaie of the UNION OF SOUTE AFRICA, Propo-  sed that items 5, 6, 7 and 8 should be referred  to the National Commissions.  M. Hora Denmark) agreed as regards items 7  and 8, but said that points 3 and & were to be  studied in the following year.  This proposal was adopted. Items 5 and 6 were  dropped and numbers 7 and $ werd approved by  vote, with an amendnwnt as follows : In colla-  boration with the National Commissions.  The Sub-Commission then passed on to points  K, L, M and N in the Social Sciences document.  The Uxrrzn Kivcpom delegate asked two ques-  tons about the third group
1. Were the 27 documents referred to of to-  pical importance?
2. Would the work be done in conjunction  ith the Education Section?  Awap replied in the affirmative  gate proposed that  document,  wi  Dr.  The Untied Kinobom dele  they should vote on the w hole of the  and this was ds lopted.  Professor Cassi pointed out that not enough  attention was being paid to questions of interna-  tioral law. re submitted a recommendation for  an international conference to make a compara-