proposals by the Preparatory Commission, mis-  using the principle of “ free flow of ideas ”, pro-  vides for the penetration of the masses by a pro-  paganda devised by the adversaries of peace and  the instigators of new wars.  If we wish to preserve and consolidate peace,  we should fight for peace as we should fight the  enemies of democracy, as we should protect the  latter against the attacks of Fascist and pro-  Fascist forces. In out opinion, Unesco should in  no circumstances assist forces which consistently  oppose peace and democracy; otherwise Unesco,  sooner or later, will place certain democratic coun-  tries, Members of the Organisation, in a position  where they will be obliged to reject or not to  execute recommendations made by this Organi-  zation.  In drawing attention to these points, the Yugo-  slav delegation wishes to stress the consequences  which would affect relations between the United  Nations and which would have a negative in-  fluence on the general spirit of solidarity and  international peace, if the General Conference were  to adopt the proposals of the Preparatory Com-  mission in the form and spirit in which they have  been presented. The Yugoslav delegation already  deplores the appearance of the first negative re-  sults of the work of those bodies of the Pre-  paratory Commission which have taken part in the  establishment of the Unesco programme. The ab-  sence of a Soviet delegation to the General Con-  ference shows that such work cannot succeed. It  seems unnecessary to point out that no cultural  co-operation between the United Nations is con-  ceivable without the collaboration of the Soviet  Union, just as it would be difficult to imagine  the United Nations without the Soviet Union.  The Government of the Federated Peoples’ Re-  public of Yugoslavia has valid reasons for not  accepting any decision on the question of the  ratification of the Unesco Constitution. Our dele-  gation appeals to all delegations, friends of the  United Nations, taking part in the General Con-  ference, to take into due account the attitude  of the Government of the Federated Peoples’ Re-  public of Yugoslavia and to recognise our parti-  cipation in the General Conference as Observers  by permitting us to say a word on certain definite  questions of the programme, which are to be dis-  cussed at meetings of the commissions and sub-  commissions.  If, in the decisions of the General Conference,  due regard is paid to the fundamental conditions  necessary for fruitful work on the part of Unesco  (as already stated, these conditions are : respect  for the independence of national cultures, effec-  tive assistance in the cultural development of  each people, suppression of any activity against  peace and international co-operation}, if all this
1s taken into account, the Organisation will be  able to carry out its tasks. The Yugoslav dele-  gation is convinced that, if understanding and  loyalty reign in our discussions, the work of the  General Conference and the future activity of  Unesco may achieve definite results. It is only  in this way that the Organisation can fulfil the  hopes with which all friends of freedom greeted  its foundation.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Those of the  addresses you have heard this morning which are  of a philosophical nature will be discussed in  committees under Item 15 of the Agenda.  FOURTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 21 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  President : M. LEoN BLUM, President of the Conference
9. GENERAL DISCUSSION ON THE  WORK OF THE PREPARATORY  COMMISSION (continuation)  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 wish to  inform delegates that in accordance with the de-  cision taken this morning by the Conference. three  Swedish observers are now present at this meet-  ing on behalf of the Swedish Government, and  one observer representing the Swiss Government.  The first speaker on my list is H. E. M. Raphael,  delegate of Greece, who will now address the  meeting.  M. RAPHAEL (Greece) (translation) : Before  considering the questions raised in the report of  the Executive Secretary, I should like to say how  happy I am to convey the greetings of my Govern-  ment and of the Greek people to the first General  Conference of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organisation. I wish to  express the confidence which my country places  in this Organisation, and its sincere wishes for  its success. The eminent men who from the start  have worked for its establishment and for the  civilizing mission which it is called upon to fulfil  in the world, justify the hope that its work will  be both fruitful and beneficial.  This is not the first attempt to organize cultural |  collaboration on an international scale. From the  first Amphictyones of antiquity, who were a spirit-  ual rather than a political body, down to the  recent efforts of the League of Nations, the world  has never ceased trying to increase knowledge  and extend its cultural contacts. This is, however,  the first time that the problem is being considered  as a whole and that an international institution,  which we all hope will receive the support of all  United Nations, is being set up for the purpose  = 41   of creating in the world the conditions required  for the cultural developmient of, and understand-  ing between, peoples. That is why Unesco’s task  is so heavy, its mission so impartant, Unesco is  the counterpart to the United Nations Organisa-  tion for the things of the spirit. If Unesco achieves  its aims, the generations to come who will succeed  us'at UNO will have much less difficulty in un-  derstanding each other; as members of the great  human family they will be more conscious of the  intellectual and moral kinship which unites them.  I come now to the questions set out in detail  in the report of the Executive Secretary, which  are concerned with the broad lines which Unesco  will have to follow. First, I wish to pay a tribute  to the work already accomplished by Dr. Julian  Huxley and his assistants. Thanks to their great  ability and the enlightened and practical spirit  which they have shown, they have eased our task  considerably. On the one hand, wehave already at  our disposal an equipped Secretariat, which cons-  titutes an important vehicle for action. On the  other hand, we have a plan rich in suggestions  and projects. We have yet to consider these sug-  gestions and projects more closely; we may yet  have to modify them or supplement them by new  proposals. But we have alréady before us a com-  plete work of preparation which constitutes a first  stage — and a very important one — in the ap-  plication of the principles of Unesco. And I would  add that, in my opinion, the essential quality of  this work lies in the basic unity which inspires  these varied proposals.  The general discussion is not the place for a  detailed examination of the different questions  raised in the report. This is work for the Commis-  sions, I will therefore restrict myself to a few points  which seem to me particularly important. In the  first place, I share without reservation the opinion  expressed in the report that Unesco should not  address itself to intellectuals alone. Its ultimate  purpose is to reach the masses. To achieve this  it must proceed by stages, if at the very outset  it is not to run up against suspicion and political  obstacles. I hold that Unesco should create a  favourable atmosphere foritself within each State.  It should be able to work within the national  framework and to apply to each case the special  method which is required. Each people has its own  mentality and psychology, which remain imper-  vious to arguments and methods that may have  proved well adapted to other circumstances. If a  warlike tendency arises from a moral sickness, it .  cannot be treated by the application of a general  and single formula. Each case must be considered  separately.  While it is evident that Unesco can work through  the channels of the National Commissions and pri-  vate or official organisations, this method, when  applied to similar cases, has not given very good  results. I think, therefore, it would be better to  provide a more direct method through the orga-  nisation of regional centres, thus putting into ef-  fect the desirable decentralization referred to in  the report.  Another question, which seems to me very im-  portant and which is of direct interest to my coun-  try, is reconstruction, Appreciable preparatory  work has already been accomplished. The agree-  ment with Unrra and the contacts already esta-  blished with private organisations concerned with  the problem of reconstruction constitute a use-  ful starting-point. But reconstruction belongs to  the realm of practical realization, and the need to  help the youth of the peoples who have suffered  during the war is urgent and compelling. Faced  with this situation, the Conference must direct  the work of Unesco towards concrete and im-  mediate aims.  Before I conclude, I should like to define the  position of my country towards Unesco. From the  beginning, Greece has shown a direct interest in  the work of this Organisation. She took an active  and enthusiastic part in the preparatory discus-  sions which resulted in the setting up of Unesco.  Greece recognises the preponderance and basic im-  portance of the spiritual and moral life not merely  by tradition, but also because she believes that  it is in the realm of the spirit more than anywhere  else that the little countries, among which she  ranks, have an appreciable and fruitful contribut-  ion to make. In this, quality counts above all,  and quality is not a matter of dimension. The  Greek people intend to contribute with all their  force to this noble enterprise, in spite of the tra-  gic conditions in which they have been left today  by the war and by enemy occupation. Qur coun-  try is in ruins. Many of our school buildings have  been destroyed. Tuberculosis is raging among child-  ren and young people. In the ranks of the teach-  ers, victims can be counted by the thousand. In  the universities laboratories are poor and badly  equipped. Even our great archaeological inherit-  ance, which belongs also to the whole of humanity,  has been damaged by the invasion.  The Greek people is faced with a compelling  necessity. It must restore the ruins. It must re-  build the framework of the cultural life of the  nation. It must have schools, teachers, professors.  Its youth must be healthy and able to walk in  the spiritual paths traced by centuries of history,  How can needs so pressing and so essential be  met?  And, in spite of all the tragedy of this situation,  the Greek people does not feel discouraged. It  places its trust in all those who will help it in its  efforts. It believes in itself. It believes in the  spirit, which one day will dominate matter. It lives  in the shadow of the Parthenon, one of the great-  est spiritual triumphs of man. Two thousand five  hundred years ago among the olive trees in the  gardens of the Academy, Plato spoke to his dis-  ciples of philosophy and culture. His voice has not  aged. It brings us today a message of confidence  and hope. :  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I call on Mr.  Roberts, delegate of South Africa.  Mr. ROBERTS (South Africa) : I take it that  this general discussion is designed to provide an  early opportunity for delegates to express their  opinions on the fundamental issues which will de-  termine the future activities of Unesco, and to  enable Commissions and Committees to anticipate  amendments to and criticisms of their reports. My   country stands four-square behind the objects of  Unesco, but I feel it my duty to express certain  fears and hopes about the interpretation of its  functions and the methods to be employed in at-  tainment of those objects. All the points 1 wish  to make, with the exception of one, have been  dealt with by previous speakers.  First, then, it is my earnest prayer that we do  not waste nnnecessary time in the multiplication of  theoretical formulae for the bringing about of the  millenium. It seems to me better to concentrate  on practical problems, however humble. In the  second place, I would endorse what has been said  by my colleague from Australia with regard to  larger membership. Culture knows no boundaries;  without repeating what hasbeen better expressed,  I wish to urge that we approach these problems  in the spirit of welcoming all who wish to come  into the fold. Thirdly, I feel that while it is extreme-  lv desirable that we co-operate with and assist  all other organisations engaged in the same tasks,  we must at all costs avoid unnecessary duplicat-  lon. For example, I feel a certain misgiving about  the proposed taking over of the functions of Unrra  , — not because I do not realize the value of the  noble work of that organization, not because I do  not realize the necessity for continuing their good  work, but because I think that we must’ confine  ourselves strictly to those functions with which  we are charged; I fear that if we take over the  activities of that organization we must either act  ultra vives or we must leave undone much of the -  good work that was done by it.  In the fourth place I would urge caution in the  acceptance of the budget as it has been presented  tous. For a small country like mine it is a matter  of great importance. Financial aspects weigh large  with us; while I feel that too much money, too  much effort cannot be lavished on this great task,  we must keep our eyes on the facts. Expansion  is a natural process, but reduction very often requi-  res a surgical operation, and I would urge that we  proceed with caution and rather confine our efforts  to the practical projects that lie ready to hand.  In this respect I would again like to adopt the  remarks of my colleague from Australia, and to  endorse what he has said. I do feel that not only  has an insufficient proportion of the expenditure  been assigned to the all-important task of educ-  ation, but that the amount provided for that  service is quite inadequate.  Finally, I come to the point which, as far as  I know, has not been adequately dealt with by  previous speakers; it is rather à matter of em-,  phasis. I endorse whole-heartedly what has been  written about education in the document present-  ed to this Conference and I welcome the propo-  sals on adult education, mass education, and so  on. But I wish to amplify a remark that was  made by the delegate of India when he referred  to education. I would like to suggest that great-  er emphasis be attached to education in the nur-  sery school stage. Wars begin in the minds of  infants and it is in the minds of infants that the  defences of peace must be constructed. Our camp-  aign must certainly be on all fronts but I would  like to urge very strongly that we make the pre-  school-age child the spearhead.  I have been unable to check my references, but  I think it was a generation ago that investigations  were undertaken in Great Britain, I believe large-  ly in Wales, as to the stage at which race pre-  judice began to be created in the minds of human  beings. The findings of that enquiry showed that  race prejudices are implanted at a very tender  age; I would suggest that this is a fruitful field  for further research. Fear of the consequences will  deter the present generation from making war, but  only until prejudice and phobias are once more  exacerbated to a pitch where passion outweighs  reason. :  Psychologists tell us that there is no power of  “won't ” only a power of ©“ wiff ” I believe that  the will to peace must be created in the minds  and hearts of small children, In the Unesco pam-  * phlet on l'’undamenta! Education, page 15,1t is  claimed that there is a major need for writers  with a genius for expressing themselves in the  simplest terms, and worthy of the attention of  adults. Tt is said, that pupils in the earlier grades  present no difficult problem. May I be allowed to  differ. The more mature and intelligent we are,  the more we ought to be able to defend ourselves  against the effect of undesirable implications in  what we read.  I am satisfied that much injustice, fear and  hatred in adults have been engendered by the  harmful influence on their minds during childhood,  of lurid stories of the Spanish Inquisition, of char-  ‘acters like the Hunchback of “Notre Dame” and  others. Wars have come because we have become  conditioned to war from infancy. For God’s sake,  let us condition our children to peace.  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY : I wish to  assure Mr. Roberts that Unesco has never sug-  gested that it would take over the functions of  Unrra. Unrra was in its operation debarred from  the field of education and scientific matters; that  is why we were asked by the Conference last year  to undertake relief on those matters. We shall  confine ourselves to those matters and shall not  take over'the provision of material, food and shel-  ter.  Might I also make a remark which will perhaps  be better in place later on in connection with  the budget. That is, the figures for the different  sections within the budget must not be taken too  narrowly. For instance, two delegates have ex-  pressed the view that the figure for education is  too low. I would draw their attention to the fact  that education of one sort or another actually'en-  ters into the activity of all sections.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I call on the  delegate of New Zealand.  Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) : May I begin by  expressing New Zealand’s appreciation of the ex-  traordinary amount of work done by the Pre-  paratory Commission and the Secretariat since  our last meeting a year ago and reflected in the  report of our Secretary-General.  New Zealand is, in terms of population, one of *  the smallest of the nations represented here, and  it lies farther from the seat of Unesco than any  other member State, Paradoxically enough, it is  — 43 —   just because we are small and far away that we  believe so strongly in the ideals for which Unesco  stands. We have known the difficulties and dan-  gers of isolation, particularly in things intellect-  ual, and we realise how much we have to gain  from a closer contact, at every level, with coun-  tries larger than ourselves or nearer to the great  centres of population. We also like to think that  the small country may sometimes make, in the  fields where Unesco’s interests lie, a contribution  out of all proportion to its size. Education, science  and culture are not, and we hope, never will be,  the sole prerogative of the big and strong. The  Constitution of Unesco recognises this, by giving  all nations, howe®r small, the same voting power.  We know moreover that our physical isolation
1s no longer a protection against the devastation  of war. If war should ever come again, the-  broad waters of the Pacific will be little more  protection to us than will the English Channel  to Great Britain or the Atlantic to the Americas.  So our responsibility for building up mental bar-  riers against war is no less than theirs.  If any proof were needed of New Zealand's  belief in Unesco, I might mention, with what  you will, I hope, regard as pardonable pride, the  fact that it was the second country in the world  to deposit with the Foreign Office in London its  formal acceptance of the Constitution.  It is because the. New Zealand delegation has  so sure a faith in the purposes for which Unesco  was created that we are deeply concerned that  its future should not be prejudiced by mistakes  in policy in these early days. There appear to be  two opposing dangers to which Unesco is exposed,  the one that 1t should die of its own timidity,  and the other that it should rashly take on its  infant shoulders a burden bigger than it can bear.  Knowing the spirit of the Secretariat and of the  delegates assembled here, the New Zealand dele-  - gation has little fear that Unesco will die of in-  anition and lack of fire. We do feel some concern,  however, after a study of the initial documents,  that Unesco may be tempted to undertake more  than it can effectively carry out, at least in these  early years. The whole world is admittedly our  province, but not all the problems of the world  are Unesco’s problems.  Even within the fields of education, science  and culture, there are some problems that we  must leave to others. Every experienced ad-  ministrator knows the chagrin of having to leave  untouched good and tempting tasks that would  lead him from his accepted path. If administra-  tion consisted solely in choosing between the good  and the bad, it would be a simple thing. Choice  between competing goods is of the very essence  of administration. If, in our deliberations, we let  ourselves forget this, we shall, I am convinced,  burden our Secretariat and our whole organisa-  tion with a load that we have no right to expect  it to bear. As each project comes before us in  the programme, we should ask ourselves not only  ‘‘ Is this good? ”’ (for most of the proposals, I  am sure, are in large measure good), but also,  two other questions : “ Is it a project that some  national body or bodies could possibly under-  take? ” and ‘ Would it interfere with the small  solid core of tasks that no one else can do and  that are essential if Unesco is to justify its exis-  tence to the world? ”  It would be unfair for the New Zealand  delegation to make such a statement without  giving briefly the principles on which it considers  the choice should be made. One such principle I  have already assumed: that Unesco should leave  to national agencies the problems that can be  attacked at the national level. By this we mean  more than the statement in Article I, 3 of our  Constitution that prohibits the Organisation from  intervening in matters which are essentially within  the domestic jurisdiction of Member States. That,  of course, we take for granted. I am thinking  now of protecting Unesco rather than of protect-  ing national sovereignty. There are so many ur-  gent and essential tasks that can be done by  Unesco, and Unesco alone, that we cannot at  this stage afford to dissipate our energies on work  that individual countries can possibly undertake.  One can, I think, find many examples of such  projects in Document C /2.  We believe also that in some fields more hard  work at the national level is a necessary pre-  requisite of useful international conferences and  surveys. I know that in my own field of education-  al administration there are many problems where  the real trouble is not that one’s point of view is  insufficiently global, but rather that even within  one’s own country the factors involved are almost  too varied and complex to grasp within one’s  span of comprehension. There are problems within  the field of social sciences where some practical  interim solution must be worked out before much  is to be gained by theoretical conferences or sur-  veys. These can come later when we have at  our disposal enough of the raw stuff of experience.  At all times and at all levels, of course, any  individual country can gain help from contacts  with other countries. We support $trongly the  plans for more adequate documentation and for  assisting the freer movement of individuals and  materials across national borders. But we think  that many of the proposed conferences and formal  surveys are rather premature.  Even after eliminating projects that can be  undertaken by national agencies, there still re-  main, New Zealand thinks, many truly interna-  tional tasks that must be postponed for a few  vears. It is scarcely reasonable to expect a new  organisation to launch a full-scale attack on every  front at once. Again we are faced with the need  for judicious selection. The basis of that selection  can be found, I think, in Sectfon I of Article I  of our Constitution which begins, you will remem-  ber :  “ The purpose of the Organisation is to con-  tribute to peace and security by promoting col-  laboration among the nations through educa-,  tion, science and culture... ”  The key words, I take it, in that broad charter  are ‘ to contribute to peace and security. ” The  more clearly any project can be shown to lead  to that end, the more surely can we adopt it as  our own. There are many projects amongst those  — 44 —   sent to us by the Preparatory Commission which  obviously are aimed directly at building up the  defences of peace in the minds of men. Take but  a few at random : no one éould reasonably doubt  that the cause of peace will be directly served  by the worid-wide attack upon illiteracy, by the  survey of school textbooks which have in some  places done so much to distort the minds of na-  tions, or by the breaking down of the barriers  to the free flow of books, pictures, films and the  easy movement of scholars, scientists and of the  ordinary man and woman across national borders.  These and similar tasks are indubitably ours and  we cannot leave them to others.  But there is another and even wider range of  projects that are not aimed so directly at elimi-  nating the causes of war. These are the projects  that, while they have no direct concern with war  or peace, yet enable men and women of learning  and culture to work together on a common task,  Dr. Huxley said in his report that joint work  on concrete projects of all kinds would teach men  of all nations something of a common point of  view and a new sympathy one with the other. !  believe that to be true — though I must admit  that I could not as yet offer to the Secretariat  a very convincing proof of the thesis — but I  also think that individual projects coming under  this heading must be particularly carefully ex-  amined before they are accepted, If we accept the  thesis quite uncritically, what is there in the way  of co-operative human endeavour that we could -  possibly eliminate from our programme? Knowing  my fellow-countrymen, 1 have no doubt there  are a few who believe that (if I may shamelessly  misquote)...  “ Football ” does more than physic can  To justify God’s ways to man.  They may be right. Sport, moreover, is a form  of culture, but I presume it will not come within  the orbit of Unesco’s cultural interests.  In pressing for a limitation of Unesco’s imme-  diate programme I do not want to be mis-  understood. The New Zealand delegation sees no  bounds to the ultimate activities of Unesco and  its derivatives, and we have come 4,000 miles  to say so. We know it brings a new hope to schol-  ars, scientists, and artists and we believe that,  as it proves itself, it will bring the same hope  to the common people of the world. To them,  we must admit, it still has to prove itself. We  believe it will do so best by concentrating all  its energies on the solid core of tasks that are  ours alone and that the world expects of us.  The PRESIDENT translation : I now call on  the delegate of Denmark.  M. Carsten HOEG (Denmark) (translation) :  It is well known that the term ‘“ sciences ”,  both in French and in English, is generally used  in the restricted sense of ‘“ natural sciences  or ‘‘ exact sciences ’’. It will also be recalled that  the representatives of the exact sciences insisted  on the necessity of inserting the ‘ S ’ in the title  of our Organisation; and that Science, in this  -  way, is somewhat awkwardly given a special place  as if it were a separate branch from education  and culture. :  This very fact, which appears to be simply due  to a linguistic accident peculiar to the languages  of the West, has had regrettable consequences;  for if we glance at the Preparatory Commission’s  report, it will at once be obvious-that this ap-  parently insignificant fact has, in reality, disturbed  the proportions of the edifice we are building.  If we look at the way in which Commission A  has been divided into sections, it will be noticed  that there is a section for the Exact Sciences,  another for Social Sciences, and that Philosophy  and the Humanities have, rather surprisingly, been  attached to the latter. It would almost seem as  though the Humanities had been overlooked  until the last moment, and that they have only  been inserted as an afterthought, without much  regard for logic, If you glance at the text of the  Executive Secretary’s speech, to which, like all  delegates, I listened with close interest, you will  see that here too the Humanities are not treated  as an essential branch of research and scientific  ‘teaching, but rather as a kind of art. It is true  that Dr. Huxley, at the end of his speech, stated  that “ The Preparatory Commission has already.  suggested that our present section of Human Stu-  dies is unwieldy and unnatural and should be  divided into two, one dealing with Social Sciences,  the other with Philosophy and Humanistic Stu-  dies. ”  I am sincerely glad that he has shown these  signs of repentance, but it is not enough. I myself  belong to the humanities, but I want you to be-  lieve that the objections I have just raised are  not inspired by any sentiment of wounded vanity.  The question is a far more serious one from sever-  al aspects. First of all, from the point of view  of the practical work of this Conference. It will  be noticed, particularly in the excellent booklet  entitled ‘ Science and Unesco 7, that scientists  have undertaken enquiries and made suggestions  which concern humanists, as well as representa-  tives of other fields of scientific research.  I would therefore suggest that the sub-division  of Commission A into sections should be al-  tered immediately : that the Committee entitled  «“ Sciences ”’ should be re-named and entrusted  with the examination of all the general problems  affecting international collaboration in connection  with research and the teaching of ‘ science ”  in its broadest and widest sense. It goes without  saying that this Committee, after completing the  discussion of general problems, should divide up  into three separate sections, to deal with the  Exact Sciences, the Social Sciences, and the Huma-  nities, including philosophy, respectively.  It may be objected that I am attaching undue  importance to formalities and that the remarks  I have just made do not really justify the need  for making alterations in the work programme  of the Conference. In reply to this I should like  to make some remarks of a general character —  in my opinion, of fundamental importance. It is  well known that a remarkable change of attitude  has recently taken place throughout the world in  the esteem accorded to the exact sciences and to   the humanities. The astounding progress of the  Natural Sciences has eclipsed the regard in which’  the Humanities are held by public opinion and  by Governments. Young people of both sexes are  attracted by the almost dramatic progress of phy-  sics, chemistry, and medicine, and governments  which are frequently guided by frankly utilitarian  ideas, have become inclined to look on the Human-  ities as a luxury,  But in this Assembly we are all agreed, 1 feel  convinced, that research in connection with the  Humanities is as important as in connection  with nature. If men are seeking to improve the  material conditions of human existence, and to  save the lives of ‘children and invalids, this is  largely due to faith in the values of human life,  from which it follows that these values should  form the subject of continual research in the fields  of philology, philosophy and history, as well as  in the domain of art and literature.  But if the members of this Conference agree  with this view, it is evident that we must do  everything in our power to open the eyes of the  public, and more particularly of the politicians,  to the essential unity of Science and the value  of the Humanities. And the least we can do in  «this respect is to grant the latter their legiti-  mate place in our programme. of work.  I should like to go further, but this is a question  which will have to be dealt with first in Com-  mission A. To prevent any misunderstanding, I  should like to make a further remark at once,  which may at first appear to have little connect-  ion with my previous statements, but which in  reality emphasises their importance. In view of  the fact that the Humanities, as a rule, are more -  individualist and more national in character than  the Natural Sciences, it must be frankly confess-  ed that they are not so well suited to certain  forms of © international team-work ” which have  proved so successful in the exact sciences. It fol-  lows, therefore, that Unesco for the present at  any rate, should confine itself, as regards the  Humanities, to undertaking a work of co-ordinat-  ion; and should not make ingenious attempts  to adumbrate new international schemes. The Or-  ganisation should, as far as possible, leave the  responsibility for directing the joint work of hu-  manists to those institutions which already exist,  particularly the International Academic Union,  which will easily be able to extend its field of  work if it receives Unesco’s support and assist-  ance,  If I have thought it expedient to formulate  these ideas at a Plenary Meeting of the Confer-  ence, it is because the Danish delegation, basing  itself on the attitude of the Danish Government,
1s anxious tostate formally the following point of  view : the very genuine and sympathetic interest  felt in Denmark for the work of Unesco will indeed  be strengthened if Unesco gives proof of moder-  ation and devotes itself to limited and clearly  defined problems, in harmony, of course with  the long-term policy so brilliantly expounded by  the Executive Secretary. Denmark is particularly  anxious that Unesco should deal, with all the  strength of a young organisation, with the grave  educational problems due to the poverty and  misery which prevail at present in backward and  devastated countries.  The PRESIDENT (translation): I now call on  the delegate of Guatemala.  M. MUNOZ MEANY (Guatemala) (transla-  fon) : The delegation of Guatemala has learned  with great regret the decision taken this morning  which prevents Republican Spain from taking  part in the work of Unesco. This leaves a gap  which it will be difficult to fill. There is no need  to insist on the great value of Spanish culture,  on its glorious spiritual past and the promise it  represents in the new world we are called upon  to build. Co  Guatemala, a country which is inspired by the  fulfilment of spiritual values and where an extra-  ordinary cultural revival is now afoot, deplores  that political circumstances should prevent an  observer of the Spanish Republic from attending  this conference. Guatemala expresses a keen hope  that it may be possible to find a solution which  will satisfy the legitimate desires of the Spanish  Republican Government.  To leave Spain outside Unesco is to ignore the  moral and spiritual supremacy of one of the great-  est cultures of the contemporary world, as well  as the work of thousands of Spanish intellectuals  in exile. Freedom is the sine qua non of creation  and research as well as of all the expressions of  human culture. Republican Spain, faithful to its  high principles, represents that freedom.  Guatemala thanks the delegates of France,  Czechoslovakia and Poland for their words on  this subject.  On behalf of Guatemala I salute the spirit,  mind and culture of Spain.  The PRESIDENT (trans/ation } : I now call on  the delegate of Chile.  M. REYES (Chile) (translation) : The delega-  tion of Chile fully appreciates the obstacles, and  especially those emanating from the Constitution  of Unesco, which have led the General Confe-  rence to adopt the resolution concerning the re-  quest by the government of Republican Spain.  At the same time the delegation of Chile wishes  to express its bitter regret that unavoidable cir-  cumstances prevent Unesco from enjoying the  vital co-operation of a representative of the cul-  tural tradition of our mother country, Spain,  whose civilising influence and activities culminat-  ed in what are to-day the American nations,  among which Chile is proud to count herself.  Chile therefore salutes the spirit of Spain wher-  ever it is to be found in this world, and hopes  that through her genius the mother country will  take her privileged place in the free world of  ‘to-morrow, which Unesco is already helping to  build.  Chile warmly thanks the delegates of Czecho-  slovakia, Poland and France for emphasising the  importance of Spanish culture,  The PRESIDENT (translation) : T call on the  delegate of Mexico.  M. MARTINEZ-BAEZ (Mexico) (translation) :  As far as Republican Spain is concerned, the  — 46 —   Mexican Government have taken a firm stand  for justice, not only by words, but also by acts  so numerous that they do not have to be men-  tioned. Mexico considers the Republican Govern-  ment as the only representative of the Spanish  people. I, too, sincerely regret that formal con-  siderations should have prevented the Spanish peo-  ple from being represented here, so that we could  have enjoyed the-contribution of Spanish thought  to which we are proud of being so closely attached.  May I express my hope that the day will come  when this house will be able to give a due welcome  to the Spanish people with its splendid cultural  past. It will also certainly have a contribution  to make to our most cherished ideal, namely,  the reconstruction of a world based on respect  for human beings.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 now call  upon the delegate of Luxembourg.  M. BRAUNSHAUSEN (Luxembourg) (trans-  lation) : 1 wish to convey my country’s thanks  for the invitation from France and Unesco to  take part in the cultural task which, if it succeeds,  as we hope, will certainly be one of the finest  undertakings in history.  The general report of Unesco’s Preparatory  Commission outlines the problem broadly and  points a way towards its concrete fulfilment. But  in the immense task of creating a new idcal for  all peoples, an ideal which in the past only found  isolated apostles, there are so many possibilities  of fulfilment that it may be wise to consider the  project in all its aspects. More particularly, 1  would like to consider how this ideal might pro-  vide mankind with the mentality necessary for  the creation of peace between nations.  As has been well said, Unesco is a promise of  a future, and its sponsors have given it a funda-  mental and actively democratic charter. Under a  democratic regime, it is not sufficient for the re-  presentatives of the people to see things clearly;  voters must be warned of the inevitable conse-  quences of a given policy, if they are to support  the commonsense and enlightened understanding  of their elected leaders. Governments or political  parties are frequently led by the course of events  to follow the instinctive or skilfully manipulated  will of the masses. It is therefore essential to  prepare, by the individual education of each citi-  zen, a collective mentality capable of resisting  ill-judged enthusiasm, capable of letting itself  be guided solely by the objective reality of facts,  by ideas of justice and human ethics, which should  govern the relations between nations and between  individuals. Only then will humanity avoid bloody  catastrophes like the one whose depths we have  still to plumb.  How are we to train minds in such a way that  alluring tempting ideologies, which are often arbi-  trary and contrary to all sound reason, will not  have the power to turn men from a rational con-  ception of their rights and duties?  We find the answer in the Gospels — Veritas  liberabit vos. The basis of objective thought is  to train minds to recognise from youth, the facts  of life as it is, whether they flatter our egocentric  complexes or are at variance with our personal  interest.  To surround oneself with a rich and solid docu-  mentation on all controversial questions is the  additional means by which we may keep as near  truth as possible. To examine the consequences  of one’s action without preconceived ideas, with  a regard only for facts and with an objective  interpretation of lessons of the past, that is the  best way of avoiding the disastrous results of  fanciful and arbitrary reasoning. That is the royal  road to truth, which man has only to follow to  create the collective mind which 1s essential to  the fulfilment of Unesco’s noble purpose.  But Unesco’s predecessor, the Institute of In-  tellectual Co-operation, already attacked the same  problem, and we recognise to the full the tremen-  dous work of the Institute in intellectual docu-  mentation and the encouragement of a sound  intellectual life. If it did not attain all its aims,  it was because its beneficial activity was inter-  rupted just as it had completed the substructure  of the edifice it planned; also, perhaps, because  it appealed too exclusively to the educated classes  and was not sufficiently in contact with the masses.  Unesco, very rightly, 1s seeking to avoid the same  error, and is particularly interested in an effective  propaganda for every class of society. If the new  human ideal based on scientific data and on the  infinite potentialities for happiness and spiritual  culture which scientific applications give to huma-  nity or promise it for the near future, can be  understood and cherished — if the idea of a  rational democracy, of mutual understanding and  fruitful collaboration for the universal good (which  is also the individual good) can penetrate all strata  of society, then Unesco can pride itself upon  inaugurating a new cra in the history of man-  kind.  Is it necessary to add that it is in theeducation  of youth that the formation of a new mentality  has the best opportunities of obtaining speedy and  lasting results. Unesco cannot remain aloof from  the organisation of compulsory education in all  countries, Aiming farther than it has in the past,  a necessarily prolonged and intensified primary  education must provide all members of society  with the concise scientific and historical teaching  which will cnable them, by a parallel training of  the logical faculties, to form their own opinion  on questions of interest to humanity and on  the political problems they will have to decide  , as voters in a free and rational democracy.  Obviously it will be a long time before such  a wide and ambitious programme is fulfilled There  will be therefore no reason for impatience, if years  of organisation prove to be necessary before we  can gather the first-fruits of the tree which the  United Nations are now planting. But with all  men of good will combining in this work, with  the best intelligences directing it, and the anxious  hopes of humanity accompanying it, the tree will.  grow; a day will come when its shade, the symbol  of all efforts for a better world, will spread over  all nations and allow them to live happily in peace  and the full enjoyment of the material, intellect-  ual and moral wealth which alone makes life  worth living.   The PRESIDENT (translation) : I call upon  the delegate of Venezuela.  M. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (translation) :  I have not prepared a speech, but I learn that,  while I was out of the room, some of my Latin  American colleagues expressed their regret at the  absence from our midst of a representative of  Spain.  Unhappy circumstances deprive us of the voice  of Spain in this Conference and I am bound to  regret this in my country’s name. I cannot help.  saying how much we, who are Americans by race  and Spanish by culture, deplore that absence,  It is inconceivable that, from an assembly  concerned with culture and intellectual co-oper-  ation, the great people to whom we owe our  existence should be missing.  I have risen to express my country’s feeling  and to associate myself with the feelings of all  America. But when I say all America, I must  refrain from voicing any sentiments but those  of Venezuela, whom I have the honour to repre-  sent at this Conference.  We have all a single culture, a feeling of solid-  arity, a sense of democracy and love of freedom  which unite us. It is this unity which brings us  here to collaborate in the work of Unesco.  Once again I must say how much we would  have welcomed the voice of Spain. I firmly hope  that one day soon we shall have among us the  representatives of a people who are dear to us  and who have contributed perhaps more to human  civilisation than any other nation.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The Chair-  man of the Credentials Committee will now ad-  dress the meeting.  The CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS  COMMITTEE (translation) : The Committee met  at 3 p. m. They received a message from the  Netherlands and Belgium confirming the deposit  of ratifications by those two countries. The Com-  mittee also received a telegram accrediting the  delegate of Bolivia. Ecuador and Haiti have  accepted the Constitution. Pending the deposit  of the two latter instruments of ratification, they  will not be able to vote.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : You have  heard the proposals of the Credentials Committee  that the vote of these two delegations — Haiti  and Ecuador — should be reserved. Has anyone  any observätions to make on that? In the cases  “ of Belgium and Holland, the situation is now in  order.  As there are no further items on the agenda,  we will adjourn until tomorrow morning at 10.30  and I will ask you again to be in time for the  opening of the meeting, so that we may start  punctually.  FIFTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 22 November 1946 at 10.30 a. m.  President : M. Leon BruM, President of the Conference  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I have a few  announcements to make on behalf of the Gene-  ral Committee. I would remind the Conference  we have three main Commissions, the Programme  Commission, the Administration and Legal Com-  mission and the Reconstruction and Rehabilita-  tion Commission. Two of these are to be sub-  divided into two Sub-Commissions.  It is necessary, if the Conference is to finish  its work by the set date, that the Commissions  should start work on Monday. If the Conference  accepts this, the Commissions will appoint Chair-  men of the Sub-Commissions.  The Procedure Committee, which has already  ‘done considerable work, will submit a provision-  al report in a few minutes and will meet this  afternoon at 3 p. m. It will report on the elections  to the Executive Board. When the final report is  made, the Nominations Committee will meet, but  probably not before tomorrow morning. The third  point is that the General Committee has pro-  posed we should follow a slightly different pro-  cedure with interpretations from that followed  yesterday. The new method is this. While yes-  terday’s addresses were not interpreted, except  for speakers who asked for interpretation, it is  proposed that today a short written summary  should be presented which would be translated  at the Conference.  With regard to the general discussion some  names have been sent in and, for other members  wishing to speak, I will ask them to send in their  names as quickly as possible.  I would add a few words of a personal charac-  ter.  Yesterday, I recommended proposals from the  General Committee regarding Observers, mn par-  ticular from the Government of the Spanish Re-  public, which I think gave rise to some mis-  understanding. I would like to point out that no  formal proposal came from any particular delega-  tion; the decision was the result of general dis-  cussion, and should be looked upon therefore as  a collective recommendation.  I now call upon the Rapporteur of the Procedure  Committee.  The Rapporteur of the PROCEDURE COM-  MITTEE (translation)  yesterday at ro a. m. Various amendments were  proposed and a sub-committee was set up which  is working at this moment to try to find a suitable  formula for the recommendations that have been  made. Meanwhile the Committee has accepted  *  - This Committee met-