SECOND MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1046 al 3 p. m.  Chairman; Mr. G. D. STODDARD (United States).  Sir Philip Morris (United Kingdom) referred  to the suggestion made by the delegate of Aus-  tralia in the morning, and suggested that consid-  eration should be given first to the six proposals  chosen as being the most important among those  put up by the Secretariat, then to other pro-  posals and finally to any new proposals which  delegates might put forward.  ~ Dr. R. C. MIL18 (Australia) supported this pro-  posal.  Dr, WiLsoN (Deputy Executive Secretary), while  agreeing with this proposal, remarked that it  would not do to meglect the other projects put  forward by the Secretariat and suggested that a  wide interpretation be given to the motion by the  delegate of the United Kingdom .  Adopted.  GROUP I
1. THE PANEL ON FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION  (Document Unesco/C/Prog. Com./S. C. Educ./2).  Rajkumari Amrit KAUR (India) emphasized  the importance of fundamental education in the  fight against war. She gave an account of the’  battle against illiteracy in India and of the ge-  neral principles adopted there in adult education.  India would welcome any help which Unesco could  give in this field, whether in the form of maps,  books or the training of teachers. She regretted  that a more important place could not be given  to statistics.  Dr. R. C. MrLLS (Australia), while agreeing with  the proposals of the Secretariat, raised two ques-  tions on the method of conducting the surveys.  Firstly, Unesco should refer to Member States  for the collecting of information which it requi-  red. Secondly, it was primarily the Education  Section which should deal with these surveys, al-  though with the help of experts from other sec-  tions having less immediate interest.  ‘Sir Philip Morris (United Kingdom) agreed  with the plan for Fundamental Education pre-  pared by the Secretariat and thought: that it sat-  isfied the conditions set out by the Programme  Commission. It would not involve great financial  outlay, as the information would be provided by  the Member States; it would be easy to recruit  the necessary qualified staff. In fact this scheme,  being admirably adapted to the aim in view, could  become an integral part of the general programme  of Unesco. The delegation of the United Kingdom  therefore approved this proposal and considered  that it should form one of the immediate tasks  for Unesco.  Professor WALLON (France) was glad that prio-  rity had been given to the question of fundament-  al education. In his opinion it presented three  different problems : ;
1, The Campaign against illiteracy : He pro-  posed the setting up of a study committee to  collect information, prepare programmes, and ad-  vise Member States; it would only be an advisory  committee. One of the concerns of this Committee  would be to provide the peoples with a good know-  ledge of their own language, together with the  facilities for learning one of the principal modern  languages.
2. Popular Education : He quoted the example  of the Workers” Universities organized in France  for adult education and stated that the French  delegation would support any enterprise of this  kind.
3. The Technical Question of Material : Pict-  ures, books, films, etc. It was desirable to prepare  a selection of this type of material, not to be  thrust on Member States, but to be at their  disposal.  Professeur Wallon also proposed that Unesco  Committees should be formed in each country  to act as a liaison between the different national  organizations for education and Unesco. Finally,  he emphasized the danger of taking an over-  intellectual view of education. An appeal should  be made to the emotions of the peoples if a real  spirit of human brotherhood was to be created.  Dr. Cau SHIH-YING (China) emphasized that the  project for fundamental education implied a de-  mocratic view of education. He gave an account  of the gigantic problems which fundamental edu-  cation represented in China. He remarked that  research and experiment must play an important.  part in this field, and that fundamental education  must be an integral part of the programme of soc-  ial reconstruction. The delegation of China would  like to see the Secretariat's project for fundament-  al education accepted. .  The CHAIRMAN, on behalf of the United States  delegation, made three suggestions in this con-  nection. First Unesco should stimulate and encour-  age States Members in this field, but should not  try to undertake work pertaining to the govern- -  ments. Secondly, it should be borne in mind that  the cost of education was generally enormous, of-  ten only inferior to that of armaments. Finally,  he suggested that Unesco might rightly carry on  demonstration projects in fundamental education  which would be of assistance to governments.  The Sub-Commission went on to the following  point :  ENQUIRY CONCERNING EDUCATION AS A MEANS  OF FOSTERING INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDINGS  {proposal A, page 151 of the programme report  of Unesco, English text — Proposal No.1 of docu-  ment Unesco /Prep. Com. /Educ.x).  The delegate of CANADA stressed the impor-  tance of this proposal, He thought that the Com-  mittee of Experts which it was proposed to set  up would have a twofold duty : to persuade teach-  ers in all countries to take joint steps to pro-  mote understanding between the nations and to  provide for the training of teachers capable of be-  nefiting by information coltected in all countries,  concerning methods likely to foster such under-  standing.  Rajkumari Amrit Kaur (India) asked if it were  proposed to set up a committee of 15 experts,  which would be in session throughout the year  to study the question or whether the Secretariat  would first collect information from the different  — 150 —  mu ee gg   Member States and onlv then convene the Com-  mittee of Experts. This was an important ques-  tion, for there was the financial aspect to be con-  sidered.  Dr. WILSON explained that the circulation of  a questionnaire to governments had not been con-  templated. This was a long-range project embrac-  ing the whole question of the revision of school  curricula, the execution of which would require  numerous questionnaires and a number of confe-  rences. The first step would be the creation of  a Committee of Experts, which would undertake :  I. To collect information on the best methods  of developing mutual international understanding;
2. To prepare a list of the obstacles encountered;
3. To receive suggestions from psychologists,  teachers, specialists and experts of cvery kind.  Sir Philip Morris (United Kingdom) asked if  it would not be preferable, for the first year, to  confine oneself to preliminary enquiries in the  different countries, in order to collect suggestions  and study the various methods of education on  the spot. The National Commissions and the var-  ious co-operating agencies could play an impor-  tant part and the results of these preliminary en-  quiries could be embodied in a report which would  be submitted to Unesco and studied by the Con-  ference next year.  Dr. WILSON pointed out that, in substance, the  Secretariat's plan was no different from that pro-  posed by Sir Philip Morris. He explained that  there would not be, as certain delegates seemed  to think, three committees, but a single committee  performing three separate tasks. This committee  would be composed of experts presented by the  States Members, and it would be for the Sub-Com-  mission to define the task which it would have to  accomplish during the first vear.  Mr. Cook (Union of South Africa) said that  his country was somewhat distrustful of anything  that came from abroad. The first step, therefore,  in his opinion was to encourage people to have,  confidence in Unesco and, for this, it would be  well to rely upon local organisations.  Dr. WILsON pointed out that Unesco had always  taken the line of non-interference in the domestic  affairs of states. For the project in question, it  proposed to work in liaison with the National  Commissions and with the co-operating agencies,  its object being to disseminate such information  as it might be able to collect on methods of edu-  cation likely to foster international understand-  ing.  The CHAIRMAN said that it would nevertheless  be a good thing to increase the number of local  organizations in order to make allowance for the  psychological reactions mentioned bv the South  African delegate.  Dr. MiLLs (Australia) drew attention to the  difference between the point of view of Sir Philip  Morris and that of Dr. Wilson. Sir Philip thought  that they could begin by collecting information  from the different States, relying, if necessary, on  experts in those countries. Dr. Wilson thought  that it might be possible this-vear both to col-  lect information from Member States and to set  up a committee. The Australian delegation would  be in favour of Sir Philip Morris's proposal.  Sir Philip Morris (United Kingdom) emphasized  that the Secretariat should be in a position to  consult the greastet possible number of people,  since this would enable it to work more construc-  tively.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that a vote should be  taken on the question of the establishment of a  committee. Sir Philip Morris pointed out that the  question was not quite so simple and that it would  perhaps be as well to compromise and leave it  to the Secretariat to decide whether a committee  should be set up, once it had collected the neces  sary information from the Member States.  The delegate of INDIA thought that the first  two duties of the proposed Committee (collection  of information on methods of education and study  of obstacles) could be performed by the Secretariat.  It would first be necessary to circulate a memo-  randum to Member States and to receive their re-  plies; then the Secretariat could consider set-  ting up a committee.  M. Warron (France) observed that, in practice,  everyone was agreed as to the need of a committee.  The whole questionwas whether that committee  should be established by the Secretariat or by  the Conference. Owing to the distrust that still  existed in certain countries of anything coming  from abroad, he thought it would be better to  have the committee appointed by the Conference,  since this would invest it with more authority.  The SOUTH AFRICAN delegate felt that no Com-  mittee of Experts, even if appointed by the Con-  ference, could be as effective as regional organ-  izations in which the peoples could themselves  participate in the discussions.  The CHAIRMAN summed up the possible solu-  tions as follows :
1. To establish a Committee at once, as pro- |  posed in the Secretariat Report.
2. To authorize the Secretariat to set up, in  the course of the year, groups of experts who  would merely act in an advisory capacity and  with whom the Secretariat could collaborate,  © 3. To allow the Secretariat a free hand as to  whether they should or should not set up Com-  mittees of Experts or Groups of Cons:ltants.  Solution No. 3 having been rejected by a show  of hands, a new vote was taken which resulted  in ten votes being given to solution No. 2 against  eight votes in favour of solution No. 1.  The CHAIRMAN then proposed the adoption of  this proposal, after providing for the substitu-  “tion of the term “ Groups of Consultants ” for
33  « Committee of Experts  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM was asked  to make known his views on how such groups of  experts could be set up.  Subject to this amendment, the proposal was  considered as adopted.  The mecting then proceeded to consider the  proposal entitled: INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL  SUMMER COURSES (Proposal number 6, document  . Unesco/Prep. Com./Educ. I).  The INDIAN delegate proposed that in the condi-  tions required for participation in these seminars,  the provision concerning “the ability to! under-  stand lectures and talks in English and French  — ISI —   J  should be altered so as to imply ability to under-  stand lectures or talks in English or French. He  also asked that the persons appointed to take part  in these scminars should be chosen on the widest  possible representative basis, and that teachers  who had attended such courses should be given  the possibility of utilizing the specialized know-  ledge they had thus acquired.  This proposal was considered as approved, sub-  ject to the above alteration.  The meeting then dealt with the proposal con-  cerning the COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATIONAL STA-  TISTICS (Proposal M, page 151 of the Report on  the Unesco Programme).  The INDIAN delegate emphasized the importance  of this question; the establishment of statistics  would enable the stimulation of backward coun-  tries and help every country to solve problems  relating to education.  - The CHAIRMAN pointed out that this project  was linked with that concerning the publication  of an international year-book, and suggested that  it might be useful to consider both proposals simul-  tanecusly.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate pointed out that  the publication of the year-book would have to  be considered in any case, Such a year-book would  permit the standardization of terminology and  would facilitate the interpretation of statistics.  The CHAIRMAN thought the two proposals were  therefore inseparable and that the Sub-Commis-  sion could recommend their adoption to the Con-  ference.  The two proposals were adopted.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  : (Egypt).  The discussion began on Item 4 of the Agenda  ‘ Revision of School Textbooks ”’.  Mme Natalie GASIOROWSKA (Poland) mentio-  ned the importance of the teaching of history and . -  its influence on world peace. Some form of inter-  national control should be exercised on general his-  tory and national history text-books, so as to pre-  vent the distortion of events for war-like purposes;  such control should particularly apply to those  countries where harmful doctrines had taken root  and where the desire for power dominated. The  teaching of history must be scientific and impar-  tial, and the treatment of social evolution and  human progress must also be considered in its so-  cial, economic and diplomatic, as well as in its  political aspects.  Mr. G. D. STODDARD (United States) read the  text of the Unesco programme (Unesco/C. /o,  page 19, paragraphs I-7 and pages 22-23, para-  graph 7). He observed that there were no govern-  ment educational text-books in America and that  there was absolute freedom in the publication of  school-books. Unesco must not take on the role  of censor, and alter or revise books which appeared  in America, but should confine itself to the draft-  ing of reports and recommendations, which would  be submitted to American educationalinstitutions.  M. Hans Moxr (Norway) proposed the creat-  ion of a Committee in every country for the col-  lection of exhaustive historical documentation, in  co-operation with the governmental authorities of  that country, and the communication of this docu-  mentation to Unesco.  Mr. K. G. SAIYIDAIN (India) observed that text-  books were capable of giving a distorted view of  facts. It was essential that regional conferences  ‘should be held to verify history text-books and  fhus contribute to better international relations.  M. P. VERNIERS (Belgium) thought that an en-  quiry should be made regarding the most appro-  priate age for beginning the teaching of history  in schools, and the proportion of the curriculum  to be devoted to this subject.  M. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) pointed out that  the essential factor in the problem of education  was really the teacher, rather than the text-book.  It was the teachers who must be imbued with a  truly international outlook.  M. WALLON (France) recommended the esta-  blishment of national enquiry and documentation  committees, which would form the basis of a sound  organization. He emphasized the necessity of re-  vising all school-books without exception, and not  only history and geography text-books. Finally,  he hoped for the development of a truly interna-  tional education.  Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) considered that  the Member States of Unesco should be asked to  send the Secretariat copies of all the school-books  used in their schools and colleges. The Secretariat  could then study these books.  The delegate of NICARAGUA and CosTA Rica said  that the revision of text-books should also apply  to books on religious history.  Mer, Jean MarouN (Lebanon) considered it  would be useful to encourage authors of new school  text-books by the award of generous scholarships.  Dr. Gabriel R. MANALAC (Philippines) favoured  the drafting of a Charter defining the essential  principles to be followed by the various countries  in regard to school text-books. Unesco would be  responsible for drafting and publishing this charter  M. Osman HoRASANLI (Turkey) said he would  like to see the establishment of a revision com-  mittee for school text-books, possessing effective  censorship powers.  M, P. CARNEIRO (Brazil) recommended that  scientific and technical treatises should be imbued  with a sounder historical sense and should reflect  the collective thoughts of men and women through  the ages. :  The CHAIRMAN then took a vote, first on the  various amendments proposed, as follows :
1. Amendment proposed by NEW ZEALAND  (addition to paragraph I, page 19 in English  text of Document C./9) :  «“ ...each Member State is requested to send  Unesco the widest possible representative col-  lection of text-books used in the educational  institutions of their country which might have  an influence on the intellectual and moral trai-  ning of Youth. ”  Seconded by AUSTRALIA.  Adopted by 11 votes to 2.  — 152 —