Unesco, without undertaking publishing work on  its own, could assist or sponsor the publication  of anthologies of international interest.  It was decided that Unesco could do this in so  ‘far asthe publications referred to offered sufficient  guarantees.  RELIEF TO AUTHORS AND READERS.  Copyright and Literary Property.  The CANADIAN delegate, reverting to a decision  taken that morning, asked for the creation of a  Mixed Committee of the Sub-Commissions on  Mass Communication and Creative Arts, to study  this important question.  M: THOMAS, on behalf of the Secretariat, under-  took to ask the Co-ordination Committee to ar-  range a joint meeting of the two Süb-Commissions  at which the question of literary property would  be discussed, with particular reférence to the  jarticipation of Unesco in the work of the Brussels  onference: |  SECOND MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1046 at 10 à, m.  Chairman : M, CHARLIER (Belgium).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES was afraid  that the Sub-Commission had given an unduly  small place to literature in the programme of  Unesco.  Referring to Items 1 and z on the agenda (Trans-  lations and Publications) he‘suggested that Unesco  while continuing to assist and stimulate national  and private undertakings in this field, should (1)  itself undertake an enquiry into the place of lite-  rature in international relations and (2) recom-  mend translations which would be likely to con-  tribute to a better understanding between peoples,  He doubted whether the National Commissions  would be competent to draw up a list of this kind.  During the discussion which followed, it became  evident that it would be equally dangerous for  Unesco either to accept without examination the  lists chosen by the National Commissions or to  take on itself the role of arbiter.  Agreement was reached on the following motion  presented by ‘the French delegation : .
1. Unesco should in no case undertake the  responsibility of preparing lists of works for  translation;
2. Unesco should carry out the functions of  co-ordination, by publishing lists prepared not  only by the National Commissions, but also b  all kinds of cultural organizations to which it  might think fit to refer. This motion was adopted  in principle, with the following amendments  suggested by the delegates of China, Yugosla-  via and the United States of America :  I, The Secretariat of Unesco could put for  ward recommendations in its own name on the  subject of translations.
2, Cultural groups to which it might refer  should be really representative of the national  cultures.
3. The Secretariat of Unesco could consult  Committees of Experts in this field.  ASSISTANCE FOR AUTHORS AND READERS.  Consideration of the question of copyright was  postponed until the next meeting.  The following points of the report were adopted  without discussion at the suggestion of the Secre-  tariat ;  I. Assistance for authors in devastated coun-  tries.
2. Organization of reading groups.
3. Co-operation with'other Sections of Unesco.  At the request of the French delegation a fur-  ther recommendation was made to the Secretariat  that it should consider the question of internation=  al ‘booksellers, particularly the sale of transla-  tions and books in foreign languages:  THEATRE.  It was stated that as a matter of administrative  organization, the Theatre (including Ballet and  pera) formed one of the four sections under the  heading of Creative Arts, the others being Visual  Arts, Music and Literature, close contact between  the different sections being carefully maintained.  The Secretariat asked the Sub-Commission to  approve en bloc the recommendations 1-9 contain-  ed in document Unesco/C/12 (page 6 of the En-  glish text, page 7 of the French text).  These recommendations were adopted subject  to an alteration in the wording of recommendat-  ion number 7, where the words : ‘‘ to assist ma-  terially ”’ were replaced by the words: ¢ give tech-  nical aid (such as documents, photographs, models,  plans) to”. This was at the suggestion of the  French delegation.  With reference to recommendation number 8  (Exchange of Personnel), it was stated that all  matters relating to exchanges and exhibitions  concerning the four sections of the Creative Arts  Department would be co-ordinated at the level  of the Directors of the Department.  INTERNATIONAL THEATRE INSTITUTE.  Agreement was quickly reached on a motion  presented by the delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM,  recommending that the Secretariat of Unesco call  as soon as possible an International Conference of  leading personalities in the theatre, with the aim  of creating an International Theatre Institute, to  be independent of Unesco.  The following points emerged during the dis-  * cussion :
1. This Conference should be really univer-  sal and should include representatives of the  U.S. S.R.  ‘2. While the choice of delegates should be left  on principle to the National Comm'ssions, the  Secretariat would be able to send direct invita-  tions to persons whose absence would prejudice  the work of the Conference.
3. While the expenses of this Conference  would be borne by Unesco, the subsequent acti-  vities of the various national centres of the In-  ternational Theatre Institute would be subsid-  ized by.the National Organizations. J
4. The Conference and the International  — 185 —   Theatre Institute would alone be responsible  for organizing competitions or theatre festivals.  Even after the creation of the Institute, howe-  ver, the Theatre Section of Unesco would retain  full competence in its own field for the execution  of the tasks allotted to it.  SUB-COMMITTEE ON VISUAL ARTS  AND MUSIC  FIRST MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  The CHAIRMAN announced that the question to  be discussed that afternoon was that of Visual  Arts.  The question of enquiries was entrusted to a  committee of five experts, who were asked to re-  port to the Commission on the following day.  M. DOrIVAL (Secretariat) made a statement on  the general aspects of the problem, and indicated  that Unesco intended to encourage the indepen-  dence and variety of cultures and the individuality  of artists. Two main problems had to be solved :  the measures necessary for the promotion of ar-  tistic interchange and those which might contri-  bute to the improvement of artists’ living con-  ditions.  À general discussion took place on the subject  of enquiries, at the outcome of which it was de-  cided that a General Enquiries Service woiild be  established to constitute a centre for existing in-  formation, and fer surveys and enquiries proper.  It was decided that certain questions (films, ar-  chitecture, the role of art in education} would be  studied by other Sections.  The mecting then considered the various items  on the Agenda :  I. ENQUIRY INTO CONDITIONS CONCERNING  VISUAL ARTS IN THE VARIOUS COUNTRIES.  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY having expressed  the view that the material difficulties of various  kinds which artists had to face prevented the har-  monious development of artistic tendencies, the  Meeting agreed upon the necessity for an enquiry  into the living conditions and means of existence .  of artists. As doubts were expressed as to the ur-  gency of this enquiry, it was decided not to give  it priority.
2. INTERCHANGE OF ART EXHIBITIONS,  There was a general discussion on the question  of art exhibitions and, several delegations having  stressed the urgency and importance of this ques-  tion, the following motion, proposed by the UNITED  KINGDOM and INDIAN delegations, was adopted :  “ Unesco shall consider without delay the  most appropriate means of organizing exhibi-  tions of works of art, and make every attempt  to reduce material hindrances such as customs
3  duties, transport difficulties, etc. Unesco shall  keep in contact with the national organizations  which desire to organize these exhibitions, in  order to facilitate the organization of the latter  in other countries which might desire to see  them, ”
3. PUBLICATION OF REPRODUCTIONS  AND SYSTEMS OF REPRODUCTION,  The UNITED STATES and NORWEGIAN delega-  tions having emphasized the necessity for the re-  production in colour of works of art on a large  scale, the Meeting decided that a study of this  question should be undertaken as soon as possible.  The results of this survey would be contained in  a single document, which would be published by  Unesco and circulated to the various countries.
4. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES FOR ARTISTS.  The United KiNepox delegate having drawn  the attention of the meeting to the scarcity of ar-  tists” supplies on the market, it was decided, on  the proposal of the Unrten States delegate, to  study this question in collabofation with the  Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Commission.  In coticlusion, M. DorrvAL summed up the re-  commendations of the Sub-Committee as follows :  Urgent Studies : Organization of exhibitions — Re-  production of works of art — Supplies for Ar-  tists.  Studies to be deferred : General and private edu-  cation of artists and living conditions of artists.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946  The meeting opened with a general statement  by the Secretariat of Unesco’s aims in the sphere  of music, namely ‘  — To safeguard the national character and  diversity of works; oo  — To co-operate with and help existing na-  tional organizations;  — To create an information centre.  A proposal of the Caixese delegation with re-  gard to a Unesco anthem was rejected.  The meeting then considered the various items  df the agenda, presented in turn by the Secre-  tariat.  __ 186 —