NINTH MEETING  Saturday, 30 November, 1946.  The Meeting opened at 9.40 a. m. with M. Léon  BLUM in the Chair.  The delegates of the following countries were  present : Brazil, China, France, Mexico, Norway,  the Philippines, Poland, Saudi Arabia, United  Kingdom.  M. THOMAS (Secretariat) asked the Administra- °  tive and Financial Sub-Commission and the Legal  and External Relations Sub-Commission to meet  in the small hall, in order to allow the Sub-Com-  mission for Mass Information to meet in the larger  Room 8.  This proposal was adopted.  After a statement by M. Thomas on the trans-  mission of a text on the powers of the Executive  Board from the Executive Board to the Adminis-  trative Sub-Commission, the General Committee,  at the suggestion of the delegate of the United  Kingdom, took note of the fact that the Executive  Board had issued a statement to the Administra-  tive Sub-Commission, and it expressed the hope  that the various Commissions and Sub-Commis-  sions of the Conference would take such commu-  nications emanating from the Executive Board  into account.  The Executive Secretary informed the General  Committee that the Government of Albania had  asked to take part in the present session of the  General Conference by sending an observer with  the right to speak. Dr. Huxley regretted that the  request of the Government of Albania wasreceiv-  ed too late to allow of taking any practical action,  and proposed that a letter should be sent inviting  that government to send a representative, who  would be present, unofficially, at the deliberations  of the Conference.  The question of the subsequent participation of  Albania in the future work of Unesco would have  to be referred to the Executive Board.  This proposal was adopied.  The delegate of BRAZIL stated that, as head of  his delegation, he had received a letter from the  Chairman of the Executive Board to the President  of the General Conference concerning the appoint-  ment of the Director-General. At his suggestion,  the General Committee decided to endorse the re-  quest by the Chairman of the Executive Board  to all heads of delegations, in the hope that effect-  ive collaboration would thus be achieved in the  general interests of the Conference and of the  Organization.  This proposal was adopted.  The Executive Secretary then stated that the  Sub-Commission for Creative Arts would meet  again during the afternoon to examine M. Cassou’s  report. Dr. Wilson said that the Reconstruction  Commission would hold another meeting, pro-  bably on Wednesday, and that the Sub-Commis-  sion for Social Sciences, Philosophy and Huma-  nistic Studies would meet again on Monday  afternoon.  The meeting rose at 10.40 a. m.  TENTH MEETING  Monday, 2 December, 1946  The Meeting opened at 9.40 a. m. under the  Chairmanship of M. MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Bra-  zil).  The delegates of the following countries were  present : China, France, Mexico, Norway, the  Philippines, Poland, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom, United States.  I. POWERS OF THE CO-ORDINATING  COMMITTEE.  The MEXICAN delegate, after asking that the  powers of this Committee should be defined more  closely, and after the United States delegate had  stressed the importance of its functions; which  were intended not only to assure proper liaison  between the different Commissions but also to  submit suggestions to them, the Committee adop-  ted the following resolution :  ““ The General Committee empowers the Co-  ‘ ordinating Committee to carry out the purposes  for which it was established. ”
2. FORM IN WHICH REPORTS SHOULD  BE SUBMITTED. ps  The UNITED Kinanom delegate thought that  reports to be submitted to the General Conference  should be both coherent and complete; in other  words, they should take due account of the con-  clusions of Commissions and Sub-Commissions,  while at the same time avoiding repetitions and  overlapping as much as possible. He asked what  ‘procedure 1t was intended to follow in drafting  reports in their final form.  The Secretariat explained that the six reports  of the Sub-Commissions would first be submitted  to the Co-ordinating Committee; that Commit-  tee would examine them quickly with a view to  deleting possible reduplications and clearing up  contradictory points. It would be entitled to mod-  ify the form, but not the substance of reports.  These would then be referred to the Programme  Commission, whose duty it would be to make a  synthesis of their contents and prepare a general  report. This genéral report would be submitted by  the Chairman of the Programme Commission to  the General Conference.  The proposed procedure was agreed to by the  Committee; and the Secretariat was requested to  prepare a time-table which would give the Co-  ordination Committee and the Programme Com-  mission sufficient time for revising the draft reports  and presenting a final report during the period  between the termination of the Commissions'work  and the opening of the plenary meetings of the  Conference. It was desirable that this report  should be duplicated and distributed in time for  delegates to become acquainted with its contents  before the resumption of the plenary meetings.  A proposal from the delegate of the UNION OF  SOUTH AFRICA that the Conference should be  prolonged for two days was not adopted.
3. DUTIES OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD.  The UNITED STATES delegate suggested that  the General Committee should, at one of its next  meetings, examine the nature and extent of the  powers of the Executive Board, a point on which  there seemed at present to be some doubt. The  proposal was adopted.  The meeting rose at 10. 20 a. m.  ELEVENTH MEETING  Tuesday, 3 December, 1946  The Meeting opened at 0. 40 a. m. with M,  MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Brazil) in the Chair.  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : China, France, Norway, Philippines, Poland,  salon of South Africa, United Kingdom, United  tates.  Li  I. LETTER AND NOTE FROM THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD.  The CHAIRMAN read a letter addressed to the  President of the Conference by the provisional  Chairman of the Executive Board, requesting that  the part of the Staff Regulations and Financial  Regulations of Unesco concerning the functions  of the Executive Board and those of the Director-  General should be considered by the General Con-  ference®at a full meeting, to be held on Friday  morning, 6th December, in the light of the report  prepared by the Administrative and Legal Com-  mission.  After discussion, and having regard to the re-  quirements of the Programme Commission and the  time needed for the establishment of its general  report, it was decided that the full meeting of the,  General Conference arranged for Friday morning,
6th December, should be devoted, not to the dis-  cussion of the report on Fundamental Education  (already examined by the Education Sub-Com-  mission), but to the discussion of the Staff Regul-  ations and Financial Regulations in the light of  the report of the Administrative and Legal Com-  mission.  The plenary meetings of the Programme Com-  mission booked for Wednesday, 4 December were  cancelled; the Programme Commission would hold  full meetings on Thursday, 5 December, at the  same time as the Administrative and Legal Com-  mission. :  The CHAIRMAN then read a note from the Exe--  cutive Board, previously communicated to the  Administrative and Legal Commission, concern-  ing the programme of work and the functions of  the Executive Board during the coming months.  It was decided that this note should be circulated  to all delegations.
2. REQUEST FOR ADMISSION FROM THE  Swiss FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.  The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Swiss  Federal Government expressing a wish to become  a Member of Unesco.  In accordance with the Constitution and with  the procedure existing for cases of this kind, it was  decided that the Swiss Government’s request  should be communicated to the Executive Board  before being transmitted to the Economic and  Social Council of the United Nations.
3. ESTABLISHMENT OF FINAL REPORTS.  At the request of the United States delegate,  the Secretariat described the procedure to be  adopted : :
1. Rapporteurs of Sub-Commissions would  hand in reports of two or three pages to the full  Commission;
2. These reports would be examined and dis-  cussed by the Co-ordination Committee;
3. They would be sent back to the Rappor-  teurs, who would prepare memoranda taking  account of the observations of the Co-ordination  Committee;
4. A drafting committee would draw up the  general report of the Commission, with annexes  including the reports of the six Sub-Commis-  sions. The meeting rose at 10. 25 a. m.  TWELFTH MEETING  Wednesday, 4 December, 1946  The Meeting opened at 9. 50 a. m. with Dr. Y. R.  CHAO (China) in the Chair.  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : the United States of America, Brazil,  France, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom,  Philippines, Poland, Norway.  I. SEAT OF 1948 CONFERENCE.  The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Egyptian  delegation confirming the Egyptian Government’s  invitation to Unesco to hold the 1948 General  Conference in Cairo.  The delegate of Norway reminded the meeting  that the Norwegian Government had already  invited Unesco to hold the 1948 Conference in  Oslo. ;  The Executive Secretary stated that the Nor-  wegian government’s invitation had been trans-  mitted to the Executive Board and the Egyptian  government’s letter would also be transmitted to  that body.
2. MEETING OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND  LEGAL COMMISSION.  The delegate of Norway said that, as the Ad-  ministrative and Financial Sub-Commission did  not expect to finish its agenda by the end of the  day, it was unlikely to be ready for the full meet-  ing of the Administrative and Legal Commission  “ scheduled for Thursday.  As the Staff Regulations and the Financial  Regulations were to be discussed at the plenary  meeting of the General Conference on Friday  morning, it was agreed that the full meeting of the  Administrative and Legal Commission on Thurs-  day should examine the report of the Legal and  External Relations Sub-Commission and part of  the report of the Administrative and Financial  Sub-Commission.  The meeting rose at 10 a. m.  T2C PS