The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  that Regulations 24, 25 and 26 be added to the  draft financial regulations. (Document No. 6 of  the Sub-Commission, page 5.) The proposal was  seconded by the delegates of the UNITED STATES  and FRANCE.  They were worded as follows :  ‘“ Regulation 24 : Rules made by the Director-  General to carry out the provisions of these  regulations shall be communicated to the Exe-  cutive Board for approval. ”  “ Regulation 25. These regulations cannot be  amended except by the General Conference, but  where it is proved to the Executive Board that  some alteration or addition is urgently requi-  red, the Executive Board is authorized to ap-  prove and put into temporary operation such  alteration or addition, but shall report thereon  to the Conference as soon as possible for final  decision by the latter. ”  “ Regulation 26. The present regulations shall  come into force on...”  In reply to a question from the delegate of  AUSTRALIA, the SECRETARIAT specified that the  date on which the Regulations would come into  force would be the date upon which the new Or-  ganization came into being.  Regulations 24, 25 and 26 were adopted.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA presented an amend-  ment, recommmending that the General Confe-  rence should approve the budget, chapter by chap-  ter (Document No. 9 of the Sub- Commission,  Article 5 À).  At the suggestion of the UNITED STATES dele-  gate, it was decided to defer the examination of  this amendment to a later date, when the Sub-  Commission was examining the budget itself.  The UNITED STATES delegate, seconded by the  delegate of BELGIUM, moved that the Draft Finan-  cial Regulations be deferred to the Drafting Com-  mittee, for their opinion whether they were logic-  ally presented and in conformity with the other  documents prepared by the Sub-Commission; and  this proposal was adopted. It was understood that  the Drafting Committee would also draft a text  regarding the constitution of a Revolving Fund.  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT.  : The CHAIRMAN also put to discussion Chapter ZI,  Section 2, paragraph C: “ Organization of the  Secretariat ” (Page 38 of Doc. C. 7).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES submitted  a text intended to take the place of the paragraph  under discussion, a text which had been prepared  ‘by the delegates of six different countries, with  the assistance of the Secretariat. He asked the  Sub-Commission to take it as a working basis,  instead of the printed text. This proposal was  adopted.  In view of the importance of this text, which  involved the very structure of the Organization,  the delegate of FRANCE asked that the discussion  be postponed until the next meeting of the Sub-  Commission; the various delegations would then  have the opportunity of studying it at their leisure,  and exchanging views before discussing it in the  Sub-Commission. This suggestion was adopled.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES then read  out a plan of structure for the Secretariat which  he had worked out. It would be duplicated and  distributed to delegates, and would be discussed  after the preamble mentioned above.  At the proposal of the delegate of the UNITED  STATES, it was decided that Sections 3 and 4 of  Chapter ZZZ be forwarded to the Drafting Com-  mittee for examination.  SIXTH MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 4 December 1046, at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  The CHAIRMAN read a communication from the  Chairman of the Reconstruction and Rehabilita-  tion Commission, enclosing copies of the resolutions  submitted to his Commission and copy of a resolu-  tion relating to the budget on which the Recon-  struction Commission had not yet taken formal  action. .  It was agreed that Dr. Drzewieskl's communi-  cation should be referred to the Secretariat with  the request that the portions of it relevant to the  budget should be roneoed and distributed to the  members of the Administrative and Financial  Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN then read a communication from  the Legal Adviser with regard to Draft Staff Re-  gulation 27 (establishment of an Administrative  Tribunal), which had been amended by the repre-  sentative of France. The Legal Adviser suggested  a modification of the French amendment.  It was agreed that the Legal Adviser's commu-  nication should be referred to the Drafting Com-  mittee, with instructions to confer with the Legal  Adviser and then report to the Administrative and  Financial Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN also announced that the Chair-  man of the Administrative and Legal Commission  wished the Administrative and Financial Sub-  Commission to submit, at the meeting of the full  Commission on Thursday, 5th December, its re-  port on the Draft Staff Regulations and Draft  Financial Regulations.  REPORT OF THE DRAFTING COMMITTEE.  Mr. RicHARDSON (United Kingdom), Chairman  of the Drafting Committee, submitted the Draft-  ing Committee’s report.  On the Staff Regulations, the following propo-  sals were made :
1. Paragraph 23 of Chapter M of the Prepara-  tory Commission’s report should be inserted  in the Staff Regulations as an addition to  Regulation 8.
2. In Regulation 29, the indemnity should be at  least the equivalent. of three months’ salary  and should not exceed nine months’ salary,  according to the length of service.
3. Those parts of Chapter II of the Preparatory  Commission’s report on which either a reso-  lution of the Conference or a Staff Regulation  was required, were the followin  a) Paragraphs 16 a) and b), which should be  embodied in a resolution of the Conference.  Paragraphs 1g a) and b) had still to be  dealt with. The first part of paragraph 20  J 209 ——
14   (to the word “ Organization ’’) should be  added to Staff Regulation 19; the second  part could be deleted.  b) The substance of paragraph 14 should  form the text of a resolution of the Gene-  ral Conference as a directive to the Direc-  tor-General.  .c) Paragraph 48 might be suitable for incor-  poration in the Staff Regulations and  should follow Regulation 30:  d) The substance of paragraph .28 should  form the text of a resolution of the Gene-  ral Conference.  As a result of its review of the Financial Regula-  tions, the Drafting Committee had only drafting  amendments to suggest, and these did not appear  “ to require comment.  After discussion, the Drafting Committee’s re-  port was adoplied.  DRAFT STAFF REGULATIONS, No. 17 À.  The CHAIRMAN opened the debate on Regula-  tion 17 A, proposed by the French delegate (Do-  cument Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur.;/S. C. Ad. &  Fin./11), who explained that the purpose of the  new draft was to enable the Finance Committee  to pass judgment on the financial management  of the Organization by external auditors.  The delegate of POLAND moved that points 1  and 2 be amalgamated in a single paragraph. This  proposal was adopted.  The UNITED STATES delegate pointed out that  it was not, in his opinion, in accordance with the  provisions of the Constitution for the Finance  Committee to submit a report to the General Con-  ference. And it was therefore decided to specify in  the second paragraph : “ The Finance Committee  of the Executive Board .... ’’, and to change the  beginning of the last paragraph to read : “ The  Executive Board shall submit to the approval of  the General Conference... ”  The delegations of INprA, UNITED STATES,  SOUTH AFRICA and the UNITED KINGDOM were  of the opinion that the former Regulation 17 gave  sufficient guarantees with regard to the supervi-  sion of financial management. They considered a  third form of audit unnecessary. They feared that  by going into detail the purpose would be defea-  ted, since to specify the powers of the Financial  Committee would restrict them instead of enlar-  ging them.  Mr. Morrissey (UN expert) was of the same  opinion; and gave certain details of United  Nations procedure in this matter.  At the suggestion of the delegate of FRANCE it  was decided that the proposal be divided into  three parts, the second part being more contre-  versial than the other two.  The CHAIRMAN successively put to the yote the  three parts of the motion; the first and third were  adopted, the second rejected.  Regulation 17 was finally adopted as follows :  “ The Executive Board shall appoint an ex-  ternal auditor and shall determine the condi-  tions under which he shall be nominated and  discharge his duties. Assistant auditors may be  appointed under the same conditions.  ““ The Finance Committee of the Executive  Board, provided for in Regulation 3 above.  shall take cognizance of the auditor's report,  “ The Executive Board shall submit to the  approval of the General Conference, at a regu-  lar-session, a general report on the financial  administration of the Organization. The audi-  tor's report shall be annexed thereto. ”  REVOLVING FUND (Document Ad & Fin./4).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES moved that  a Revolving Fund be established for Unesco as  part of its system of financing expenditure,  Adopted.  It was agreed that the discussion of this ques-  tion should be postponed to the next meeting.  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT  (Document Ad. & Fin.;14).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES made a sta-  tement on document S. C. Ad. & Fin./14, which  he submitted as basis of the discussion of the or-  ganization of the Secretariat.  It was agreed that the discussion on this ques-  tion should be postponed to the next meeting, on  the understanding that the delegate of the United  States would have the right to speak again at that  meeting.  SEVENTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1940 af 10.30 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  REVOLVING FtND (Continuation).  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM moved  that the amount of the Revolving Fund should  be three million dollars and that the deposits of  Member States therein should be in the same pro-  portion as their contributions to the Budget of the  Organization.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA suggested that the  contributions of Member States to the Revolving  l'und should be expressed as 50 %, of their con-  tributions to the Budget. He wished to have a  statement from the representative of the United  Nations as to whether or not the deposit to. be  made immediately by Member States would in  any sense reduce their contributions to the Bud-  get for the first year.  The SECRETARIAT said that it was intended that  the Revolving Fund should consist of deposits  made by Member States; the deposits so made  should remain the property of the Member States  and they should not be offset against contributions  to the budget. Once the Fund was established,  Member States would not be asked to make any  further deposit, unless it were decided to increase  the Revolving Fund.  The delegate of the UNION or SOUTH AFRICA  asked whether the Revolving Fund would in efiect  be a permanent loan without interest. .  The SECRETARIAT replied that the difficulty of  meeting expenditure, which would arise in the  early part of 1947, would probably continue until
1950, and the Revolving Fund would therefore  continue to be essential to the Organization.  — 2I0 —