tion, concerning the assistance to be given to tea-  chers and eventually to students, was then taken  up and was supported by the NORWEGIAN delega- .  + tion. The delegates of FRANCE and the UNITED  STATES having suggested that more emphasis  should be laid on the assistance to be given to chil-  dren, the CHAIRMAN asked them to consult with  the Danish delegate in order to re-draft the pro-  posal.  The meeting then resumed consideration of the  Agenda, and, in relation to Item 4 (c), studied  Proposal No. 17, which was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that they should deal  later with a motion submitted by the Frencu  delegation. This motion expressed ‘‘ the hope that  the work of Unrra will be continued for the bene-  fit of needy and ill-nourished children in war-de-  vastated countries ”,  Dr. WILSON asked permission to move an amend-  ment to Resolution No. g in spite of the fact  that the latter had already been adopted. He con-  sidered that the first paragraph should be altered,  so as to makeit clear that the Council would main-  tain a certain degree of independence in regard  to Unesco. The text should therefore read ‘“ Unesco  should take immediate steps to urge the establish-  ment of a Council... ”  The amendment was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then took up Resolution 11, con-  cerning which the FRENCH delegate desired to  table a motion. Pending communication of the  text to the Chairman, the meeting adjourned for  a few minutes.  The meeting was resumed at 11.55 a. m., under  the Chairmanship of M. DRZEWIESKI,  The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that  the officers of the Commission had suggested that  the report should be drafted by the rapporteur,  Mr. BRUMBAUCH, assisted by M. HEMPKIN, and  that it should subsequently be approved by the  Chairman.  This procedure was agreed to.  With reference to the budget of the Techni-  cal Sub-Committee, the officers proposed that it  should net be discussed by the Reconstruction  Commission until it had been examined by the  Financial Sub-Committee.  This proposal was agreed to.  The CHAIRMAN submitted for the Commission's  approval an amendment to Resolution No. 17, pre-  sented by the FRENCH delegation,  Resolution No. 17 was adopted, subject to this  amendment.  At the proposal of the GREEK delegate, it was  decided to insert in Resolution No. 7 words indi-  cating that the World Health Organization should  figure at the head of the list of bodies dealing  with the health of young people.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, as the World  Health Organization was affiliated to the Econce  mic and Social Council of the United Nations, the  wish thus expressed by the Unesco Conference  should be transmitted directly to this Organiza-  tion.  The CHAIRMAN submitted Resolution No. 5, con-  cerning the part to be played by Unesco in the  task of rehabilitation, for the Commission’s ap-  proval.  He drew attention to the fact that reference was  made in paragraph 1 of the Resolution to a point  already dealt with in the introduction to the re-  port. He thought it would be expedient, when  drafting the report in its final form, to eliminate  repetitions as far as possible. :  The UNITED STATES delegate pointed out tha  the Resolution in question was too important to  discuss without having a written text available;  and it was therefore decided to have it duplicated  and distributed to members, and to adjourn the  discussion to a later meeting.  The CHAIRMAN announced that the Agenda of  the Commission was nearly exhausted, since the  debate on the budget had been adjourned to a  later meeting. He also recalled that Resolution  No. 12, paragraph 2, had been referred to the  Education Sub-Commission for their opinion. This  Resolution would therefore not be discussed by  the Reconstruction Commission until the Educa-  tion Sub-Commission had expressed its opinion on  the question.  The GREEK delegate proposed that the next  meeting of the Commission should take place on  Wednesday, 4 December, at 3.0 p. m. This pro-  posal was accepted. ;  In order to comply with requests submitted by  the UNITED KINGDOM delegate, it was decided  that delegations which had views to express on  the allocation of funds earmarked for certain pur-  poses in the budget estimates should forward their  observations to Room No, 438 before 12 o’clock  on Thursday. These recommendations would be  transmitted to the Finance Sub-Commission.  The FRENCH and UNITED STATES delegates, on  behalf of all the delegations which had partici-  pated in the work of the Reconstruction Commis-  sion, expressed their thanks to M.DRZEWIESK1 for  the firmness and efficiency with which he had pre-  sided over the Commission's proceedings.  The CHAIRMAN replied that he had endeavour-  ed, above all, to secure agreement between all  the members of the Commission, as an expression  of the general desire to build a better world.  SIXTH MEETING  © Held on Wednesday, 4 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : M. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).  The CHAIRMAN requested the Rapporteur to sub-  mit the amendments to the Report contained in  document Unesco/C/11 Corrigendum.  All these amendments were adopted, except  page 3 of the corrigendum, Article 4 “ Field Con-  sultants” , fourth line : delete the word ‘‘ consul-  tation ”’.  The Commission adopted two additional amend-  ments ;  I. Page 7 of the Report, instead of “ Publica-  tions ’’ read ‘‘ Publications for teachers ”.
2. Page 7 of the Report, penultimate paragraph.  For “ Unesco should prepare pamphlets ”  read ‘“ Unesco should promote the publi-  cation of pamphlets... .”   EXAMINATION OF RESOLUTIONS  PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED.  The Rapporteur submitted nine resolutions, one  by one, which were all adopted by the Commission,  with the following amendments :  Resolution 1. :  Cancel the last two words : “ of youth ”.  Resolution 4.  Delete the last part of the last sentence star-  ting with ‘ this system...” and insert * this  task...”  Resolution 5.  Instead of ‘ the Governments will send ”’ say  “ will be invited to send. ”  Resolution 10.  The delegates of DENMARK and of the UNITED  KINGDOM suggested slight alterations to the French  and English texts, which were adopted.  The FRENCH delegate suggested that the follow-  ing sentence should be included in the resolut-  ion : ‘“ Devastated countries can also contribute  to the task of rehabilitation by placing their own  teachers and scientists at the disposal of other  countries, their influence being thus extended. ”  The CHAIRMAN then suggested an amendment  , recommending that the French proposal should  be extended to cover teachers and professors of  devastated countries, in as much as their war-  time experience might be of value to their collea-  gues in other countries: and the text of the  French resolution, thus amended, read as fol-  lows : ‘ The devastated countries can also con-  tribute their ideas to the task of rehabilitation by  placing at the disposal of other countries the ex-  perience gained by their scientists and teachers  during the terrible years of war. ”  This was unanimously adopted.  Before dealing with the next question, the Rap-  porteur made two statements.  He proposed that the introduction to the final  report be omitted.  . The budget submitted by the Secretariat to the  Financial Sub-Commission was in reality merely a  re-arrangement of the original budget, since the  total had not been altered,  EXAMINATION OF RESOLUTIONS FORWARDED  BY OTHER COMMISSIONS.  A resolution from the Education Sub-Commis-  sion, concerning the creation of reconstruction  camps, was forwarded to the Reconstruction and  Rehabilitation Commission, with a view to the  realization of this scheme. .  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Commission  ‘itself had already adopted a resolution covering  “this matter.  À double resolution from the Mass Media Com-  mission concerning the examination of the immed-  late needs of devastated countries and the crea-  tion of fellowships for the exchange of staff engag-  ed in Media of Mass Communication, was ac-  cepted on the understanding that it was already  covered by other resolutions.  The RAPPORTEUR presented the statements  taken from the report of the Libraries and Mus-  eums Sub-Commission. The Sub-Commission em-  phasized that :  I. Unesco’s activities, as regards libraries and  museums, must be directed towards pur-  poses of reconstruction and rehabilitation;
2. Unesco must help in reconstituting collections  and restoring monuments which had suf-  fered from the war;
3. Unesco must collect reports on the needs of  libraries, museums and archives, and frame  plans to meet those needs;
4. The Executive Board must create a special  fund for this purpose;
5. The services for the protection of collections  must be permanent.  The RAPPORTEUR submitted further extracts  from the report, as follows :
1. The Secretariat must gain the support of the  Allied Control Authorities;
2. The necessary steps must be taken to create  an International Clearing House for pub-  lications:
3. The publications Clearing House must facili-  tate exchanges between organizations and  governments;
4. Unesco must take the necessary steps in order  that libraries may encourage loans and ex-  changes of books. :  Special efforts must be made to improve th:  professional training of librarv, museum and ar-  chives staff.  The UNITED STATES delegate proposed an  amendment to No. G 1, to which he wanted the  following sentence added: ‘“ This should be a very  important project in the re-establishment of  plans, but it should not become a project the  realization of which would require large funds  and a big staff. ”  The delegate of FRANCE recalled that page 75  of the Green Book referred to the International  Clearing House for publications. À definite propos-  al should be formulated about this. As regards  books stolen by the Germans from their owners,  it should be mentioned that Unesco would be en-  trusted with the distribution of any surplus to  countries in need of it. He added that it had just  come to his notice that the Libraries Sub-Com-  mission had adopted his recommendation.  The CHAIRMAN thought they should accept the  report of the Sub-Commission for purposes of in-  formation, but that they should entrust their own  Commission with the practical execution of the  scheme. They could not accept the UNITED STATES  ‘project.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate thought that pa-  ragraph 2 touched upon the question of repara-  tions.  The CHAIRMAN was in favour of referring that  matter to the Executive Board for elucidation by  the Legal Adviser.  The delegate of FRANCE pointed out that this  was a question of restitution and not of reparation.   The CHAIRMAN said he would agree if Great  Britain were not mentioned.  The UNITED KINGDom delegate asked the Com-  mission to refer this project to the Executive  Board.  The CHAIRMAN decided to accept the text with  the amendment submitted by the United States  delegate, except Point 2, concerning which they  would ask the Executive Board to consult the  Legal Adviser,  The CHAIRMAN had a letter read out addressed  by the Director of the Encyclopaedia Britannica  to Mr. MacL.eish, who had referred it to the Com-  mission. It contained an offer of three hundred  copies of the latest edition of the Encyclopaedia.  The Director had asked Unesco to distribute the  volumes.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that a letter should be  sent to the University of Chicago expressing  ‘their thanks, and that the question should be re-  ferred to the Executive Board.  He mentioned further that the Report woula  be submitted to the General Conference by Mr.  Brumbauch.  The delegate of FRANCE expressed his thanks to  the members of the Commission, and in particular  conveyed to the Chairman the Commission’s sym-  pathy for martyred Poland.  The delegate of POLAND warmly thanked the  French Delegate, and expressed his great pleasure  at the work done by the Commission on behalf  of international democracy and in order to enable  children in all countries to lead a happier life.