2. and Section of the amendment proposed  by NEw ZEALAND.  “The Secretariat is requested to study the  text-books sent by the various countries, in  collaboration with the National Commissions  and Organizations and to make areport on the  subject at the following General Conference. ”  Seconded by the UNITED Kinpow.  Adopted by g votes to 3.
3. Amendment proposed by the INDIAN dele-  gation.  “ The Secretariat shall study the text-books  sent by the various countries, in the light of  their international outlook and understanding,  and send a report on this subject to each coun-  try concerned. ”  + Seconded by Norway.  Adopted by ¢ votes to o.
4. Amendment proposed by the delegation of  the PHILIPPINES (making a new paragraph 8).  “ In collaboration with the Committee,  Unesco shall prepare a Charter in the light of  which the various countries will revise and  modify their school text-books.”  Seconded by EcyrT. /  Adopted by 12 votes to 3.
5. Amendment proposed by M. WALLON  (France) (Addition to paragraph 5).  “To get in touch with the various govern-  ments and with the associations of teachers,  scholars and historians in order to discover  the facts on questions of universal historical  importance and to avoid presenting them in  a different form for each nation. ”  Seconded by BELGIUM.  Adopted by 17 votes to o.
6. Amendment proposed by Dr. Cru SH  Yuin (China).  “ That the Secretariat publish a periodical list  of documentation available to authors, in order  to facilitate the alteration or production of school-  books. ”  Seconded by FRANCE.  Adopted by II votes to 5.  Following points raised by the UNITED KiN6-  DOM and SOUTH AFRICAN Delegates, a vote was  taken on whether the draft should be voted upon  as a whole, with the inclusion of the amendments  just adopted, or whether a separate vote should  be taken on each paragraph. The proposal by the  UNITED KINGDOM, seconded by NEw ZEALAND,  that a separate vote should be taken on each  paragraph, was rejected by II votes to 6.  A vote was therefore taken on the draft as a  whole, with the inclasion of the amendments al-  ready adopted. :  The motion that the whole draft with the amend-  ments should be recommended to the General  Conference was adopted by 14 votes to 4.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  (Egypt).  The Sub-Commission resumed the discussion of  item 4 of the Agenda ‘“ General Discussion of the  Draft Programme”, and proceeded to consider the  note concerning the order of priority to be given  to proposals.  Group I. No. 5 : LrAISON COMMITTEE  ON ‘‘ EDUCATION FOR HEALTH. ”  The CHAIRMAN called upon Mme Thibert, re--  presentative of the International Labour Office.  Mme THIBERT stated that the International La-  bour Office was expecting much assistance from  Unesco in the promotion of social progress. She  mentioned the community of interest between  Unesco and the I. L. O., and also the necessity  for close co-operation between these two Organ-  izations, particularly in regard to the educational  aspects of vocational training. Such collaboration  could either be bi-lateral or multi-lateral, when.  the problems under consideration concerned other  specialized organizations. Mme Thibert then quot-  ed several typical examples of co-operation, for  instance, Proposal No. 1 ‘‘ Creation of a Committee  of Experts on Education for Health ”. She em-  phasized that it would be desirable forthe I. L. O.  to be represented on this Committee. Problems of  orientation and selection, in which educational  and professional issues were closely associated,  were of interest to both Unesco and the I. L. O.  In conclusion, Mme Thibert assured the meeting  of the I. L. O’ s readiness to co-operate willingly  in all circumstances and with all its resources in  any form of co-operation with Unesco.  Dr. WILsoN (Deputy Executive Secretary) point-  ed out that there were international organizations  dealing with health with which Unesco hoped to  work other than those mentioned in the document.  The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of the  following Rgsolution derived from Document C /2 :  ‘ That Unesco and the World Health Organ-  ization, in co-operation with the United Na-  tions Food and Agricultural Organization,  should set up a Committee of experts on Edu-  cation for Health. ”  Adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then proposed that, in order to  clear up doubts regarding Point 3 of Group I in  the Note on the Order of Priority, this point  should be taken up again.  Group I. POINT 3 :  INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL SEMINARS.  Mr. STODDARD (United States) considered that  it would be advisable to organize not only one,  but three or four international seminars, in order  to enable teachers to attend more easily. He as-  sured Mr. K. G. Saiyidain (India) that this would  not entail the suppression of the Centre organized  at Unesco Headquarters.  The meeting adopted this interpretation of the  text approved at the morning meeting.  Group IT. POINT I :  INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUBS,  In reply to a question by the UNITED KINGDOM  delegate, the CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Sec-  tion intended to pursue this project in 1947, if  time, staff and available resources permitted.   Dr. WILSON gave a brief explanation of this  plan. It meant establishing a dirert link between  Unesco and students belonging to International  Relations Clubs. Dr, Wilson emphasized that  Unesco had no intention of keeping the Govern-  ments concerned unaware of their action, but to  act through the authorities and-organizations res-  ponsible for education in each country,  The BELGIAN delegate then mentioned the exis-  tence in his country of a “ Friends of Unesco ”’  organization.  In reply to a question by Professor WALLON  (France), asking whether Unesco could obtain fac-  ilities for travel, foreign currency, passports, etc.,  Dr. WILSON replied that Unesco would certainly  be very glad to facilitate the interchange of mem-  bers of these clubs, but such material considerat-  ions were part of another project.  Sir Philip Morris (United Kingdom) said that  Unesco should not undertake direct action at pre-  sent and that the year 1947 should he devoted  to plans and discussions. He then proposed the  following Resolution :  “ To instigate, in 1947, in so far as time,  staff, and available resources will permit, dis-  cussions intended to determine how Unesco can  best stimulate the foundation or development  of clubs attached to schools, and to study what  the relations between Unesco and these clubs  should be ”.  The delegate of Now ZEALAND seconded this  motion.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM, support-  ed bv the delegate of NEw ZEALAND, thought  that in the first place it was important to collect  substantial documentation on the matter, and to  make contacts with all interested organizations,  and that there was no need to attenfpt concrete  work before 1048.  Dr. WILSON said that the Secretariat wished to  continue the work uudertaken in this field in r946,  and to put into application the task already pre-  pared.  ~The delegates for INDIA, the PHILIPPINES and  BELGIUM agreed, the latter making a distinction  between Children’s Clubs, Youth Clubs and Adult  Clubs.  “The proposal of the UNrrED KINGDOM and NEw  ZEALAND was rejected, and the Secretariat’s adop-  ted.
2. CONFERENCE ON ADULT EDUCATION,  The delegate of AUSTRALIA proposed that this  conference should not take place before 1948 so  that information on the object and on the tech-  nique of fundamental education, as well asresults  already achieved, might be obtained from Mem-  ber States in the interim.  Seconded by Dr. WiLsoN, the améndment by  the Australian delegate to the proposal by the  Secretariat was adopied. ;
3. RELATION BETWEEN PROFESSIONAL TRAINING  AND GENERAL EDUCATION.  The delegate of FRANCE, supported by the de-  legate of BELGIUM, explained how important it  was that general and professional education should  be merged, and asked that equivalence should be  established between the degrees conferred in the  different countries. The delegate of NICARAGUA  stressed this last point. The UNITED STATES dele-  gate proposed that these two projects should be  postponed, so that they could be more carefully  studied in co-operation with the Member States,  The United States delegate’s proposal was adop-  fed.
4. THE PROBLEM OF HANDICAPPED CHILDREN.  Dr. WiLson, and then the delegates of FRANCE,  CHINA and BELGIUM, pointed out the importance  of this problem, and the proposal was adopted.  Group III : r. RECONSTRUCTION CAMPS.  Dr. WILSON said this problem did not lie within  the scope of the Education Sub-Commission but  within that of the Reconstruction Commission,  who should also finance it.  Dr. WrLsoN’s proposal was adopted and the  Education Sub-Commission would forward to the  Reconstruction Commission its endorsement of the  educational merits of this project.
2. CONFERENCE ON THE TEACHING  OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS,  Dr. WILSON said that this question should be  discussed by the Social Sciences Section, and the  Sub-Commission would forward it with its recom-.  mendations.  Dr, WILSON’S proposal was adopted.  The Sub-Commission approved the observation  made as the result of proposals about the publi-  cation of an International Éducation Bulletin.  Item 6 of the Agenda :  NEw PROPOSALS BY DELEGATES.  I. OPENING-UP OF EX-ENEMY STATES TO THE  INFLUENCE AND CULTURE OF THE DEMOCRATIC  COUNTRIES.  The Sub-Commission first examined a proposal  by the delegate of the NETHERLANDS, seconded  by the BELGIAN and INDIAN delegates, recom-  mending: ‘“ that Unesco should immediately study  the general problem and issues arising in con-  nection with the opening-up of ex-enemy coun-  tries to educational and cultural influences from  democratic countries. ”’  The CHATRMAN stated that the Sub-Commission  had no power to deal with this question, and that  it would be forwarded to the Executive Board.
2. WorLD TEACHERS CHARTER.  The delegate of CHINA requested that Unesco  draft and promulgate a “ World Teachers’ Char- .  ter ’’, which would tend to (1) ensure the material  conditions of the teacher, (2) raise his moral con-  dition, (3) protect freedom of teaching.  The first two points were immediately agreed  upon, but the question of freedom of teaching  led to discussion.  The FRENCH delegate considered that, by tak-  — I54 —   ing a stand on the matter of freedom of education,  Unesco would be interfering with the domestic  policy of governments, and a difference must be  made between respect for teachers’ individual  opinions, which nobody disputed, and the organ-  ization of education in the State, for which the  governments must be responsible.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES suggested  that the proposal of the Chinese delegation be sub-  mitted to the Director-General, who would appoint  a Commission to study it. This proposal was ac-  cepted, The CHINESE delegate withdrew the three  points submitted and asked that only the general  principles be considered by this Sub-Commission.  The proposal was then adopted.
3. INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES OF STUDENTS  AND TEACHERS.  The Sub-Commission adopted a proposal by the  delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM concerning in-  ternational exchanges of students, teachers and  youth leaders. This proposal was seconded by the  delegate of FRANCE, who wished that these ex-  changes should extend to leaders of adult cultur-  al movements.
4. ANNUAL CELEBRATION  OF THE COMITY OF NATIONS.  The Sub-Commission adopted the following  proposal by the BRAZILIAN delegate : ‘“ The Sub-  Commission on Education recommends the adop-  tion of a special day devoted to the celebration  of the comity of nations. The aim of such a cele-  bration of mankind, bringing in all ages and all  peoples, would be to promote every year a sense  of historical continuity and international solida-  rity. It should be observed throughout the world  on the First of January, so that each year should  open on the keynote of universal brotherhood ”.
5. PROBLEMS OF THE RECRUITMENT, TRAINING AND  SALARIES OF TEACHERS; ScHOOL BUILDINGS AND  MATERIALS.  A proposal by the AUSTRALIAN delegate for  ‘the comprehensive study of the teaching pro-  fession, of the demand for teachers, of problems  of recruitment and training and of their status  and remuneration ”’ was altered, and the follow-  ing amendment, proposed by the UNITED STATES  delegate : ‘ that Unesco be a Clearing House for  such studies already carried out in the Member  States and that the Director-General maintain the  appropriate contacts on these matters, ” was adop-  ted.  Two other proposals by the AUSTRALIAN dele-  gate for similar studies regarding educational me-  thods and school architecture and equipment were  rejected by the Sub-Commission.  The following proposal was then adopied :  *“ That Unesco should recognize the fundamental  value, both from the point of view of Education  and of creating individual goodwill, of schemes for  the exchange of children, students, teachers and  youth leaders, members of professions. Unesco  should act as the Clearing House for information  on all such schemes, whether governmental or non=  governmental and whether international or bi-  lateral, and should give every possible stimulation  to such activities ””.
6. TEXTBOOK OF Civic EDUCATION.  The delegate of ECUADOR suggested that a com-  petition should take place throughout the world  for a textbook of civic education, which would deal  with man’s duties towards : (x) his country, (2)  the cuitural group to which he belongs, (3) hu-  manity.  The delegate of EGYPT and the CHAIRMAN con-  sidered that this question fell within the compe-  tence of the Social Sciences Section.  The delegate of ECUADOR maintained his mo-  tion, which was rejected.  The work of the Education Sub-Commission  came to an end with the study of these questions.  A report would be made by the Rapporteur in  conjunction with the Chairman, Vice-Chairman,  and Secretary of the Sub-Commission.  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 4 December 1946 at 12 noon.  Chairman : Mr. G. D. STODDARD  (United States).  The Meeting considered the report (Unesco/C/  Prog. Com./S. C. Educ. 7), which was circulated  to members, and it was agreed that the addition-  al items to this draft would be referred to the  Co-ordination Committee.  The CHAIRMAN read a proposal which had al-  ready been submitted to the Co-ordination Com-  mittee, stating “ that the project concerning an  International University contained in Document  S. C. Educ. /2, page 3, should be separated from  the projected survey on training in international  relations, and linked up with the study of Educat-  ion for International Understanding (S.C.Educ./7  Ia). ”  Ye also stated that two other projects had been  communicated to the Education Sub-Commission  by the Rehabilitation Commission and that these  two projects were covered by the programme in  its present form.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate considered that this  study could be carried out as provided under Sec-  tion I (a) document 7.  The CHAIRMAN explained that this amendment  was supported by the United States delegation.  The INDIAN delegate suggested the addition of  the words ‘ and higher educational establish-  ments ’’ after the words ‘“ primary and secondary  schools ”’.  The CHAIRMAN considered that this proposal  was most appropriate and would extend the scope  of the project.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate seconded the amend-  ment.  The amendment was adopted.  The Representative of the Co-ordination Com-  mittee said that he had no comments to make.  The CHAIRMAN asked the Meeting to consider  — 155 —