think that, when her people ‘return, they will  return as ambassadors of the’ culture of other  countries, and that they will teach and inform  us in Norway about these countries which have  been so generous in these difficult times. That  will be a new link between the nations.  Another relatively easy thing is the reform of  school textbooks, particularly history books. The  northern countries have started on this: have  improved textbooks, and omitted from them what  might be harmful to neighbouring countries. We  are now discussing the possibility of getting out a  series of short documents on geography, history  and civics as taught in Norway. These documents  will be sent to other countries as a basis for the  dissemination of reliable information about Nor-  way, and Norway hopes for improvement along  these lines. We hope to spread the knowledge  of Unesco so that every one will know of its  work. We have formed a national group to con-  nect the principal organisations interested in  problems of education and scientific research with  the work of Unesco, and to act as counsellor.  The delegates for Norway wish to express their  faith in Unesco and their conviction that the pro-  gramme Unesco has set up will make for a better  world, where children can become responsible  citizens, where human life will have regained its  true value, and where the useless sacrifice of  human life will arouse lively indignation.  Norway believes in Unesco and its ideals be-  cause, as a Danish poet once said, ““ A noble  thought never dies without producing another  noble thought ”.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I now call  upon the delegate of Colombia.  Sr. Xavier ARANGO (Colombia) (translation) :  I did not know that the final speeches were to be  made to-day. I find myself in a grave dilemma, as  I do not know French well enough to speak extem-  pore. I should therefore have been glad of time for  thought so as to express my exact impression of  Unesco.  Unesco has one essential object : to rediscover  the path of sanity, which the world seems to have  lost, so that Man can regain the optimistic title of  Homo Sapiens. In these dark days we have quite  ceased to associate the word ‘‘civilization ” with  the word ‘“‘ culture’. I believe that Unesco’s lab-  ours will forge the weapons of a humane and hum-  anistic procedure, and that through thus raising  Man himself to life, it will be shown that culture  is only the application of civilization. A civil-  ization without a metaphysical philosophy is too  limited. Man has sought to doaway with mystery  and express everything in terms of physical fact,  but in Man's subconsciousness there remains a  terror, not physical in origin, of desintegration,  quite apart from the superstition he has rightly  sought to suppress.  It is a great satisfaction to me that France is  supplying the President for this Conference, for  France has ever been the intellectual capital of  the Latin World. We South Americans are Spain's  children in the flesh, but France’s in the spirit. As  long ago as 1794 the Rights of Man were translated  by one of the great precursors of American inde-  pendence, Antonio Marino.  If the time should come when Europe loses all  understanding of Democracy, I am sure that in  Colombia she will find the fairest example of it.  All too often democracy serves but as the cloak for  political sophistries.  It seems to me that it is Unesco’s task to give  the world a new concept of culture; in other words,  to give civilization a metaphysical philosophy so  that Man, under the heel of the vast powers whose  symbolis the Golden Calf, and a victim of the prim-  aeval terror of those elements whose counter-  part is to-day the atom bomb, may turn his steps  into new paths, the humane and humanistic paths  of a civilization founded, as India’s delegate has  said, on charity and true brotherly love,  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 have just  heard that the two last speakers, the head of the  United States delegation and the head of the  Mexican delegation, are unfortunately held up by  reasons beyond their control, and I hope the Con-  ference will agree that these speakers should ad-  dress the Conference tomorrow morning at the  opening of the Plenary Session, at 10.30 a. m.  SEVENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 23 November 1946 at 10.30 a. m.  President : M. Leon Brum, President of the Conference.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : T have a com-  munication to make. The General Committee has  received a request from the Republic of Viet-Nam  to be allowed to send an observer to the Confer-  ence. The Committee proposes to take the same  decision as was taken in the case of Republican  Spain : namely, since the legal status of Viet-Nam  is not yet finally defined, they will be cordially  invited to send a representative to attend meet-  ings of the Conference but without the title of  official observer.
3. REPORT OF PROCEDURE  : COMMITTEE (conlinuation)  "I now call on Dr, Martinez-Baez, Chairman of  the Procedure Committee.  The Chairman of the PROCEDURE COMMIT-  TEE (translation) : After a long debate my com-  mittee adopted certain new texts, taking into  consideration all the amendments put forward by  — 62 —   /  the different delegates. They approved Rules 1, 2,
5, 6, 7, 10, 13, 14, 16. 34, 35, 44, 49, 54, 584, 58B,  bo, 61, 62, 65, 66, 74, 75, 76, as well as the sup-  plementary provisional rules. Rule 2 bis, Rule
6 bis, 2nd paragraph, and Rule 14 bis were deleted  and there is a new text for Rule 68 bis. A long dis-  cussion took place on Rule 33 and this Rule was  finally referred back to the committee, which  will meet in a few days’ time to disèüss the text  of that Rule. It should be pointed out that in  the English text of document Unesco/C/Proced/
3, there are several errors which will be corrected.  The Committee on Procedure asks you to adopt  these Rules, which have been amended by the  committee. The Secretariat will send out complete  amended texts shortly.  Furthermore, the General Committee asked for  the opinion of the Procedure Committee concern-  ing the possibility of appointing alternate dele-  gates to the Executive Board. The G neral Commit-  tee stated that the choice of delegates mentioned  in the Constitution might be somèwhat too res-  trictive. The Procedure Committee recommended  to the General Committee the adoption of Rule 15  and, having heard the Legal Counsel on this point,  was of the opinion that alternate delegates might  be appointed to the Executive Board on condition  that the delegation informed the President of the  Conference that they act as delegates in accor-  dance with Rule 15.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The Proce-  dure Committee has sat for three days and has  settled all the points regarding the Rules of Pro-  cedure with the exception of Rule 33, which has  been reserved. The Committee has worked very  hard and the Conference should be very grateful  to them. The best way we can show this gratitude  would be by adopting the Rules, which are now  put before the Conference, without further dis-  cussion. Are there any observations?  The proposals of the Procedure Committee are  adopted.
9. GENERAL DISCUSSION ON THE  WORK OF THE PREPARATORY  COMMISSION (continuation)  I now call upon the Hon. William Benton, deleg-  ate of the United States.  The Hon. William BENTON (United States) :  Twelve months have passed since the Constitution  of Unesco was drawn up — twelve troubled and  war-weary months that have demonstrated once  more the urgent need for understanding among the  peoples of the world. We here assembled have now  reached the solemn but hopeful day on which the  Constitution of Unesco is to be made a living force  by a programme designed to advance that under-  standing. To the development of that programme,  the Preparatory Commission, under the distin-  guished leadership of Dr. Julian Huxley, has con-  tributed many months of devoted and fruitful  effort.  As Chairman of the United States delegation to  this conference I can assure you that, although  Unesco is as yet but little understood anywhere in  the world, its hopes and goals have the complete  and fervent support of my country and its people.  The United States Congress, informally approv-  ing the membership of my country in Unesco,  created a United States National Commission in  accordance with the recommendation contained  in Article VII of Unesco's Constitution. This Com-  mission is a body unique in American history. It  unites in one assembly spokesmen of the arts,  sciences and learned professions; of the education-  al system at all levels; of radio, motion pictures  and the press; of the educaticnal interests of  labour and agriculture, and of religious bodies; and  of many other American groups that are now  working for the establishment of peace.  In September, the United States Commission  met for four days of spirited discussion, to advise  the United States delegation to this Conference.  My nine associates, appointed by President Tru-  man to our delegation here, are all of them mem-  _ bers of the United States Commission for Unesco.  This is not a period of history that encourages  pleasant dreams. Peace will not be established b  "wishful words, no matter how eloquent the expres- .  sion or how noble the sentiments. If Unesco is to  contribute to the peace of the world, it must do so  through its programme of education and of scien-  tific and cultural exchanges. This programme must  be soundly conceived, boldly planned and energ-  etically executed. It must look toward the decade  ahead, and not merely towards this year and next  year.  On what principles should such a programme be  based ?  First, its primary goal must be a firm peace  built on genuine understanding among the peoples  of the world. Let me quote from the Report sub-  mitted by the United States National Commission  to the Department of State :  “ Unesco is not conceived as an international  undertaking to promote education and science and  culture as ends in themselves, but rather, through  education and science and culture, to advance the  peace of the world. The American delegation  should support those proposals for action which  give promise of advancing directly and signifi-  cantly the cause of peace through understand-  ing.  The American delegation accepts this principle  as formulated by its National Commission.  This principle would affect the structure as well  as the spirit of Unesco, It would minimize the dan-  ger that Unesco will develop into a loose federation  of specialized groups, each pursuing its owninter-  ests on the quite human assumption that each  holds a master key to world understanding. This  is a very real danger. We must not emerge from  this Conference as a series of special interest groups  labelled ‘‘ creative arts ”, “ natural sciences”,  “ mass media ’’, and so forth, insulated from each  other and competing or ‘“ log-rolling ‘ for atten-  tion and a share of the budget.  Specialized skills and interests should be placed  in the service of the common cause — the cause  of peace through understanding. Each in its own  field must seek to stimulate interchange on a world  scale; but the common cause must not be sub-  — 63 —   ordinated to the service of any special field or group  of fields.  Thus, my first principle is an integrating prin-  ciple, to protect us against the dividing forces that  beset us. I suggest that Unesco be organized  around its great central unifying objective rather  than on the many foundations of the various dis-  ciplines and fields of knowledge into which its  intellectual resources are divided. The channels  through which it will act will themselves exert an  integrating influence upon its activities. These  channels seem to me to be three in number. First,  we have the traditional role of formal education:  secondly, the emerging role of scientific and cultur-  al exchanges, in which the Institute of Intellec-  tual Co-operation bravely pioneered and, thirdly,  the new and relatively unexplored field of mass  education at the adult level. Through these three  channels we can perhaps best integrate the efforts  of the specialists and focus them upon the com-  mon goal,  This, then, is the first principle : to concentrate.  our efforts upon our primary objective — the build-  “ing of peace through understanding among the  peoples of the world.  My second principle is that the means employed  by Unesco should be adapted to the end I have  outlined. Let me quote again from the report of  the United States National Commission :  ‘ In the opinion of the National Commission,  the responsibility of the United Nations Educat-  ional, Scientific and Cultural Organisation in the  present crisis is so great and so pressing that the °  organisation should not hesitate to employ any  proper means, however novel or however costly,  which give promise of success. Unesco is itself a  new agency, daring in purpose and novel in struc-  ture. The means it employs should be appropriate  to its nature. It must serve as the cutting edge for  international action. ”’  I shall cite, as a prime example of a means ap-  propriate to its nature, the mass-education of the  peoples of the world. This goal can only be achie-  ved in the world as a whole through the modern  instruments of mass-communication, the modern  press, the radio and the motion picture. Because  these new instruments of world communication  have been vulgarized on occasion and have even  been perverted and misused for mass deception, it  does not mean that they cannot be employed, by  those who wish so to employ them, for the high  purposes of knowledge and truth. The use of such  instruments for mass-education is little understood  by many of the world’s scholars and intellectuals.  The first sentence of the Unesco Constitution sta-  tes that it is in the minds of men that the defences  of peace must be constructed. We of the American  delegation understand that to mean all men, not  merely élite groups with special training.  Scholars and scientists and philosophers and  artists are the sources and wellsprings of the  world’s culture. We can no longer wait upon slow  seepage to bring their work to the masses of man-  kind. The ordinary men and women of the world  are athirst for knowledge. Their stride is the stride  of a giant. They will march surely as they have  the knowledge, or blindly as they lack it.  As Vice-President of the University of Chicago  for eight years, I saw that the riches of human  learning need not — indeed cannot and must not  — be the hoard and the monopoly of the few. I  learned that, without sacrifice of intellectual int-  egrity, it is possible to reach millions of ordinary  men and women by the new instruments of com-  munication, and to provide them with stimulus to  thought and intelligent action. Here is the great  educational challenge of the future — for Unesco  and for all of us.  The task Unesco faces is a staggering one. It is  a grim fact that more than half of the people of  the world are living under some degree of political  censorship. It is a grim fact that more than half  of the earth’s population — and not the same  half — is illiterate.  The hopeful side of the picture is that men every-  where have an innate yearning for understand-  ing. Further, they have the capacity to achieve  it. The anthropologists have demonstrated that,  biologically, all races and peoples have, in roughly  equal measure, the same potentialities for under-  standing and for creative work.  . Men have struggled for centuries to bring into  being the ideal of political democracy; the streets  of this beautiful city have run red for that ideal.  More recently men have struggled for economic  democracy. I propose for Unesco the development  of adequate means to a third goal : the goal of  cultural democracy; the opportunity for all to  share in the ideas and the knowledge that will  enable them to participate intelligently in the  affairs of the world community.  Unesco does not believe and cannot believe that  peace is to be obtained through the intellectual  and cultural subjugation of the world by any  single political philosophy or through the conver-  sion of the world .to any single religious faith.  Unesco is founded on the belief that neither the  forced unification of the world of the spirit, nor  the forced standardization of the world of the  mind can give men peace, but only a world demo-  cracy of mind as well as spirit. Cultural democracy  implies cultural integrity, as true political demo-  cracy implies the freedom of the person and his  personal integrity and self-respect. The cultural  democracy which Unesco proposes is a democracy  of mind and spirit in which every culture shall be  free to live and develop in itself and in the. great  community of common culture. Free men do not  fear ideas; free men are not afraid of thought; free  men are eager to confront the differences and rich  varieties that life presents, and to determine for  themselves the things they take as true. This,  from the beginning, has been the path of freedom.  This brings me to my third and last principle :  the scope of our programme, over the years ahead,  must be proportioned to the task.  It might be argued that the goal for Unesco 1s  impossible of attainment within a measurable fu-  ture; that the task is so immense that Unesco can  make only a minor contribution to it, scarcely  decisive in the issue of war and peace.  : My answer again is to direct attention to the  new means at the disposal of the cultural forces  of the world.  One hundred years ago Horace Mann, a great  pioneer of American education, was establishing   the common school system of Massachusetts. The  system he founded became the model for public  education throughout the forty-eight states. It  was harder for Horace Mann to travel from Bos-  ton to Pittsfield, about a hundred miles away,  than it was for the American delegates to this Con-  ference to fly from Washington to Paris. '  It was far harder for Horace Mann to communi-  cate with Pittsfield than it is for the President of  Harvard University to talk to the Minister of  Education in China. The despair one feels in think-  ing of the immensity of Unesco’s tremendous  responsibilities is mitigated when we think of  instruments now at our disposal. In fact, if the  ideas which we espouse here are as dynamic as  were those of Horace Mann, there is no reason  for despair.  Thus, my fears for Unesco are not the lack of  instruments, nor the absence of interest or capa-  city on the part of ordinary people everywhere.  My fears are that we ourselves, we of Unesco, will  not set our sights high enough for the long range;  that the leaders of our nations will not perceive  the true potentialities of Unesco; and that the  financial and political support accorded Unesco  will not permit us to proportion our programme  to the job ahead of us.  I do not now propose, however, an expansion  of the budget advanced by the Secretariat of the  Preparatory Commission. In fact, it may well be  advisable to scale the first year’s expenditures  downward.  War has left its historic wake of destruction,  hunger and disease. The world is now struggling  back toward physical and financial health. We  must not risk the foundering of the United Na-  tions and of its Specialized Agencies by asking  nations to assume heavy new financial burdens  at a moment when many of them do not have the  resources to subsist and rebuild. Neither should we  risk devitalizing this great enterprise by making  it largely the responsibility of a few nations.  The coming year, I think we are agreed, should  be a year of exploring and planning : planning ac-  companied by the launching of a small number of  crucial projects, which will clearly demonstrate  the worth and the significance of our undertaking.  This year of planning will bring further clarificat-  ion of purposes and potentialities. The experim-  ental projects will serve as a laboratory for our  own experience and for demonstration to our  peoples of the kinds of things we can accomplish.  But of one thing we must be careful : the bud-  get for 1947 must not be regarded by our govern-  ments or our peoples as establishing the norm for  future years. I suggest we present the 1947 budget  as a fledgling budget. If we think of it as the fledg-  ling that indeed it is, while we test our wings and  plan our course of flight, this will prepare our  governments for the more costly projects that  Unesco must embrace when the world emerges  from this period of struggle for subsistence. IFu-  ture budgets must be scaled to the magnitude of  Unesco’s opportunities, and to the promise of  Unesco’s organisation as it grows in strength.  As understanding develops throughout the  world, the unproductive cost of armaments can  and must come down. The combined budgets of  all nations for their military and naval establish-  ments for this year is, I would guess, at least  ten thousand times the size of any budget now  contemplated for Unesco. In each country the  military establishment is an unproductive drain  on the economy, as is a fire insurance premium an  unproductive expenditure for a home owner. When  his fire insurance premium becomes unbearably  large, the home owner seeks ways to reduce it by  reducing the risk of fire.  To the citizens of the world, Unesco is a vehicle  through which the risk of fire can be reduced. Sure-  ly it is good business to put money into Unesco  when the risk against which we are protecting our-  selves is war.  Unesco has been called into existence to serve  all peoples of the world, without distinction of race  or nationality, sex or language, or economic con-  dition. I trust that the day is near at hand when  all nations will have taken their place as members  of this Organisation.  Unesco belongs to the people, and not to the  scholars and intellectuals, though the opportunity  for leadership is theirs. The people will ask one  question : What is Unesco doing for peace? The  people will not accept excuses. If we offer such,  they will merely ignoré us.  To help make peace : that is the task of Unesco.  It is the hardest, longest, largest task that men  can undertake. Peace cannot be built by little  men, with a little money, in a little way. Unesco  needs strong men and bold men. To those who are  strong and bold for peace, the people will not deny  the backing they need. The people will give their  support, and far more. They will give their devot-  ion, their hearts and their minds.  The military experts have said there is no de-  fence against the weapons of modern war. They  are right. There is no military defence. But there  is another, a greater defence which is not military.  The people have sent us here to build it. That de-  ‘fence must be built by us, and, as the Constitution  of Unesco declares, it must be built in the minds  of men. It must be built in the minds of all men  everywhere.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I now call on  M. Reyes, Head of the Mexican delegation.  M. REYES (Mexico) (translation) : On behalf  of the Mexican delegation, I bring you the warm  wishes of the Government and people of Mexico  for the success of this Conference.  Mexico is deeply interested in our work, particul-  arly as we in our country are profoundly con-  vinced that any genuine policy must be based upon  intellectual progress and educational improve-  ment. So firmly is this idea implanted in us, that  such questions are the very starting-point of all  administrative work and are the constant pre-  occupation of my countrymen.  No nation is isolated today, and international  collaboration in this and all other fields is the only  guarantee of success. Intelligence and culture,  moreover, are by their nature universal, or are  becoming so; and it is really extraordinary that  a world disaster should have been necessary to  arouse us to a sense of the urgent need for harmony  — 65 —      and solidarity between minds, an objective to-  wards which the International Institute of Intel-  lectual Co-operation had already made the first  move.  “ Mexico hopes that, while we do not lose sight  of the ideal, we shall also take account of facts.  Big Utopian schemes are threatened with failure,  and to ask all countries for more than they can  give would prove a sterile business, courting di-  saster. The world 1s made up of rich and poor,  strong and weak, and it is essential that each  should be equal to the task imposed upon him.  Only in this way can we succeed in levelling up  human communities situated in very different  conditions: only in this way can we efface the  chiaroscuros that mask the true face of humanity.  We were extremely interested in the Executive  Secretary's report. It is a fascinating document,  for all its mixture of prudence with enthusiasm.  In the course of the Conference we shall be review-  ing our programme and shall end, I hope, by  establishing the limits of our possibilities.  The report may be open to criticism in detail,  but we believe that all delegations will approve it  as a whole. This general approval, which I recom-  mend to vou, would not exclude the insertion of  individual view-points on any item in the pro-  gramme. .  This Conference in Paris brings back to us what  our civilization owes to French leaders of thought.  I catch a distant view of all the great nations who  have helped us, and who are now helping us to  ‘accomplish our educational and cultural mission.  I forget none of them, though I regret the absence  of some who, for fortuitous reasons, unfortunate  and temporary, are not among us now. It is im-  portant that, when these absent ones are able  or willing to join us, they shall find their place  waiting for tem. :  The eyes of all men of goodwill are upon us.  We must not disappoint them. My country hopes  that we shall live up to our ambitions. Mexico, the  heir of many cultures, is, at this moment, making  visible efforts to absorb within her melting-pot  that substance, the product of all the molten met-  als, like that which flowed from the burning of  Corinth, and which is fashioned by slow degrees  in the furnace of history.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The delegate  of Mexico concluded his speech with a concrete  proposal. He asked the Conference generally to  approve the Report of the Executive Secretary on  the understanding that delegates have, of course,  the right to discuss any item they wish in the  course of our forthcoming meetings. 1 think that  the Conference will wish to pay unanimous trib-  ute to the value and importance of the work  done. Is that agreed? I see that the Conference  is unanimous.  At 4.30 this afternoon we shall meet again to  elect the Executive Board. :
11. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COM-  MISSIONS AND ASSIGNMENT TO THEM  OF CERTAIN QUESTIONS  Our vote is necessary lin order that the three  main Commissions, the Programme Commission,  the Administrative and Legal Commission and the  Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Commission  may be able to start their work.  I ask the Conference to approve the setting up  of three Commissions, of which the Programme  Commission and the Commission on Reconstruc-  tion and Rehabilitation will meet on Monday at
10.30 a..m. .  Is this agreed? In the absence of any objections  this is decided. ;  EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 23 November 1946 at 4.30 p. m.  President : Dr. Y. R. CHAo (China)
12. ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD  Thé PRESIDENT : This morning the Confe-  rence was asked to adopt the Rules of Procedure  so that it became possible to set up the Nomina-  tions Committee. Now we are ready to proceed to  the election of the Executive Board members in  accordance withthe Rules of Procedure, after the  report from the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee.  This election, 1 would remind vou, according  to the Constitution, will be by secret ballot.  The following are the relevant paragraphs in  the Rules of Procedure :  “ Rure 68 bis (amended): The General Con-  ference shall elect at one and the same time the  eighteen members of the Executive Board in ac-  cordance with the provisions of Rules 55, 50,
57 and 58B.  «“ In accordance with Article V A, 3, of the  Constitution, it shall determine, by the drawing  of lots, the six members whose term of office ex-  pires at the end of the first year, and the six mem-  bers whose term expires at the end of the second  year.  “ RULE 55 : To be elected each candidate must  obtain in the first ballot a clear majority of the  votes cast. In the second ballot a plurality is suffi-  cient. If in the second ballot the votes are equally  divided, the President shall decide between them  by drawing lots.  — 66 —