FOURTH MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946 at 10.30 a. m.  Chairman : M. Luis Alberto SANCHEZ (Peru).  The SECRETARIAT stated that the Drafting Com-  mittee had established the final text of the agree-  ments with the International Institute of Intellec-  tual Co-operation, the International Bureau of  Education, and of the Draft Agreement with non-  governmental international organizations and the  International Council of Scientific Unions.  There followed a discussion on the draft agree-  ment with the French Government. The delegate  of FRANCE stated that an alteration was being  made in Article 15, under which the French Go-  vernment requires a list of the representatives of  the press, radio, etc. accredited to the Organiza-  tion. He suggested postponing the discussion on  this draft agreement, which would form part of  the General Convention on Privileges not yet adop-  ted. The delegates supported this proposal, and  it was decided that the temporary agreement bé-  tween the Secretariat of the Preparatory Commis-  sion and the French Government should remain  in force pending conclusion of the final agreement.  The delegate of CHINA, referring to Article g,  asked whether the Secretaries-General of delega-  tions and their alternates enjoyed the same pri-  vileges as delegates. If not, could these privileges  be extended to the persons mentioned? The dele-  gate of FRANCE replied that this request would be  examined by the French Government.  The delegate of CANADA asked what was meant  in the same paragraph by diplomatic missions ”.  The delegate of FRANCE replied that each member  of a delegation would have the privileges corres-  ponding to those enjoyed by embassy staff of equal  rank.  Relations with Specialized Agencies were then  discussed. The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM  proposed referring the text to a Drafting Commit-  tee for revision of the English wording, which was  not satisfactory. The proposal was adopted.  The text was adopted as a recommendation.  M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) proceeded to consi-  der the relations with States Members. A decision  was essential on two points :
1. Until now three countries had formed Na-  tional Commissions, and it was.desirable that  others should do-likewise.
2. Article VIII of the Constitution provides  that each Member State shall report periodi-  cally to the Organization, and page 106 of the  English text gives the items on which the Mem-  ber States should furnish information.  The delegate of POLAND declared that the pro-  blem of National Commissions was a very impor-  tant one. He proposed submitting to the General  Conference the following comments on Article VII :  A National Commission should form the only  liaison between Unesco and a country. Paragraph 3  of the report (page 105 in the English text), did  not prevent the Commissions from sending repre-  sentatives to the Secretariat, and he proposed that  the Executive Board should define the status of  these Commissions,  The delegate of MEXICO said he was in agree-  ment with the delegate of Poland on most points,  and suggested that the Commissions should be  established in co-operation with existing intellec-  tual organizations, since the Commission should  represent all the intellectual tendencies of the  country.  The UNITED STATES delegate proposed two  motions :  I. That the General Conference request Mem-  ber States which have no National Commissions  to make the necessary arrangements to con-  form to Article VII.
2. That the General Conference request the  Director-General to give, if need be, any help,  other than financial assistance, for the esta-  blishment of National Commissions.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA noted that  the last paragraph of page 105 was not in harmony  with Article VII, so far as relations with private  mstitutions or individuals were concerned. It  would be desirable for the National Commissions  or the permanent delegates to be the only liaison  with Unesco.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM said that  the Organization's right to consult individuals was  essential. He proposed, however, that the third  line of page 106 should read : ‘“ Unesco should  undertake to keep each National Commission in-  formed ‘’, instead of : * should keep ”.  The delegate of MEXICO agreed with these pro-  posals and considered that National Commissions  should be kept fully informed. If the right to  consultation were limited to National Commis-  sions, Unesco would run the risk of receiving no  information from countries where no national com-  mission exists.  The delegate of Norway emphasized the impor-  tance of the National Commissions and asked that  the procedure allowed for on page 105 of the En-  glish text be applied.  The delegate of FRANCE agreed with the pro-  posal of the delegate of the United States, but  found it insufficient. Unesco should not only en-  courage the establishment of National Commis-  sions, but should take measures to hasten their  formation. He wished to ask the Executive Board,  or a Commission of Experts nominated by it, to  examine Section 3, paragraph A (page 104) “ Na-  tional Commissions ’’, and to make recommenda-  tions to the States on this matter.  The proposal was adopted.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA supported the pro-  posals of the delegates of the UNITED STATES and  France, He said that Unesco was not in a posi-  tion to make recommendations to Member States  on the composition of their National Commissions,  but could only encourage them to create such  commissions.  The delegate of CANADA deprecated an over-  precise statement of the rules governing the rela-  tions between Unesco, the Member States and the  National Commissions. These rules should be  fairly supple and adaptable to every form of go-  vernment.  The delegate of URUGUAY emphasized and sup-  ported the proposal of the delegate of MEXICO,  which was in line with the ideas expressed in the  — 195 —      report. He wished to recommend to governments  that they should take into account the different  trends of national thought when forming the com-  missions.  “ The SECRETARIAT read the Draft Resolution  presented by the delegate of the UNITED STATES,  and amended by the delegates of FRANCE, POLAND  and the UNITED KINGDOM.  RESOLUTION CONCERNING RELATIONS WITH  MEMBER STATES.  I. — National Commissions.  The Sub-Commission recommends that :  I. The General Conference invite those of the  Member States which have not yet created Na-  tional Commissions or national agencies for  co-operation with Unesco to take the necessary  steps to apply the provisions of Article VIT of  the Constitution; ,(
2. The Director-General be invited to accord  to such Member States as may ask for it all  necessary help — except financial assistance —  in establishing National Commissions or natio-  nal agencies for co-operation;
3. Unesco undertake to keep each National  Commission informed of the relations esta-  blished in the country of the Commission and  act in agreement with the Commission on all  questions of a general character;
4. The general considerations on the National  Commissions appearing in the annex to this  report be submitted to the Executive Board to  serve as a basis for a comprehensive study of  the problem of National Commissions, a study  which will also be based on the work of the Con-  ference. These general considerations shall, after  revision, be communicated to the Member States.  II. — Reports by Member States.  The Sub-Commission recommends that the  General Conference invite Member States to sub-  mit to Unesco two months before the second 'ses-  sion of the General Conference a report containing  the following information : .  I. survey of institutions and associations of  national significance in the field of science, cul-  ture and mass communication;
2. information on national laws and regula-  tions applying to the same fields;
3. statistics available in these fields;  -- 4. reports on recent developments in educa-  tion, science and culture and suggestions con-  cerning the future programme and activities  of Unesco;
5. information on action taken as a result of  the recommendations made or conventions  adopted by the General Conference,  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 3 December 1946 at 9.30 p. m.  Chairman : M. Luis Alberto SANCHEZ (Peru).  The CHAIRMAN presented to the Sub-Commis-  sion the texts of the draft agreements between  Unesco, on the one hand, and the International  Institute cf Intellectual Co-operation and the In-  ternational Bureau of Education, on the other,  as prepared by the Drafting Committee.  These two draft agreements were adopted  without discussion.  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the  draft agreement between Unesco and the Inter-  national Council of Scientific Unions and the pro-  visional directive on the establishment of relations  between Unesco and non-governmental interna-  tional organizations (Document Unesco/C/Admin.  & Jur./S. C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./3) (see Annex 2 A).  The SECRETARIAT read the following resolution  - adopted by the Natural Sciences Sub-Commission :  ‘The Natural Sciences Sub-Commission can-  not agree with the point of view set forth in the  provisional directive summarising the relations  between Unesco and non-governmental inter-  national organizations, Document Unesco/C/Ad-  min. & Jur./S. C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./3, Part II  (see also Grey Book, English text, page 115),  stating that such organizations could benefit by  financial assistance to the extent of their admi-  nistrative costs. ;  « While recognizing that national govern-  ments already pay contributions — as in the  case of the International Scientific Unions —  the Sub-Commission considers that, in so far as .  this concerns international scientific organiza-  tions, the provisional directive should be so  amended as to include between paragraphs (e)  and (f) of Article V, a paragraph stating that the  financial aid to be given by Unesco for the above  administrative costs, as a provisional measure,  in the initial stages, shall only be granted if no  direct contribution is received for this purpose  from national governments. ”’  A discussion followed on the principle of finan-  cial assistance to be given by Unesco to inter-  national scientific organizations for their adminis-  trative costs. The DANISH, NORWEGIAN, BELGIAN,  UNITED KINGDOM and GREEK delegates thought  that Unesco might help these organizations finan-  cially in the initial stages, whereas the UNITED  STATES and- PoLisH delegates thought that such  assistance would be prejudicial both to the real  interests of Unesco, for which the financial bar-  den would be too heavy, and also to the interests  of the Unions, whose independence might be jeo-  pardized. :  The UNITED STATES delegate pointed out that  Article V of the provisional directive already co-  vered certain expenses, which included the most  important ones devolving upon international scien-  tific organizations, since paragraph (e) provided  financial assistance for certain specific tasks and  paragraph (f) facilities in respect of offices, secre-  tarial services, arrangements for meetings, infor-  mation, etc. The Sub-Commission as a whole asso-  ciated itself with this view and the provisional  directive was adopted.  The SECRETARIAT read out a draft resolution of  the Sub-Commission, worded as follows :  The Sub-Commission recommends that the  General Conference shall authorize the Director-  General to establish collaboration with non-  governmental international organizations on  the basis of the following provisional directive. ”  The resolution was adopted.  — 196 —