SUB-COMMISSION  ON MASS COMMUNICATION  FIRST MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1946 al 10 a. m.  M. KuvPErs (Belgium) was unanimously elec-  ted Chairman.  M.WANBERG (Denmark) was elected Vice-Chair-  man {proposed by Norway).  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that he had to no-  minate the Rapporteur himself. He requested  Mr. GRIERSON (United Kingdom) to accept the ap-  pointment.  The CHAIRMAN submitted  agenda to the Sub-Commission.  Mr. PriestLEy (United Kingdom) moved an  amendment. He requested that the Sub-Commis-  sion first examine the projects relating to the  whole of the activity of the Mass Communication  Section, and, in particular, the projects dealing  with the rehabilitation and development of the  resources of the warstricken countries, or of coun-  tries insufficiently equipped, and those relating to  vocational training in those countries. He sug-  gested that a small Sub-Committee be appointed  to deal with this subject.  Mrs. Anne O'HARE MacCORMICK (United States)  emphasized the importance her country attached  to mass information. A conference on the freedom  of information of the press, radio and cinema  would be held in 1947. Unesco should be repre-  sented at this conference. The speaker seconded  Mr. Priestley's amendment to the Agenda. She  wished Unesco’s projects to be groupéd round cer-  tain striking ideas, ‘capable of appealing to the  feelings of the people. Lastly, she wished that the  press should receive as much attention as the radio  and the cinema,  The CHAIRMAN therefore proposed to start by  discussing general projects, taking No. 3 first.  The question of copyright would be discussed  at a meeting to which members of the Arts Sec-  tion would be invited.  The proposal was adopted.  Dr. WILSON explained the Secretariat’s pro-  gramme. He urged that, to carry out this extre-  the provisional  mely important programme, the Mass Communi- -  cation Section should have a.large and competent  staff which Would receive a higher salary than  members of other Sections, corresponding more  closely with those paid in corresponding spheres  of private enterprise.  Mr. FREE presented the Section’s general pro-  jects, which he summarized under -the five fol-  lowing headings :
1. Rehabilitation and development.
2. Removal of the obstacles impeding the free  diffusion of information.
3. Assistance to existing organizations.
4. Documentation and research.
5. Promotion of production a d exchanges.  The CHAIRMAN requested that a small Sub-Com-  ~  mittee, responsible for the study of a draft con-  vention on films, be appointed.  The following were nominated : United States,  United Kingdom, France, China, Canada, Mexico,  Norway, Czechoslovakia and Egypt.  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the  general projects, first, the rehabilitation and deve-  lopment of mass information.  Mr. TURCOTTE (Canada) stressed some of the  points of the programme. He thought the activ-  ities of the Section should be along two main  lines :  I. To publicize the programme of Unesco as  much as possible.
2. To Initiate a programme of mass educa-  tion, in the broadest sense.  After warning the meeting against the vague-  ness of the expression “ freedom of information ”,  a freedom which, to be genuine, must be accom-  panied by a corresponding social responsibility,  the speaker concluded by saying that the work  of Unesco must take the form of liberal exchanges  for the promotion of international understanding.  Mr. PRIESTLEY hoped that the Sub-Commission  would adopt quicker methods of work.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : M. KUYPERS (Belgium).  REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION  or Mass COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.  The delegate of INDIA emphasized that one of  Unesco’s first tasks should be to correct the com-  mon tendency of organs of mass communication  to distort the truth. Hollywood films, for example,  gave the peoples of the Far East an absolutely  false idea of American life, and an,equally false  idea of oriental life to Americans. Unesco should  also attempt to remedy the harmful effects of the  commercial radio and cinema on public taste.  Mr. PriesTLEY (United Kingdom) pointed out  that Unesco should not itself provide these faci-  lities, but only encourage their use. For this, three  Committees should be set up, to prepare, within  six months, reports on the radio, the cinema and  the press. He also suggested that Unesco should  devise a plan by which the technically most highly  developed countries would invite professionals to  come from other countries for study courses.  The Porisn delegate stressed the importance of  a realistic programme and asked that priority  should be given to immediately practicable con-  crete projects. He gave a list of these, notably  as regards rehabilitation projects. ;  The delegate of FRANCE approved the suggest-  ions of the UNITED KINGDOM and POLISH delegates  and presented as further amendments a number of