The delegate of ECUADOR : I request that  the two rules be read in French and English;  Rules 59 and 64.  The INTERPRETER ; Rule 59. “ Speeches  made in any other than the official languages  shall be interpreted into both working languages. ’  Rule 64. “ All resolutions and other important  documents shall be made available in the official  languages. Upon request of any representative,  any other document shall be made available in  any or all of the official languages. ”’  The delegate of the PHILIPPINES : On a  point of order, there seem to be two proposals;  one is to adopt Rule 33 as we now read it, with.  an amendment. The representative of Ecuador  proposes an amendment to strike out Rule 33 and  substitute Rules 59 and 64. Consequently, the  first question to be submitted should be the  amendment by substitution. I wish to place my-  self on record as being in favour of the proposal  submitted by the delegate of Ecuador,  The delegate of ECUADOR (translation) :  Mr. President, in reply to the delegate from  the Philippines, I did not ask for the suppres-  sion of Rule 33. I merely asked that Rules 59  and 64 of the United Nations be incorporated in  Rule 33 — that is to say, Rule 33 should be  amended in such a way as to permit incorporation  of these two Rules.  The PRESIDENT : I will now put the proposal  as an amendment by the delegate of Ecuador  and we shall have a vote on this.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  Could the Secretariat give an indication of the  cost to the Organization if these amendments  were carried?  The PRESIDENT : I can speak from the Chair  that an approximate figure has been given, if  this were passed, of 150,000 dollars a year, That  would be the cost to the finances of Unesco. I  am going to put this amendment to a vote. Those  in favour of the amendment moved by the dele-  gate of Ecuador please raise their hands. Those  against? On that count, seven voted for and  sixteen against. So the amendment from the dele-  gate of Ecuador is rejected. Now we shall take  the amendment as suggested in the report of the  Procedure Committee, Rule 33 on Languages.  I am going to ask the Conference to vote  upon this. Those in favour of the proposed amend-  ment to Rule 33 hold up their hands. Those  against? The original proposition is therefore  carried by 17 votes to 2.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  At the end of Mr. Hardman’s speech this morn-  ing, he moved a certain resolution, in very stir-  ring terms, which was greatly applauded by  the Conference. I suppose, owing to the multi-  plicity of matters which have since engaged us,  that resolution was never put to the Conference  and, on Mr, Hardman’s behalf if he will allow me  to, I would like to put it now.  The resolution is as follows : ‘“ That Unesco  shall make representation to the governments of  “ all member states to request that each, in the  terms of its own goodwill and capacity, shall do  its utmost to implement and fulfil the programme  of Unesco here defined. ”  The PRESIDENT : I think I shall have to  have this resolution seconded.  The delegate of the PHILIPPINES : I se-  cond it.  The PRESIDENT : It has been formally se-  conded by two of the delegates. Is the resolution  then agreed to? (Agreed.) Thank you very much.  I would like to tell the Conference now that  the budget figures will not be available until  later. I therefore propose that the Conference  adjourns today and that, although tomorrow we  have certain matters to discuss (there is not a  great deal of work and this matter of the budget  is extremely important), it would be much better  if, after this tidying-up afternoon, we were able  to start quite fresh after a good sleep and go  into this question. If you agree, we will adjourn  now and meet again at 10.30 tomorrow morning.  FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 10 December 1946 at 10.30 a. mn.  - President : Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (South Africa)
13. CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORTS  OF THE COMMISSIONS (continuation)  C. — REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  - AND FINANCIAL SUB-COMMISSION  SUPPLEMENTARY RULES OF THE GENERAL CONFE-  RENCE RELATING TO THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (Draft  amendment proposed by the Executive Board).  The PRESIDENT : The first item on the  Agenda is the presentation of the Report of the  Administrative and Financial Sub-Commission  (Annex 3).  The RAPPORTEUR (Dr. Beeby, New Zea-  land) : I merely wish to report on a certain rather  unusual procedure adopted in the case of this  particular report. Yesterday morning at its last  marrons apm ee 1 ee   meeting the Administrative and Financial Sub-  Commission had some supplementary rules refer-  red by the General Committee, coming from the  Executive Board. But there was an Executive  Board meeting at the same time and there was no  one from the Executive Board to explain the  exact significance of these rules to our Commis-  sion. We had a discussion and certain amendments  were made. Then a member of the Executive  Board came and explained that there were per-  haps other factors which we had not had a chance  to study, and he moved, as a member of the Sub-  Commission, that the matter be referred back to  the Executive Board for further consideration, to  see if they could manage to achieve their particur  lar aims and yet reconcile what they wanted with  the amendment proposed by the Sub-Commission.  It was agreed to adopt this particular procedure,  and the matter was then referred back to the  Executive Board. The Executive Board have since  made some changes in the original rules that have  to be applied, and the final document is before  you. Because of this rather unusual procedure  the Executive Board have suggested that I should  present the document to you. The Executive  Board is not empowered to make recommendat-  ions to the Conference without referring first to  the Sub-Commission, which, in this case, has no  objection to the procedure now adopted.  In order to comply with rules of procedure I  am willing formally to move the adoption of this  report.  The PRESIDENT : Is it seconded? Seconded  by Mexico.  The RAPPORTEUR : It is understood that  the Sub-Commission is not committed formally  in one way or another.  The delegate of CANADA (translation) : 1 wish  first to thank Dr. Beeby for the remarks just made  on behalf of his Sub-Commission, and I am pleas-  ed to move the following amendment for adop-  tion by this Conference :  I. In view of the provisions of Article V,  B, 11 of the Constitution, the Organization will  bear all necessary expenses incurred by mem-  bers of the Executive Board in the discharge  of their functions.
2. The Executive Board shall fix, for the  - year 1947, the scales of travel and subsistence  allowances payable in connection with the work  of the Executive Board, and the conditions  under which out-of-pocket expenses will be -  re-imbursed. The scales so fixed, and the condit-  ions applying to them, should be comparable  with those established by the United Nations,  and they shall be reported to the next General  Conference.
3. The Director-General shall take all neces-  sary action to ensure that members of the Board  receive such diplomatic privileges and other  facilities from Member States as may be neces-  sary for the performance of their duties, bear-  ing in mind that these are undertaken on  behalf of the General Conference as a whole  and not as representatives of the respective  Governments of the Members of the Board.
4. All members of the Executive Board shall  be entitled to attend all meetings of the Gene-  ral Conference and its Commissions.  The PRESIDENT : This document has been  circulated in both languages, and unless there is  a specific request I do not propose to have it  translated. If there is no request for translation  I will ask for a seconder. Seconded by the dele-  gate of the Netherlands. Any discussion? I pro-  pose to put the paragraphs separately. Any dis-  cussion on (1)?  The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF  AMERICA : I think it is important to ‘conform our  practice concerning the Executive Board and the  Commissions to those that have been so carefully  worked out by the United Nations. This, I am  glad to see, is in this reference. There is a dis-  tinction between the Members of the Executive  Board, between the men who are employees of  Governments, and men who are on the Board as  individuals. I am told that distinction is clear  also in the United Nations Regulations, in which  ‘per diem expenses are not paid to Members of  United Nations Committees who are serving as  employees of Governments. I will not, and do  not, suggest pressing the point this morning. I  suggest calling the attention of the Executive  Board to it because I feel they should have this  resolution at the next General Conference. It must .  have come to the attention of many here, as it  has to mine, in Paris, that Unesco 1s here being  criticized for creating too many jobs for too many  people. Non-productive overheads may burden  the organization.  The delegate of NEW ZEALAND : I have  no objection to the particular method we have  adopted in bringing this amendment before the  meeting. I have not expressed the Commission’s  opinion at all on the question of substance. I am  speaking today pro,forma; but I do not express  the opinion of the Sub-Commission either for or  against, except that I can say that in certain quite  definite instances, a very real attempt has been  made to meet some, at any rate, of the Commis-  sion’s objections.  The President took a vote on the Report, para-  - graph by paragraph, and then as a whole.  The paragraphs and the Report as a whole were  ADOPTED unanimousiv.  The PRESIDENT : With your permission I  propose to insert an item in the Agenda.  The delegate of MEXICO (translation) : 1 would  like to interrupt the discussion of the Agenda  in order to point out, with the permission of the  Executive Board, that representatives of the Span-  ish Republic are here this morning as our guests.  Your applause shows what your feelings are,  and the Mexican delegation shares those feelings.  I would like to say a few words on behalf of  Mexico. I am very glad to be able to welcome  these representatives of Spain here today. In re-  cent years and in récent times, there has been a  cloud on her horizon, but Mexico has never neglect-        ed the culture and traditions of Spain nor ignor-  ed what they mean to the world.  Even in the dark days Mexico never gave up  - hope. Spain is a sister country. Mexico, however,  developed on democratic lines. Her ties with Spain  have never been severed. In conclusion, let me  mention that the great artist, Picasso, is among  the representatives of this delegation, here today.  The PRESIDENT : This is not a matter which  is open for discussion. The Delegate from Colom-  bia would like to say something but I would like  to know in what connection.  The delegate of COLOMBIA (translation) :  I do not want to discuss anything. I only want  to greet our Spanish guests. A welcome is not a  discussion. I am not speaking as a diplomat, not  even as a delegate of Unesco, but as an intel-  lectual, as a writer, as one of Spanish blood.  Spain is represented by a man of Spanish race,  and it is eternal Spain whom I am welcoming  today. My forbears, the Arangos of Asturias, the  Jenes of Catalonia, and the Mejios of Castille are  with me to welcome eternal Spain, which out-  lives men who come and go, and which is reflec-  ted in the artists who chose Spain as their adopt-  ed land. El Greco, if he had remained in Italy,  would have been a native of Byzantium, working  under the guidance of Tintoretto. Instead he  ‘became a great Spaniard in the mystic shadows  of dramatic Toledo. Spain is, in the first place,  a state of the mind, conditioned by the intoxi-  cating violence of a creative passion. Spain is  Don Quixote, St John of the Cross, Philip II,  the Great Isabella la Catolica, the country of  Unamuno, Goya and Picasso.  Although today one only hears a sob from  Spain I am proud to be able to salute, in the  delegation here, eternal unchanging Spain.
15. ADDRESS FROM THE WORLD  FEDERATION OF TRADE UNIONS  The PRESIDENT : The next item on the  Agenda is a communication from the World Fe-  deration of Trade Unions. This document, Unesco/
73 of g December, has been circulated, and I  will ask the Director-General to make a general  statement. :  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : As our Presi-  dent has said, this document has been circulated.  I would only remind Delegates of one or two  important points in the document. The World  Federation of Trade Unions, recently organized,  has now more than seventy million organized  workers in it. Mr. Louis Saillant 1s its Secretary-  General. I had the honour to meet him the other  day at his office in Paris and discuss the possibi-  ities of collaboration. The document draws atten-  tion to the similarity of aims laid down for the  two organizations in their constitutions. One of  these aims of the World Federation is to prevent  war and eradicate the causes of war as well as  to work for a stable and lasting peace. The Fede-  ration intends to act as the representative of the  interests of workers at international conferences  dealing with problems of world organization. The  World Trade Unions Congress was held at Paris  in 1945. As a result the World Federation was  formed; it adopted a resolution expressing the  view that one of the most important tasks of  Trade Unions consisted in the furtherance of educ-  ation and general culture of their members —  a task which has already been carried out to a  very considerable extent in a number of national  trade unions. It is essential that Unesco should  collaborate in this work.  Attention is drawn to the fact that the World  Federation of Trade Unions, like Unesco, is pledged  to strive against all forms of discrimination —  racial, religious, national, and others; and also,  that it intends to take an active part in the work  of re-educating German and Japanese workers,  as well as in the general raising of the educational  level of agricultural, industrial and intellectual  workers. Further, the Federation is interested in  what we are undertaking — the exchange of  students and research workers in various fields,  and also the problem of mass communication,  mass media, one of the aims laid down in our  Constitution.  The resolution draws attention to the fact that  the Federation has succeeded in reconciling widely  divergent points of view, also-a task which 1  hope Unesco will succeed in accomplishing. For  all these reasons, the Federation wishes to share  in Unesco’s activities.  J am very glad this declaration has been made.  The next step, I take it, will be for a definite  proposal for an agreement between the two Orga-  nizations for the exchange of information, to be  drawn up and submitted to the Executive Board  which is the body entrusted, under our Consti-  tution, with the negotiation of agreements, and  I am sure we all welcome the proposal.  ‘The PRESIDENT : This is merely for infor-  mation.  We pass to the next item on the Agenda.
13. CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS OF  THE COMMISSIONS (continuation)  C. — ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL  SUB-COMMISSION ON THE BUDGET  (Annex 4)  The delegate of the UNITED STATES : I  have before me the final report of the Sub-Com-  mission on Administrative and Financial matters.  The Sub-Commission held its last meeting yest-  erday, under the very able and inspiring, but withal  very stern leadership, of the distinguished dele-  gate of New Zealand, Dr. Beeby.  The General Conference approved on 6 and 7  December the Financial Regulations and the Staff  Regulations. The report on these two items is  not included in this report; nor is the report  already adopted by the Conference on the Orga-  nization of the Secretariat.   In presenting this report I would call your  attention to the fact that there are nine items  upon which action is required this morning. I  shall avoid reading certain of these items, because  the intent of the Resolution is quite clear and  the Resolutions are presented merely in order to  provide a procedure for putting into effect the  decisions taken. I wish, however, to take all the  time necessary to present in detail the report of  the Sub-Commission on the Budget. This is ne-  cessary because all the work of the Conference  to date depends on the budget adopted for the.  Organization. I would like to depart from the’  printed report to state that the Sub-Commission  was very much aware of its great responsibility,  and that it tried to arrive at a reasonable budget  figure to meet with all the facts before us. In its  deliberations on the Budget for the year 1947,  the Sub-Commission had before it two different  aspects : the Budget decided upon by the Prepa-  ratory Commission for the year 1947 and the  Budget based on the projects of the Programme  Committee. After careful consideration of both  these estimates which were substantially the same,  the Sub-Commission concluded that a very careful  analysis was required, and that until this had  been made the Sub-Commission could reach no  definite figure.  The Sub-Commission felt that the estimates for  the Budget were inadequate. Moreover, the pro-  gramme must be carefully re-formulated, as spe-  cific projects, and then cost estimates must be  prepared on the priority basis according to avail-  able funds. The Sub-Commission felt that this  procedure would take some time, and that it  could not take place while the Conference was  in progress. It would need a month or two before  a sound budget estimate could be prepared. The  Sub-Commission decided ‘to vote a large sum,  leaving the preparation of the details to the Dir-  ector-General, subject to approval by the Exec-  tive Board. It agreed upon certain limitations  which, it recommends, should be referred to the  Director-General and the Executive Board. This  is set forth in the Resolutions I will mbve in a  minute. In view of the number of absences, and  the low majority by which the decision was pas-  sed, the Sub-Commission recommended that the  votes cast should be recorded in this report.  Three specific proposals were moved :  I. A proposal of a Budget of 6,050,000 dol-  lars; defeated by 10 votes to 8.
2. Another proposal of 6,930,000 dollars;  adopted by 10 votes to 0.  In both the above, there were 11 absences from  the meeting.
3. A third proposal for 8,561,139 dollars; did  not come to a vote, in view of the decision  taken on the 6,950,000 dollars.  I. — BUDGET.  The following Resolution was adopted by the  _ Administration and Finance Sub-Commission and  I submit it to the Conference for adoption.  The total amount is 6,950,000 dollars for all  the approved activities of 1947 and for all ex- "of the Financial Regulations.  penses incurred for 1947, with the reservation  that, at the earliest possible time, the Director-  General shall submit the projects to the Execut-  ive Board for approval, it being understood that  a total of six million dollars must be allocated  to Unesco’s activities, including Reconstruction  in the fields of Education, Science and Culture,  and a substantial amount must be allocated for  unforeseen expenditure; and a sum not exceeding
950,000 dollars must also be allocated for minor  expenses incurred prior to 1 January, 1947. :  In view of the reduced Budget the Director-  General and the Executive Board will examine  very carefully all the different expenses, profes-  sorships, etc.  II. — AUDIT OF THE PREPARATORY ACCOUNTS.  The next resolution proposed deals with Pre-  paratory Commission Accounts. I merely call  your attention to the report, and I need not read  the Resolution. Provision is made for the accounts  of the Preparatory Commission for the period  ending with the end of 1946. It recommends this  resolution to the General Conference for adoption.  III. — TAXATION OF SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES  PAID BY THE ORGANIZATION.  The third point concerns salaries paid by the  Organization and deals with the taxation of  employees of Unesco. The Preparatory Commis-  sion drew attention to the special problems raised  by the different fiscal laws applicable to the per-  sonnel of international organizations. This pro-  blem has also been discussed in the United States  in conjunction with the United Nations and simi-  lar organisations. The Sub-Commission therefore  agrees with the Preparatory Commission to draw  up the resolution which you will find in the  Index ; its intent is entirely clear.  IV. — STAFF OF PREPARATORY COMMISSION,  We come now to item IV : it concerns the Secre-  tariat of the Preparatory Commission. I believe  I need not read the resolution, I merely call your  attention to the report. Considerable time will  elapse before the Secretariat is constituted. The  Sub-Commission took note of. the information  offered by the Preparatory Commission and re-  commended the following resolution : ‘“ Members  of the staff may continue in employment until
28 February 1947, or may be treated on a  different basis at a prior date, as the Director-  ‘General may decide. ””  V. — COMING INTO FORCE OF STAFF REGULATIONS,  The fifth item concerns the date the Staff.  Regulations will come into force.  VI. — COMING INTO FORCE OF FINANCIAL  REGULATIONS.  The sixth item concerns the coming into force  ]  — 93   VII. — COMMUNICATIONS WITH MEMBER STATES.  ~The Sub-Commission had two kinds of questions  in mind when it considered that an appropriate  resolution should be drawn up for the Secretar-  iat, defining the channels for communications  between Unesco and the various governments.  There was also the question of the relationship  between Unesco and the National Commissions.  Should Unesco communicate directly with the  governments of the Member States, or should it  do so through the intermediary of the National  Commissions, and to what extent should govern-  ments be informed? The Sub-Commission consid-  ered that the Director-General should issue in-  structions to provide the proper channels.  VIII, — SCALE or CONTRIBUTIONS.  ‘The eighth item should have careful conside-  ration. It concerns the Scale of Contributions of  the States Members to Unesco’s budget. The Sub-  Commission was faced with the problem of fixing  adequate scales of contribution; and extensive  investigations were carried out to arrive at a  scale acceptable to all members of Unesco. It  was decided to adopt the same system as that  of the United Nations for its budget. However,  differences in membership made some adjust-  ments necessary. The Sub-Commission, therefore,  recommends the adoption of the following Reso-  lutions :  (x) “ The General Conference recommends  that the scale of contributions be that adopted  by the United Nations with the adjustments  specified in paragraph 2, below.
(2) “ Since the Members of Unesco are not  identical with the Members of the United Na-  tions, the scale established under (1) above  shall be adjusted so as to cover the budget  of this Organization.
(3) = The Executive Board shall be consul-  ted for the promulgation of the scale and will  enter into consultation with the Member States,  if so desired. ”  IX. — RevoLving FunD.  The last item to be presented here relates to the  establishment of a Revolving Fund. The Sub-  Commission found that essential in order that  Unesco may have a sound financial system. It was  therefore prepared by the Sub-Commission.
(1) “ The General Conference resolves that  there be established a Revolving Fund of three  - million dollars.
(2) Member States are to contribute to the  Revolving Fund. These deposits shall remain  the property of the Member States, proportion-  ally to their contributions to the 1947 budget,  and shall not bear interest. ”’  This report contains nine appropriate resolu-  tions in all, and I move the adoption of these on  behalf of the Administrative and Financial Sub-,  Commission,  The PRESIDENT : The report has been moved.  Who offers to second it?  Seconded by the delegate of Belgium and the  Netherlands.  I propose to give the Director-General the op-  portunity of making a statement.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I propose only  to state a few facts. After the Budget [Financial  Committee had made its report, I asked our Bud-  get Section to prepare a hasty estimate of what  this would mean to the various chapters of our  Budget. I think the facts will interest the dele-  gates. Originally our Budget,as you remember, was  divided into five chapters — the first item provid-  ing for.the meetings of commissions and com-  mittees was estimated at a figure of 6go,000 dol-  lars. If we cut the Budget to the extent suggested  bv the Commission it will have to be reduced to 30  per cent. The second Chapter ‘‘ Expenses of Per-  sonnel Service was nearly 3,000,000 dollars; it  is suggested on the basis of the new arrangement  that it should be cut by 38 per cent. In this con-  nection, I would like to remind delegates of the  way we framed the Provisional Budget. The  Budget experts asked the different Sections for  the estimates of personnel they would need to  carry out the programme recommended by the  Preparatory Commission. It was obvious that the  estimate was too high. These estimates were then  cut by no less than 66 2/3 per cent. So roughly  speaking, the estimate for personnel, which was  proposed to you under this Budget, was 1/3 of  the original estimate made by the Sections. This  is now a further cut of 40 per cent. I am sure  that a number of heads of Sections were over-  ambitious, but the cut was certainly a consider-  able one. I must also point out that, so far as  can be calculated (and the diversity of salary  scales makes this difficult), it is clear that the  Budget now before us will necessitate considerable  reductions in personnel and may even lead to a  smaller staff than we had in the Preparatory  Commission. ;  The third item 1s for expenses of common ser-  vices, typing, motor cars, telephone, etc. That  was put at about 1,200,000 dollars, which is to  be reduced by 30 per cent. I have gone over this  point with the budget experts and they agree that  actually it would be impossible to make such a cut.  For instance, the rent of the Hotel Majestic cannot  be cut; it is a fixed sum. À great many other com-  mon services are unavoidable overheads which  cannot be cut by more than a few per cent without  curtailing the efficiency of the whole organization.  Expenses for initial recruitment, which will ob-  viously burden Unesco very heavily during this  first year,comprise travel expenses and installation  expenses for new staff. The original estimate for  this item was a million dollars which it is proposed  to cut by 40 per cent.  Then there is a small item for restaurant and  Co-operative Store which is left the same.  The Unforeseen Expenses and Contingency  Fund was originally put at 400,000 dollars and 1s  now being increased by the wish of the Budget  Committee to 1,000,000 dollars.  The estimated expenses of the Preparatory Com-
94 —   mission of course remain the same, just under a  million dollars. We cannot alter that.  The supplementary budget for Relief has been  left at the same figure of 434,000 dollars.  Finally I must mention that if it is agreed  that an appreciable cut in our overheads is im-  possible, the cuts in all the other fields would have  to be proportionatey increased; that is to say about  a 35 per cent cut would have to be made in Chap-  ter 1, Sessions, over 40 per cent in Personnel, and  so on with the other items.  Finally, a summarised re-allocation of Pro-  gramme versus Administration has been made. The  cut in the Programme Sections under the present  budget would amount to just under 2,000,000 dol-  lars on a total of Jess than 5,500,000 dollars.  I would simply like to lay these facts before the  delegates, Some of the arithmetical calculations  are purelv tentative — but I do not suppose they  are very inaccurate.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  On behalf of the United Kingdom Delegation I  am going to propose an amendment to the reso-  lution on page 2 of the English text, but before  doing so and giving my reasons for so doing may  I suggest to the Conference that Sir Cecil Kisch,  our financial consultant and authority, might be  given the opportunity of saying something about  the currencies in which Members of Unesco are  to make their contributions.  The PRESIDENT : Unless there is any oppo-  sition I propose to ask Sir Cecil Kisch whether  “ he will be good enough to make a statement.  Mr. Hardman, you may continue after Sir Cecil  Kisch has made his statement.  Sir Cecil KISCH : I am standing on this plat-  form because I think the matter I am going to  mention to you is of profound interest to the Or-  ganization, though it does not have the exciting  character that the dissemination of culture and  the other tasks which Unesco is taking on possess.  Nevertheless if these tasks are going to be faith-  fully and fully carried out as we all wish, Unesco  must be given a solid financial basis.  I was aware, when I was invited to come out and  give such help as I could, that there were difficul-  ties in this field. There are bound to be difficulties  in the setting up of any new organization, but  there are special difficulties in setting up an inter-  national organization which has to meet expendi-  ture in all parts of the world at a time when, as a  result of the war, there is a great deal of currency  confusion. We took account of these facts in the  Finance Committee and, as a result, some matters  are left vague in this document which all of us  would have much preferred to have laid down in  definite terms. For instance, we have had to say  that, though for budget purposes the Revolving  Fund will be expressed in dollars, the contribut-  ions of Member States to the Fund, though assess-  ed in dollars, will be made in a currency or cur-  rencies to be determined by the General Confe-  rence. That is Rule 11. Rule 29 states that the  currency in which States Members make their con-  tributions to the first annual budget and initial  deposits to the Revolving Fund shall be determin-  ed by the Executive Board. All these questions  have been discussed continuously with the repre-  sentative of the French Government since I arriv-  ed in Paris and the issue has been examined from  three points of view. We first took into account  the position of States Members. A great many of  these, as a result of the war, are in a state of mone-  tary confusion. We then considered the position  of the French Government, our generous host,  which is also faced with many thorny financial  problems, not yet solved. And last but not least,  the position of Unesco itself. All questions were  considered from the viewpoint of the three parties -  ‘involved. I wish to express our appreciation of the  comprehension shown throughout by the repre-  sentative of the French Government of the spe-  cific problems of Unesco.  Although we have not yet reached an agreement  on the best manner of dealing with States Members  in financial difficulties, I think that the delegates  should be given as clear an idea as possible of the  complex problems with which we are faced and of  the proposed solutions.  Broadly speaking, we have endeavoured to re-  duce as much as possible the payments to be effect-  ed in dollars or pounds. Many countries, we are  sure, wish to pay in‘ their own currency; remit-  tances effected in strong currencies should be used  to cover expenditures in countries where the cur-  rency is weak, We expect that a great part of the  expenditure of this Organization will be in terms  of French francs. Countries, whose currency is  dollars or pounds, will effect remittances in their  own currency in centres such as New York or Lon-  don. Receipts for expenditure will be given in  French francs; this will enable deposits to be used  without the need of transfer. Banks always claim  ‘a percentage of transfers, and the fewer of such  operations there are, the greater the economy;  Unesco must have an economical financial policy.  During our discussions, we have had the inte-  rests of States Members, of the French Govern-  ment and of Unesco at heart; and I think that if  we can produce a plan along these economical  lines, the burden of financing this Organization  will be reduced to the lowest possible proportion.  I wish to add that the task of controlling the trea-  sury of Unesco demands skill and forethought;  estimates will have to be made at the beginning  of each vear for the areas where expenditures are  expected to be incurred, the distribution of funds  between the various centres will have to be based  upon these factors, and changes in the situation  will have to be dealt with as soon as possible. The  officer in charge will have to keep in close contact  with the French Treasury and the Treasuries of  other countries.  I do not doubt that other countries will appre-  ciate the difficulties with which we have to cope  and I am convinced that they will readily contri-  bute in such a manner as to enable Unesco to have  a firm and solid financial basis.  The PRESIDENT : On behalf of the General  Conference I want to thank you, Sir Cecil Kisch,  for your statement and the assistance you have  given. I call upon the delegate of the United  Kingdom.  — 95,      The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  I also wish, on behalf of the delegates, to add  a word of thanks to Sir Cecil Kisch. He is, we  all know, a great financial expert and it is an ho-  nour for Unesco to have a Counsellor such as Sir  Cecil Kisch. It was decided at the General Confe-  rence this morning that Sir Cecil should make a  brief statement and I am sure I am voicing the  opinion of the floor of the House when I say that  we feel extremely grateful.  Now, may I very briefly move an amendment  _ of the Resolution on page 2 of the English text. I  move, on behalf of the United Kingdom delega-  tion, that the figure of 6,950,000 dollars for all  approved activities in 1947, and for all expenses  incurred prior to January Ist 1047 be increased  by 1,500,000 dollars. As delegates will at once rea-  lize, the effect of this motion will be to raise the  figure of 6,000,000 dollars for approved and prio-  rity activities for 1947 to 7,500,000 dollars. This  is, In fact, the figure proposed by the Secretariat,  rounded off, except that the Supplementary Bud-  get for Unesco activities in the work of Rehabili-  tation and Reconstruction will. be included in it,  instead of being additional, May I explain, Sir, in  a very few words, why we think that 7,500,000 dol-  lars rather than 6,000,000 dollars 1s the appro-  priate figure for 1947. We are all entitled to our  opinion on this matter and I want to explain as  briefly and clearly as I can why I think we should  come back to the old figure. We appreciate the  difficulties which the Secretariat has had in sub-  mitting a close estimate for 1947. Had the Confe-  rence been able to engage in a more leisurely exam-  ination of the Budget in relation to the pro-  gramme, it would have been possible to elaborate  the Budgetary statement and to have reached  some exact conclusions. We must, however, pro-  ceed upon the information we have. We have been  told that the programme for 1947 which we think  is a useful, practicable and necessary programme,  and which has been endorsed by the General Con-  ference, requires the provision of financial re-  sources on the scale proposed in my present mot-  ion. Moreover, 7,500,000 dollars was the figure  (as we all remember) which the Programme Com-  mission mentioned in its instructions to the Sub-  Committees as the financial yard-stick which they  should use in determining the priority work for  the year 1947.  I have only two further observations to make.  The first concerns Rehabilitation and Reconstruct-  ion. It is our view that the claims of the devastat-  ed countries should have, and undisputedly enjoy,  first priority in the disposal of the resources of  Unesco next year. Whatever may be decided as  the final figure for the total budget, I hope it may  be regarded as the view of this Conference that  such expenditure as is necessary to facilitate Re-  habilitation and Reconstruction should be willing-  ly undertaken and that with the maximum speed  and effectiveness and with the minimum adminis-  trative routine.  I know already, Sir, that there is considerable  support for that point of view from my fellow dele-  gates assembled here this morning.  Finally, I would ask you to think for a moment  of the psychological implications of this discus-  sion on the Budget. This Conference must keep  firmly in mind the necessity of establishing and  safeguarding the status of Unesco. If we believe  in our cause we must demonstrate our belief in  it. We must make it clear to the world that we  think international co-operation in Education,  Science and Culture is no less important and no  less worthy of effort and sacrifice than internation-  al collaboration in matters of labour, health, food  and agriculture. We have to convince our public  that the life of the mind, the sunshine for the hum-  an spirit, is not less significant to welfare and  peace than calories or power units. It seems to the  United Kingdom delegation that we would betray  our trust if at the very outset of Unesco’s career a  move were made to reduce its financial resources  to a point below what we believe necessary for the  implementation of its approved programme. Such  a gesture is to my mind wrongly inspired. If we,  who have lived and worked together here for  three weeks at this Conference, have not the cour-  age and vision to pledge our resources to an extent  which we believe to be required, how can we ex-  pect our governments and people to believe in the  _ Vital importance of the tasks which we have set  ourselves? We believe it is essential that this  amendment should be carried during this budget-  ary- discussion. And we believe it should be car-  ried, because like so many of our fellow delegates  assembled here during the last three weeks, we  know that the world of the mind and of the spirit  is of vital importance to the future of mankind.  The PRESIDENT : The motion is seconded by  the delegate of Denmark, who reserves his right  to speak in the debate at a later stage.