Theatre Institute would alone be responsible  for organizing competitions or theatre festivals.  Even after the creation of the Institute, howe-  ver, the Theatre Section of Unesco would retain  full competence in its own field for the execution  of the tasks allotted to it.  SUB-COMMITTEE ON VISUAL ARTS  AND MUSIC  FIRST MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  The CHAIRMAN announced that the question to  be discussed that afternoon was that of Visual  Arts.  The question of enquiries was entrusted to a  committee of five experts, who were asked to re-  port to the Commission on the following day.  M. DOrIVAL (Secretariat) made a statement on  the general aspects of the problem, and indicated  that Unesco intended to encourage the indepen-  dence and variety of cultures and the individuality  of artists. Two main problems had to be solved :  the measures necessary for the promotion of ar-  tistic interchange and those which might contri-  bute to the improvement of artists’ living con-  ditions.  À general discussion took place on the subject  of enquiries, at the outcome of which it was de-  cided that a General Enquiries Service woiild be  established to constitute a centre for existing in-  formation, and fer surveys and enquiries proper.  It was decided that certain questions (films, ar-  chitecture, the role of art in education} would be  studied by other Sections.  The mecting then considered the various items  on the Agenda :  I. ENQUIRY INTO CONDITIONS CONCERNING  VISUAL ARTS IN THE VARIOUS COUNTRIES.  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY having expressed  the view that the material difficulties of various  kinds which artists had to face prevented the har-  monious development of artistic tendencies, the  Meeting agreed upon the necessity for an enquiry  into the living conditions and means of existence .  of artists. As doubts were expressed as to the ur-  gency of this enquiry, it was decided not to give  it priority.
2. INTERCHANGE OF ART EXHIBITIONS,  There was a general discussion on the question  of art exhibitions and, several delegations having  stressed the urgency and importance of this ques-  tion, the following motion, proposed by the UNITED  KINGDOM and INDIAN delegations, was adopted :  “ Unesco shall consider without delay the  most appropriate means of organizing exhibi-  tions of works of art, and make every attempt  to reduce material hindrances such as customs
3  duties, transport difficulties, etc. Unesco shall  keep in contact with the national organizations  which desire to organize these exhibitions, in  order to facilitate the organization of the latter  in other countries which might desire to see  them, ”
3. PUBLICATION OF REPRODUCTIONS  AND SYSTEMS OF REPRODUCTION,  The UNITED STATES and NORWEGIAN delega-  tions having emphasized the necessity for the re-  production in colour of works of art on a large  scale, the Meeting decided that a study of this  question should be undertaken as soon as possible.  The results of this survey would be contained in  a single document, which would be published by  Unesco and circulated to the various countries.
4. MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES FOR ARTISTS.  The United KiNepox delegate having drawn  the attention of the meeting to the scarcity of ar-  tists” supplies on the market, it was decided, on  the proposal of the Unrten States delegate, to  study this question in collabofation with the  Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Commission.  In coticlusion, M. DorrvAL summed up the re-  commendations of the Sub-Committee as follows :  Urgent Studies : Organization of exhibitions — Re-  production of works of art — Supplies for Ar-  tists.  Studies to be deferred : General and private edu-  cation of artists and living conditions of artists.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946  The meeting opened with a general statement  by the Secretariat of Unesco’s aims in the sphere  of music, namely ‘  — To safeguard the national character and  diversity of works; oo  — To co-operate with and help existing na-  tional organizations;  — To create an information centre.  A proposal of the Caixese delegation with re-  gard to a Unesco anthem was rejected.  The meeting then considered the various items  df the agenda, presented in turn by the Secre-  tariat.  __ 186 —