The delegate of the UNITED STATES enquired  why the amount of three million dollars had been  fixed for the Revolving Fund.  The SECRETARIAT said that, in the expérience  of the United Nations, if the Organization were  not to be embarrassed by a shortage of liquid re-  sources, it should possess the equivalent of the  estimated expenditure for six months. On the  assumption that Uneseo’s expenditure for 1947  might be six million dollars, the equivalent of six  months’ estimated expenditure was three milliori  dollars. With regard to the delegate of Australia’s  suggestion that contributions should be expressed  as à percentage, the Secretariat considered it prefe-  rable for the Fund to bedixed at a definite amount.  The delegate of FRANCE proposed that a special  Sub-Committee should be established to examine  the question of the provision of funds to enable  Unesco to carry out its work in the early part of
1947. The Sub-Committee would report to the Ad-  ministrative and Financial Sub-Commission at  the time of the discussion on the budget.  Agreed.  The Sub-Committee would consist of the repre-  sentatives of United Kingdom, Frauce, United  states of America, Canada, Egypt, Poland and  Uruguay.  The delegate of the Unrrkp Kinopou withdrew  his original motion,  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES moved the  adoption of the new document on this subject  (S. C. Ad. & Fin./14.) as a whole.  A general discussion took place, in the course  of which the delegates of AUSTRALIA, POLAND,  INDIA and Ecuvapor mentioned some amend-  ments which thev would submit when the docu-  ment was discussed in detail.  EIGHTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1946 al 2.30 p. m,  Chairman : Dr, C. FE. BEEBY (New Zealand).  STAFF REGULATIONS. -  The delegate of the UNrrED KrNcpom (Chair-  man of the Drafting Committee) moved the adop-  tion of the revised draft Staff Regulations, with  the exception of Regulation 30.  Adopted.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM read the  proposed new text of Regulation 30 (old Regula-  tion 27), as follows :  “Any dispute arising between the Organiza-  tion and a member of the staff regarding the  fultilment of a contract of a member of the staff  or arising out of disciplinary action may be re-  ferred for final decision to an Administrative  Tribunal to be established by the Executive  Board for such period as may be necessary pen-  ding dehnitive arrangements with the United  Nations. ”  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  suggested the insertion of a phrase which would  make it clear that both the Director-General and  the members of the staff hac the right to refer dis-  putes to the Tribunal.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM said that  — 2TL —  it was the intention of the Drafting Committee  that disputes might be referred by either party to  the Tribunal, and the delegate of the UNION OF  SOUTH AFRICA expressed his satisfaction with this  remark, without any addition to the regulation.  Regulation 30 was adopted.  After some discussion, it was decided to suggest  at the meeting of the full Commission the inser-  tion after the words ‘“ membres du Secrétariat ”  in the French text of revised Regulation 36 the  words ‘‘ et lorsque cela sera justifié ”. =  DrArT REPORTS.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES (Rappor-  teur) read the Sub-Commission’s draft Reports on  the Staff Regulations and the Financial Regula-  tions,  The draft Reports were approved, with the reser-  vation that the Sub-Commission had not yet adop-  ted the Financial Regulations, |  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Staff Regula-  tions should be submitted to the fuii Commission,  and that the latter should be asked to adjourn for  a short time to enable the Sub-Commission to exa-  mine the Financial Regulations, which it would  then submit to the Commission.  Agreed.  NINTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1946 at 6 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT FINANCIAL REGULATIONS (Continuation).  The CHAIRMAN submitted, for the approval of  the Sub-Commission, the Draft Financial Regu-  lations (Document Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C.  Ad. & Fin./16) as amended by the drafting Com-  mittee in order to insert a reference to the Revol-  ving l’und in Regulations 10, Ir and 29.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate drew attention  to the provisional character of these regulations;  and the title of the document in the French text  was accordingly altered, becoming : “ Règlement  financier provisoire, ”  At the suggestion of the FRENCH delegate, para-  graph 2 of Regulation 1g was altered so as to read :  ““ The Finance Committee of the Executive Board, .  as provided for in Regulation 4 above, shail exa-  mine the report of the auditors... The report of the  auditors shall be annexed to the Report. ?  At the suggestion of the SOUTH AFRICAN dele=  gate, the English draft of Regulation 15 was alter-  ed to read : “are paid” instead of “ will be paid ”.  The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the Draft Finan-  cial Regulations as a whole, which were adopted  unammously.  At the CHAIRMAN’S suggestion, the delegate of  Uruguay was appointed Chairman of the Commit-  tee on the Revolving l'und, which would meet on  Friday at 11 a. m.  TENTH MEETING  Held on Fridav, 6 December 1940 at 9 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  ORGANIZATION OF SECRETARIAT (Continuation).  The general discussion of the composition of the  Secretariat was continued.   The NEw ZEALAND delegate stated that he sup-  ported the amendments put forward by the Uni-  ted States, but emphasized the danger which might  arise from any dispersion of the Director-Gencral’s  authority.  The SOUTH AFRICAN delegate suggested that a  small drafting Committee should be set up to re-  vise Document 14, since the question whether the  General Conference was empowered to delegate its  authority to the Executive Board was of primary  importance. [t was not to be forgotten that the  General Conference was the supreme authority  competent to amend the Constitution. He sugges-  ted that two questions should be submitted to  the proposed Drafting Committee :
(1) Is it desirable to have a Deputy Director-  General?
(2) Is paragraph 3 (on page 2) merely intended  to offer guidance, or does it constitute a binding  instruction?  The FRENCH delegate stated that, with refe-  rence to the co-ordination and planning of the exe-  cution of the programme, it was good that the di-  rector in charge of cach section of the programme  should be in direct contact with the Director-Ge-  neral or his Deputy. The Director-General needed  a deputy and two personal assistants to carry out  his own work. But these officials should not be  allowed to become a barrier between the pro-  gramme directors and the Director-General him-  self.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate supported the  suggestion to set up a drafting committee, but  emphasized that there must be no attempt to res-  trict the powers of the Director-General. Many  delegates had been struck by the fact that all the  plans submitted by the Preparatory Commission  referred to several Assistant Directors. He propo-  sed that only one appointment of this kind should  be made in 1047. Provision should also be made  immediately for the appointment of a Chief of Per-  sonnel.  The UNITED STATES delegate submitted the  following proposal : in redrafting the statement,  the Drafting Committee must indicate explicitly  that the appointment of a Deputy Director-Gene-  ral is compulsory.  + This proposal was adopted.  The SOUTH AFRICAN delegate proposed that the  matter should be referred to a Drafting Committee,  composed of the delegates of the following coun-  tries : Australia, France, India, United Kingdom,  United States, Union of South Africa, which would  submit its report to the Sub-Commission during  the afternoon.  ELEVENTH MEETING  Held on Friday, 6 December 1946 at 3 p.m.  Chairman ; Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  The CHAIRMAN explained that, since the Com-  mittee which was to deal with the Revolving Fund  could not meet owing to the private meeting of  the General Conference, he could not present his  report before the next morning.  Furthermore, the Drafting Committee was pre-  paring draft resolutions on the following points :  currency in which contributions would be paid;  scale of contributions and Revolving Fund; va-  rious financial regulations; auditors; auditing of  the Preparatory Commission’s accounts. These  various drafts would be submitted to the Sub-  Commission for approval at next morning’s mee-  ting.  He proposed that the Sub-Commission should  study Document Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C.  Adm. & Fin./15.  - The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM, Chair-  man of the Drafting Committee, presented the  three draft resolutions concerning the equaliza-  tion of taxes, the employment of the staff of the  Preparatory Commission until 28 [February
1947, and the methods to be adopted to facilitate  communications between Unesco and the Member  States.  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion of the first  resolution (taxes).  The delegate of France asked that the nature  of the contributions required from the staff and  the fiscal system adopted be explained.  The SECRETARIAT answeréd that the question  was being studied between the United Nations and  the specialised agencies.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES explained  that the purpose of this motion was only to autho-  rize the Director-General to study this question.  The resolution was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the sccond reso-  lution (Staff of the Preparatory Commission),  which was adopted without discussion.  As to the third resolution (Communications with  Member States), the question was debated whe-  ther it did not overlap with the resolution adopted  by the Plenary Commission (point VIII of Docu-  ment Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C, Leg. & Ext.  Rel./5) concerning relations between Unesco and  Member States.  À vote was taken on the maintenance of the  resolution, which was adopted.  BuUDGET.  The CHAIRMAN then opened the discussion of the  “ Budget. He said he had only just received the re-  ports of the Sub-Commissions of the Programme  Commission; two Sub-Commissions had adopted  resolutions with regard to finance, but only the  Sciences Section had submitted budget estimates  proportional to its programme.  The delegate of INDIA asked on what basis the  budget on page 74 of the Grey Book had been esta-  blished.  The SECRETARIAT answered that the budget in  the Grey Book corresponded to the programme in  the Green booklet. He asked the delegate of INDIA  to refer to the Grey Book, where he would find,  on pages 67 to 73, all the necessary information  about the basis of estimates and comment on the  budget.  The SECRETARIAT then gave an outline of the  amendments made by the Sub-Commissions to  the draft budget. These were few. Only the Edu-  cation and Mass Media Sub-Commissions had re-  quested that the amount provided should be in-  creased, the former to meet the cost of creating  -— 212 —