LEGAL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS  SUB-COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Held on Thursday, 28 November 1946 at 10.45 a. m.  The Meeting opened with the election of M. SAN-  CHEZ (Peru) as Chairman in accordance with a  proposal made the day before. On the Chairman’s  proposal, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was elee-  ted Vice-Chairman and M. GEERAERTS (Belgium)  Rapporteur. Both these nominations were adopted  unanimously.  The Meeting then approved the provisional  agenda.  M. THomas (Secretariat) proposed the following  additions to Item II b:
1. Draft Agreements with the International In-  stitute of Intellectual Co-operation and with the  International Bureau of Education (the text of  these Agreements having arrived too late to be  included in the document).
2. Any resolutions concerning the powers of  the Executive Board.  This proposal was supported by the Australian  delegate and unanimously adopied.  M. Thomas then proposed that the meeting  should discuss the Draft Agreement with the Uni-  ted Nations. He explained that, after a conference  held last June in New York between a Unesco dele-  gation amd a delegation from the Economic and  Social Council, a Draft Agreement had been drawn  up for ratification by the General Assembly of the  United Nations and the General Conference of  Unesco. However, the text of this Agreement had  not yet reached the General Assembly. Since then,  Article XI, which dealt with relations with the  International Court of Justice, had been amended.  M. Thomas therefore suggested that the text sub-  mitted should be discussed and adopted with the  exception of Article XI, which should be set aside  pending the result of the discussions of the Gener-  al Assembly.  The UNITED KINGDÔM delegate suggested that,  if Unesco desired to make any alterations to the  various Agrcements, this should in future be done  not by means of supplementary Agreements, but  simply through an exchange of notes between the  Director-General acting, with the approval of the  Executive Board, on behalf of Unesco, and the  other party concerned.  A second point was raised by the UNITED  STATES delegate, in regard to subsidiary Draft  Agreements, such as those provided for under Ar-  ticle VII, which must not be confused with those  stipulated under Article XX.  It was decided to approve the Agreement as a  whole, subject to the adoption by the General As-  sembly of Article XI, as amended, and to authorize  the Executive Board to agree to the amendments  introduced by the General Assembly, provided  that the substance of these agreements was not  modified. This proposal was supported by the de-  legates of GREECE and the UNITED KINGDOM.  The UNITED STATES delegate emphasized tha  Unesco as an organization should be set up on as  universal a basis as possible, and that Article IT,  paragraph a, although it had already been adopt-  ed, raised difficulties and retarded the admission  of new members.  The delegate of URUGUAY agreed with the com-  ments made by the UNITED STATES delegate re-  gretting the insertion of Article IT.  M. THOMAS (Secretariat) said that the Secreta-  riat desired to see the largest possible number of  countries participating in the work of Unesco, but  that Article IT had been inserted in the Agreement  between Unesco and the United Nations after  negotiations between the two organizations,  As a result of an exchange of views between  Unesco and the United Nations, it had been agreed  that Article VII merely provided for a working  arrangement, enabling the Secretariat to fulfil its  daily task in regard to information.  The FRENCH delegate agreed that Article II was  unfortunate, but it was unavoidable, since it was  the result of a clause inserted in the Unesco Con-  stitution, by virtue of which non-Member States  must obtain the agreement of the United Nations  before joining Unesco. He agreed with the United  States delegate on the universal character of  Unesco, and thought it might be possible to con-  sider the admission, in an individual capacity, of  experts belonging either to nations which had not  yet ratified the Constitution or to democratic  countries which desired to take part in the work  of Unesco. He considered that the Agree-  ment provided for under Article VII should be  submitted to the approval of the Executive  Board.  The delegate of ECUADOR considered that Ar-  ticle II should be treated as a provisional clause  pending amendment of the Agreement between  Unesco and the United Nations.  The CHAIRMAN explained that Article II was  part of the Agreement signed with the United Na-  tions and could be revised in the course of the  next three years.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate thought it necessary  to have the endorsement of the Executive Board  for all arrangements concluded in pursuance of  Aæticle VII. .  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate drew attention  to the distinction to be made between working  arrangements and Formal Agreements. For the  former, the approval of one of the principal organs  of the Qrganization concerned was enough. He  thought that this question shouldbe referred to  the'plenary Commission.  The Frencu delegate observed that the Draft  Convention had been unanimously ratified by the  Preparatory Commission, which comprised dele-
191 —   #  gations of all the countries represented at the pre-  sent meeting.  The Sub-Commission decided to postpone to  the next meeting the vote on a resolution, submit-  ted jointly by the delegates of the UNITED KrNG-  DOM, UNITED STATES, FRANCE and AUSTRALIA,  concerning approval by the Executive Board of  certain complementary agreements.  SECOND MEETING  Friday, 20 November 1946 at 10.45 a. m.  Chairman : M. Luis Alberto SANCHEZ (Peru).  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the following  draft resolution presented by the delegates of  Australia, United Kingdom, United States and  France :  ‘‘ Taking note of Article XX of the Draft  Agreement between Unesco and the United Na-  tions, which states that the Secretary-General  and the Director-General may enter into such  supplementary arrangements for the implement-  ation of this agreement as may be found desir-  able in the light of the operating experience of  the two Organizations;  ‘“ It is resolved that the approval of the Exe-  cutive Board shall be required for the following  Agreements :  ‘ (a) The subsidiary agreement regarding infor-  mation services referred to in Article VII  ofthe Draft Agreement UNO/Unesco.  ‘“ (b) Any agreement regarding the division of  responsibilities in the promotion of free-  dom of information between Unesco and  the United Nations. ”  The Resolution was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the draft  Convention of the Member States concerning pri-  vileges and immunities,  M. WARENDORF (Secretariat) stated that the  text submitted to the Sub-Commission for appro-  val was identical with that used by UNO. One  addition only had been made, at the request of  the Executive Board, to Section 16 bis, to allow  Members of the Executive Board to enjoy the  advantages accorded to the representatives of  Member States. As, moreover, Article XVIII of  the UNO Convention was inapplicable to Unesco,  the total number of Articles of both Conventions  would be 36. .  The delegate of AUSTRALIA raised a point in  connection with the sentence in the Preamble to  the effect that States Members of Unesco would  have to sign the Convention before having it ap-  proved by their Governments.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM observed  that, since the functions of Unesco were very diffe-  rent from those of UNO, the two Conventions  could not be identical. He made four observations  on the proposed text : :
1) He proposed in Article V, Section 19, the  deletion of the words ‘“ and all'Deputy and As-  sociate Directors-General ”.
2) Referring to Sections 22 and 23, he consi-  dered it unnecessary to grant to experts on mis-  sions for Unesco the same privileges as were  granted to the experts of UNO and therefore he  proposed the deletion of these two Sections.
3) Referring to Article VII, he thought that,  to avoid a multiplicity of documents, Unesco  should have the same laissez-passer as UNO  officials.
4) Finally, referring to Section 16 bis relating  to the privileges of Members of the Executive  Board, he considered that these should be treat-  ed either as Unesco officials under Article V or  as the representatives of Members under Ar-  ticle IV; Section 16 bis would then be unneces-  sary.  He stated that, if the Articles he mentioned  were not altered, the Government of the United  Kingdom would be unable to sign the Convention.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES expressed  the opinion that it would be premature to approve  the Convention, as the General Convention of the  United Nations concerning privileges and immu-  nities had as yet been ratified by only one country,  Great Britain. He proposed that the Draft Conven-  tion be referred to the Executive Board, which  would initiate fresh negotiations with UNO and  the Specialized Agencies with the aim of drawing  up a Convention applicable to all the Specialized  Agencies.  The delegates of FRANCE and BELGIUM support-  ed this proposal.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA proposed that  the draft be submitted to the different Govern-  ments for consideration; the Secretariat could then  co-ordinate the observations sent in, prepare a  final draft and submit it to the next General Con-  ference.  The delegate of IRAN made three observations :
1. Referring to Sections 22 and 23, he consid-  ered that the experts of Unesco should be giv-  en similar treatment to that accorded to ex-  perts of the United Nations, since they would  be entrusted with important missions requiring  complete independence; ,
2. He could not agree to the distinction made  in Section 26 between experts and officials, by  which the former had a mere certificate while  the latter had the right to a laissez-passer;
3. He feared that Unesco’s work might be  - paralyzed if the matter were postponed till next  year. :  Finally, he suggested that the competent autho-  - tities of Unesco should contact UNO and the other  Specialized Agencies in order to agree on a single  laissez-passer.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA asked whether the  draft agreement would be submitted to the mem-  bers for approval and whether it should bear their  signatures.  M. WARENDORF (Secretariat) replied that the  draft would merely be submitted for the approval  of delegates.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA stated that his dele-  gation would be obliged to abstain for the moment,  and to make certain reservations. Two questions  were involved :
1. Of a special character : the privileges and  immunities of specialized agencies, limited to  the functions and responsibilities of the Orga-  nization;  — 192 — .