after the Programme Commission had finished its  work, because the budget could only be drawn up  when the main lines of Unesco’s work had been  decided; 2. that the Secretariat should prepare a  provisional scale of the contributions to be made  by the 28 States at present Members of Unesco.  The delegates of VENEZUELA and SOUTH AFRICA  seconded these proposals.  M. Tuomas said that the Secretariat was pre-  pared to draw up the scale requested, but that it  could be only provisional, as the number of Mem-  bers States of Unesco was increasing rapidly. Mo-  reover, he feared that postponement of the Admi-  nistrative and Financial Sub-Commission meetings  until the end of the Programme Commission would  prolong the General Conference.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES thought  that the Administrative and Financial Sub-Com-  mission could meet next day and begin its work  by considering questions of organization, postpo-  ning consideration of the budget until later. He  was supported in this by the delegate of FRANCE.  The delegate of BELGIUM thought that Unesco  should be guided by principles of economy — it  should not try to build up too vast an admini-  strative machine, but should rely on the co-operat-  ion of national and international intergovern-  mental institutions and act asa co-ordinating point  between them.  It was decided that the Administrative and  . Financial Sub-Commission would not consider the  budget until after the report of the Programme  Commission had been received. It would, however,  meet the next day to start discussion of the organ-  ization of the Secretariat and the Draft Staff  Regulations.  The delegate of NEw ZEALAND, as Chairman of  the Administrative and Financial Sub-Commis-  sion, asked for precise instructions for the work  of his Sub-Commission on Chapters II and III.  He asked if they were to prepare recommendations  to the Director-General, or definite instructions.  M. THomas explained the plan of Chapter II :  in the first part, the Preparatory Commission made  recommendations to.the General Conference; the  second part contained a report on the general prin-  . ciples of the organization of the Secretariat, and  the third part consisted of Draft Staff Regulations.  It was not possible to give rigid orders to the  Director-General at the First Conference, but it  would be as well to establish guiding principles  in line with international practice.  The delegate of NEw ZEALAND, supported by  the delegate of BELGIUM, observed that if the  conditional form were used it would be dificult  for the Director-General to decide what line of  action to take. They considered also that the  Conference should avoid the official adoption of  texts drafted in the conditional, which could not  be binding.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that this question be  referred to the Sub-Commission. This proposal  was adopled.  The delegate of CANADA suggested that the me-  mbranda referring to the powers of the Execu-  tive Board, mentioned in paragraph 11 of Article V  of the Constitution, be submitted to the consider-  ation of the Administrative and Legal Commis-  sion. This proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN fixed the time-table for the Sub-  Commissions.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Thursday 5 December 1946 at 3.15 $. m.  Chairman : Dr. SOMMERFELT (Norway),  later Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand).  The CHAIRMAN proposed to begin with the exam-  ination of Item 3 of the Agenda : Appointment  of a Sub-Committee to study the Report on the  Unesco Month.  As the Commission had not the time to consi-  der this report (Doc. Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S.  C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./18), the CHAIRMAN proposed  the setting up of a Sub-Committee, made up of re-  presentatives of countries most closely interested in  the Unesco Month, namely : China Egypt, France,  Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, the Uni-  ted Kingdom, and the United States. Mexico hav-  ing invited the General Conference for next year,  the Chairman suggested that this Sub-Committee  ‘should be presided over by that country.  This proposal was adopted.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  asked if delegates of countries not on the above  list could be represented on the Sub-Committee.  The answer was in the affirmative.  The CHAIRMAN then announced that the Admi-  nistrative and Financial Sub-Commission had not  yet been able to examine the report of the Pro-  gramme Commission on the organisation of the  Secretariat and on the budget. He therefore pro-  posed that the Sub-Commission should be autho-  rized to submit its report on these questions direct  to the General Conference, by-passing the Plenary  Commission.  After Mr. BEEBY, the Chairman of the Admi-  nistrative and Financial Sub-Commission, had  pointed out that the shortage of time made any  other procedure a practical impossibility, this  proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then called upon the Rappor-  teur of the Legal and External Relations Sub-  Commission, M. Louis GEERAERTS (Belgium), who  read the Sub-Commission’s report (Unesco/C/Ad-  min. & Jur./S. C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./5).  The CHAIRMAN opened a discussion on the dif-  ferent items in this report.  Item I. (Draft Agreement with the United Na-  tions) was adopted. The United Nations Observer  expressed his pleasure and said that the work was  progressing in New York on parallel lines and in  a satisfactory way.  Items II, III, IV, V, VI and VII were adop-  ted.  A discussion arose in connection with Item VIII  (Relations between Unesco and Member States),  paragraph 3, in which the French and English  texts differed slightly. It was decided to instruct  the Secretariat to bring the English translation  into agreement with the French text by restoring  the English text originally adopted by the Sub-  Commission.  — 133 —   Is  With this alteration, Item VIII was approved.  Item 1X (Relations between Unesco and the  other Specialized Agencies) was adopted without  discussion.  The CHAIRMAN then submitted for discus-  sion the Draft Staff Regulations (Doc, Unesco/C/  Admin. & Jur./S. C. Adm. & Fin./17).  Mg. Walter LavEs (United States), Rapporteur  of the Administrative and Financial Sub-Commis-  sion, presented this document.  The preamble was adopted without discussion.  Section I (Regulations I to 5) was adopied  with out discussion,  In Section IT (Regulations 6 to 21) two amend-  ments were made to Regulation 8 by M. Doré  (Canada) Chairman of the Executive Board, na-  mely, to add to the first paragraph the words ‘or  such Committee as the Executive Board may  nominate '’’ and, in the second paragraph, to de-  lete the last part of the sentence : ‘ having regard  to the opinions expressed by the Nominations  Committee appointed by the Executive Board,  from amongst its own members ’. These amend-  ments were rejected. The same fate attended an  amendment by the delegate of Chile, who, in Re-  gulation 9, suggested that the words ‘“ one of the  two working languages ” should be replaced by  the words ‘‘ one of the three..., etc. ”’, in case the  General Conference should admit Spanish as a  third working language of Unesco.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM propo-  sed the deletion of Regulation 10 concerning can-  didates’files and information to be supplied about  them by the National Commissions,  This proposal was voted on and adopied, but  the FRENCH delegate protested against this vote  and said that he would ask the General Confe-  rence to revert to this point.  With this deletion, the whole of Section II was  adopted.  Sections III, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII were  adopted. |  In Section IX an amendment submitted by the  CHAIRMAN of the EXECUTIVE BOARD to omit the  words ‘‘ with the concurrence of the Executive  Board ”’ was rejected. After correction of a mis--  take in Regulation 32 (Regulation 28 should read  Regulation 31), Section IX (Regulations 31 to 34)  was adopted. :  In Section X the French text of Regulation 36  was rather different from the English text and it  was decided that the Secretariat should bring  them into agreement on the basis of the English  text. Section X was adopted.  Sections XI, XII, XIII and XIV were adopted.  The whole of the Draft Stafl Regulations were  thus adopted.  Mr. BeEBy (New Zealand) took the chair  and submitted for examination the draft Finan-  cial Regulations prepared by the Administrative  and Financial Sub-Commission (Doc. Unesco/C/  Admin, & Jur./S. C, Adm. & Fin./16). This docu-.  ment was presented by Mr. Walter Laves (United  States), Rapporteur of the Sub-Commission.  ‘Regulations 1 to 14 were adopted without dis-  cussion,  At the proposal of the SOUTH AFRICAN delegate,  a small correction was made to the English text  of Regulation 15 where «are payable ” should be  read instead of “ will be payable ”’. With this  amendment Regulation 15 was adopted.  Regulations 16 to 31 were adopted without dis-  cussion.  With regard to Regulation 32, discussion arose  on when the Financial Regulations should come  into force. In the opinion of the LEGAL ADVISOR  this should be on the day of the appointment of  the Director-General, since the Preparatory Com-  mission of Unesco would be dissolved on that day.  However, at the proposal of the delegate of BEL-  GIUM, the Commission decided that it would not  itself fix this date. :  The whole of the Draft Financial Regulations  were adopied.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1046 at 4 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. SOMMERFELT (Norway).  The CHAIRMAN explained that the purpose of  the meeting was to examine a proposal by the  Fxecutive Board to replace the provision adopted  by the Administrative and Financial Sub-Com-  mission concerning the Deputy Director-General.  (Document Unesco/C/22 Section C 1).  . M. Doré (Canada), Chairman of the Executive  Board, suggested the following amendment :  ‘‘ A Deputy Director-General shall be appoin-  ted.  ‘“ This Deputy Director-General shall be the  second official of the Organization and shall sub-  ject to the authority of the Director-General,  be responsible for administration, staff and  finance. ,  ‘‘ Since the Director-General will necessarily  be away from Headquarters at frequent inter-  vals, the Deputy Director-General must be fa-  miliar with all aspects of the Organisation’s ac-  tivities, and his duties and responsibilities shall  consist in the execution of programmes and all  matters relating to administration and finance. ,,  Mr. BeeBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the  Administrative and Financial Sub-Commission,  expressed surprise that the Executive Board, paral-  lel with the Sub-Commission, had examined a ques-  tion that had been entrusted to the Sub-Commis-  sion by the General Conference and had adopted a  different text without informing it.  The delegates of the UNITED KrINGDOM and of  the UNITED STATES said there was no fundamental  difference between the two texts and that it would  be easy to agree on this point.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate was of the same opi-  nion. He said that the procedure seemed perfect-  ly correct.  Dr. BEEBY associated himself with the view ex-  pressed by the AUSTRALIAN delegate as regards  procedure, but maintained that, if these questions  of administration, staff and finance were entrus-  ted to the Assistant Director-General, he would be