THIRTEENTH MEETING  Thursday, 5 December, 1946  The Meeting opened at 9.45 a. m. with M.  SEBASTIAN (Philippines) in the Chair.  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : Saudi Arabia, Brazil, China, United States,  France, Norway, Poland, United Kingdom, Union  of South Africa.  I. DrAFT BUDGET.  At the request of M. SOMMERFELT (Norway),  Chairman of the Administrative and Legal Com-  mission, Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of  the Administrative and Financial Sub-Commis-  sion, was admitted to submit a request to the  General Committee.  Mr. BEEBY explained that the Administrative  and Financial Sub-Commission had been unable  to draw up the budget, since-it considered that it  would first have to see the report of the Pro-  gramme Commission. But this report would not  be available before the next day. He asked what  time would be allowed for the presentation of the  draft budget to the General Conference.  The UNITED KrINGDOM delegate thought that  the Sub-Commission should prepare the Budget  on the basis of data supplied by the Preparatory  Commission, and should check whether the portion  allotted to each Section had been modified by  the Sub-Commissions in the course of the debate.  The UNITED STATES delegate said that the ques-  tion of money was not the main point in the pre-  paration of the budget; it was necessary to take  the standards set up by the Preparatory Com-  mission into account. He suggested that the Pro-  gramme Commission, at the full meeting that after-  noon, should, even before- examining the reports,  make a survey of the budgetary proposals of each  Sub-Commission, to enable the Administrative  and Financial Sub-Commission to set to work  immediately on this basis,  It was decided that, in order to give the Admi-  nistrative and Financial Commission a little more  time, the budget report should only be presented  to the General Conference on Monday afternoon.  Mr. BEEBY said he was satisfied with these ex-  planations, and with the date fixed.
2. PROGRAMME OF MEETINGS  OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE.  The General Committe laid down the programme  of the meetings of the General Conference from 7  to 10 December. 1  Friday, 6 (morning) : Plenary meeting of the  General Conference; examination of the repgrt  of the Administrative, Financial, Legal and Ex-  ternal Relations Commission, and in particu-  lar of the report of its Legal and External Rela-  tions Sub-Commission.  Friday, 6 (afternoon) : No meeting (to allow time  for the final drafting of the reports of the var-  ious Commissions).  Saturday, 7 (morning) : Plenary meeting of the  —- 121  General Conference; examination of the report  of the Rehabilitation Commission.  Saturday, 7 (afternoon) : Plenary meeting of the  General Conference; continuation of the morn-  ing’s discussion, and examination of the report  of the Administrative and Financial Sub-Com-  mission on the organization of the Secretariat.  Monday, gth (morning) : Plenary meeting of the  General Conference: examination of the report  of the Programme Commission.  Monday, 9 (afternoon) : Plenary meeting of the  General Conference; examination of the draft  budget prepared by the Administrative and  Financial Sub-Commission.  Tuesday, I0 (morning and afternoon) : Conclusion  of the work of the General Conference and close  of the 1946 Session.  The General Committee decided to delete from  the Agenda of the Conference Item No. 14, Gene-  ral Discussion on the Principles and Methods of  Unesco.
3. REQUEST FOR ADMISSION FROM ITALY.  The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Italian  Ambassador in Paris expressing his Government’s  desire that Italy should be admitted to Unesco.  The General Committee decided to refer this  question to the Executive Board.  The meeting rose at 10.45 a. m.  FOURTEENTH MEETING  Friday, 6 December, 1946  The Meeting opened at 9.50 a.m. with M.  MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Brazil) in the Chair.  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : China, France, Norway, Philippines, Poland,  Saudi Arabia and United Kingdom.
1. The DEPUTY EXECUTIVE SECRETARY remind-  ed the meeting that the Committee on Procedure  had not settled- the question of Rule 33 concern-  ing the working languages and the official lan-  guages of Unesco.  The UNITED KinNcpom delegate suggested that  the Procedure Committee should be convened to  resume discussion of this point.  The CHAIRMAN thought that this would be the  best solution. The General Committee would in-  form the Committee on Procedure that, in view  of the material difficulties of increasing the num-  ber .of working languages, it was in favour of  maintaining the status quo for the time being.
2. At the request of the SECRETARIAT the Ge-  neral Committee decided that, if M. Léon Blum  were absent that morning, the plenary meeting  of the General Conference would be presided over  by the delegate of the Philippines.
3. The delegate of Norway informed the Gen-  eral. Committee that the Executive Board would  be ready between 11.00 a.m. and 12.00 to present  proposals to the General Conference for the elec-  tion of the Director-General.  It was therefore decided that the General Confe-  rence should meet in private at 11.30 a.m. to elect  the Director-General. In conformity with Rule 72  the voting would be secret. :  The meeting rose at 10.20 a. m.