for an exchange between the intellectual output of  countries, etc. Finally, studies would be under-  taken in association with hygiene and health or-  ganizations, the Atomic Commission, the United  Nations Information Department, etc.  These were general suggestions submitted,for  the attention of the Commission and Sub-Com-  missions.  The UNITED STATES delegate thought that in  face of the many proposals before the Commission,  some criterion was needed to place them in the  order of their importance.  This criterion was logically to be sought in  the Constitution, according to Article I of which  Unesco proposed to establish peace and security  through international co-operation in education,  science and culture. ,  Peace was not merely the absence of war, but  the existence between peoples of concrete bonds  of confidence and co-operation.  It was by their capacity to forge such links that  they must judge the relative importance of the  proposals submitted to the Programme Commis-  sion.  Unesco, besides stimulating and aiding existing  - organizations, had a field of action of its own,  in which it must apply its own methods to remedy  the spiritual disintegration of the world and found  an International Republic of Letters, the symbol  of a sane world.  As a world organization, Unesco must appeal to  the experts of all countries specializing in a given  field, so as to draw up a precise plan of action in  that field; it must mobilize all the world resources  at its command, in order that this programme  might work out in the interests of peace.  As examples, the United States delegate sub-  mitted a number of concrete proposals :
1) a world enquiry into the education of youth,  with suggestions for improvements;
2) a similar enquiry concerning mass informa-  tion;
3) an attempt to arrive at a common doctrine  for all the different creeds and ideologies;
4) to combat nationalism, although encourag-  ing the development of each country in confor-  mity with its characteristics;
5) to remedy men’s incapacity to interpret re-  cent scientific discoveries in terms of peace and  progress.  He proposed that a Co-ordinating Committee  should classify Unesco’s tasks in accordance with  the above criterion.  Lastly, he called upon the Commission to draw  up a short list of plans which were of crucial  importance, with a general bearing and of ob-  vious advantage for all. But these plans must cons-  titute a frank and bold answer by Unesco to ques-  tions asked of it, which were questions confron-  ting the whole world.  The delegate for INDIA apologized for not being  able to accept the Vice-Chairmanship as hehad to  leave Paris on 5 December.  He regretted the subordinate and reduced place  given to philosophy in the Preparatory Commis-  sion’s programme. Present-day education did not  teach how to distinguish the true from the false.  The world knew how to read, like Don Quixote,  and, like Don Quixote, it was mad, Only philo-  sophy could furnish nations with a common con-  ception of*the world and life.  Philosophy was not a science and it was wrong  to classify it among the humanistic sciences. It  was a form of creative thought, individual and  isolated, and it alone could give wings to culture  and to co-operation between minds,  Accordingly he proposed that the Co-ordination  Committee should adopt the following classifica-  tion : education, sciences, culture, the last inclu-  ding philosophy on the one hand, and the arts  on the other.  The delegate for CHINA hoped that the Com-  mission would be content with a few immedia-  tely practicable projects and would execute them  on a regional scale and with due regard for thé  separate needs of each region. In the realisation  of these schemes appeal should be made to educ-  ationists in every country.  He therefore proposed :
1) the setting-up of Unesco regional centres;
2) the framing of an international charter for  teachers;
3) the strengthening of the scientific and cultur-  al links between the Far East and the West and,  concretely, the establishment of a Centre of Ma-  thematics in China and the translation of Far  Eastern classics little known in the West.  Lastly, he would like to see Unesco concern  itself with the development of music and singing,  as one of the most effective means of bringing  people together. '  SECOND MEETING  Held on Monday, 25 November, 1946 at 3. p.m.  Chairman : Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico).  The CHAIRMAN called upon Dr. R. C. MiLis,  head of the Australian delegation.  Dr. MiL1s began by emphasizing the basic im-  portance of. the work of the Commission and its  Sub-Commissions. Upon the work of the coming  year and its success, depended not only the amount -  of help that Unesco would receive from its Mem-  ber States, but also the attitude of those United  Nations which had not yet joined Unesco.  He thought that the Preparatory Commission’s  report was an excellent basis of work, but it was  only a basis and he hoped that the report which  the Commission would submit to the Conference  would be in many respects a very different docu-  ment from the first one and that in particular  it would only run to some fifteen pages. This re-  port must consist of a definite list of urgent and  important projects and activities, accompanied  now and then by a short description, but on no  account by a philosophic justification. The Aus-  tralian delegation urged the exclusion from the  programme of all theoretical discussions and phil-  osophical generalizations likely to lead to ideolo-  gical dispute.  Dr. Mills thought that the reports to be pre-  pared by the Commission would also decide the  general lines of the organisation of the Secreta-  riat and the establishment of the budget. That  — 126 —   was another reason why it should be concrete and  concise, He also said that the Australian delegates  on the administrative, financial and legal commis-  sions would be asking those commissions to study  budget questions in the light of the reports of  the Programme Commission, since it would be ab-  surd to recommend a budget based upon the re-  port of the Preparatory Commission, before they  knew whether the General Conference would be  amending it.  The Australian representative proposed that the  Commission should study not only the individual  projects but the programme as a whole; the Com-  mission would have to give guidance to the sub-  commissions in their work. :  It was the view of the Australian delegation  that a larger proportion of the budget ought  to be devoted to education. However they real-  ized the special activities of the scientific and cul-  tural sections connected with education.  The Australian delegation had made a close  study of the programme and struck out certain  projects which it thought neither important nor  urgent. On the other hand it had some additional  schemes to propose for 1947, taking due account  of staff requirements and expense. It asked the  Commission to bear its views in mind when giv-  ing instructions to the sub-commissions. The prin-  cipal points the Australian delegation wished to  emphasize were these :
1. More importance ought to be given to edu-  cation. -
2. Some of the proposals in the Natural Scien-  ces and Social Sciences sections should be  struck out.
3. Other parts of the report contained too  many generalities and not enough urgent  and practicable concrete projects.  In regard to organs of Mass Communication,  the Australian delegation recommended a more  limited programme to start with, calling for only  a small technical secretariat.  In the field of libraries, museums and arts, the  Australian delegation would propose a number of  amendments.  In conclusion Dr. Mills drew the Commission’s  attention to three points :
1. The undue importance attached to confer-  ences.
2. Attention to be given to the study of the  question of relief.
3. The need for study of the reports of the Re-  construction Commission by the Commis-  sion or its Sub-Commissions.  The CHAIRMAN next called upon Sir John Maud,  delegate of the United Kingdom.  Sir John MAUD first stressed the importance and  difficulty of the task now confronting the Commis- '  sion : it had to give instructions to the sub-com-  missions before the latter had started their work.  The bases of work for these sub-commissions were :  I. The Preparatory Commission's programme;
2. Fresh proposals made by various delegations  since the Conference began.  The British delegate thought that it would be  a waste of time for the sub-commissions to discuss  the general and philosophical statements in the  Commission’s report on which they would not  agree, Agreement must be sought upon concrete  projects and not upon philosophies, still less upon  a single philosophy.  Sir John thought that all the sub-commissions  should adopt the same order of work and classify  all projects in three groups :
1. Projects to be undertaken in 1947 (recon-  struction of Europe and the Far East).
2. Projects to be studied in 1947 by national  bodies and taken up by Unesco after 1047  (relations between technical training and  general education, between the arts and the  sciences).
3. Projects to be deferred.  The United Kingdom delegate then reverted  to the excellent proposal made by the United  States representative that morning. He thought  that common standards might be applied by all  the sub-commissions, to establish the categoriesto  which the different projects should belong. The  four standards to be applied were these :  I. Peace. Will the particular projects add to the  prosperity of nations?
2. Will the projects form a coherent whole?
3. Can the projects be financed by a budget of  seven and a half million dollars, plus funds  from other sources?
4. Can the projects be executed by a reasonably  small and rapidly recruited staff?  The Sub-Commissions should ask themselves  those questions in the case of all the projects sub-  mitted to them.  Sir John Maud thought that, to establish a con-  sistent programme, they must proceed by two sta-  es :
1. All the sub-commissions should apply the  common standards suggested above. They  would be helped in their work by the Steer-  ing Committee, :
2. The Programme Commission would combine  the various reports into a coherent whole,  The United Kingdom representative concluded  by stressing the programme’s importance. [lt would,  he said, affect the very organization of Unesco, and  the latter’s permanent structure would be built  upon its foundations. They must therefore be bold,  practical and business-like. .  The CHAIRMAN next called upon the Belgian de-  legate.  M, KuvPErs (Belgium) said that it was needless  once again to emphasize the great importance of  the instructions to be given to the sub-commis-  sions which would be meeting next day. He also  expressed his full agreement with most of the  suggestions made by Dr. HuxLev, Mr. Mac Lersn  and Sir John MAUD.  In studying the budget he thought that too  much had been allocated to Unesco’s administrat-  ive work. He would like a small permanent staff  and a very large staff of specialists engaged on  short contracts.  He further declared that it would be dangerous  for Unesco to take the place of specialized organ-  izations. He commended the draft agreement be-  tween Unesco and the Geneva Bureau of Education  and would be glad to see similar agreements con-  cluded in other fields, the radio for example. The  sphere of activity to which Unesco should devote  — 127 pp      +  its whole effort lay outside that of existing organ- -  izations.  M. Kuypers then said that one of the most im-  portant tasks was to overcome scepticism about  Unesco. There were two ways of doing that : a  common standard to be submitted to all the sub-  commissions, and success in their work, They  would have to do something big and practical.  The Belgian delegate ended by appealing for  frankness, personal ideas and hard work.  The NETHERLANDS delegate raised the question  of cultural relations with Germany. It was urgent  to throw open that country to democratic and  pacific influences. They could not leave eighty mil-  lions to ‘‘ stew in their own juice” behind an im-  penetrable wall.  The CzecHOSLOVAK delegate said that they could  not number Fascist and Nazi doctrines among  those allowed to develop freely. Fascism must be  fought wherever it existed and whatever mask  it might assume.  The delegate of BRAZIL remarked that it was  idle to discuss priorities in general terms. Every  part of the world had its own priority problems  and Unesco’s programme should be sufficiently  elastic to adapt it to the specific needs of different  groups of countries.  The delegate of the LEBANON made two sugges-  tions of principle ;  I. The institution in states members to Unesco,  side by side with national education, of.  teaching having a universal character,  with syllabuses, examinations and Unesco  diplomas giving admission to the inter-  ,Ç national universities already proposed.
2. In the case of Arabic-speaking countries, the  most urgent problem was the campaign  against illiteracy. For the purpose of this  campaign Unesco could enlist the aid of  Lebanese living abroad. -  The YvcosLAVv delegate took note of the replies  given by Dr. Huxley and other delegates to the  statements made earlier by M. Ribnikar in the  name of the Yugoslav delegation. He was pleased  to see Unesco repudiate the idea of a unified cult-  ure and base international co-operation on the .  free cultural development of peoples.  This closed the general discussion of the pro-  gramme.  ESTABLISHMENT OF SUB-COMMISSIONS.  The delegate of DENMARK having suggested a  sub-commission for the Exact Sciences, the CHAIR-  MAN asked the Commission to, abide by the six  sub-commissions arranged for. (Approved.)  The CHAIRMAN proposed to the Commission the  following names as Chairmen of the sub-commis-  sions :
1. Education : M. GHorBAL Bey (Egypt).
2. Mass Communication : M. KuyPErs (Bel-  gium).
3. Libraries and Museums : M. CIBULKA (Cze-  choslovakia).
4. Natural Sciences : Mr. BHABHA (India).
6. Creative Arts : M. REININK (Netherlands).  These nominations were adopted. |  Mr. MacLEÏsn (United States) proposed that  the Commission should adopt a number of recom-  mendations for the use of the sub-commissions.  These recommendations consisted of four prac-  tical rules, one basic principle and two injunctions.  Practical Rules. — To be adopted, all pro-  jects must :  I. Conform to Article I of the Constitution;
2. Form a coherent whole:
3. Not exceed Unesco’s financial means;
4. Take account of the small available staff.  Basic Principle. — Was the project the best  way of attaining the objective in view?  Injunctions :  I. From the point of view of time, projects to  be classified as : realizable in 1947, to be  submitted for study in 1947, and deferred.  N. B. — Classification to be by regions  with due regard for the different needs of  different countries.
2. Plans to be restricted to a few projects of  crucial importance and obvious benefit.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that  a committee would co-ordinate the work of the dif-  ferent sub-commissions of the Programme Com-  mission and of the Reconstruction and Rehabili-  tation Commission. :  THIRD MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1946 at 10.30 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. M. MARTINEZ-BAEZ (Mexico).  Before proceeding with the examination of Items
7 and 8 of the Agenda, Dr. WILSON (Secretariat)  explained the procedure adopted with regard to  the Programme Commission : In order to facili-  tate discussion, six Sub-Commissions, each cover-  ing one section of the programme, as well as a  Co-ordinating Commission, were created.  M, Cassin (France) requested that a sort of cal-  endar of the day’s discussions be established.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the reports from the  Libraries and Museums, Social Sciences and Edu-  cation Sub-Commissions would be examined dur-  ing the morning meeting.  Report of Libraries and Museums  Sub-Commission.  M. CAIN (France), Rapporteur of the Sub-Com-  mission, gave a summary of Doc.Unesco/C/Prog.  Com./S. C. Lib. & Mus./3 and he brought out the  following points :  Collaboration with specialized international or-  ganization. '  Public Libraries and Museums.  Reconstruction of collections and safeguarding  of monuments. ,  Removal of obstacles to free flow of informa-  tion.  Exchanges and distribution.  Bibliographical services.  _ 128 —