The PRESIDENT (translation) : I call upon  the delegate of Venezuela.  M. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (translation) :  I have not prepared a speech, but I learn that,  while I was out of the room, some of my Latin  American colleagues expressed their regret at the  absence from our midst of a representative of  Spain.  Unhappy circumstances deprive us of the voice  of Spain in this Conference and I am bound to  regret this in my country’s name. I cannot help.  saying how much we, who are Americans by race  and Spanish by culture, deplore that absence,  It is inconceivable that, from an assembly  concerned with culture and intellectual co-oper-  ation, the great people to whom we owe our  existence should be missing.  I have risen to express my country’s feeling  and to associate myself with the feelings of all  America. But when I say all America, I must  refrain from voicing any sentiments but those  of Venezuela, whom I have the honour to repre-  sent at this Conference.  We have all a single culture, a feeling of solid-  arity, a sense of democracy and love of freedom  which unite us. It is this unity which brings us  here to collaborate in the work of Unesco.  Once again I must say how much we would  have welcomed the voice of Spain. I firmly hope  that one day soon we shall have among us the  representatives of a people who are dear to us  and who have contributed perhaps more to human  civilisation than any other nation.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The Chair-  man of the Credentials Committee will now ad-  dress the meeting.  The CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS  COMMITTEE (translation) : The Committee met  at 3 p. m. They received a message from the  Netherlands and Belgium confirming the deposit  of ratifications by those two countries. The Com-  mittee also received a telegram accrediting the  delegate of Bolivia. Ecuador and Haiti have  accepted the Constitution. Pending the deposit  of the two latter instruments of ratification, they  will not be able to vote.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : You have  heard the proposals of the Credentials Committee  that the vote of these two delegations — Haiti  and Ecuador — should be reserved. Has anyone  any observätions to make on that? In the cases  “ of Belgium and Holland, the situation is now in  order.  As there are no further items on the agenda,  we will adjourn until tomorrow morning at 10.30  and I will ask you again to be in time for the  opening of the meeting, so that we may start  punctually.  FIFTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 22 November 1946 at 10.30 a. m.  President : M. Leon BruM, President of the Conference  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I have a few  announcements to make on behalf of the Gene-  ral Committee. I would remind the Conference  we have three main Commissions, the Programme  Commission, the Administration and Legal Com-  mission and the Reconstruction and Rehabilita-  tion Commission. Two of these are to be sub-  divided into two Sub-Commissions.  It is necessary, if the Conference is to finish  its work by the set date, that the Commissions  should start work on Monday. If the Conference  accepts this, the Commissions will appoint Chair-  men of the Sub-Commissions.  The Procedure Committee, which has already  ‘done considerable work, will submit a provision-  al report in a few minutes and will meet this  afternoon at 3 p. m. It will report on the elections  to the Executive Board. When the final report is  made, the Nominations Committee will meet, but  probably not before tomorrow morning. The third  point is that the General Committee has pro-  posed we should follow a slightly different pro-  cedure with interpretations from that followed  yesterday. The new method is this. While yes-  terday’s addresses were not interpreted, except  for speakers who asked for interpretation, it is  proposed that today a short written summary  should be presented which would be translated  at the Conference.  With regard to the general discussion some  names have been sent in and, for other members  wishing to speak, I will ask them to send in their  names as quickly as possible.  I would add a few words of a personal charac-  ter.  Yesterday, I recommended proposals from the  General Committee regarding Observers, mn par-  ticular from the Government of the Spanish Re-  public, which I think gave rise to some mis-  understanding. I would like to point out that no  formal proposal came from any particular delega-  tion; the decision was the result of general dis-  cussion, and should be looked upon therefore as  a collective recommendation.  I now call upon the Rapporteur of the Procedure  Committee.  The Rapporteur of the PROCEDURE COM-  MITTEE (translation)  yesterday at ro a. m. Various amendments were  proposed and a sub-committee was set up which  is working at this moment to try to find a suitable  formula for the recommendations that have been  made. Meanwhile the Committee has accepted  *  - This Committee met-   Rules 3» 4. 8, 9, 12, 18, 19, to 32, 36, 37, 38, 40,
64, 67, 60, 70, 71, 72. A new Draft was suggested  for Article 58. It was amended in this way :  “ On the proposal of the Executive Board,  the General Conference during its regular ses-  sion shall fix the place for the next regular  session, which shall change from year to year.  The Commissions and Committees shall include  a Credentials Committee, as provided in Rule
17, and a Nominations Committee. The latter  shall include the heads of all delegations pre-  sent and voting.  “ Heads of delegations, who may be assisted  by alternate delegates, may be replaced by  their alternates. This Committee shall submit  to the General Conference nominations for posts  to be filled at the Conference or on the Ex-  ecutive Board, except in the cases laid down  in Articles I-IV of the Constitution. In suppor-  ting the various candidates, the Nominations  Committee shall have regard to the need of  a balance between the different cultures of the  different geographical areas represented. ”  We hope to present our final report at tomor-  row's Plenary Meeting.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Unless there  are any objections, this report is adopted.  Mr. ROBERTS (South Africa) : Rule 60 is in  conflict with what the Conference has just adopt-  ed. That Article says that each committee shall  elect its chairman and rapporteur.  The Rapporteur of the PROCEDURE COM-  MITTEE (translation) : This morning’s report  is a short provisional one, telling you of the  work done so far. I hope that when the Rules  are finally submitted to you, you will be able  to present any observations you wish to make.  I will ask you therefore not to adopt the report  I have just submitted to you. Tomorrow the  final report can be discussed Rule by Rule.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 think that  settles the matter. The preliminary report of the  Procedure Committee is adopted. We will now  return to the general discussion.
9. GENERAL DISCUSSION ON THE  WORK OF THE PREPARATORY  COMMISSION (continuation)  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 call upon  M. Menemencioglu, the delegate of Turkey.  M. Numan MENEMENCIOGLU (Turkey)  (translation) : The speakers who have preceded  me have rightly expressed their great satisfac-  tion at the work done by the Preparatory Com-  mission and have also conveyed their warmest  thanks to it and to the Secretariat. Allow me to  add those of the Turkish delegation.  The report submitted by our Secretary-General  is, as remarked by President Blum, a work of  exceptional quality. It is in every way worthy  of Unesco, and I think that is the best tribute  that can be paid to an intellectual achievement.  The various documents we have had before us,  including the remarkable report of Dr. Julian  Huxley, bring home to us the magnitude of the  task undertaken by our Organisation and show  at the same time the complexity of the work  and the enormous difficulties with which we shall.  have to cope if we are to succeed in an under-  taking of such long range as the intellectual reha-  bilitation of the human race.  I shall begin by emphasising these difficulties  in order to show that we shall have to work  with considerable tenacity, patience and courage  to achieve so lofty an aim.  There are many intellectuals, including poli-  ticians of good faith, who, without denying the  moral scope of Unesco’s programme, insist on  subordinating the success of the campaign for  the re-education of minds to the preliminary  establishment of political peace and the concrete  organisation of security. Well-meaning sceptics,  for example, will object that education, culture  and intellectual co-operation have been used in  the past as selfish means of encroachment and  domination. They will ‘also tell you that the ins-  truction of the masses can provide material for  exploitation by those egoistically inclined. Accord-  ing to these, it is dangerous even to begin to  inculcate that universal and international spirit  which is Unesco’s highest aim, in a world where  mutual confidence and general security do not  seem likely to be established in the near future,  ‘To diminish individual nationalism would deprive  certain peoples (who foster it as a means of ter-  ritorial, economic or social defence) of a poten-  tial which it is difficult to replace. Any work for  the education of the masses and the unification  of minds must, therefore, be preceded by the  establishment of an era of security, confidence  and international collaboration.  I must confess that there is something to be  said for these arguments. But where they fail is  in proposing no solution of the problem and no  means of escape from the vicious circle in which  they involve us.  Education, science and culture may have been  selfishly employed by certain leaders, The inform-  ation of the masses may have been used to  vitiate rather than elevate the public mind. Such,  in fact, was the system applied in a masterly way  by the now defeated totalitarian countries. But  this is, as it were, the negation of science and  culture, whereas Unesco is their affirmation.  A certain egoism will also be found underlying  the efforts of our own Organisation, but it will  be a collective egoism, of benefit to the United -  Nations as a whole, to each of them in particular,  and to the common ideal by which they are  united. With us, mass information will have an  objective which is pure and noble, namely the pro-  pagation of peace, of mutual comprehension and  the welfare of the human race.  There remains the last of the objections I have  mentioned, and it raises, perhaps, the most deli-  cate question — the struggle between universa-  lity and nationalism. It is certain that the weak-  ening of the defence potential is a weighty argu-   ment. It is difficult to conduct this campaign  in an atmosphere which is more or less chaotic.  But cannot the drawbacks be minimized by en-  larging the field? We should explain that our  object is not to destroy nationalism, but to pre-  vent it from choosing its own means of achieving  that prosperity to which it is entitled. The great-  ness and happiness of a people must be conceiv-  ed exclusively in peace, for peace, and by paci-  fic development. This evolution of nationalism is  progress, not only in the formation of the human  mind, but also in the consolidation of the govern-  ing principle itself.  All these considerations, I admit, do not entire-  ly destroy the value of the objection that cer-  tain peoples may be weakened before an era of  international confidence and understanding is  established. We must overcome this difficulty;  otherwise we shall have the same vicious circle to  the grave detriment of our civilisation and our  common ideal.  The elevation and unification of the human  mind must be achieved in confidence and security.  But, similarly, elevation and unification are ne-  cessary in order to establish confidence and secur-  ity. This is the dilemma, from which we cannot  escape. Let us not forget that the stake at issue
1s the salvation of the human race.  To bring about universal confidence, we must  begin by believing it possible. Let us take this  step, even if certain sacrifices are necessary. No  great work can be accomplished without courage  and without risks. Let us contribute to the work  of Unesco in a spirit of sincere collaboration,  unhesitatingly, without mental reservations. Let  us do our duty with faith and enthusiasm. Suc-  cess will crown the efforts of those who work in  the service of the Ideal.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I call upon  Mr. Hardman, delegate of the United Kingdom.  Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) :  The Government of the United Kingdom is of  the opinion that the Preparatory Commission can  look back with satisfaction to the work of the  past twelve months. The Report of the Commis-  sion is a notable document and, in general, the  programme is well designed to further the gener-  al objects of Unesco. We also wish to support  what has so often and rightly been said about  the work of the Secretariat and, in particular,  about the contribution which the Executive Se-  cretary has made to the work of Unesco. Thanks  to the Preparatory Commission, we have a useful  series of proposals before us, from which we may  already see something of the work which Unesco  may hope to achieve in the years to come.  We of the British delegation, which includes  representatives of the 63. millions of the Colonial  Empire, share the view already expressed by a  number of our colleagues that our present task  is to choose from this rich field of possible activ-  ity just those projects whose realisation seems  most immediately rewarding and also within our  power. We must ask ourselves what these are  and how they can be achieved. The needs are  great. War has brought a new poverty to aggrav-  ate difficulties that were serious enough before  the war. It is tragic, at a time when isolation  and want have sharpened intellectual no less than  physical hunger, that the most formidable bar-  riers obstruct the free flow of ideas between the  nations of the world. Remedies will not quickly  be found for all the ills which a bruised and lamed  humanity now suffers, but the need for them im-  poses upon Unesco its first and its most urgent  task. The walls are high but there are doors and  windows and we must throw them wide open.  We have some simple tests by which to mea-  sure the proposals put before us. We must ask  of each project, is it creative, will it help to release  creative powers among men and among the chil-  dren of men, in their communities, their societies,  and their schools? Will it release powers of the  spirit, of the heart or of the mind in the worlds  of art, science or education?  We must look at each project to discover  whether it is related to something already vital  and creative in the world as we know it. True  to our common co-operative ideals, we must ask  if the project will make the community more of  a community within the national society and still  more within the society of nations. Shall we really  be doing what we all want to do, enlarging the  - community of scientists, teachers and artists?  Above all, shall we truly contribute to building  that One World to whose creation so many of  us now wish to dedicate our lives?  During the work of the Commissions, into which  this Conference will shortly be resolved, the Brit-  ish delegation will hope to produce a considered  list of projects which we think will satisfy those  conditions. They cover a wide field and I will not  detain you by attempting to list them now. They  will, however, range from total war against il-  literacy down to finding pencils and chalk for the  schools improvised among the rubble of so many  cities, towns and.villages ruined by the war.  Mr. President, we cannot hear unmoved of the  pitiful plight of so many children in the world  today. These children will be the United Nations  of tomorrow. Let us all do what we can to re-  store th eshattered fabric of the world of the spirit.  It is, I venture to say, the only world that  really matters now.  There are less dramatic tasks, tending never-  theless to the same end. We have heard of the  International Council of Scientific Unions and the  good work it is doing; why should we not have  similar bodies in the humanities, medicine, tech-  nology and agriculture? The arts stand in special  need of help to clear away the obstacles that now  hold up the passage of artists of all kinds, of books,  music, films and gramophone records. We are  glad to see that Unesco will encourage the distri-  bution of educational films and radio programmes.  This is a part of its programme we hope to see  extend beyond strictly educational material.  New organisations will be needed by creative  artists and we think that an International Theatre  Institute may well be one of them. Then there
1s the whole vast field of mass media. They must  all, as all the rest of our work, promote the ideals  of the United Nations in the fields covered by  Unesco, thereby counteracting their exploitation  — 50 —   by powerful political or economie groups, which  seek, in the fine phrase of M. Bidault, “ to build  an Empire over the minds of men ”  We must be international and we must keep  our nationalism where it belongs. We must see  to it that in our proper pride in our own cultures  we do not impose on the world one way of life.  The white radiance of universal enlightenment  includes in its spectrum colours from the culture  of every race and nation. By constructive and  practical means we may do more to further the  ends of Unesco, to buttress the defences against  war and create genuine peace in the One World,  to increase the real spiritual, intellectual and ma-  terial welfare of mankind, than we should do if  we concentrate attention on the symptoms of  disease in the world today and try to suggest re-  medies. Let us be as boldly imaginative as the  artist, as scrupulously objective as the scientist,  as sympathetic and devoted as the teacher; let  us above all keep that faith in the ordinary man  which is the essence of democracy. ‘  But, though we work hopefully, we must real-  ise that ‘time is short. A few months ago the  world lost one of its great educators, who was in  many respects a typical Englishman and yet might  be called the first citizen of the world we are  trying to create — H. G. Wells.  While we remember him with admiration and  affection, all of us also remember his insistent  warning. He said the race is between education |  and catastrophe ”. Unless we do something about  this ignorance of ours, this universal blinkered  ignorance, we shall be overwhelmed; we shall  destroy one another.  But this time let the nations here assembled  make sure that education wins, that the creative  forces win, the forces that make for community.  During the next few weeks, the writing on the  walls of the Conference Chamber is : “ The eyes  of the world are upon us — let us clear the decks  for action. ”  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I call upon  Madame Gasirowska, who will speak in her native  language. The speech will be interpreted into  French.  Mme GASIROWSKA (Poland) (translation) :  We have heard with considerable interest the re-  port presented by Dr. Huxley on the development  and activity of Unesco.  I am glad to be able to inform the Conference  that we have already organised a National Unesco  Commission in Poland.  I must emphasise the social character of our  organisation, which includes representatives of the  Government,of scientific organisations,of teachers,  of the trades unions, of literary and artistic asso-  ciations, and of young people's groups.  At the Conference for the establishment of  Unesco, held last year in London, the head of the  Polish delegation expressed the hopes placed by  Poland in the work of Unesco. I wish to confirm  this feeling on behalf of my people, a feeling which  is born of its love of peace and freedom.  There is always instability in the life of a post-  war world; numerous peoples know not what the  morrow may bring; memories of the atrocities  and sufferings of the war have not vet faded; the  damage to millions of human beings is not yet  repaired.  We are hoping for words and acts which will  enable us to breathe again and to feel secure.  We are following with unabating interest and  with our best wishes the hard labour of states-  men for the solution of arduous political and eco-  nomic problems.  We realise that this work can only succeed if  it is based on a-spirit of international justice and  solidarity.  À favourable atmosphere for the establishment  of a just and lasting peace can and must be crea-  ted by an organisation which groups millions of  teachers, professors, educational experts, scholars  and artists, adults and young people, men and  women, all animated by the will to serve civili-  sation in progress and freedom. I shall be glad  to take back to my country from the Conference  the glad tidings that we have evolved a basis on  which the nations can agree and that we have  contributed to the achievement of the noble aims  embodied in the Charter of the United Nations.  The student of history will fully realise that my  country has suffered more often and more terri-  bly from war than any other in the world.  It was proved at Nuremberg that we were .  brutally attacked without any semblance of jus-  tification by the aggressor. The enemy treated my  people in a way which cannot be realised by those  who were not there during the war, who have not  themselves seen the traces of our suffering and the  devastation of our country. '  We are arising from our ruins — and from our  graves. Our workers, peasants and intellectuals are  working as hard as they can and harder to secure  a bare subsistence today and a more prosperous  future for our country.  Our scholars are working under pitiful condi-  tions, in unsuitable premises, without scientific  installations or instruments.  Although our teachers are underfed, they teach  two and even three teams of children a day, owing  to the scarcity of teachers and the lack of school-  buildings. Our young people, eager for study, but  also often underfed, are housed in inadequate buil-  dings, and lack the necessary books and material  for study.  I could dwell at length on the difficulties and  obstacles in the way of our artists, writers,  musicians, painters, our radio, press and cinema  ~ workers.  But it is above all in respect of our children  that you could hear things that would move the  hardest heart. The number of orphans in Poland  exceeds any figure known in the world. We have  at present some two million orphans and children  with only one parent.  To give a complete picture of the sufferings of  children during the war, it would be necessary to.  speak of their feeble health, their backward de-  velopment, their physical and nervous diseases and  above all of the tragic fact that they have lost  their joy in living and their childish laughter.  There can be no doubt, the child is the most  tragic victim of the last war.  — 51 —   We must take immediate steps to make it clear  to children that.the world today is governed by  laws other than those of the war and that, dur-  ing these tragic years, they have gone through  the wrong school.  The nations, each and all, must endeavour to  improve mankind.  That is why I have dwelt so long upon the Po-  lish child, the comrade of children in other coun-  tries, where he is pleading for urgent help and  care,  Even before the establishment of the Prepara-  tory Commission of Unesco and the Technical Sub-  Committee, numerous countries and international  organisations took steps to help those countries  which had suffered from the war.  On behalf of the Polish delegation, I warmly  thank all who have helped Poland.  Although we do not share some of theideas ex-  pressed by Dr. Huxley, and although certain ob-  jections made yesterday by our friends of Yugo-  slavia are shared by us, we follow with sympathy  any proposal to create workable instruments of  collaboration and central and international organ-  isations.  Our delegation is persuaded that we have much  to learn and, if we are able to contribute our mite  to the joint work, it will be a great satisfaction  to us.  We wish success to the General Conference and  prosperity and welfare to each country represen-  ted. I hope that we may meet next year with the  feeling that mankind is no longer threatened and  that it is finally entering upon a new era of peace  and fraternity.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I now call  upon M. Victor Doré, head of the Canadian dele-  gation.  M. Victor DORE (Canada) (translation) : I  highly appreciate the honour I have of representing  my country here, and on its behalf I salute this  Assembly. Co  Those who attehded the Conference in London  in 1945, or have since read the minutes, will want  to salute the two dominating figures : the Right  Honourable Ellen Wilkinson, and her Associate,  M. Léon Blum. Their opening speeches are a source  of inspiration for all the workers of Unesco. and  a closer study of them would be beneficial to all  and would enable them to understand and appre-  ciate their task better. By means of questions and  answers, Miss Wilkinson defined the purposes of  the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cul-  tural Organisation and the means of ensuring their  eventual fulfilment. |  I purposely stress the word ‘‘ eventual ”,  which in the case of our organisation is an invit-  ation not to rush our fences, but on the contrary  to proceed with method and discrimination, I shall  deal with this point later.  The way in which Miss Wilkinson presided over  the London Conference, her dynamism and the  sureness of her decisions largely contributed to its  success. The Canadian delegation salutes her and  sends her its heartiest congratulations.  With his usual eloquence, M. Léon Blum ex-  pressed his faith in the efficiency of cultural re-  lations between nations “ as a means of creating  a spirit of peace in the world ”,  ‘“ What we are aiming at ”, he added, ‘ what  we are seeking to establish, is a world where peace  would be a permanent, or rather a natural state,  a world where the spirit of peace will become  one of the surest guarantees of peace. That ”,  he said, ‘ was the final purpose of our Organi-  sation. ”  I quote M. Léon Blum’s moving speech as a  tribute to his intellectual eminence and to remind  this Assembly of the importance and scope of the  task Unesco 1s undertaking today.  I would like to remind you of the elegance and  simplicity with which M. Blum invited us to es-  tablish our seat in Paris and of the reasons he gave  for it. His wish has been fulfilled. We are now in  Paris, to whose great seat of learning young and  old students from all over the world have always  come and have afterwards returned to their coun-  tries enriched with a store of science, culture and  disciplines.  Mr. President, France could have no better in-  terpreter. Her attitude towards the United Na-  tions Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organi-  sation will not have been in vain. All the Member  States which their delegates represent at this Con-  ference will want to associate their thanks with  those of Canada.  The Canadian delegation also considers it a duty  to salute China and the United States, and to  stress the important role played by these two po-  wers in the United Nations and its agencies —  more particularly Unesco, which can and must  unite nations on a level of spiritual unity. Their  common effort for the creation of a spirit of  peace in a world morally and spiritually regener-  ated can but strengthen the bonds which unite  them.  The Canadian delegation congratulates the  Allied Council of Ministers of Education, which  met in London during the most critical period of  the war, and even then considered means of re-  establishing education in devastated areas. This  admirable faith in ultimate victory is a credit  to Britain and to the Governments then in exile.  We also wish to congratulate the delegates and  advisers who contributed to the study and pre-  paration of the Constitution, as well as to the  Final Act of the November Conference; also the  Preparatory Commission for the way in which it  carried out its task; the Executive Committee of  the Organisation for its intelligent activity; and  finally Dr. Julian Huxley, the driving spirit of  Unesco, who has given this further proof of his  splendid culture.  Of all the United Nations agencies, Unesco, by  its nature, is the most promising. It is an achieve-  ment of peace, and in it should reign that spirit  of peace so well defined by M. Léon Blum. It  invites people to know each other, understand each  other and appreciate each other better, and, in  doing so, it appeals not only to the heart but to  the mind. May Unesco therefore develop and ful-  fil the aims it has set itself. However, like all  other human institutions, Unesco is not secure  against surprises and snares. It will meet nume-   rous obstacles. Its acts and its gestures will be  variously welcomed and variously interpreted;  they will give rise to more than one conflict of opi-  nions, if not of interests. It therefore faces a praise-  worthy but a difficult task.  The reports which all the delegates will have read  and studied, and which will shortly be examined  and criticised by the various Commissions, are  full of ideas. They throng with suggestions, with  projects which on the whole agree with the guid-  ing principles of the Constitution. The ground  has been cleared; the machine is at work. It is  up to this Conference to decide who will control  it and to determine the pathg in which it will  engage. Nothing must be rushed, but there are  tasks to be accomplished, the nature and urgency  of which none can deny. There still remain a num-  ber of points to be clarified. The Board which  this Conference is going to elect, and the Director-  General of the Organisation, will have a lot to do.  May the Study Commissions make a judicious  distribution of the projects submitted to them  and give good grounds for.their recommendations.  These Commissions will start work as soon as the  speeches on the Agenda have been made, and that  is the reason why I shall not prolong mine un-  necessarily.  At last year’s London Conference two Cana-  dian delegates spoke in turn; one in English and  the other in French. With your permission, Mr.  President, I shall fulfil this dual task. I shall there-  fore end the French part of my address, adding  only that Canada has approved the Final Act -  adopted in London and intends assuming its share  of responsibility in the laudable task which our  Organisation has to accomplish,  M. DORE then said in English : In accordance  with the precedent assented to by the London  Conference, and with the whole-hearted agreem-  ent of my colleagues of the Canadian Delegation,  this final portion of my comment may well be de-  livered in English.  I do not intend to translate into English what  I have already said in my native tongue. I shall  endeavour to summarize the opinion. of the Ca-  nadian delegation, which has made a thorough  examination of the Constitution of Unesco and of  the various projects which this Conference is to  study and decide upon. I ask you to accept the  remarks I am about to make as representing the  general policy which the Canadian delegation, for  the present at least, deems it advisable to recom-  mend.  It attaches great importance to the successful  accomplishment of the formidable tasks which  Unesco is about to undertake. It considers that  Unesco is potentially one of the most valuable  agencies of the United Nations.  But precisely because of this earnest desire for  Unesco’s success, the Government is deeply con-’  cerned that the first General Conference of Unesco  should establish a firm, if modest, groundwork  upon which the future edifice may be raised. If  the Organisation is to be viable and effective, it  must proceed at the Conference, and during -its  first year of existence, in such a way as to com -.  mand the respect and confidence of its Member  States and their peoples.  To fulfil this aim, the Organisation must di-  rect its energies and resources not only towards  the pursuit of its important long-term objectives,  but also, and more particularly, to the achieve-  ment from the outset of short-term urgent pro-  jects, the value of which will be immediately ap-  parent to the peoples of the world and to their  Governments.  The principle of concentration of Unesco’s acti-  vities must be maintained. If the Organisation  were to undertake in the near future all the pro-  jects which have been suggested for it, it seems  probable that this dissipation of effort and funds  would result in a consequent absence of full suc-  cess in any one field. If, however, effort can be  directed to a smaller number of pressing projects,  the Organisation may hope for very solid successes  calculated to convince the most sceptical of  Unesco’s practical value. On this basis of limited,  demonstrable achievement Unesco will be able to  go forward, stage by stage, to confront the in-  numerable challenges that will arise.  It should be kept in mind at all times that  Unesco is but one of a growing body of organs  of the United Nations. It has common frontiers  with the fields more specifically granted to other  agencies — the Food and Agriculture Organisa-  tion, the Sub-Commission on Human Rights, the  United Nations Department of Public Informa-  © tion, etc. Continuing co-ordination of activities  must be sought to reduce to a minimum the real  possibility of overlapping and duplication of  effort.  Emphasis must be laid on the facilitative nature  of Unesco’s task. Wherever possible, it should  avoid becoming a direct operational agent and  should endeavour to inspire, encourage and assist  existing organisations, private and official, to ex-  ecute the projects upon which they have deter-  mined. It is recognised that there are no existing  organisations in some ofthe fields in which Unesco  must work, and here Unesco will clearly have to  do the work itself until such time as new bodies  can be developed to meet the need.  Canada agrees to co-operate with the other  ‘Member States of Unesco. Her attachment to  British ideals in matters of education, her close  relation in various fields with her friendly neigh-  bour, the United States of America, more parti-  cularly in that of education, the essential dualism  of her own cultural pattern, will, I am sure, help  to make her contribution to the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation  a worthy one.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 call upon  the delegate of India.  Mr. SAIYIDAIN (India) : I do not think it  necessary fo rme to offer any apologies for inflict-  ting my speech on you, after so many eloquen-  and fine speeches to which you have listened,  betause I feel that there are still a number of  points which can do with a certain amount of  _.underlining, if we are to keep intact our perspec-  tive in dealing with the programme of Unesco,  i   I should like to begin by associating myself with  the well-deserved appreciation which has been  expressed of the report submitted by the Execu-  tive Secretary, Dr. Julian Huxley, to the Confe-  rence. This report strikes me not as a dead docu-  ment but as a lively interpretation of the modern  world and its many different problems and it  discusses intelligently the role which Unesco can  play in tackling some of these problems with  vision and insight. n  There are certain features of the report to  which I should like to invite your attention and  make some observations which appear to me to  be called for. I confess that, when I tried to dis-  cover, before this Conference was convened, the  nature of the projects which were being drafted  by the Secretariat I had the impression that they  were too varied and miscellaneous and seemed  to lack a coherent purpose. The report, however,  has succeeded in presenting a unified programme  in which the various proposals have been pro-  perly integrated and it is easy to see the lines  along which the mind of the Preparatory Com-  mission has been working. If there is one criti-  cism that I can offer in this connection it would  be that I find no clear and definite criterion for  judging the urgency and the priority of the va-  rious proposals that have been placed before us.  Are they all to be treated as equally important  or is preference to be given to some over others?  I take it that generally speaking there are two  main objects before Unesco — (1) the establish- -  ment of peace and security through utilizing all  the resources of education, culture and science  and (2) the advancement and diffusion of know-  le dge amongst all the peoples and countries of  the world. Which of these is to have immediate  priority? And I mean from that not merely finan-  cial priority but priority in time and significance.  If I could venture to submit my personal view  on this behalf I would suggest that the greatest  issue of the modern age is the establishment and  maintenance of Peace, not only because it is  intrinsically desirable but because it is the pre-  condition of all creative work and progress and,  therefore, every item of our programme should  directly or indirectly be integrally related to the  tentral purpose. While I would be the last person  to belittle the importance of knowledge, on which  the continued progress of mankind ultimately  depends, I do feel that what the modern world  lacks is not knowledge — for we know far more  thah our predecessors did, at least in the physical  and the social sciences — or even the application  of knowledge, which in many countries has been  applied successfully in all kinds of ways, from its  modest but beneficent application in things like  tentral heating to its spectacular but deadly’  application in the field of the atom. What the  modern world signally lacks is Wisdom, which  may be described as the grace of knowledge, and  Charity, without which the mere increase of know-  ledge is not a blessing but a curse. I am reminded  of the remark of = famous French writer, who  said : * All true progress is progress in charity,  everything else being secondary to it.” This  means that we must judge the value of all our  inventions and discoveries and our intellectual  achievements on this criterion — do they or do  they not contribute to the deepening of wisdom  and the kindling of charity in the human heart?  The great and recurrent tragedy of man’s life is  the fact, as stressed by a great thinker and poet  of modern India, Igbal, that this knowledge is  not inspired by a true humanism and has not  been subordinated to vision, In the words of  Igbal : ““ The modern man, who has succeeded  in tracing the stars in their courses, has not been  able to illumine the dark night of his life. ” It  is for this reason that in the order of priority, I  would place the cause of peace above that of the  advancement of knowledge, even though I am  fully aware of the importance of both.  One of the reasons why .I have stressed this  point at some length is the fact that, to use a  somewhat irreverent American expression, we  have to try to ‘sell’ Unesco to the common man  and woman all over the world, And I assure you  that from what I have seen of people in different  countries, they are not frightfully interested in  the foundation of new observatories or institutes  of mathematics, but they are deeply interested  in guarding themselves and their children against  the horrors of another and incredibly more deadly  war in the near future. And this is even more  poignantly the concern of the women than of  the men. I believe that their instinct is right, for  it is not so much a failure to appreciate the signi-  ficance of knowledge as a desire to place first  things first and we can ignore this instinctive urge  of the common man only at our peril.  Another welcome feature of the report which  has impressed me favourably is the fact that it  takes a global or world-wide view of the pro-  blems of mankind and it has avoided the temp-  ting discourtesy of envisaging the world only in  Anglo-Saxon or European terms, That is why  there is a reference to the need for the rehabili-  tation not only of devastated but also of back-  ward countries, which may be said to have been  suffering cultural ‘devastation for centuries; that  + is why there is an appreciation of the cultural  possibilities of the backward as well as non-  industrial peoples and a deploring of the fact  that, in some of them, there is a tendency to  develop a ‘shoddy’ imitation of Western culture.  I welcome in particular the reference to the need  for the equalization of cultural opportunity and  I think it is essential that Unesco should dedi-  cate itself to levelling up the standards of the  backward peoples so that they might be able to  take their full share in international councils.  Sometimes there is a tendency to show too much  squeamish consideration for the sanctity of what  are known as the “ domestic concerns’ of these  backward peoples. I would earnestly request you  to resist that tendency and to remember that  ignorance and poverty and- disease and cultural  backwardness are not domestic but international  “concerns and, wherever they exist, there is terri-  tory for Unesco to annex and to serve through  better education and the light of modern know-  ledge. I am reminded of a remark attributed to  an old Greek writer who said that wherever there  was a beautiful woman in the world he regarded  her as a relative. I cannot pretend to emulate   the magnificent audacity of this sentiment ut I  do strongly feel -~ and I hope I am voicing the  opinion of the Conference as a whole on this issue  — that wherever there is misery and deprivation  and the lack of educational and cultural nou-  - rishment in the world, we should feel a sense of  kinship with those who suffer and should strive  to relieve their suffering. Some of us have not  scrupled in the past to annex and exploit whole  countries and continents and to appropriate their  economic resources for our own use. Shall we be  justified now in showing an old-maidenly hesita-  tion when it is a question of rendering cultural  service, on the ground that it would be unjustified  interference with their ““ domestic concerns ’? I  find that cautious scrupulousness difficult to swal-  low!  If I have so far been able to carry you with  me in this argument, we may take it that Peace is  our supreme obiective and our business in this  Conference is to elucidate how best we can con-  tribute to bringing it about. There are many inter-  national agencies interested in, and concerned  with this problem and, therefore, it is necessary  that, on the one hand, our efforts should be co-  ordinated with theirs, and on the other there  should be a definition of our scope and field of  activity. As I visualize the problem I find that  , it has two equally important aspects — the sub-  jective and the objective. On the subjective side  we.are concerned with winning the good fight  for peace in the hearts and minds of men and  women and, for this purpose, the report that we  are considering has made a number of useful sug-  gestions. It will be necessary for us to do so  through the re-orientation of the entire educa-  tional machinery in all its stages. It will be ne-  cessary to undertake a revision of text-books  and I assure you — if you have not been actually  concerned with the work of teaching in schools  — that there is so much distilled racial and poli-  tical and communal poison in many of the text-  books in the world that it corrupts the minds  and the emotions of the young children at the  very beginning of their lives. Not only that, but  they often fail to distinguish between the signi-  ficant and the insignificant, between the cheap  and the valuable and between the shoddy and  the "artistic, with the result that they sin not  only against moral and social values but also  against good taste. It is high time that the pro-  blem of revising them was handled in a sober and  dispassionate manner, Then there is also the  study of racial prejudices which I understand is  to be undertaken shortly by the International  New Education Fellowship with which we might  very well co-operate. And, above all, there is the  question of using properly the formidable media  of mass-communication which the modern scien-  tific technique has evolved — the Press, the Radio,  the Cinema and all other agencies for the diffu-  sion of ideas. As I see their working at the present  day, they strike me as dark and sinister forces  competing for the mastery of the soul of man.  In any well-organized national or international  community they must be visualized as integral  parts of a composite educational pattern in which  all the different organs will be co-ordinated and  will pull together instead of pulling in different  directions and nullifying the results that might  have been achieved. I am glad to find that a  sub-commission is to investigate this problem in  all its bearings.  On the objective side the problem is one of  creating such socio-economic conditions as will  eradicate the root causes of war, i. e., conditions  which will remove the great social and economic  injustices from which many nations and classes  within nations suffer at present. I wonder if you  realize how terribly education is handicapped by  the fact that the general socio-economic set-up  of the world is greedy and grasping and unjust  and based on exploitation, Many of us, who are  teachers, carry on our labours of love decade  after decade, inculcating values which we regard.  as rational and humane; but a sudden and stupid  and avoidable political cataclysm, born of these  man-made conditions, shatters all our hopes and  our work at a single stroke and we find ourselves  merely ploughing the sands. It may very well be  said that the creating of these conditions is not  our direct concern or responsibility. I grant that  point but we must make it clear where we stand  in this great crisis. Are we for a programme of  radical social progress which will ensure the good  things of life, material and cultural, to all the  peoples of the earth, or for reaction and conser-  vatism which would leave things as they are?  Dr. Huxley's report refers pointedly to the need  for ‘‘ combating mental and spiritual poverty ”  — this is not only an arresting phrase but a signi-  ficant idea and this should be regarded as one  of our supreme tasks. And may I also suggest,  without perhaps stretching the meaning unduly,  ‘that this will also involve at least indirectly a  combating of physical poverty and disease and  that terrible material deprivation from ‘which  millions of people in the world suffer to-day which  is bad in itself and which makes it impossible for  them to develop a genuine cultural life.  May I, therefore, sum up my position by saying:  that to the twin ideals of love and truth, to which  the leader of my delegation referred, we must  add a third — justice, gracious daughter of love  and truth — which should govern the relationship  of the individual and the community. Justice is  in my opinion the final touch-stone on which the  real value of all collective human activity in this  century must be ultimately tested. So  May I point out, in conclusion, that the work  which faces us is extremely difficult and. compli-  cated and therefore we should not feel too com-  placent or optimistic, even though the atmosphere  in this hall is conducive to that frame of mind!  It is easy to make speeches for it is one of the  fatal gifts of man that words come tripping spons-  taneously off the tongue. It is not difficult even  to make fine and eloquent speeches full of high  intentions but difficulties arise when words ‘“ un-  bend ’’ themselves and have to be translated into  action and carried not only to the hearths and  homes but also to the hearts of men and womén  in the world. And not only difficulties but contro:  versies would arise, and 1 would entreat you not  to bypass these controversies but to face them  bravely. We should be concerned not with being   non-committal and impartial, but with being  right and emphatic in the defence of right. In  the past intellectuals have often danced tamely  to the tune of politicians and war-mongers and  other merchants of death and have not raised  their voice in protest against all that was inhu-  man and ugly. I know there have been honourable  exceptions. Socrates of Greece was one; your great  compatriot, Mr. President — Romain Rolland —  was, another and Gandhi of my country is a third.  People like them were concerned with the defence  of Truth and Peace and Right and prepared to  pay the price for it. But the majority have not  been worthy of their great trust and the scientists  who recommended the use of the atom bomb  have not been the only sinners. It is therefore for  us in this great Assembly to resolve that the stifled  voice of the human conscience — which has been  hesitant and apologetic too long — shall find a  courageous expression through us and that we  shall refuse to regard ourselves as the train bea-  rers of the materially powerful, justifying their  ungodly ways to -our fellow men. Let us have  intellectual humility by all means as our Execu-  tive Secretary suggested and intellectual integrity  as Sir S. Radhakrishnan advocated, but let us  have, above all, intellectual courage that would  defy expediency for the sake of truth and may  even be prepared to risk the whole world for the  sake of gaining possession of man’s precious soul.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I now call on  the delegate for the Republic of the Philippines.  Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) : Allow me first  of all to express to this Assembly the deep appre-  ciation and sincere gratitude of the Philippine  delegation for the great distinction and signal  honour which you have conferred upon our young  republic by bestowing upon her one of the vice-  presidencies of this General Conference.  I take it that the great honour which you have  so generously accorded to our country is a recogni-  tion of the efforts of small nations to make Unesco  an effective international agency for bringing to  realization our common dream of a peaceful world  based on mutual understanding and good will  among peoples.  The government of the Philippines has sent  its delegates to this General Conference as envoys  of good will. We bring to you, ladies and gentle-  men, and particularly to France, under whose  auspices we now sit in conference, the most cor-  dial greetings of our government and the best  wishes and hopes of the 18,000,000 people that  inhabit our beloved country.  To a small country like the Philippines, devas-  tated and economically prostrate as a result of  the last global war, the sending of a mission three  quarters of the way round the world — a dis-  tance of some 15,000 miles — can only be done  at a sacrifice. Yet our government has gladly  imposed upon itself this sacrifice because we want  other nations to know that the Philippines, despite  the tremendous problems of moral and material  reconstruction that confront her in these crucial  days of her infancy as a sovereign nation, is only  too eager to co-operate with the rest of the world  — to shoulder her portion of the burden in  making of this world a safer and happier place  to live in.  Because of her geographical position and histo-  rical development the Philippines has been. for  the past 400 years at the crossroads where na-  tions of the East and West have met and where  various currents of thought have clashed one  against the other, permitting the survival only  of those ideas that have contributed to the dignity  and well being of man. ~  Thus for centuries the Philippines has been  cosmopolitan in thought and this has made it  easy for our people to embrace the idea of a world  organization devoted to the promotion of peace  and the welfare of mankind.  Again I beg leave to invite your attention to  the fact that the Philippines is as desirous and  anxious. as any other country that Unesco should  succeed because in the war just over the Philip-  pines has been one of the worst victims. Our  homes have been destroyed; our cities, farms and  factories have been laid waste; our communica-  tion and transportation systems have been disrup-  ted; our commerce and industries have been pa-  ralyzed; and what is more serious, our moral and  spiritual standards are now being seriously threa-  tened. We cannot over-emphasize, therefore, la-  dies and gentlemen, the interest and faith of our  country in the growth and ultimate success of  Unesco.  We have faith in Unesco because we are firm  believers in ‘“ education of humanity for justice,  liberty and peace ”’, the sublime task which Unesco  has set for itself.  The very Constitution of the Republic of the  Philippines states forcefully and in unequivocal  terms that it renounces war as an instrument of  national policy. It is thus in perfect accord with  Unesco’s fundamental ideals.  True we fought in the last war; but we fought  not as an aggressor nation. We were militarily not  only weak but unprepared. We fought because we  wanted to contribute our share to the defence and  preservation of the inalienable rights of man. And  we fought against tremendous odds, undergoing  what undoubtedly were the darkest epochs in  our history.  With your kind indulgence, permit me to pre-  sent the considered opinion of our delegation as  to the manner in which the work of Unesco may  be carried on most effectively. It is our opinion  that Unesco would ensure its continuance if its  were to embark on a programmme less ambitious  than that outlined in the report submitted to this  general Conference.  We believe that Unesco could effectively serve  as the clearing house for all educational, scientific  and cultural ideas, methods and techniques, espe-  cially as they concern the promotion of lasting  peace.  We favour the advancement of universally com-  mon aims and united action toward eliminating  what are generally considered to be objectionable  principles, texts and methods such as those which  tend to encourage intolerance, hatred and mistrust  in the education and training of youth or to esta-   blish in their minds attitudes antagonistic to peace  and the brotherhood of man.  We favour also the development of a system of  exchanges of scholarships and professorships be-  tween countries and the calling of international  conferences not only among educators, scientists  and policy-makers but among youth.  We reiterate as a matter of emphasis what has  been partly dwelt upon by other delegations —  that we should guard against too much diffusion  of effort and energy. We should guard against du-  plication of work that is already being done effec-  tively and well in several countries and should  concentrate for some time at least on the basic  idea in which Unesco was conceived.  We believe that Unesco can advantageously  exert efforts toward eliminating hazards to peace.  Race prejudice, religious bigotry and intolerance,  economic maladjustment and the constant exhi-  bition of the trappings of war in our everyday life  should all be removed if the minds of men, parti-  cularly of the youth of our countries, are to be  attracted toward unselfish ends, toward peace and  love for all men.  Fortunately there are certain factors already at  work which tend to promote better understanding  among peoples of different creeds and races. The  cinema, the radio, the abundance of printed mat-  ter and the rapidity of communication and travel  that we have today have made this world a small,  world indeed.  We therefore favour the publication of truly in-  ternational newspapers and journals for interna-  tional use and reference. This could be undertaken  as a Unesco project by experts in the fields of  international affairs, education, and journalism.  Such papers may be published in any of the widely  used languages, but the points of view should  be international.  We likewise favour the establishment of inter-  national radio broadcasting stations for world edu-  cation, which could supplement if not replace in-  dependent national stations devoted primarily to  selfish propaganda and the defence of selfish na-  tional aims and interests.  One last suggestion we wish to make, based on  our own experiences in the field of character trai-  ning. We should be on our guard and not be sa-  tisfied with mere preaching and lecturing and  teaching in the classroom of the great and noble  ideas of peace and justice, of human happiness  and human dignity. It would be well if we took  advantage of existing situations, and even create  situations if necessary, that will implement the  objectives of Unesco. It would be fortunate if  through the wise use of natural situations youth  could be led to perform acts that will create and  raise in their minds attitudes and desires imbued  with justice and kindness and which will most  surely bring about at some future date peace and  good will among men.  I have expounded briefly and in simple language  the stand of our delegation on some of the points  covered by the report of the Preparatory Commis-  sion. I have discussed them frankly in the spirit  - of full co-operation a d in the hope that the views  I have expressed this morning would, in the same  spirit, be given due consideration,  Should the assembly, however, for strong rea-  sons take an attitude contrary to or different from  the views I have briefly dwelt upon, the Philippine  delegation wishes to assure this assembly that it  not only would abide by the decisions of the majo-  rity but would do all in its power to carry out these  decisions. This is because it is our firm belief that  unless there exist among us who are gathered here  an earnest desire to co-operate, Unesco is bound  to fail. .  We of the Philippines fefvently hope that Unesco  will succeed. We realize that it faces a tremendous  challenge, the challenge to improve the lot of  mankind in the future, but we are hoping that the  nations great and small that are represented here  will find a way out of the hazards and difficulties  that have spelled failure for other international  enterprises. We can only say that we shall do our  part.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : We shall meet  again at 3.15 this afternoon.  SIXTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 22 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  President : M. MoN1Z DE ARAGAO (Brazil)  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY : The first  announcement I wish to make is to suggest that  we send a telegram to M. Trygve Lie, Secretary-  General of the United Nations, who cabled to  me regretting he was unable to be present here.  We suggest that we send a telegram in your name :  “ The delegations of 44 nations, assembled for  the first General Conference of Unesco, greatly  regret your absence, very gratefully received your  message conveyed by M. Benoit-Lévy and much  appreciate your promise of support in our endea-  vours. Unesco places full confidence in close con-  x, structive co-operation with the United Nations  Signed by the President and myself.  Agreed. .
9. GENERAL DISCUSSION ON THE  WORK OF THE PREPARATORY  COMMISSION (conlinuation)  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The list of  speakers is now practically exhausted and, as we  wish to close the general discussion this afternoon,