The delegate of the UNITED STATES enquired  why the amount of three million dollars had been  fixed for the Revolving Fund.  The SECRETARIAT said that, in the expérience  of the United Nations, if the Organization were  not to be embarrassed by a shortage of liquid re-  sources, it should possess the equivalent of the  estimated expenditure for six months. On the  assumption that Uneseo’s expenditure for 1947  might be six million dollars, the equivalent of six  months’ estimated expenditure was three milliori  dollars. With regard to the delegate of Australia’s  suggestion that contributions should be expressed  as à percentage, the Secretariat considered it prefe-  rable for the Fund to bedixed at a definite amount.  The delegate of FRANCE proposed that a special  Sub-Committee should be established to examine  the question of the provision of funds to enable  Unesco to carry out its work in the early part of
1947. The Sub-Committee would report to the Ad-  ministrative and Financial Sub-Commission at  the time of the discussion on the budget.  Agreed.  The Sub-Committee would consist of the repre-  sentatives of United Kingdom, Frauce, United  states of America, Canada, Egypt, Poland and  Uruguay.  The delegate of the Unrrkp Kinopou withdrew  his original motion,  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES moved the  adoption of the new document on this subject  (S. C. Ad. & Fin./14.) as a whole.  A general discussion took place, in the course  of which the delegates of AUSTRALIA, POLAND,  INDIA and Ecuvapor mentioned some amend-  ments which thev would submit when the docu-  ment was discussed in detail.  EIGHTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1946 al 2.30 p. m,  Chairman : Dr, C. FE. BEEBY (New Zealand).  STAFF REGULATIONS. -  The delegate of the UNrrED KrNcpom (Chair-  man of the Drafting Committee) moved the adop-  tion of the revised draft Staff Regulations, with  the exception of Regulation 30.  Adopted.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM read the  proposed new text of Regulation 30 (old Regula-  tion 27), as follows :  “Any dispute arising between the Organiza-  tion and a member of the staff regarding the  fultilment of a contract of a member of the staff  or arising out of disciplinary action may be re-  ferred for final decision to an Administrative  Tribunal to be established by the Executive  Board for such period as may be necessary pen-  ding dehnitive arrangements with the United  Nations. ”  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  suggested the insertion of a phrase which would  make it clear that both the Director-General and  the members of the staff hac the right to refer dis-  putes to the Tribunal.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM said that  — 2TL —  it was the intention of the Drafting Committee  that disputes might be referred by either party to  the Tribunal, and the delegate of the UNION OF  SOUTH AFRICA expressed his satisfaction with this  remark, without any addition to the regulation.  Regulation 30 was adopted.  After some discussion, it was decided to suggest  at the meeting of the full Commission the inser-  tion after the words ‘“ membres du Secrétariat ”  in the French text of revised Regulation 36 the  words ‘‘ et lorsque cela sera justifié ”. =  DrArT REPORTS.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES (Rappor-  teur) read the Sub-Commission’s draft Reports on  the Staff Regulations and the Financial Regula-  tions,  The draft Reports were approved, with the reser-  vation that the Sub-Commission had not yet adop-  ted the Financial Regulations, |  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Staff Regula-  tions should be submitted to the fuii Commission,  and that the latter should be asked to adjourn for  a short time to enable the Sub-Commission to exa-  mine the Financial Regulations, which it would  then submit to the Commission.  Agreed.  NINTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1946 at 6 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT FINANCIAL REGULATIONS (Continuation).  The CHAIRMAN submitted, for the approval of  the Sub-Commission, the Draft Financial Regu-  lations (Document Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C.  Ad. & Fin./16) as amended by the drafting Com-  mittee in order to insert a reference to the Revol-  ving l’und in Regulations 10, Ir and 29.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate drew attention  to the provisional character of these regulations;  and the title of the document in the French text  was accordingly altered, becoming : “ Règlement  financier provisoire, ”  At the suggestion of the FRENCH delegate, para-  graph 2 of Regulation 1g was altered so as to read :  ““ The Finance Committee of the Executive Board, .  as provided for in Regulation 4 above, shail exa-  mine the report of the auditors... The report of the  auditors shall be annexed to the Report. ?  At the suggestion of the SOUTH AFRICAN dele=  gate, the English draft of Regulation 15 was alter-  ed to read : “are paid” instead of “ will be paid ”.  The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the Draft Finan-  cial Regulations as a whole, which were adopted  unammously.  At the CHAIRMAN’S suggestion, the delegate of  Uruguay was appointed Chairman of the Commit-  tee on the Revolving l'und, which would meet on  Friday at 11 a. m.  TENTH MEETING  Held on Fridav, 6 December 1940 at 9 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  ORGANIZATION OF SECRETARIAT (Continuation).  The general discussion of the composition of the  Secretariat was continued.