RECONSTRUCTION  AND REHABILITATION COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Held on Monday, 25 November 1946 at 10. 30 a. m.  Chairman : M. B. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).  The CHAIRMAN said that the experience of the  past year had shown that, if Unesco’s work were  to be related to actual conditions in the present-  - day world, it must include educational recon-  struction and rehabilitation. He expressed deep  gratitude to those countries — Denmark, the Uni-  ted States of America, Great Britain, and others —  which had contributed during the year to the  relief of the most urgent needs,  The Chairman suggested that General Sir Ro-  nald ADAM (United Kingdom) should be elected  Vice-Chairman of the Commission, and that Mr.  BRUMBAUCH (U.S. A.) should he elected Secretary.  Agreed.  Item 2 of the Agenda: ADOPTION OF PROVISIO-  NAL AGENDA.  The Agenda was adopted.  Item 3 of the Agenda : PRESENTATION OF RE-  PORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS ON EDUCATIONAL,  SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL RECONSTRUCTION AND  REHABILITATION, AS APPROVED BY THE TECHNI-  CAL SUB-COMMITTEE AND THE PREPARATORY COM-  MISSION.  Dr. WiLsoN (Deputy Executive Secretary) made  a statement on the future reconstruction and re-  habilitation programme of Unesco, set forth in  document Unesco /C /11.  Unesco’s future policy in this domain would  develop along four main lines :
1. All plans would in future be based upon the  integration of reconstruction and rehabilitation  projects in the general programme. It would be  recommended that the Technical Sub-Committee  be liquidated, and the General Conference would  be asked to appoint a special committee dealing  with educational, scientific and cultural rehabilit-  ation.  The problem of reconstruction was bound up  with an equal distribution of the world’s educa-  tional, scientific and cultural resources.
2. The voluntary relief organizations, both loc-  al and international, were the best reservoir of  relief resources. Unesco should stimulate, facili-  tate and help the work of these organizations and  co-ordinate their efforts.
3. An intensified campaign should be launched  - to raise funds and secure materials to help the  work of the voluntary organizations. Although  governments were not exempt from responsibility  in this field, it was not proposed to ask them to .  allocate large sums for rehabilitation. The main  burden would be carried by voluntary organiza-  tions.
4. One responsibility which governments could  properly be asked to assume was the provision  of sufficient funds to enable Unesco to conduct the  appeal campaign.  With regard to other intergovernmental agen-  cies (e. g. FAO, ILO, World Health Organiza-  tion, Commission for Displaced Persons), Unesco’s  reconstruction programme had been planned in  relationship with their programmes. Unesco had  a specially close relationship with Unrra, many of  whose tasks had educational implications. Negot-  lations were in progress for the taking over by  Unesco of certain of Unrra’s activities and assets.  The CHAIRMAN thanked Dr, Wilson, in the name  of the Commission, for his excellent report.  The General Committee had decided to esta-  blish a Steering Committee consisting of the mem-  bers of the General Committee and the Chairmen  and Vice-Chairmen of the Commissions.  The CHAIRMAN opened the general discussion  on the Secretariat’s report.  The delegate of IRAN praised Dr. Huxley's re-  port. Reconstruction was an essential task for  Unesco and must extend to all-devastated coun-  tries, whether they had been occupied or not. The  delegation of Iran had filed a report with the Se-  cretariat on the conditions in its country.  The delegate of CANADA wanted details about  the devastated countries and their needs, so that  Canada could continue helping them. Canada was  particularly interested in the children of Norway  and the Netherlands, but was ready to help chil-  dren of any country.  The delegates of the PHILIPPINES and CHINA  stated that their countries had especially suffered -  . from the war and had sustained heavy losses of  men and material.  The CHAIRMAN mentioned that 63,000,000 dol-  lars were needed for the restoration of school build-  ings in the Philippine Islands, and the material  losses of China were assessed at 788,000,000 dol-  lars.  The BELGIAN delegate thought that the budget  estimates of administrative expenses were too high  in comparison with the expenses of reconstruc-  tion and rehabilitation. The budget figure of
10,000,000 dollars was too low. He recommended  calling upon Governments for a money contri-  bution towards reconstruction, which he thought  was the most important of Unesco’s tasks.  The delegate of LUXEMBURG suggested that  relief work should be systematic and not left to  private organizations. Enquiries should be made  of governments, which alone could give informa-  tion about the damage to their countries and the  immediate needs to be met. Furnished with this  information, the Commission could then make con-  crete proposals and a wise distribution of the funds  at Unesco’s disposal for this purpose. ;  The FRENCH delegate reminded the Commission  — 136 —   that his country had greatly suffered during the  war, and thanked those powers which had al-  ready given aid, in particular the Canada, United  States, Sweden, Denmark and Belgium. He ad-  mitted that other countries had been even more  devastated and said thad France was prepared  to take a lower place in the queue.  He wished to stress three points :
1) Unesco’s task of reconstruction was not only  of immediate value, but also meant a lot from  the point of view of solidarity and international  co-operation. Its efforts must not be confined to  purely intellectual fields, but must penetrate the  life of nations.
2) Everything Unesco did must aim at the idea  of peace, and one way of attaining that aim was  to teach peoples about the horrors and devastat-  ion of recent years,
3) The French delegation would speak at the  afternoon meeting to give its point of view about  the technique of the work. He thought that  Unesco’s role should be one of research, co-ordi-  nation, and spread of information. Unesco was  not an institution for the receipt and distribution  of gifts.  The NORWEGIAN delegate thought that Unesco  should encourage private initiative. He suggested  the setting up of National Commissions to en-  courage reconstruction work. In this effort the  dominant factors were material and labour, not  money. Unesco must co-ordinate, but would leave  the choice of methods to the national bodies.  - The NETHERLANDS delegate considered the.  budget figure of 10,000,000 dollars too low. He  agreed with the Belgian delegate and thought, like  him, that there was need to obtain grants from  governments and not count only upon help from  private organizations.  Dr. WILSON drew attention to a typing error  in the report : the budget figure was 100,000,000  dollars, and not 10,000,000.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Monday, 25 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chazrman : Sir Ronald ADAM (Unided Kingdom).  Item 3 of the Agenda : REPORT AND RECOM-  MENDATIONS ON EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND  CULTURAL RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITA-  TION (Continuation of discussion).  The delegate of GREECE congratulated Dr. Wil-  son on his excellent report.  The war had caused extensive destruction and  devastation in Greece, and the Greek delegation  wished to thank the different organizations which  had helped to bring relief to the Greek people.  There was still much to be done in the educat-  ional field : according to Unrra statistics, 80 9  of the primary schools in Greece were either des-  troyed or so badly damaged that they were use-  less.  The Greek delegation were glad to note that  the Unesco teams fo be sent to the devastated  areas would include both resident staff and mo-  bile units. They were also glad to learn that  Unesco’s general programme would include med-  icine.  The delegate of INDIA expressed his country’s  deep sympathy with the war-devastated countries,  Educational, scientific and cultural reconstruction  in these countries should be one of Unesco’s chief  tasks. :  The proposals submitted in the Report might  be divided into two main categories : material relief  (provision of books, scientific apparatus, funds),  and psychological rehabilitation. The Indian dele-  gate welcomed the proposal to expand the scope  of Unesco’s work to include the important question  of the equalization of educational, scientific and  cultural opportunities throughout the world. Par-  ticular emphasis should be laid on the help that  could be given by voluntary organizations, and  one of Unesco’s tasks should be to stimulate and  co-ordinate the work of those organizations.  The delegate of DENMARK thanked Dr Wilson  for his excellent report.  With regard to the appeal, he thought that the  target of 10,000,000 dollars to be contributed in
1947 was by no means too high. He was, however,  doubtful whether Unesco needed such an intensive  propaganda campaign as that forecast in the Re-  port. The main work of collecting information on  the needs of the devastated areas should be done  by the National Commissions. He therefore pro-  posed a simplification of the programme on this  point.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA said that his dele-  gation wished to associate itself with those who  had already advocated a complete Unesco pro-  gramme for reconstruction and rehabilitation.  He stressed the importance of enlisting the help  of voluntary organizations, and cited the expe-  rience of Unrra, whose resources from government  contributions had been greatly increased by gifts  from voluntary associations. Governments could,  however, play an important part in encouraging  and assisting the campaign for voluntary contri-  butions. oo :  The Australian delegation was in favour of the  establishment by Unesco of a standing committee  to take the place of the former Technical Sub-  Committee. There should also be a small staff  within the Secretariat to organize both the intens-  ified campaign and the services which Unesco  would be called upon to provide.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES asked the  Commission to allow Mr. Brumbaugh, an expert.  on the work of voluntary organizations, to speak  for the American delegation.  Mr. BRUMBAUGH expressed his delegation’s ap-  preciation of Dr. Wilson’s report. 0  In the United States, the voluntary agencies  were the largest potential source of educational  reconstruction. They were also the best means of  keeping people informed of conditions in the war-  devastated countries and of enlisting their help.  A new co-ordinating agency — the Commission for  International Educational Reconstruction — had  been established and had recently held a confer-  ence in Washington. In the course of a brief des-  cription of the activities of organizations in the  United States, Mr. Brumbaugh said that, besides  gifts in kind and scholarships, these organizations