WEGIAN delegates, and was adopted unanimously.  ‘The UNITED Kingpom delegate then read a  draft resolution concerning the Revolving Fund :  “The General Conference decides that a  Revolving Fund of 3 million doltars shall be  established. ”  The resolution was seconded by the delegate of  INDIA.  The UNITED STATES delegate expressed the opi-  nion that the amount of the Revolving Fund was  closely related to the declarations made by the  delegate of Uruguay, and that it would be prefe-  rable to adjourn the matter until Monday.  This proposal was seconded by FRANCE and  CANADA.  The UntTrrp KinGnom delegate agreed with the  UNITED STATES delegate, and stated that he was  prepared to withdraw his resolution.  The resolution of the UNITED STATES was adop-  fed; and the discussion concerning the Revolving  Fund and the scale of contributions adjourned  until Monday.  The UNITED STATES delegate then submitted a  draft resolution respecting the approval of the  budget, but the CHAIRMAN suggested that a deci-  sion on this should be adjourned until Monday.  This. was approved unanimously.  The CHAIRMAN raised the question of the sala-  ries of the Deputy Director-General and the Assis-  tant Directors-General (page 36 of the English  text, paragraph 19 à and'1Q9 b, of the Preparatory .  Commission Report). |  The UNITED KINGnom delegate stated that he  thought the problem was solved by Regulation 22  of the Draft Staff Regulations.  The UNITED STATES delegate thought that it  would be advisable to adopt the same procedure  as United Nations. |  The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Morrissey to speak in  order to make a statement regarding contribu-  tions. :  Mr. Morrissey stated that he had been in  touch with the United Nations treasury. The  information received in Paris on this subject was  premature. No contribution scales for United Na-  tions had yet been adopted by the Sub-Commis-  ston dealing with contributions, nor had any yet  been submitted to the General Assembly for adop-  tion.  The FRENCH delegate proposed that the next  meeting should take place on Monday at 9.30 a. m.  This was seconded by the Belgian delegate.  SIXTEENTH MEETING  Held on Monday, 9 December 1946 at 9.30 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN announced  that four draft resolutions would be considered.  These draft resolutions appeared in Document  Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C. Ad. & Fin./25.  Draft Resolution concerning the Budget.  Submitted by the Uxitep States delegation  and supported by the NETHERLANDS delegation.  Adopted.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegation proposed the  adoption of three other resolutions which the meet-  ing examined one by one.  Draft Resolution concerning Staff Regulations.  The UNITED STATES delegate supported the  draft resolution in its present form. However, on  the proposal of the BELGIAN delegate, supported  by the CHAIRMAN, the meeting decided to adopt  the resolution with the following amendment :  “ That the General Conference be asked to  delete Regulation 43 in the Staff Regulations. ”  Draft Resolution concerning the scale of contribu-  tions of Member States.  The CHINESE delegation expressed its desire to  act in close co-operation with Unesco, particularly  in connection with essential scientific and educa-  tional projects, which they would like to see deve-  loped in the Far East, and added their willingness  to contribute their allotted share of the budget.  The Resolution was adopted.  Draft Resolution concerning the Revolving Fund.  The UNITED STATES delegation supported the  Resolution.  An amendment by the CZECHOSLOVAK delega-  tion proposing the reduction of the Revolving  Fund to 1,500,000 dollars and the possibility of  paying contributions otherwise than in dollar cur-  rency was rejected.  The Resolution was adopted in its original form.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the meeting  should consider a document concerning additional  draft rules to the Rules of Procedure of the Exe-  cutive Board before referring it to the General  Conference. M. SOMMERFELT submitted the docu-  ment to the meeting.  À discussion began as to whether the words ‘‘ or  their substitutes ” should be deleted in para-  graph 2, but no decision was taken, the Sub-Com-  mission having agreed that it was not sufficiently  conversant with the legal aspect of the matter.  Several delegations considered that paragraph 4  was redundant, as its provisions were self-evident.  The Meeting decided to delete paragraph 4.  The UNITED STATES delegation proposed an  amendment to paragraph 2, which was supported  by the FRENCH delegation :  Insert the words ‘“ for the year 1947 ” after the  word “fix”  At the end of the paragraph add the words  “and the conditions applying to them, which  should be similar to those established by the Uni-  ted Nations. ”  À dopted.-  On the proposal of the UNITED KINGDOM dele-  gation, the Meeting decided to refer the amended  document to the Executive Board for considera-  tion and subsequent submission to the General  Conference, in accordance with procedure to be  "determined by the General Committee.  Before adjourning the meeting, the CHAIRMAN  again thanked Sir Cecil Kisch, Honorary Finan-  cial Adviser, and Mr. Richardson, Chairman of  the Drafting Committee.