SUB-COMMISSION  ON MASS COMMUNICATION  FIRST MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1946 al 10 a. m.  M. KuvPErs (Belgium) was unanimously elec-  ted Chairman.  M.WANBERG (Denmark) was elected Vice-Chair-  man {proposed by Norway).  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that he had to no-  minate the Rapporteur himself. He requested  Mr. GRIERSON (United Kingdom) to accept the ap-  pointment.  The CHAIRMAN submitted  agenda to the Sub-Commission.  Mr. PriestLEy (United Kingdom) moved an  amendment. He requested that the Sub-Commis-  sion first examine the projects relating to the  whole of the activity of the Mass Communication  Section, and, in particular, the projects dealing  with the rehabilitation and development of the  resources of the warstricken countries, or of coun-  tries insufficiently equipped, and those relating to  vocational training in those countries. He sug-  gested that a small Sub-Committee be appointed  to deal with this subject.  Mrs. Anne O'HARE MacCORMICK (United States)  emphasized the importance her country attached  to mass information. A conference on the freedom  of information of the press, radio and cinema  would be held in 1947. Unesco should be repre-  sented at this conference. The speaker seconded  Mr. Priestley's amendment to the Agenda. She  wished Unesco’s projects to be groupéd round cer-  tain striking ideas, ‘capable of appealing to the  feelings of the people. Lastly, she wished that the  press should receive as much attention as the radio  and the cinema,  The CHAIRMAN therefore proposed to start by  discussing general projects, taking No. 3 first.  The question of copyright would be discussed  at a meeting to which members of the Arts Sec-  tion would be invited.  The proposal was adopted.  Dr. WILSON explained the Secretariat’s pro-  gramme. He urged that, to carry out this extre-  the provisional  mely important programme, the Mass Communi- -  cation Section should have a.large and competent  staff which Would receive a higher salary than  members of other Sections, corresponding more  closely with those paid in corresponding spheres  of private enterprise.  Mr. FREE presented the Section’s general pro-  jects, which he summarized under -the five fol-  lowing headings :
1. Rehabilitation and development.
2. Removal of the obstacles impeding the free  diffusion of information.
3. Assistance to existing organizations.
4. Documentation and research.
5. Promotion of production a d exchanges.  The CHAIRMAN requested that a small Sub-Com-  ~  mittee, responsible for the study of a draft con-  vention on films, be appointed.  The following were nominated : United States,  United Kingdom, France, China, Canada, Mexico,  Norway, Czechoslovakia and Egypt.  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the  general projects, first, the rehabilitation and deve-  lopment of mass information.  Mr. TURCOTTE (Canada) stressed some of the  points of the programme. He thought the activ-  ities of the Section should be along two main  lines :  I. To publicize the programme of Unesco as  much as possible.
2. To Initiate a programme of mass educa-  tion, in the broadest sense.  After warning the meeting against the vague-  ness of the expression “ freedom of information ”,  a freedom which, to be genuine, must be accom-  panied by a corresponding social responsibility,  the speaker concluded by saying that the work  of Unesco must take the form of liberal exchanges  for the promotion of international understanding.  Mr. PRIESTLEY hoped that the Sub-Commission  would adopt quicker methods of work.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : M. KUYPERS (Belgium).  REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION  or Mass COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.  The delegate of INDIA emphasized that one of  Unesco’s first tasks should be to correct the com-  mon tendency of organs of mass communication  to distort the truth. Hollywood films, for example,  gave the peoples of the Far East an absolutely  false idea of American life, and an,equally false  idea of oriental life to Americans. Unesco should  also attempt to remedy the harmful effects of the  commercial radio and cinema on public taste.  Mr. PriesTLEY (United Kingdom) pointed out  that Unesco should not itself provide these faci-  lities, but only encourage their use. For this, three  Committees should be set up, to prepare, within  six months, reports on the radio, the cinema and  the press. He also suggested that Unesco should  devise a plan by which the technically most highly  developed countries would invite professionals to  come from other countries for study courses.  The Porisn delegate stressed the importance of  a realistic programme and asked that priority  should be given to immediately practicable con-  crete projects. He gave a list of these, notably  as regards rehabilitation projects. ;  The delegate of FRANCE approved the suggest-  ions of the UNITED KINGDOM and POLISH delegates  and presented as further amendments a number of   proposals relating to technical equipment and to  the professional duties of staff, which were embod-  ied in a report attached to the proposals.  The CHAIRMAN asked the Secretariat to prepare  for Tuesday morning’s meeting a report which  would combine all the proposals by the United  Kingdom and French delegations concerning the  rehabilitation and éxtension of mass communica-  tions facilities. He suggested that the Chairman or  Rapporteur of the Reconstruction and Rehabilit-  ation Commission should assist in the drafting of  this report.  This proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN communicated a proposal by cer-  tain delegations recommending that, in order to  facilitate the Sub-Commission s work, the items  of the agenda should be grouped under the follow-  ing headings : -  A. Rehabilitation (which -the Sub-Commis-  sion had just examined).  B. Stimulation of production, dissemination  and exchange.  C. Information, research and studies.  D. Removal of barriers to the free diffusion  of mass information.  E. Aid to existing mass communication organ-  izations.  The proposal was adopted.  STIMULATION OF PRODUCTION,  DISSEMINATION AND EXCHANGE.  Mr. PriesTLEY (United Kingdom) proposed the  adoption of projects A. 3, 4 and 5 in the British  delegation’s report. These were :
3. Project concerning big world events,
4. Bureau of International Ideas,
5. An international forum.  After the SECRETARIAT had suggested that these  projects should be regarded, not as strict injunct-  ions but rather as examples of tasks to be accomp-  lished, Mr, PrirsTLEY (United Kingdom) replied  that the United Kingdom delegation had no wish  to dictate to the Secretariat, but rather to add  precision to the rather vague programme of the  Preparatory Commission.  The CHAIRMAN then pointed out that the word-  ing of the Upited Kingdom delegation’s propo-  sals was sufficiently elastic.  The delegate of INDIA approved the three pro-  posals of the United Kingdom.  The delegate of BRAZIL agreed with the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom, except on the point  concerning cinema prices.  The Sub-Commission unanimously adopted the  three proposals by the United Kingdom. delega-  tion concerning cinema, radio and press.  Ranbpro.  M. PorcuE (France) submitted the proposal con-  tained in the French delegation’s report, Annex
2 E-3. This was to make use of certain transmit-  ters in different countries for the purpose of broad-  casts, whose international programmes would be  made up from programmes prepared by the Unesco  radio station and would be put out by national  stations.  v  The SECRETARIAT then informed the Sub-Com-  mission of the plan for an International Broad-  casting Station now under discussion in the Uni-  ted Nations. Unesco would contribute to this sta-  tion’s programmes in the fields of education,  science and culture. This plan contemplated a long-  wave station for Europe and a short-wave station  for other countries.  Mrs, MacCormick (United States) approved the  French delegation’s proposal and suggested that  the Secretariat should get at once to work and  prepare a specimen programme of a week of broad-  casts.  The delegate of INDIA suggested that the per-  manent Unesco station should maintain a trans-  cription service in the different languages of the  States Members.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946, at 3. 30 p. m.  Chairman : M. KUYPERS (Belgium).  The UNITED STATES delegate, in agreement  with the French delegation, submitted a resolut-  ion calling on the Secretariat to appoint a com-  mittee of experts to examine the question of the  organization of an international broadcasting net-  work, to be directed in the matn by Unesco.  The CHAIRMAN remarked that this was a very  complicated technical matter, very costly to car-  ry out but he proposed that the Franco-Ameri-  can motion should be accepted.  The CANADIAN delegate regretted that no time-  limit was specified and suggested that, pending  the conclusions of the experts, Unesco should  make use of existing organizations and establish  a clearing house for the transmission of cultural  programmes over national systems.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate supported the  Franco-American draft and withdrew his own re-  esolution of that morning, finding the Franco-Am-  rican plan more comprehensive. He also seconded  the Canadian delegate’s proposal for.immediate  action and added to it a request for the setting  up of an International Office of Broadcasting In-  formation.  The Porisu delegate supported the Franco-  American proposal, provided this ambitious en-  terprise was not to be a starting-point, but the  outcome of thorough study and on condition that  its execution followed in accordance with the pro-  gress of the enquiry..  Mr. FREE (Secretariat) asked for the Sub-Com-  mission’s instructions on three points :
1) A conference on the rehabilitation of edu-  cational broadcasting equipment in Europe.  : 2) An international programme transcription  service.
3) Co-operation with the United Nations, pen-  ding the Experts’ Report.  The INDIAN delegate observed that the first two  points had been implicitly approved at the morn-  ing meeting, along with the United Kingdom pro-  posals. As regards the third point, the Chairman  had recommended prudence.  Fhe CHAIRMAN then took a vote on the Franco-  — IRE —