| THIRD MEETING  Held on Friday, 20 November 1046 at 10.0 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. E. ALZONA (Philippines).  At the opening of the meeting, the Sub-Com-  mission returned to the consideration of point H.  — Study Centre for International Relations —  where they had left off the previous day.  Aîter a short discussion, it was decided that a  Committee of three would study the question and  make a report to the Sub-Commission.  The Sub-Commission then examined the follow-  ing points.  I. — THE PROMOTION OF INTERNATIONAL  UNDERSTANDING.  On the proposal of the DANISH delegation,  Point I was withdrawn from the programme.  J. — INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION.  On the proposal of the CHINESE delegations  the meeting adopted Point J.  K. — NATIONALISM AND INTERNATIONALISM.  At the request of the UnIrED KINGDOM dele-  gation, Dr. Awap explained that ‘the purpose of  the project was to bring national feeling — which  was at the same time valuable and potentially  dangerous — into harmony with international-  ism. To attain this end, it would be necessary for  sociologists, historians and philosophers to study  the question.  The delegation of the UNITED KINGDOM stated  that the National Commissions would have to  initiate studies. The delegation of INDIA took up’  this idea and added that it would be necessary  for an international committee to carry out fur-  ther objective study.  After the SECRETARIAT had assured the meeting  that all its observations would be noted, the  project was adopted.  L. — PuBLic OPINION SURVEYS.  The Sub-Commission adopted Point L without  discussion.  M. — CULTURAL ASPECTS OF POPULATION  PROBLEMS. .  Dr. JounsoN (United States) asked the meeting  to study the problem on a bigger scale than was  contemplated in the report; the Secretariat agreed.  The delegation for AUSTRALIA proposed that  for 1947 the question be left in the hands of  experts, who would study the problem of nation-  alism and internationalism.  The delegation of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  moved that, in order to help the Budget Com-  mittee, it was essential that the various projects  be given an order of priority.  * This motion was seconded by the UNITED.  STATES delegation, which asked that all the pro-  jects adopted be submitted to the Sub-Commis-  sion for the granting of priorities. Adopted.  The Sub-Commission then adopted a motion  of the AUSTRALIAN delegation recommending that  Point M should not be studied in 1947.  At this stage the Sub-Commission returned to  the examination of Point H (Study Centre for  International Relations).  The AUSTRALIAN delegation objected to a mo-  tion from the Committee that had been set up  to study this question. It did nat want the Sub-  Commission’s acceptance of the principle to be  entered in the text of the motion.  A motion from the DANISH delegation, recom-  mending that the discussion of the question be  postponed, was rejected.  After a short discussion, the meeting adopted  the following motion :  ““ The Sub-Commission approves the principle  of a Study Centre of International Relations  and takes note of the report on such establish-  ment as proposed by Sir Alfred Zimmern. It  recommends that the following action be ini-  tiated in 1947 : Framing of definite proposals  before the next session of the General Confe-  rence. Organization of three short series of  classes, as an experiment. ”  N. — THE EFFECTS  OF MACHINERY UPON CIVILIZATION.  The discussion revealed two tendencies : one,  that of the delegations of IRAN and CANADA, which  judged that the project should not be granted  high priority, the other, that of the delegation of  the UNITED STATES, which thought that the  problem was an extensive one and fell within  Unesco’s field.  For the sake of cohesion, the delegation of the  UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA requested that the Se-  cretariat combine projects K, L, M, N into one.  After a short discussion the following UNITED STA-  TES’ motion was adopled.  ““ That the Secretariat prepare a new text of  projects K, L, M, and N, which would bring  into relief the relations of these projects with  the protection of peace, as well as the imme-  diate importance of their application, and thus  enable the Sub-Commission to determine the  priority to be granted to these projects. ”’  To a question put by the BELGIAN delegation,  Dr. Awap answered that the work of -Unesco  would be made known through publications, which  would, however, only be put into effect after 1947.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Friday, 2g November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. E. ALZONA (Philippines).  Sub-Commission studied the various points of  the programme relating to Philosophy.  A. — CORRESPONDENCE.  After a short introduction by M. HAVET, Secre-  tary of the Sub-Commission, and at the proposal  — I76 —