FIFTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 10 December 1940 at 2.45 p. m.  President : Dr, Y. R. CHAO (China)  Later : M. LÉON Brum (France)  ‘13. CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORTS  OF THE COMMISSIONS (continuation)  C. — ADMINISTRATIVE ‘AND FINANCIAL  SUB-COMMISSION (Continuation) (Annex 4)  The PRESIDENT : We continue our session  with the discussion of the Budget. I shall state the  order of those who desire to speak on that item :  the delegates of Denmark, Czechoslovakia, United  States of America, Poland, Australia, India,  France, Brazil and the Union of South Africa, As  the delegate of Denmark has to leave early this  afternoon, it is necessary that he should be allowed  to speak first.  The delegate of DENMARK : In seconding  the proposal put forward by the United King-  dom delegation, I want only to add a few words.  First of all, let me state that after more than
5 years of occupation and suffering, the economic  difficulties of the post-war period make themselves  felt in my country to the same extent as in any  other. But I take the view that the delegates to  this General Conference ought not to look upon  themselves as representatives of the different  countries only, but rather as the body constitut-  ing the central authority of Unesco itself and res-  ponsible for Unesco’s success. So we must look  upon the budget figure in relation to the goal which  we intend to reach; then, I do not think that the  amount proposed in the United Kingdom amend-  ment is out of proportion.  At the beginning of this Conference, I emphasiz-  ed that we should concentrate upon the tangible  - and short-term items of the programme and leave  the more ambitious plans for later development,  as our Organization grows in strength. Many other  delegates have taken the same view and, as a mat-  ter of fact, the Programme on which we have  agreed is in accordance with this view. One may,  therefore, state that the necessary reduction of  the original programme has already taken place.  I therefore think that we must now back this pro-  gramme, and not cut it down once more by fixing  a percentage reduction for which no reasons based  on programme considerations have been given.  There is one more point I want to make : I am  fully aware that the carrying out of this or that  item of the programme implies the inclusion of  suitable experts on the staff of Unesco. Here I  would favour some caution in the first year. As  long as we do not know the Budget figures for the  year 1948 and the following years, we should be  careful to limit the permanent staff wherever pos-  sible and try to solve some of the questions by  temporary personnel in order not to bind the bud-  gets of the coming years by exceedingly high fixed -  staff expenses. This applies even to the Amend-  ment being carried — as I hope it will be.  In concluding, I endors the suggestion by the  United Kingdom delegate that we should now,  at the start of Unesco asa fully established Organ-  ization, support it by showing our faith that it  will reach its final goal, that we should allow th=  Unesco engine to be run full power and not app-  ly the brakes at the very beginning.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA : The  budget proposed to the General Conference by the  Administrative and Financial Sub-Commission  was accepted in this Sub-Commission on the  proposal of our delegation. It seems to me, there- |  fore, to be my duty to support this proposal also  in this General Conference.  I would like to add only a few words: the amount  proposed by us was not the lowest proposed in the  Sub-Commission. It was accepted after an interim  discussion, in which the majority of speakers ex-  pressed their opinion that the budget proposed by  the Preparatory Commission should be reduced.  In my opinion, all those who supported our  amendment were led by the desire that the work  of Unesco should be a success. But it seemed to us  that we should avoid the great danger of tempting  Unesco to grow too quickly.  The success of Unesco depends in the first place  upon choosing the best tvpe of personnel for the  Secretariat. But this cannot be done in a hurry.  Secondly, it seems to me that Unesco should  learn to avoid uneconomic expenditure from the  very beginning. In my opinion, even waste of pa-  per should be avoided. |  I would not like to go into details, but I may be  permitted to mention just one item : the Director-  General drew our attention to the fact that Chap-  ter III (Common Services) could not be reduced by
30 9, without endangering the work of the Secre-  tariat.  It seems to me, however, that the Director-  General with the Executive Board could solve this  problem by transferring the necessary amount  from Chapter VII (Unforeseen Expenses) to make  up the deficiency of Chapter IIT. But, of course,  this matter need not be discussed in the General  Conference, if we do not wish to present an amend-  ment on this matter to the proposed resolution  concerning the Budget, on page 2.  Above all it must not be possible for Member  States to object that the amount they have to pay  during this first year is not proportionate to what  was done.  We all wish the best success to Unesco. But I  cannot help thinking that expenses which might  be judged excessive during the first year might  “2   armé mea ca Pe mie + 4 Se Ath ct es ES ES Tat   prove a danger to the idea of Unesco instead of a  support to it.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES : I  am going to make a brief statement only. I at-  tended the meeting last night of the Executive  Board when the opinion was expressed that it was  an unhappy situation when the Executive Board  meets concurrently with this General Conference.  It was my understanding that the Executive Board  - would not meet today until the General Conference  had finished its session this afternoon. I have just  - sent word in to the Executive Board that I am  expected to speak, and, in view of the importance  the Members of the Executive Board attach to  the deliberation of the delegations here represen-  ted, I would like to wait a few minutes until I  have the message whether the Executive Board  remembers the decision of last night, as I re-  member it, and whether it can adjourn tempora-  rily to join this group, while I make a statement  which is important to this Conference and to the  future of Unesco.  May I suggest that that message be sent to the  Executive Board, Mr. Chairman? If there is a  messenger here to convey the message, I would  appreciate it.  The PRESIDENT : Does the Chair understand  correctly that the delegate of the United States 1s  willing to yield the floor to other speakers until  the meeting of the Executive Board is finished?  The delegate of the UNITED STATES : I  would gladly yield to the next speaker. If a mes-  sage arrives from the Executive Board that they  will come here, I would prefer, if the Executive  Board agrees, and if I properly understand the  decision of last night, to withhold the statement  until the Executive Board is present.  The PRESIDENT : What is the wish of the As-  sembly on the sending of this message?  The delegate of BELGIUM (translation) : 1 sup-  port the suggestion of my colleague of the United  States of America.  The PRESIDENT : If we all agree, we shall do  so.  The delegate of POLAND (translation) : If  the statement to be made is so important, I think -  it would be well to wait until we have heard  it; it might change the opinion of those countries  concerned. :  The PRESIDENT : If that is the opinion of the  Assembly, we will send the message and wait for  the reply in a few minutes.  We shall therefore adjourn for fifteen minutes  and come back at 3.45.  Mr. BENTON (United States) : I understand  the Executive Board has just adjourned and is on  its way in. That solves the problem.  Along with many others among you, 1 have  dealt with money for a long time. It is certainly  the most important consideration in the conclud-  ing hours of this Conference, That is why I took  the liberty to adopt the position I just expressed  to the President, and I am grateful to him for yield-  ing to my suggestion for the Executive Board to  join us here to listen to my announcement on the  subject of the Budget.  The matter before us this afternoon, it seems  to me, is the Unesco Budget for 1947. The matter  before us is not Relief or Rehabilitation, nor is it  the question of the currency in which contributions  to Unesco are to be paid. However, I would like  to speak briefly of these two subjects, which figur-  ed so largely in the discussions of this morning,  before I pass on to the real matter before us, the  Unesco Budget for 1047.  First, as to the matter of Relief; Relief, as I see  it, is not under discussion and need not take our  time. The same allocation for Relief appears in both  views of this Budget, Whether the Unesco operat-  ing Budget is 6,000,000 dollars or 7,500,000 dol-  lars, the provision for Educational Relief and  Rehabilitation would be the same, or approximat-  ely the same: also, in comparison tothe tremen-  dous needs of the world, it would be pitifully small  — a pittance in fact. We in the United Statés, for  example, have established a special voluntary Or-  ganization devoted exclusively to raising funds  and materials for Educational, Scientific and Cul-  tural Rehabilitation. This Organization alone has  thus far been able to raise the equivalent of
40,000,000 dollars and its task has just begun. I  will not compare the allocation for Relief in Unes-  co's Budget with other contributions to Relief,  of which the world is well informed. As you know,  there 1s under discussion a Budget of twenty to  thirty times the total of the proposed Unesco Bud-  get for the Relief and Rehabilitation of displaced  persons. To this Budget the United States was,  when I left the country, considering contributions  far in excess of any proportionate contribution  considered by the United States for Unesco. There  was, further, under consideration a still larger Bud-  get for food to feed the hungry in a world that is  crying first and foremost to be fed.  Now, as to the comments of Sir Cecil Kisch, I  regard these as highly inappropriate at this point.  Under the Financial Regulations passed by this  Conference this technical problem is assigned to  the Executive Board. The hope and expectation  expressed by Sir Cecil this morning were not dis-  cussed in definitive terms in the Sub-Commission  on Administration and Finance, nor has it been  discussed with me, nor with the United States  Government. I cannot in any way commit the  United States Government to the financial proce-  dûres outlined by Sir Cecil, though it is my hope,  as it is the expectation of the American delegation,  that our Government will certainly carry its share  of the Budget in such ways as will prove helpful  and constructive from the standpoint of Unesco.  This brings me to the subject before us, the 1947  Budget for Unesco. It is important that differences  between us regarding the amount of the Budget  should not appear to be differences concerning  the objectives and enormous potentialities of  Unesco. On these, I hope, we are in general agreed.  The interest of the people of the United States in  Unesco, through their important private organ-  izations, is well attested by the make-up of the  American delegation here at this Conference. The  — 98 —   United States has, from the very beginning, urged  the establishment of Unesco and will continue to  press for a strengthening of the Organization in  order that its high objectives should be realized.  Our delegation is greatly cheered by the work of  the Programme Sub-Commission, and we earnest-  ly commend the programme recommendations to  full and detailed consideration by the Secretariat,  for which obviously there has, as yet, been no  time.  Now, how large should this 1947 Budget be?  Here at this Conference, it seems to me, we face a  major problem of finding a figure which will nat  endanger the life of the Organization. It is my opi-  nion that the life of Unesco in this first year is  more gravely endangered by too large a budget  than it can possibly be in this first year of its life  by a small one.  In my opening statement at this Conference 1  stated the position of the United States Govern-  ment as favouring a ‘fledgling budget . I discove-  red that that word ‘‘ fledgling ‘ is not easily  translatable and it has been somewhat misun-  derstood.  I stated it might well be advisable to scale down-  ward the first year’s expenditure prepared by the  Preparatory Commission. By a “ fledgling bud-  get ’’, believe me, I did not mean a helpless bird  without wings. I meant a budget suitable for a  newly-born organization, a budget adequate for  Unesco to carry out its first year’s tasks both com-  petently and carefulty. The total figure should not  be so large as to encourage mushroom growth and  development of projects not thoroughly practic-  able.  In the judgment of the United States delegation,  there is no justification in the projects now under   consideration for a first year’s operating budget  exceeding the total of 6,000,000 dollars, which has  been agreed upon by the Sub-Commission on  Administration and, Finance. In the proposal of  the Sub-Commission there is, of course, another
050,000 dollars for the repayment of monies owed  for the Preparatory Commission. Added to this
7,500,000 dollars must be another 3,000,000 dollars  for the proposed Revolving Fund. This gives a  total roughly of 10,000,000 dollars, to which each  Member-Government represented here must make  its proportionate contribution.  Let us remember that this Conference has mere-  ly indicated the broad range of projects of which  it approves. The task of translating our resolut-  ions into a working programme will require time,  and time-consuming labour on the'part of compet-  ent personnel. The programme of Unesco must  necessarily, therefore, get under way slowly if it  is to be competently directed. Fhe means of carry-  ing out the proposed programme are still to be  developed. Staff must still be selected. It is unlike-,  ly that, under prudent administration, the Or-  ganization can be in full operation before the last  half of 1947 and possibly not even then.  I would like to point out to the Conference that  Dr. Huxley's analysis of the Budget at this morn-  , ing’s Conference does not present to this Confe-  rence what can be done with 6,000.000 dollars. His  figures were presented to us on the basis of the  old budget of the Preparatory Commission,  Why have we held this Conference, unless there  was a need for re-shaping the programme and the  budget in terms of the recommendations of the  Sub-Commissions? À re-examination of the pro-  gramme proposed by the Preparatory Commission  in the light of what has happened here, and deve-  lopment of the best ways to implement the pro-  gramme developed here, will, in our judgment,  call for a wholly different administrative organ-  ization and budgetary breakdown than that which  ‘was exposed to us this morning.  If this new approach is made efficiently and  constructively, very material savings can be effec-  ted in department overheads and in operating  costs.  Moreover, the American delegation believes  that, in the first year, when Unesco is learning  how to carry out its work, there should be major  reliance upon small working groups of tempora-  rily employed consultants and alse of temporary  commissions and committees. The fullest use  should be made of interim appointments, while  we feel our way and learn to operate effectively.  Many officials should be borrowed from the Uni-  versities, Governments and other sources and  this will also develop lists of candidates for our  permanent staff.  I must further point out that the percentage  reductions mentioned by Dr. Huxley this mor-  ning, in their impact on his proposed budgetary  breakdown, were increased artificially. The Sub-  Commission recommended a substantial contin-  gent fund. Dr. Huxley chose to make this fund
1,000,000 dollars, which automatically therefore  gave larger percentage reductions than would  have occurred had he chosen a lower figure.  Starting new enterprises is indeed very diffi-  cult. Many of you have experienced the problem,  as I have many times in my own personal back-  ground prior to joining the Department of State.  It is difficult even when a group participating  in a new enterprise have a common background,  common language, and common nationality. This  problem in itself is an argument for caution as we  approach this pioneer year in the histery of  Uneseo, the success or failure of which may be  decisive in determining our long-range goals. I  do not refer to the risk of mistakes because, of  course, many will be made; I do refer to the  danger of waste. If there is waste, many of our  Governments will not forgive us who are here -  charged with the responsibility of representing  them and their people.  We are dealing here with one of the world's  greatest experiments in international co-opera-  tion. Nothing of this kind has been tried before.  The stakes are too great, it seems to us of the  United States delegation, to take the chances  inherent in hasty decisions and ill-conceived pro-  jects, which, no matter how idealistically conceiv-  ed, inevitably create waste and reap the whirl-  “wind of public criticism.  As the Rapporteur pointed out this morning,  there were eleven countries which did not vote  either way on the 6,650,000 dollars reported to  us as the recommendation of the Sub-Commis-  sion. Further, there were nine who voted against  this proposed budget. 1 do not know how many  _— 99 —   of these favoured a smaller budget or favoured  a larger one, but it scems to me that we here  today face a question which is not merely one  of a single majprity vote. I feel we face a question  calling for statesmanship of a very high order.  An important objective of Unesco must be to  retain the support of all its member countries  and to induce other countries who are not yet  members to join hands with us.  Prior to this conference it was the judgment  of the United States Government that the increas-  ing burdens of the contributions required of the  various United Nations Organizations might, in  the opinion of smaller countries, be deemed to  be too great for them to carry a share which may  seem modest to Great Britain and the United  States, but which seems very substantial to them.  It is more important for the United Nations and  all its Specialized Agencies to have the widest  possible governmental participation than it is to  open ourselves to the charge of waste and- to  the risk of the lack of wide-spread support.  International organizations depend upon the  participation of all countries, and the total cost,  particularly in this year, when the struggle for  subsistence is the paramount problem of the  world, must not reach the point where some  members may feel compelled to withdraw.  One further point of clarification. There has  been a misunderstanding on one criterion laid  down for the Budget. This criterion stated : ‘ Pro-  jects approved should be feasible on a budget  which will not exceed a total commitment of
7,500,000 dollars for the first year. ” The United  States understood the phrase total commit-  ment ’’ to mean total commitment, and to include  the monies owed for the Preparatory Commission.  Some other delegations did not so understand  this phrase. As a matter of actual fact, including  the 3,000,000 dollars Revolving Fund, the total  commitment recommended by the Sub-Commis-  sion is approximately 10,000,000 dollars. I feel  that allof us here as delegates, however, can take  pride in the wide extent of agreement and the  fact that our misunderstandings have been so few.  In conclusion — L speak 10r the eight American  delegates who are here associated with me as  well as our Advisers and Staff — may I mention  the great hopes for Unesco and its programme  which are shared by all of us and with which  “we return to the United States. I am sure there  has been no country in which there has been  more widespread interest in the Unesco pro-  gramme and its goal of achieving peace through  understanding. There is no other country in which  private groups have so much to contribute. Even  more important, the desire to contribute is there.  This desire, if the Unesco programme is soundly  conceived in its opening year and constructively  administered, will have the full support of the  American people.  Towards this end the United States delegation  therefore supportsthe Budget recommendation of  the Sub-Commission on Administration and’  Finance.  The PRESIDENT : 1 see that M. Blum, the  President cf the Conference, is here and I have  pleasure in returning the Chair to him to bring  this Conference to a successful conclusion.  M. Léon Blum took the Chair.  The delegate of POLAND {translation} : The  ‘Polish delegation desires to associate itself whole-  heartedly with the proposal of the United King-  dom delegation. We do this all the more readily  since we voted against this proposal in the Sub-  Commission, but since then we have seen the  Programme Report, which was not available at  the time of the Sub-Commission’s discussions.  Since then we have also heard the convincing elo-  quence of Mr. MacLeish and we are satisfied that  any reduction in the amount proposed would  certainly entail difficulties in the execution of the  programme. We must remember that we are en-  gaged in creating Unesco, and that it is the chief  work of this General Conference to give Unesco  not only life but the means to live.  This is to be the result of three weeks’ work  in this Conference, during which we have expend-  ed a great deal of effort, and, if now we are to  eliminate one and a half millions from our bud-  get, then I feel that our work will be in danger.  These one and a half million dollars are needed  for the construction of the trenches, the earth-  works of peace. You may be sure the Director-  General and the staff and the Executive Board  will ensure that this programme is faithfully and  well carried out, so that next year we shall be  able to consider, not one and a half millions, but  thirty millions of expenditure with enthusiasm.  But what we need now is to build a first in-  stalment of this great work. the first portion of  the task of constructing future peace. The victor-  ies won by force of arms must be followed by  a victory of the spirit. A victory that is won by  atomic bombs must be followed by the exertion  of the moral efforts of man. We must declare  peace just as war was declared. We must start  an offensive for peace. We must make quite sure  we do not lose this peace as it was lost after the  last war. We must be prepared to put forth for  the purposes of peace the same energy and make  the same sacrifices as we made for the purposes  of war. We need now to have the ideal of peace  before us, we need not merely to clear away the  ruins of schools that have been destroyed, but  to clear away the psychological ruins that have  been left in the train of war.  It is our duty to think of rearing the new gene-  ration, to reconcile in the coming generations the  ideal with reality. The ideal to which we must  direct our efforts is the ideal of true democracy.  We are all agreed that the ideal democracy is to  be found in the harmony of the liberty, order  and duty of the citizen. I ask more than the  delegate of the United Kingdom has asked; I  ask that this proposal shall be adopted by a un-  animous vote, and 1 hope and believe {hat the  United States delegation will accompany us in  this effort on behalf of Unesco.  Let usremember that each dollar spent thisyear  is worth more than ten dollars next year. So far  we have done nothing in the realm of culture,  everything remains to be done. In conclusion 1  would like to recall what was said by the dele-  — 1909 —   rate of Denmark, when he reminded us that we .  are here not merely as delegates of our own  country but as delegates for peace, delegates who  ‘have to ensure that people shall work and live  together for peace. Before such an enormous ob-  jective as that, the question of one and a half  million dollars more or less is so small that it  really is not worth further discussion,  ~The delegate of AUSTRALIA : On behalf of  the Australian delegation, I rise to support the  original motion and not. the amendment. The  fact, I think, is fairly well-known, and I have no  desire to conceal it, that at the Sub-Commission,  on behalf of the Australian delegation, I moved  the first of the three resolutions referred to on  page 2 of the document we are now discussing.  I think, however, I should spend a moment in  explaining my reasons for moving that resolution,  which perhaps are not obvious to all of you. I  think, Mr. President, the Australian delegation  has consistently held, and perhaps insistently held,  the view that our task in this Conference was to  provide a practicable programme for 1947. When  I spoke two days ago to the Sub-Commission,  there was before us a programme that I can only  describe as large, diffuse, and one to which the  critical tests had not then been applied. The pro-  jects were not few, they were not crucially im-  portant and they were not obviously useful, so  my argument then was that if the sum of approxi-  mately eight and a half million dollars was pro-  vided for that programme, it was too much for  the practical part, and if it had been granted, it  could not have been well spent in 1947.  + Now, the position has changed since I made  that speech. You will remember that in the Ge-  neral Conference yesterday we had the document  which I might call the ‘“ MacLeish Report ”. I  do not wish to repeat the laudatory remarks I  made about that report, but I merely say that  they were made in all sincerity. But our delega-  tion understood that that report meant a defi-  nite reduction in the size of the programme for
1947 compared with the basis of the original bud-  get, and the definite approval and the enthusiastic  reception which that report got from this General  Conference led us to believe that our view was  correct — I mean our view that it was a definite  reduction in the size of the budget. Are we mis-  taken, Mr. President? If we are not mistaken,  then in our view it is for those who -suggest the  programme of eight and a half millions for the  new budget to see that that sum is necessary for
1047. In legal language, the onus is upon them.  Have they done that? I suggest that they have  not.  I deplore the insistence with which the term  ‘reduction ’’ is used. I suggest the issue is not to  be put in terms to cut or not to cut. It is simply  to fix, and in that connection I was rather sorry  to see the phrase used by the leader of the United  Kingdom delegation. If I may quote it — it was  towards the end of his speech — it was that we  should be betraying our trust if at the very. outset  of Unesco’s career à move were made to reduce  its flhancial resources to à point below what we  Arn  believe necessary to get execution forits approv-  ed programme,  I suggest that he gives the wrong emphasis to  our discussion and rather places those of us who  favour the motion in a false position. 1 should  like to offer the alternative phrase. We should  be betraying our trust if we did not establish  Unesco’s final financial resources on a level no  higher and no lower than we believe necessary to  put into execution its approved programme.  So T suggest, in line with what the leader of  the United States delegation has said, that the  question in front of us is what should be the size  of the budget and, in my view, the practical pro-  gramme determines the size of the budget. I  suggest that we leave the other figures alone and  concentrate on an absolute figure, forgetting that  we have had various tentative figures given us  on all kinds of estimates, If anyone suggests that  an absolute figure means little when peace is in  the balance, my answer is that, when you are  looking at a practical programme for 1047, that  issue is relevant. We are not dealing with a pro-  gramme for 1948, 1949 and 1950 and I want it  to be understood that, in supporting this motion, -  I am supporting it as, in éur opinion, we have to  maintain a practicable programme in 1047.  Mr. Hardman is in a very happy position. He  is not only’ the distinguished leader of a distin-  guished delegation, but he has the perhaps even  more onerous position of being a member of the  Government of the United Kingdom. I cannot  claim any such happy position in regard to my  Government, but like other members I have to  consult my Government on this point. I cannot,  of course, reveal to you the instructions I got,  but I car say this — that I have authority for  my insistence on a practical programme for 1947,  and again I can say this — that the Australian  Government will still be vitally interested in the  success of Unesco.  The Australian delegation’s considered view is  that we support the figure given in the motion  before us. T would prefer to refer to it as six mil-  lions, because I have heard nobody suggest that  there should be any reduction in the item for  already incurred expenses — namely 950,000 dol-  lars. So I wish to address my remarks to the six  millions, that is really the basis of the suggestion.  Now we discussed it as a delegation and the dele-  gation rather relied upon my practical judgment,  so I have to take any of the blame which is coming  from those who think that my remarks and views  are both rather foolish. You could say what  do you know about all this to make remarks of  this kind? ” With the permission of the President,  I am going to go back on my own background.  May I say first that I fully realize the differences  between national organizations and their cost and  international organizations and their cost. I will  justify myself in making some sort of practical  judgment. For many years I have been on the  Governing Board of the University of Sydney. I  . am not insinuating that it is a big establishment,  nor that it is known all over the world. It has  only about 3,000 students, a staff of 400 inclu-  ding 50 professors. Some of you will smile at  these small figures, but nevertheless I am certain  »  IOI —   that it will not celebrate its centenary until  Unesco decides to visit it. Tt has been going now  for some 50 years, and the budget never exceeded  a million dollars. I am now Chairman of the Na-  tional Research University set up this year, and  I can use these facts for indicating that the Aus-  tralian Government is most interested in educa-  tion, science and culture. We are proposing to  start four Institutes, a Medicine Institute (a very  expensive one), Natural and Social Sciences and  Pacific Affairs. This last one will deal particularly  with our personal relations with our neighbours  in the Pacific, and we expect the figures of the  budget not to be higher than a million dollars.  I was also Chairman appointed by the Govern-  ment for examining the budget of six different  universities and we did it very exhaustively, and  we recommended the Government to consider the  statements. If 1 say all this, it is just for vou to  know that I am familiar with the cost of staff  and things of that sort. I admit that I am dealing  with national organizations and that they are  different from international organizations, but  for the past four years the organizations establi-  shed by our Government kept constantly in touch  with me, and I am familiar with that problem  and the expenses. With the basis of that exper-  tence and in the absence of detailed estimate,  my practical judgment is that six millions is an  adequate sum for 1947 and for the programmé  which has been adopted by the Conference. The-  refore, Mr. President, I support the motion.  The delegate of FRANCE {(transiatton) : The  French delegation found itself in the minority,  which voted with the United Kingdom and was not  successful in carrying the whole Assembly with  it : that is to say, we were in the minority in  voting for the highest figure and I would like  to add that we regret that, in this matter, we  found ourselves in disagreement with the Aus-  tralian delegation. Since yesterday, we have re-  considered the position. We have in mind the  necessity of doing what is most favourable in the  general interest of Unesco. We considered that  we should not ask small nations to make sacri-  fices beyond their capacity. We have taken note  of the objection that it is difficult for a new in-  stitution to spend all its budget usefully. There  is a limit to the capacity of useful spending, and  this is particularly true with regard to adminis-  tration and programme expenditure. Moreover if  the budget is fixed at 6,000,000 dollars, the French  delegation expresses a specific desire that admin-  istrative expenditure within this figure be consi-  derably decreased and the maximum portion de-  voted to programme expenditure, In the sections  as a whole, and within each section, the greatest  possible effort should be made to ensure that  expenditure is for immediate action.  This would lead us — if the British amendment  did not give rise to further considerations — to  vote against that amendment and, therefore,  loyally support the proposal which the Sub-Com-  mission put forward yesterday.  However, we must admit that these objections  have not the same force in the matter of recons-  truction and rehabilitation expenditure, It must  [4  Cr R02  be recognized that on this point the disadvan-  tages inherent in a new mechanism do not apply.  In the field of relief, reconstruction and reha-  bilitation there are extremely urgent needs, so  great that I venture to say that the Reconstruct-  ion Commission had minimized its demands be-  cause it feared to present too wide a programme.  For my part, I know that, in this sphere, there  is great work for Unesco to do. We know, for  instance, that in Europe there are countries with-  out books. They must be supplied with books  from countries which have not been occupied  and where printing is possible. 1 have also been  informed of children of displaced persons in Ger-  - many, and I have been told, with proofs, that  there were more than 35,000 Jewish children who  are absolutely deprived of means of learning the  alphabet, who go to a school of sorts, in bare  rooms, who sit on the ground, and whose teacher,  having no blackboard, has to teach by using  pebbles.  It is clear that solidarity between the nations  of the world in this sphere — that solidarity to  which Mr. MacLeish’s rémarkable commentary  yesterday has contributed a new element — can-  not be left solely to our generous friends in Ame-  rica. It must be the work of us all.  We were told just now of the immense move-  ment which has led to a wave of generous gifts  from America to Europe. We are all aware of  this, but our idea is that all countries, even the  smallest and poorest, must play their part. Unesco  as a collective organization now has a mission,  and must give proof of its vitality by setting an  example.  This leads to the second portion of our pro-  posal. If, as I said just now, the British amend-  ment, which aims purely and simply at increas-  ing the budget, were maintained in that form,  we should vote against it, but, if the Conference  decided to attach to that amendment a special  recommendation to the effect that the whole of  the 550,000 dollars increase proposed by the Unit-  ed Kingdom should be devoted to work-of recon-  struction and rehabilitation, then we should vote  for the proposal, and we are sure that we should  thus enable all who bear responsibility here to  return to their countries and, if need be, to face  any reproaches that might be levelled against  them, because they would have an easy conscience  through the knowledge that the addition they  had voted for would be devoted to work of recon-  struction.
1 would add that our country has no selfish  interest to serve in this matter — firstly because  it receives no share in any distributions that might  be made for reconstruction, and, secondly, be-  cause if the rate of contributions remains at the  level proposed by the Sub-Commission, the French  Government intends, by other appropriate means,  to aid Unesco by lightening its burdens as far  as it can.  The delegate of INDIA : I have to express  the views of the Indian delegation on the pro-  posal before us. Before I do this, may I draw  your attention to the views of the Natural  Sciences Sub-Commission, of which I have the   honour to be the Chairman? The Natural Sciences  Sub-Commission was the only one to draw up a  budget for its programme in 1947, and it'has  recorded its opinion in the report which is now  before you * that no sum less than 1,000,000 dol-  lars in any year would allow of the carrying  through of an effective programme ”. The reasons  for this recommendation were put before the  Programme Commission by the rapporteur, Mr.  H. A. Compton, of the United States delegation.  ‘The public today is fully aware of the large sums  that are spent on scientific work. Even in India,  a sum of 1,000,000 dollars would be considered  inadequate to establish a National Laboratory in  one branch of science alone. À single instrument  of research, like a Betatron or Cyclotron, may cost’
1,000,000 dollars. The expenditures for scientific  enterprises are well known, at least as to the order  of magnitude. In the face of these facts the mem-  bers of the Natural Sciences Sub-Commission felt  that for an effective programme Unesco would  have to spend at least 1,000,000 dollars a year in  the Natural Sciences Section. Anything else would  appear to thé scientists of the whole world and -  even to the informed lay public as totally inad-  equate. Indeed, many may feel that if the Budget,  and possibly the allocation for Science be reduced,  the inclusion of science in Unesco was unfortunate,  in that, instead of promoting, it might in fact result  in hindering the growth of enterprises in science  involving international action and co-operation.  We scientists believe that science should be asso-  ciated with the educational and cultural activities  of the United Nations, but it would be difficult  to support such an association’if the price was  the crippling of the very activities it was our  intention to promote. We therefore urge strongly  that the total budget for the year 1947 should  not be substantially reduced below the figure  envisaged by the Preparatory Commission. I refer  to the remark made by the Australian délegate in  the commentary presented yesterday by Mr. Mac-  Leish, Chairman of the Drafting Committee, that  there was in fact no choice of schemes made.  You will see on page 2 of Mr. MacLeish”s report :  ‘“ There are, of course, many additional proposals  listed in the reports of the Sub-Commissions which,  equally with the proposals here named, are before  the Conference for adoption. ’’ So, in fact, there -  are now before us many" proposals from. which  we yesterday selected sqgme, but the whole report  of Mr. MacLeish was adopted, and, in fact,  Mr. MacLeish’s report was a preamble to the  report of the Sub-Commissions that followed it.  Speaking now on behalf of the Indian delega-  tion, T wish to say that my delegation supports  the British amendment. The sums involved are  indeed small. The whole budget of Unesco is  small compared with the billions of dollars, mil-  lions of pounds and milliards of roubles which  are spent by the Great Powers annually, not only  on armaments, but on scientific research for mili-  tary purposes.  Mr. Benton, in his first address to this Confer-  ence, sald that the combined budget of all na-  tions for military and naval establishments for  this year is at least ten thousand times the size  of the budget now centemplated for Unesco, and  it is proposed to cut this mark, If we truly believe  in the activities of Unesco, we must prove it to  the people of the world by our acts. The various  small savings of money involved in the reduction  , of the budget at this stage would be more than  offset by the adverse psychological effect, which  is a very important consideration at this point.  It would show the world that we who are met  here to draw up the plans for this great enter-  prise lack faith in ourselves. India is a poor  country, and it is not easy for us at the present  time, when we wish to utilize all our financial  resources for a rapid development of the country,  to make large contributions to international organ-  izations. Nevertheless, India is prepared to con-  tribute her full share to the work of Unesco and  feels it would be very regrettable if its activities  were crippled at the beginning by a reduction in  the budget at this stage. :  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I cali on  the delegate of South Africa.  The delegate of SOUTH AFRICA : The stir-  ring appeals of the delegates, particularly from  the United Kingdom and from Poland, have  brought to us a very gratifying realization of the  high 1deals which prompt every single delegation  to come here and take part in these discussions.  I submit, however, that these high ideals need  not be emphasized at this stage. We are all aiming  at the stars, and, with God’s help, we will get  a bit higher than we have done in the past on  the way to Peace. But, at this moment, one has  to be realistic — and I very much regret I have  not heard any arguments which can satisfy the  doubt that I have entertained as to the practic-  ability of a programme larger than that for  which the Sub-Commission has made provision.  I have heard no answer to the argument which  has been advanced by the delegate from the Unit-  ed States. I had sincerely hoped we would have  been able to get figures which would have con-  vinced.me that, before the end of 1947, we would  be in the position to buy even that million pounds’  worth of apparatus which could possibly be util-  ized in the interests of science. I would have  been heartily in favour of such an extension, and  feel that there must be no limit, as far as it is  humanly possible for us to meet the financial  burden. But the time, I am satisfied, is not yet,  and for that reason I am going to support.the  proposal which I seconded in the Sub-Commis-  sion. I do so in all confidence that, if the motion  is carried, it will not interfere with the good  work of the Organization, and that, in fact, so  far from having a bad psychological effect on  the world, it will have a very salutary effect,  because it will make the world realize we are  practical men and women in spite of Unesco’s  high ideals, and are setting about our task in a ‘  businesslike manner.  The delegate of NEW ZEALAND : I know  that what I have to say has been said already,  but I will make it very brief. I feel I could not  cast my vote without giving briefly my reason  for voting against this amendment. May I make  one or two things clear? The New Zealand dele-  es 103 pt.   gation believes Unesco must grow, and that in  the future years more money must be spent.  There is no difference of opinion among us in  this, as in the opinion of spending monev imme-  diately on reconstruction. The only difference I  can see between us is how far and how fast we  shall go in the first year. May I pick up the meta-  phor dropped by my colleague from Denmark,  who used the words ‘’ Let the engine run full  power ‘’! As a careful driver, I believe in running  my engine in. When we have run it in, I am wil-  ling to open the throttle. I can’t speak for m  country, on the question of an open throttle, but  shell be glad to enjoy the exhilaration of speed  in the engine we have tested and tried.  + May I be more explicit? One of our fundamental  probléms is that of staff. Anyone who has built  up a staff knows the time it takes to build up a  ‘good corps of men. If we do one thing apart from  reconstruction in the first year, if we get ten first-  rate men (nine — we have one already who is not  here now) — if we get ten first-rate men at the  head of this Organization and we may have some  of them already (I.am very ignorant of most of  the members of the Staff) — we shall have done  a main job. Dr. Huxley said he was afraid this  Budget might mean the staff could not be increa-  sed this year. That does not fill me with fears.  It may be necessary to cut the staff. I say that  without a personal feeling of preference, bécause  I do not know the majority of the members of the  staff at all, and the ones I have met have pleased  me. But I know you cannot build up in twelve  months a staff of 400 or 450 that rank as first  rate. If I may again change our metaphor (Unesco  has been a pheeaix, a fortification, a weapon and  a motorcar) may we return to the original  “baby ”. If I could ask some fairy godmother  to give me one wish for this new infant of ours,  I should ask for ten first-rate men. If she was a  niggardly godmother, I would be satisfied with  five. It is for that reason we feel we can build up  in that time.  Also another question is the question of com-  mitments. It is going to take a long time to build  that staff up, and commitments for the following  year will build up rapidly. We were told in the  Sub-Commission the other day, when I asked  what each project was going to cost in 1947 and  then for 1948, it would cost the same in 1948  as 1947. That is contrary to all my experience,  and all of you who have dealt with projects taken  over in this way must know likewise. I am ready  to be convinced, and spent today hoping I would  be convinced that the Budget would be higher,  It is the first time in my life I have voted against  spending money on education which is one of  my chief hobbies. I am not prepared to be con-  vinced by oratory, but by facts and figures,  - because this is a matter of facts and figures.  May I say, take one example. There is one fig-  ure worrying me on the budget — 200,000 dollars  for covering the expenses of the Executive Board  in the next year. Since that was prepared, the  Executive Board has decided to meet four times  a year. It may be decided we shall hold our Con-  ference at a very far distant country and one I  want to visit more than any other place except  Paris. I cannot believe reallv that that figure,
200.000 dollars would bring the members of the  Executive Board here for four times in the year  from their scattered corners of the world, though  some of them are close I know, arrd that it would  take a staff of a hundred, say, from here across  the Atlantic and keep them two or three months  and bring them back. That figure might be a good  argument for the raising of the budget and it  has not been made. It worries me. I feel we shall  spend more than that and have less than ever  to spend on our programme. That is the kind of  figure I felt we needed.  With regard to what was referred to by the  South African delegate, by Mr. Hardman and  the delegate for India, I do not think it will have  a bad psychological effect if we spend less money,  if we tell the world why we are doing it. It will not  if they realize our funds were no greater than  they were when we came to this meeting, but  we have first of all to build on solid foundations.  That is the only reason why I have spoken.  The PRESIDENT (translation ha : There are  no more speakers on the list. The vote will now  be taken.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  May I, for a few moments, exercise the right of  reply to this very interesting and, if I may say  so, friendly and amiable debate.  I want to say first of all that the United King-  dom delegation is standing by its original amend-  ment. I want to read that amendment again. I  move that the figure of 6,955,000 dollars for our ap-  -proved activities in 1947 and all expenses incurred  prior to January 1947 be increased by 1 1/2 mil-  lion dollars. I would like to remind the leader  of the Australian delegation, who referred delight-  fully and pictorially to the MacLeish report, of  certain words on page 2. In the English text of  this report of the Programme Sub-Commission,  page 2, paragraph 3, we find ‘* Needless to say,  the selection we have made is in no sense intend-  ed to eliminate any item recommended by any  Sub-Commission and approved by the Plenary  Session of the Programme Commission ”, and then  turning in the same text to page 8, we find these  words at the bottom of that page There are,  of course, many additional proposals listed in the  reports of the Sub-Commissions which, equally  with the proposals here named, are before the  Conference for adoption. It is clearly the respon-  sibility of the Director-General to determine  ‘within the limits of the funds made available to  him, which of the many projects proposed by the  Sub-Commissions and approved by the Programme  Commission and: the General Conference, he will  undertake. ’’ Again, what is to me most signifi-  cant and important is on page 9 ‘‘ In presenting,  therefore, this report, and in proposing that the  programme which it outlines should be adopted,  — we are speaking not to the General Conference  of Unesco alone but to the peoples of the world. "  We have heard, Mr. President, this afternoon  something of the economy of the poorer nations,  but I would remind this Conference that there  is something which is richer than dollars or pounds   sterling, and that is the spiritual strength and  the response of nations to the appeal of idealism  and the appeal of a visionary, imaginative pro-  gramme. Therein lies the strength of the nations  here represented today.  Surely it is right to say that at this first Con-  ference of Unesco we are not going to make any  cheese-paring suggestions. We are going to appeal  to that spiritual strength and idealism among the  peoples of the world who are suffering the depriv-  ation of war. The peoples of the world are await-  ing an imaginative lead, and I do want to stress  in this reply the urgency of showing the peoples  of the world that we believe completely in the  spiritual and visionary and imaginative strength  of peoples. It is for this reason that I think we  should be prepared not to lay emphasis upon a  question of a million or one and a half million  dollars cut or economy, but to lay emphasis upon  a question of the larger sum which is proposed in  my amendment.  Are you to say that across the future of Unesco  there falls the shadow of cheese-paring and the  forbidding handicap of skinflint politics and econ-  omies? There falls already across our path the  dark shadow of war, and I appeal to this Confer-  ence that it must not allow the question of one  and a half million dollars to baulk the high ideal-  ism of the work of the last three weeks. There-  fore, Mr. President, I do most earnestly appeal  to our fellow-delegates to be prepared to make  the big, imaginative gesture, because so many  things will require doing in 1947 that might not  even appear in detail upon the programme we  have considered.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The question  before the Conference is perfectly clear. We are  called upon to consider the proposals embodied  in that report put forward by the Commission.  To these proposals the United Kingdom delega-  tion has put forward an amendment. The French  delegation has proposed a resolution, the first  paragraph of which reads as follows: ** The Gene-  ral Conference recommends that the 550,000 dol-  lars voted by it over and above the Sub-Com-  mission’s proposals amounting to 6,950,000 dol-  lars should be allotted to a supplementary increase  of the special reconstruction budget. ”  The figure proposed by the French Delegation  is in fact 550,000 dollars. It is an intermediate  figure between the proposals of the Commission  and the amendment put forward by the United  Kingdom delegation. Therefore, this is not an  amendment, but a separate proposal.  M. CASSIN (France) (translation) : I agree —  the figure in question is 550,000 dollars.  Mr. MacLEISH (United States) : In view of  the fact that my name has been called to your  attention several times in connexion with this  debate, and in view of the extreme unhappiness  I feel about it, I should like to take a few minutes  of your time,  I think it is a lamentable debate; a most unfor-  tunate way to end this session. I want to speak  or a few minutes for those who feel as I do, to  say that I am perfectly certain that my good  friend, Mr. Hardman, did not mean to suggest  that those who wish to support the report of the  Sub-Commission are doing so merely for reasons  of cheese-paring and petty economy, any more  than we on our side propose to suggest that those  who would like to see another figure do so for rea-  sons other than those of finance and other than  in the interests of Unesco.  I beg you to consider that, if these are the  considerations, this question is one of finding a  figure really commensurate with the spirit of the  considerations herein involved.  Let us, for God’s sake, not part on this note.  There is not a man or woman here in this room  who does not believe in Unesco — there is not  a man or woman who does not know that what  is going on here is more important than what is  going on in the Security Council; more important  than what is going on in the Economic and Social  Council; more important than anything else in  the world, because, as we know, the real issues  are the issues we are talking about here. ,Ç  I beg you to approach this question as what it  is — a simple question of what is the wisest and  economic thing to do.  The delegate of CHINA : The Chinese dele-  gation supports the proposition put forward by  the French delegation, with the understanding  that the figure of 550,000 dollars is for relief and  rehabilitation.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : In the first  place I apologize for not having fully seen the  importance of the French resolution. Being French,  it is for me doubly important; I understood it was  a sub-amendment to the United Kingdom amend-  ment. If that is the true position, we have two  separate amendments: the proposal of the United  Kingdom for 8,450,000 dollars, and the proposal of  the French delegation for 7,500,000, it being un-  derstood that the 550,000 dollars would be allotted  to relief and reconstruction. The vote has to be  taken first on the British proposal, which is to  increase the figure proposed by the Commission,  namely 6,950,000 dollars.  According to the regulations, the vote by roll  call is only necessary 1f it is asked for by five dele-  gations, or if the vote by show of hands has pro-  duced a doubtful result; but, in view of the import-  ance of the vote, I think I am within my rights  as President in proposing that the vote should be  taken by roll call. We will therefore vote on the  British amendment.  Australia. . . . . 4.4.4, . . No  Belgium. . . . . . ...., No  Bolivia... . . . ... +, . Absent  Brazil. . . . . .. .. . .. Yes  Canada. . . ........ No  China. . . . ........ No  Czechoslovakia. . . . . . . . No  Denmark... . . .  . . . Yes  Dominican Republic. . . . , No  Ecuador . . . . ... ... Yes  Egypt . . . . ....... No  France. . . . . . . . . .. No  Greece 5 6 4524 +4 à à à à à Yes  Res 105 repas      Haiti. . . . . . . . ... . No  India... . . . . .. . . . Yes  Lebanon . . . . . . . . . . No  Mexico. . . . . .. . . .. No  Netherlands. . . . . . . . . No  New Zealand . . . . . . . . No  Norway. . . . . . . . . . . Yes  Peru... ... .. .... No  Philippines... . . . . . . No  Poland . . . . . . . . . . . Yes  Saudi Arabia . . . . . . . . Absent  Syria... . . .. .. .. . No  Turkey. .. . . . . .... No  Union of South Africa . . . . No  United Kingdom. . . . . . . Yes  United States of America. . . No  Venezuela... . . . . . . . No  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Thirty dele-  gations are entitled to vote, two absent. Eight  for, twenty against : therefore it is rejected.  I shall now put to the vote the French proposal  which is to increase the Sub-Commission’s figure  of 6,950,000 dollars, to 7,500,000 dollars, of which
550,000 will be devoted to relief and reconstruc-  tion. The vote will be taken again by roll call.  The delegate of SOUTH AFRICA : What is  the total amount to be spent on Relief and Re-  construction?  Mr. BENTON (United States) : Mr. Chairman,  there has been no discussion of the points before  you and I wonder if it is possible for me to make  one comment.  The PRESIDENT : Certainly.  Mr. BENTON (United States) : I have one  fear on this proposal that I would like to point  out to this Conference. I wish to call your atten-  tion to the fact that private organizations in the  United States are making very large contributions  towards Relief and Reconstruction funds. They  amount now to 40,000,000 dellars in cash and  material. Please note that it is only a beginning,  and I fear that the feeling that Unesco is really  substantially contributing in this field, or has  assumed the role that seems to be in the mind  of some of the people here taking part in the  debates, to judge by these two resolutions, I  fear that if Unesco begins to fill the role of a  Relief Agency, it will handicap the opportunity  to raise money through private sources in the  United States; whether this is true in other coun-  tries I eannot say.  The delegate of FRANCE (translation) : No-  body could possibly consider that Unesco with  its extra 550,000 dollars was claiming to take  - the place of the generous gifts coming from  America for the devastated areas. But this mo-  dest sum is nevertheless of great importance at  this moment because there are in Europe itself  scientific apparatus, books and scholastic mate-  rial lying idle. With this money scholastic recon-  struction work could be started in the devastated  countries before the very much greater funds  collected for other objects can arrive in these  lands in need of rehabilitation; That is why I  find no incompatibility between the modesty of  what we are proposing to do as a supplementary  effort and the vastness of the generous effort  which is being made by other peoples.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : In order to  give the delegate of the Union of South Africa  the exact figures, I would like to say that the  figures are, in fact, these : 434,700 dollars, to  which would be added 550,000 dollars under the  French proposals, making a total of 984,700 dol-  lars.  Now the vote will be taken by roll call.  Australia... . , . . . . . No  Belgium. . . . . . . . . . . No  Bolivia . . 4 « « 4 4 +. . Absent  Brazil. . . . 2. . .. . .. . Yes  Canada. . . . . . . ... No  China... . . . . . . . . . Yes  Czechoslovakia. . . . . . . . No  Denmark. . . . +. . . . . . Yes  Dominican Republic. . . . . No  Ecuador. . . . . . . . . . . Yes  Egypt . . ......... No  France. . . . . . . . . . . Yes  Greece. . . . . . . . . . . Yes  Haiti. . . . .. . .. ... No  India. . . . . . ... .. . No  Lebanon . . . . . . . . .. No  Mexico. . . . . . . .. . . No  Netherlands. . . . . . . . . No  New Zealand . . . . . . . . No  Norway. . . . . . . . . . . Yes  Peru... ......... No  Philippines . . . . . . . . . No  Poland... . . . . . . . . Yes  Saudi Arabia . . . . . Absent  Syria... . . ....... No  Turkey. . . . . . . .... No  Union of South Africa . . . . No  United Kingdom. . . . . . . Yes  United States of America. . . No  Venezuela. . . . . . . . . . Yes  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The voting  is as follows: States entitled to vote, 30; number  of votes cast, 28; number of votes against, 18;  number of votes for, 10. The French amendment  is therefore rejected.  Now we will take a vote on the amendment  proposed by the Sub-Commission which is the  figure of 6,050,000 dollars, Will heads of dele-  gations in favour of the adoption of that figure  kindly signify in the usual way.  Thevote was taken by show of hands and the amend-  ment adopted unanimously.
16. PLACE OF SECOND SESSION OF  THE CONFERENCE  We will take the next item on the Agenda,  which is the determination of the place where  the next General Conference is to be held.  There is a report by the Executive Board on  this question and I shall call on the Chairman  of the Executive Board to submit the Report.  vu TOR vas   The CHAIRMAN of the EXECUTIVE BOARD  (M. Doré, Canada) (trans/ation) : Mr. President,  the Executive Board decided to recommend to  the General Conference that it should accept  the invitation of the Government of Mexico to  the effect that the Second Session of the General  Conference should be held in that country in.
1947. Further, the Executive Board take note  with’ gratitude of the invitations addressed to  Unesco by the Governments of Egypt and Nor-  way in respect of the Third Session of the General  Conference to be held in 1948. A decision will  be taken later.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I call upon  the delegate of Mexico.  The delegate of MEXICO (translation) : The  proposal by the Executive Board delights the  Mexican delegation as greatly as it honours us.  I am authorized to say that, if you agree to accept  this invitation, then for its part Mexico would  welcome your decision with- enthusiasm.  Therefore if you agree, Mexico with all its  beauties awaits your visit.  The delegate of FRANCE (translation) : The  delegate of the country which has had the ho-  nour of being the seat of the first General Confe-  rence confines himself to seconding the proposal.  by the Executive Board,  The PRESIDENT (translation) : If there are  no objections, the Report of the Executive Board  is adopted.
13. CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORTS  OF THE COMMISSIONS (continuation)  C. — ADMINISTRATIVE AND  FINANCIAL SUB-COMMISSION (continuation)  This morning we had ‘before us the report of  the Administrative and Financial Sub-Commis-  sion; we have so far adopted only the first part,  namely, the budget. I assume that the subsequent  paragraphs will not call for much further discus-  sion.  Chapter II deals with the Audit of the Prepar-  atory Commission Accounts. The text is before  you, does anyone wish to speak?  If there are no speakers the Chapter is adopted.  Chapter III is taxation of salaries and allow-  ances paid by the Organization.  The delegate of BELGIUM drew the attention  of the Conference to a slight error in the French  text of the first paragraph.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Chapter III  is adopted. Any observations on Chapter IV : The  Staff of the Preparatory Commission? Adopted.  Chapter V : Date of coming into force of the  Staff Regulations. Any observations? Adopted.  Chapter VI : Date of coming into force of the  Finance Regulations. Any observations? Adopted.  Chapter VII : Communications with Member  States: Any observations? Adopted.  Chapter VIII: Scale of Contributions of Member  States. Any observations?  The delegate of ECUADOR (translation) :  Mr. President, I would like to make two remarks  with'reference to paragraph 3 of section 8 on page 5  of the English text. The paragraph at present  reads :  *“ The Executive Board, to whom the duty of  making the adjustment is hereby entrusted,  shall, before promulgating the scale, enter into  such consultation with Member States as may  be desirable. |  I think it would be advisable to add to this text  something to say that, in making this adjustment,  the Executive Board should be guided by the prin-  ciples that have been adopted by the United Na-  tions. It will be recalled that, at the session held  in London, the United Nations adopted certain  principles in this matter. We feel that the Execut-  ive Board should take them as a guide, and I  think, therefore, that they should be incorporated  in this amendment. In the second place, I would  propose to delete the suggestion that consultations  should be made with such Member States *“ as ma  be desirable ’’. I think that consultation should  take place with all Member States, and therefore,  if my proposals are adopted, the sentence would  read as follows :  “The Executive Board, to whom the duty of  making the adjustment is hereby entrusted,  shall follow the principles adopted by the  United Nations in the matter of contributions  and, before promulgating the scale, enter into  consultations with all Member States. ”  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The proposal  ‘ is therefore first for taking away a phrase, and  secondly for adding a phrase.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : The English  text reads that ‘“ the Executive Board shall, be-  fore promulgating the scale, enter into such con-  sultations with Member States as may be desi-  rable ’ and unfortunately this has been translated  in the French text as ‘‘ entrera en consultations  avec tous les Etats membres avec qui il jugera bon  de le faire ”. |  The delegate of ECUADOR (translation) : If  that means that the Executive Board shall enter  into consultations with all States Mmebers, I  agree. The addition concerning on the principles  by which the Executive Board should be guided  would still have to be made.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : “ Taking as a  guide the principles adopted by the United Nations  in the matter of contributions... ”  The UNITED STATES delegate : Mr. Presi-  dent, I have two small points I wish to call the  attention of the delegates to, particularly to the  phrase ““ for 1947 ’’. The delegation of the United  States approves the proposal as outlined here for
1947 without implying a commitment on the part  of the United States to any particular proposal in  coming years. . oo  Secondly, it is the attitude of the United States  Government that — and here is the application  > 109 +   of Point 3 to which we have just been referring —  the percentage of the contribution of the United  States should not vary perceptibly from the per-  centage of the contribution to the United Nations  that is now being negotiated at Lake Success.  The PRESIDENT ({ranslation) : There is no  necessity to take any vote on this point. The text
1s perfectly clear as it stands. It refers to the scale  of contributions to Unesco for r947. I think, there-  fore, that the United States delegation will think  the text quite satisfactory. Moreover paragraph 3,  if not already clear, is still more clarified by the  addition of the suggestion of the representative  of Ecuador. .  Is there any objection to the adoption of Chap-  fer 5 : Scale of Contribution of the Member  ates:  Chapter VIII is adopted. Chapter IX : Revol-  ving Fund. Are there any observations? No obser-  vations. The last paragraph is adopted and with it  the whole of the report is adopted. The Agenda  of the Conference is therefore complete. Are there  any further statements?  The delegate of the UNITED STATES : Mr. Pre-  sident, you were a little too fast for me on the Re-  volving Fund — I am revolving a little myself. I  have a comment, if I may make it, on the Revol-  ving Fund.  The United States delegation is not in a position  to bind the United States in any way on its appro-  priate contribution to the proposed Revolving  Fund. It was an issue presented here in Paris, be-  cause of the need of Unesco for money. We do not  have the legal authority in the United States to  advance the monies called for to this Fund with-  out an act of Congress. This must be passed by  Congress, I return home with every confidence  that Congress will support the percentage contri-  butions, as I have just attempted to clarify them,  for the operating budget of Unesco, and the repay-  ment, of course, of the monies spent by the Pre-  paratory Commission. I cannot feel equally sure  of the same action with regard to the Revolving  Fund. 1 say this with some embarrassment be-  cause I know this may quite well cause difficulties  to the operation of Unesco, and there will be an  uncertainty that will hang over the head of Unesco  during an initial period, pending discussion of this  subject. There is no legal authority in our Govern-  ment covering a contingency of this kind.  Therefore, though T shall do my best on this sub-  ject on my return to Washington, I would like to  abstain from casting the vote of the United States  on this particular point of the Revolving Fund.  The delegate of NORWAY : Mr. President, I  am afraid that a similar reservation will have to be  made by several other delegations as well with  regard to contributions to the Revolving Fund.  We have no authority for committing our govern-  ments definitely to contributions for this Fund.  The PRESIDENT (#ranslation) : I take it that  the paragraph is voted, but of course the records  will contain a reservation by the delegate of the  United States and the delegate of Norway,  The delegate of the PHILIPPINES ; Mr. Presi-  dent, I wish to inform the Conference that our de-  legation has no authority to make financial com-  mitments, as the delegate for the United States  and the delegate for Norway have said, and there-  fore I abstain from voting on this matter.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The name of  the delegate of the Philippines will therefore be  added to the names of the delegates already men-  tioned who have abstained from this vote.  The delegate of EGYPT : I should like to add  the name of Egypt as not having authority to vote  on this subject.  The delegate of LEBANON : I wish my reser-  vation also to be noted with regard to the Revolv-  ing Fund.  The delegate of FRANCE (translation) : The  French delegation finds itsélf faced with the same  legal situation, but we nevertheless undertake.  firmly here to do everything in our power to see  that the credits are voted by the French Parlia-  ment. It certainly cannot be allowed to happen  that Unesco, hardly born, should perish for lack  of sustenance.  The delegate of INDIA : T'merely wish to point  out that these declarations are hardly necessary,  because none of us here is in a position, in the legal  sense, to commit our Governments on these reso-  lutions. What is implied is that each one of us  will exercise the influence of the delegation as a  whole to get this point accepted. I do not see the  point in all these reservations being noted.  The delegate of BELGIUM (translation) : Per-  haps you will allow me to make a small suggestion  to those of mv colleagues who find themselves em-  barrassed on this point. I happen to be a member  of an administration which is subject to many re-  proaches but which has certain good features. My  country has ratified this Constitution and has  accepted the financial consequences that ensue  from ratification, among them being the necessity  to pay a contribution. It is true the Revolving  Fund may not be specifically mentioned, but never-  theless it might be understood. The Revolving  Fund is one of the financial consequences, toge-  ther with the payment of the contributions, which,  nevertheless, follow from the adoption of the Con-  stitution. I throw out that suggestion in the hope  it may help some of my colleagues.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I am sure the  delegates of France, India and Belgium have ex-  pressed the feeling of the whole Conference. It is  clearly understood no delegation is in a position  explicitly to bind its Government on a matter  which had not arisen when the Government nomin-  ated the delegation. We have adopted a principle,  and I am sure we may rely on all delegations to  urge their Governments to pay their contribution  to the Revolving Fund. Therefore, I think we  may now take it that the report is adopted and  that our Agenda has been disposed of.  “ Any other speakers?  Pras 108 rate   The delegate of PANAMA : Mr. Chairman, the  enormous importance of this first Conference of  Unesco, an organization which without doubt will  have great and lasting results for humanity, makes  it imperative that, in the name of the delegation  of Panama, I take this opportunity, before the  close of this Conference, of stating that the reason  why the formalities of ratification and deposit of  the instrument of acceptance by Panama are not  yet completed is due to the fact that our National  Assembly is at present in recess.  Panama upholds the principles that gave birth  to the United Nations. It has always supported  with deep enthusiasm all efforts to create union  and brotherhood among the nations of the world.  It is for that reason that Panama adheres to  Unesco and its effort in establishing the unity and  fraternity of nations and to promote human hap-  piness through the channels of education, science  and culture and the creation of the ‘“ one world ”  referred to in the report presented to this Confe-  rence by the Preparatory Commission — a report  of profound significance and optimism.  Unesco, born of the ideal that created the Unit-  ed Nations, will naturally be influenced by the  future of the parent body. As harmony exists in  that organization, so will it develop in Unesco. But  in this case, as in many instances of history and  everyday life, the offspring may influence the des-  tiny of the parent. À new generation, brought up  on the principles of real brotherhood and freedom,  without selfishness, may be capable of preventing  the recurrence of yet another catastrophe.  I do not wish to speak for too long in this hall,  which has heard the voices of illustrious and great  men today. However, the deep and sincere opti-  mism of my country urges me to state, together  with so many others who have expressed the same  confidence, that the work put forward by the Pre-  paratory Commission, revised and polished by  this Conference, now carries within itself strong  and durable material on which to build.  I shall give only one example of this; as stated  in the report, a project will be launched to delete  fronr school textbooks the spirit of war and nation-  al prejudice. This alone will do much to annihilate  the seeds of international disputes. The defence  of truth in mass communication media, the creat-  ion of an international newspaper, are projects  which will lead towards a guarantee of an effective  democracy, of justice and, above all, a guarantee  of the liberties and happiness of all peoples.  These indirect results, and many others I could  name, will uphoid and enlarge the plans of Unesco.  One of its immediate and more practical plans is  the more urgent one of amelioration of the condi-  tion of the underprivileged peoples of the world.  All of this work merits the co-operation of all  countries within the limits of their possibilities —  whether these are great or small, material or moral.  The delegate of CHINA : On behalf of the Chi-  nese delegation, I propose that this Conference  move a vote of thanks to the French Government  and also a vote of thanks to the Conference, the  Secretary and his assistants of the Preparatory  Commission and that we remember these words  “ to be friends with the Secretariat of the Confe-  rence ”; who can surely use these words better  than myself? ‘  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  May I, Mr. President, warmly support what the  delegate of China has just said and remind our  fellow-delegates that three weeks ago to-day we  had a beautiful reception at the Sorbonne? That  is one of the great memories we shall take away  with us. The other great memory is the charm and  graciousness of your Presidency of this Conference,  and we thank you, and we say, all together, ‘“ Vive  M. le Président, et Vive la France!” Here are the  two great memories of this Conference.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES : The  delegation of the United States associates itself -  with China and the United Kingdom in expressing  our thanks to you, M. le Président, and to the City  of Paris for something we feel very deeply, and I  should like to call attention specially to the ma-  nifestations of the great Art of France that we  have enjoyed during these three weeks. We really  have the impression that we are back in civiliza-  tion, a thing we seemed to have lost during the  years past, and we shall all go home very grateful  to France.  The delegate of INDIA : Mr. President and.  fellow delegates : We are'coming to the end of  our labours and I hope to the beginning of our  great work. I have no doubt that we all feel grati-  fied and sober at the great responsibility we have  assumed. But, if you will permit me to say one or  two words which may convey a general impression,  I should like, in the first instance, to associate my-  self heartily with the attitude of the United States  towards the French government,the French people  and particularly to the people of Paris. To the  people of Paris, not only for what they have done  for our comfort and convenience but also for the  wonderfully conceived festivals they have provid-  ed for our minds and our spirits : the exhibitions,  theatres, ballets at the Opera, showing. what  France can do in the way of culture. All that has  been done at a time when France is still suffering  from all the hardships and deprivations due to the  war, and I like to think that this gesture is not  only an expression of French hospitality, but also  shows a deep interest in the success of this Con-  ference.  It will be the feeling of evervone present here  that our French host should accept our thanks in  the spirit in which they are offered. May I remind  vou of two remarks made by Mr. MacLeish this  morning? It has been a pleasure to find that we  have been working in an atmosphere of friendly  sympathy and almost of cordiality. There would  be no need to mention this at all if I had not been  told about other Conferences that it is not always  normal and it is this great success which will fill  the hearts of Humanity with hope.  We feel happy that we have found great readi-  ness to accommodate points of view. As many of  the delegates said, there was a cloud on men’s  minds, but we are very happy that through the  wisdom of the representatives of the Executive  Board this cloud has blown away. I think it is good  to make compromises, but we in Unesco ought to      go further and,with time, discover exact methods,  pleasing to everybody, of choosing what is right  and proper in the implementation of the future  programme. That can only be done if we envisage  all the problems as a trust given to us on behalf of  humanity.  One last word I would like to share with you. I  would request all the members of the Delegations  to try to use, not only that great instrument of  Unesco, but also the great national agencies at  their disposal for emphasizing the bases of moral  life.  To you, Mr. President, I would like to convey  our thanks for the distinction your Presidency has  conferred on this Conference.  We must be the apostles of Unesco. We must  preach the gospel that Unesco is a single whole,  not only politically, but also financially and intel-  lectually. There was once a little girl who asked an  old man if the load he carried on his back was not  too heavy for him. The old man replied that the  load was his brother and therefore was no weight  at all. The wisdom of that maxim should be un-  derstood everywhere. ‘  Lastly, I would like to thank our President for  his distinguished conduct of our debates.  The delegate of FRANCE (translation) : 1 should  like to add to the thanks that have already been  expressed, a word of gratitude to the staff and all  those who in various unseen ways have facilitated  and helped forward our work.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I have one very  small announcement to make. The English ver-  sion of the work on Fundamental Education, which  has been prepared for the Conference and of which  you have had the first chapter distributed, has  now arrived. It will be placed in the rooms of all  those delegates who are accustomed to receive  their documents in English and, if not called for  in the next few days, will be sent on. The French  version will arrive shortly and will be distributed.  It is quite an imposing and interesting book.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I am convin-  ced that I am speaking not only on behalf of the  French Government, but also of the French people  and, as the delegate of India said, of the citizens of  Paris in thanking you in their name for the cordial  words of appreciation uttered by several speak-  ersin turn. We have made a great effort to receive  you in Paris as best we could and you are right in  believing that this constitutes a proof of friendship  towards the nations you represent, as well as of  international solidarity and passionate devotion to  the work you embody,  May I add, on my own behalf, that I have been  deeply and profoundly touched by the affectionate  words-which were addressed to me personally with  so much feeling and delicacy.  I shall, in a few moments, declare the General  Conference of Unesco closed.  I am fully convinced that I shall now be inter-  preting your own sentiments in expressing my  thanks to all those who have co-operated in your  work and have helped you to bring it to a success-  ful conclusion,  First and foremost, the Preparatory Commission  itself, and its Executive Secretary, who is now  Director-General. h  Thanks are also due to all his collaborators who  played their part in the technical preparation of  this Session and, as my friend Professor Cassin so  rightly stated just now, to the personnel of all  grades who did the practical everyday work.  You will not be surprised if I also include in this  vote of thanks the press representatives accredited  to Unesco who followed the proceedings with such  friendly attention.  I should also like to thank the Governments of  the Member States of Unesco for having appointed  delegations to represent them here, all of which  consisted of men eminent in their own right, and  some of which comprised a real and complete elite,  representing every branch of intellectual and spi-  ritual activity and every form of administrative  and political experience.  I am convinced that the Executive Board and  the Director-General and his assistants will profit  from the experience they have gained during these  two first Conferences when it comes to organizing  future Conferences of Unesco.  I should like to express my personal feeling at  this point quite frankly : namely, that this year  once more, and perhaps to an even greater degree,  the genuine work which is very appreciable both  in quality and in quantity, has been too strictly  confined to, and split up among the Commissions  and Sub-Commissions, without being sufficiently  submitted to the full light of public discussions.  In my opinion, it would be expedient in future  to modify the allocation of time and particularly,  if I may say so, of energy between the meetings of  the Commissions and the plenary sittings of the  Conference. All of us have performed our part in  the common task; many of you nevertheless, I  feel convinced, will leave this Conference without  having had adequate opportunity of viewing it as  a whole. The reports of the Commissions have, in  most cases, been approved without giving rise to  those thorough and stimulating debates which  alone are capable of establishing real contact be-  tween this Institution and that international public  opinion on which our success in the last resort  depends. These reflections are perhaps inspired by  my parliamentary habits or my political pre-  judices: I hope nevertheless that an example like  the one which the delegate of the Yugoslav Govern-  ment has given us on two separate occasions will  be followed more frequently in the future. It is  now the task of the Executive Board, and of the  Director-General and his assistants, to implement  the resolutions you have adopted or approved,  whose real importance will appear from the way  in which they are put into practice.  What I wish particularly to stress as the char-  "acteristic feature of this Assembly, and in saying  this I mean to pay a great and well-deserved tri-  bute to its work, is that it has succeeded, thanks  to the general character of our debates in bringing  out clearly the essential character of the Organ-  ization.  The formula I have ventured to employ is per-  haps somewhat obscure, may [ therefore endea-  vour to define what I mean as follows ; freedom of  thought and freedom of discussion in this Assem-  —- II0C —   bly have been absolute, and all the Nations, great  or small, have worked, discussed and voted on a  footing of perfect equality.  No attempt has been made by anyone to impose  on others, in whatever form, his own special con-  ception of the world or of society. All opinions, all  preferences, have been treated with equal respect.  Our unity has resulted solely from our community  of purpose : to serve, by means which are our very  own, the universal cause of peace, of international  solidarity, of progress, and human happiness.  The work of Unesco, as clearly revealed by the  resultsof this Conference, and thanks largely to  the Conference itself, cannot arouse legitimate  apprehensions on the part of any State, of any  people, or of any man of goodwill. I therefore earn-  estly express the hope, and these will be my con-  cluding words, that we shall meet again next year,  not only those who are present now, but more num-  erous still and reinforced by those friends whose  absence we regret today.  It only remains for me to thank you once more  and to declare the General Conference of Unesco  closed. [cs  — 111 —