ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL  - SUB-COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Held on Thursday, 28 November 1946 at 3.15 p. m.  The meeting was opened by M. SOMMERFELT  (Norway), Chairman of the Administrative and  Legal Commission.  M. SOMMERFELT proposed the appointment of  Mr. BEEBY {New Zealand) as Chairman of the  Sub-Commission.  Mr. BEEBY was unanimously elected and took  the Chair.  The CHAIRMAN proposed Mr. HAVRANER (Cze-  choslovakia) as Vice-Chairman and Mr. Walter  LaAvEs (United States) as Rapporteur.  The proposals of the Chairman were unani-  mously accepted.  The CHAIRMAN announced that the Secretariat  had chosen Mr. MANUELIDES as the secretary of  the sub-commission. He went on to say that Sir  Cecil KrscH had been -asked to act as Financial  Adviser to Unesco. :  He then proposed that, to speed up the work  of the sub-commission, only those speakers who  had a resolution or an amendment to submit,  . would address the meeting.  This proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN read out Article VI, paragraph 4  of the Constitution of Unesco, which deals with  the Secretariat, and more particularly recruitment  of staff.  He proposed the immediate examination of  Chapter II of the Report (Document C/7). In con-  sideration of the fact that sections I and 2 of this  chapter contained general principles which would  be examined when studying the staff regulations,  he suggested examining those regulations at once  (item IV, A 4 (c) of the agenda of the sub-  commission).  The Chairman’s suggestion, supported. by the  Norwegian delegate, was adopted,  DRAFT STAFF REGULATIONS.  The CHAIRMAN then read parag. 1, 4, 5 and 6  of Article VI of the Constitution concerning the  - Secretariat. :  He submitted the preamble of the draft staff  regulations for the Commission’s approval (p. 57  of the Report).  The preamble was unanimously adopted.  The CHAIRMAN invited discussion of Article I.  A debate took place about the last sentence of  this regulation, according to which members of  the Secretariat should obtain the Director-Gene-  ral’s consent before accepting any distinction,  decoration, favour or financial reward from any  government or authority outside the Organiza-  tion.  Li  The FRENCH delegate, supported by the BEz-  GIAN delegate, moved an amendment to the effect  that discrimination should be made between hono-  rary distinctionsand financial rewards,while main-  taining the possibility for Unesco officials to re-  ceive international prizes or the Nobel Prize. This  amendment was rejected.  In the same way an amendment, put forward  by the URUGUAYAN delegate and supported by  the delegate of VENEZUELA, proposing that Unesco  , officials might accept honorary distinctions when  these were not awarded by governments but by  international or private institutions (such as Uni-  versities), was also rejected.  The PrILIPPINE delegate proposed to add at  the end of the third sentence the words : ¢ unless  they resign from their office ”.  This amendment was seconded by the UNITED  STATES delegate, put to the vote and rejected.  The CHAIRMAN declared Article 1 of the Regu-  lations adopted unchanged.  Regulations 2, 3, 4 and 5 were adopted.  The UNITED STATES delegate proposed the in-  clusion at the énd of the first section of the Regu-  lations of the following new Article :  ““ No member of the Secretariat shall accept  or hold any employment, nor shall he engage  in any undertaking which, in the opinion of  the Director-General, is inconsistent with the  accomplishment of his duties in Unesco.  This amendment was seconded by the PHILIP-  PINE delegate. ;  The FrencH delegate proposed that the text  should be added to Article 5 of the Regulations  in the form of a new paragraph. The UNITED  STATES delegate agreed to this proposal.  The addition was adopted.  Regulation 6.  The CHAIRMAN proposed to substitute in the  English text the words ‘“ shall be ” for “ are ”  This proposal was adopted.  Regulation 7.  The FRENCH delegation proposed the addition,  after Article 7, of three new articles, of which  the text was circulated to the delegates.  The CHAIRMAN asked if the French delegation  would agree to the adjournment of its proposals  to the next meeting of the Sub-Commission, so  that delegates would have time to study them.,  The FRENCH delegate agreed, and it was decided  that the French amendments would be considered  at the beginning of the next meeting.  a 20 —   Regulation 8.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the heading of  the right-hand column should be changed and  that the word “ definition ” in English should be  replaced by ‘ designation ”.  The UNITED STATES delegate proposed the fol-  lowing addition :  “ Permanent appointments shall be made  after probation and for an indefinite period;  these appointments will be subject to revision  every five years, in the light of the reports of  “the senior officials of the Administration. ”  The United STATES delegate said that his  delegation would propose later on an amendment  to Regulation 13 in order to adjust that Article  to the addition proposed for Article 8.  This amendment was seconded by the PHILIP-  PINE delegate. =  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  pointed out that the proposed clause would de-  prive each official of the certainty of retaining  his post for more than six years, and this seemed  to him unnecessarily hard in the case of junior  officials.  The delegate of ECUADOR asked that the Uni-  ted States proposal should be submitted to dele-  gates in writing and discussed at the next meeting.  This was approved. :  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that no other amend-  ment to Article 8 could be considered so long as  the United States proposal had not been discus-  sed at the next meeting.  Regulation o. ,  The FRENCH delegate proposed that the first  sentence should be replaced by the following :  ‘“ A classification system and salary schedule  shall be established and submitted for approval  to the Executive Board or to a competent body  set up by the Secretariat. ”  This amendment was seconded by the NORWE-  GIAN and VENEZUELAN delegates, put to the vote  and adopted.  The UNITED KINcpom delegate proposed that  the following words should be added to Article o :  ‘* The classification system and the list of sa-  laries shall be revised from time to time with-  out prejudice to rights already acquired. "  This amendment was seconded by the NORWE-  GIAN delegation, put to the vote and adopted.  The CHAIRMAN read out Article g in its defini-  tive form, including the French and United King-  dom amendments.  Regulation g was adopted.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Friday, 29 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C, E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  that, on the completion of its examination of  the Draft Staff Regulations, the Sub-Commission  should divide into four, or possibly three, sub-  committees.  Proposal seconded by the UNITED KINGDOM de-  legate.  The general opinion of the meeting was against  the UNITED STATES proposal, particularly as it  ran counter to the General Committee's recom-  mendation requesting a minimum division of Sub-  Commissions.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES withdrew  his proposal.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA proposed the esta-  blishment of a technical Drafting Committee con-  sisting of the representatives of the United King-  dom, United States, France, Egypt and Uruguay.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of CANADA.  Agreed.  At the request of the Executive Board, a Note  was distributed on the functions and powers of  the Board. The meeting noted the contents of the  Executive Board's memorandum.  DRAFT STAFF REGULATIONS (continued).  The meeting considered the three additions to  Regulation 7 proposed by the French delegation.  The CHAIRMAN said that, after consultation with  the Legal Adviser of the Secretariat, he would  rule that the third paragraph of proposed Regu-  lation 7'a, as at present drafted, was in conflict  with the Constitution of Unesco, Article VI, pa-  ragraph 4 of which stated that appointments were  to be made by the Director-General.  The delegate of FRANCE explained that the aim  of the French delegation in submitting the draft  amendments was to avoid, as far as possible, waste  of time and insufficiency of knowledge in the se-  lection of candidates to posts on the Secretariat,  The French delegation was of opinion that the  different categories of the staff should be carefully  distinguished. With regard to the third paragraph  of Regulation 7 a, the French delegation now  wished to delete this text. They thought that all  officials should be appointed by the Director-Gre-  neral on the advice of a Selection Board.  The CHAIRMAN said that the three French  amendments would be moved and voted on sepa-  rately. :  He then opened discussion on Article 7 a pro-  posed by the French delegation.  After an amendment presented by the delegate  of AUSTRALIA and a long discussion, in which the  delegates of EGYPT, GREECE, SOUTH AFRICA and  the UNITED STATES took part, Article 7 a was  adopted as follows :  ““ Appointments to the post of Deputy Direc-  tor-General, Assistant Difectors-General, and  Directors of Services shall be made by the Di-  rector-General, with the approval of the Exe-  cutive Board.  “ Appointments of the other officials shall be  made by the Director-General, having regard  to the opinions expressed by a Selection Board  appointed by the Executive Board and consis-  ting of members of the Board. ”  The CHAIRMAN proposed to refer the final num-  bering of the Sections and Articles of the Regu-  lations to a Drafting Committee. This proposal  was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Article 7 b,  proposed by the French delegation,  accus ana ¢ ad