in the outline for the social sciences in the pro-  gramme of Unesco. |  Yesterday, at the Sorbonne, at the solemn open-  ing of this Assembly, frequent mention was made  of the traditions of the great revolution, born  in this city, and which influenced the whole world. -  The idea of a political and cultural vanguard,  sacrificing itself for the common good, is not  foreign to the Czech people — their history is  there to proveit. And it is perhaps because of that,  that our people expect more fromindustrious and  pacific effort than from the violence of revolut-  ions. ;  Revolutions educate humanity by spectacular,  but also by rather frightening, examples. Our  writer and national leader, Karel Havlicek, has  taught us to believe rather in revolutions in brains  and hearts than in revolutions by force of arms.  Such revolutions need not, at all events, break the  law — they even help to foster it, They boldly  create new values, but at the same time give a  new lease of life, a new flow of blood, to ancient  and forgotten values. If somebody succeeded in  persuading the world that the multiplication table  and the Decalogue are valid for all and not only  for a few — would that not be a'splendid revolu-  tion! In order to achieve this, do we need the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-  tural Organisation? Yes, we need it for that, and  for more than that — because one must attempt  a good thing again and again, as often as is  necessary, until it succeeds.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : We would  remind the General Conference that the Confe-  rence will meet tomorrow morning at 10.30. Be-  fore the plenary meeting, we shall have a general  meeting at 0.30, of the President, seven Vice-  Presidents, and the Chairman of the three main  Commissions.  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 21 November 1946, at 10.30 a. m.  President : M. LEon BLuM, President of the Conference  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Before con-  tinuing with the general discussion, I would like  to make two announcements on behalf of the  General Committee which has just met.  The first one concerns translations : there is  already a large number of speakers in the general  discussion and the number will probably increase  still further; the number of plenary meetings may  grow in proportion. The Committee therefore won-  dered if it would not be possible to revert to the  system adopted in London at last year’s confe-  rence, that is to say, abolish translations in the  case of the general discussion, It would save a  lot of time, because it sometimes happens that  the translation lasts longer than the actual speech.  Obviously, if a member of the Conference want-  ed a translation, it would be given at once, and  the interpreters would always be able to meet  such a request, should it be made.  On the other hand, and this is an improvement  on London, translations which have not been made  on the spot will appear the following day in the  Journal of the Conference, which will be distri-  buted to all.  If delegations prefer to make their own trans-  lations of the speeches by their representatives,  the Secretariat of the Conference will of course  be most grateful.
10. CONSIDERATION OF REQUESTS  FROM GOVERNMENTS NOT MEMBERS  OF UNESCO TO SEND OBSERVERS TO  THE CONFERENCE  We now come to the second point : the Com-  mittee has examined the proposals made by cer-  tain governments in reply to the invitation sen  under the Constitution of Unesco asking all govern-  ments not members of Unesco to send observers.  Four governments have made such requests :  the Swedish Government, the Icelandic Govern-  ment, the Swiss Federal Government and the Spa-  nish Republican Government,  In so far as Sweden and Iceland are concer-  ned, our Committee thinks that the question has  been automatically solved by the decision of  UNO to admit these two governments to the  United Nations Organisation.  With regard to the Swiss Government the Com-  mittee proposes to accept its request to send ob-  servers to the Conference.  With regard to the Spanish Republican Govern-  ment, the Committee regrets that on legal grounds  it cannot ask the Spanish Republican Govern-  ment to send observers to this session, but con-  siders the Conference should ask the Spanish Re-  publican Government to appoint representatives  to attend these meetings, which are in any case  public. ;  These are the proposals the Committee puts to  the Conference and upon which the Conference .  is asked to take a decision. :  Has anyone any comments?  M. DIWANY (Egypt) (translation) : I would  like to ask the President on what. basis represen-  tatives of Republican Spain could be invited, as  this invitation might lead us on to grounds other  than intellectual, and might place other states in  a difficult position.  Consequently, we must consider this aspect and  study the question if we are not to depart from
8 — 30 —   our intellectual aims and become involved in poli-  tical questions.  I put this question to the Conference.  , M. OPOCENSKY (Czechoslovakia) (transla-  tion) : The Czech delegation hopes that the pro-  posal to admit representatives of the Spanish Re-  public will not be rejected, and expresses the  wish that the Spanish people may find a place  in our midst, :  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY : There is a  very clear difference between observers and guests.  This difference is fixed by our Constitution, which  clearly establishes what organisations and what  governments have the right to send observers.  With the permission of the Egyptian representa-  tive, I would like to tell him that I think he has  made a slight mistake: we shall not ask the Span-  ish Republicans to send representatives, but to  send guests,  M. DRZEWIESKI (Poland) : We do not want  discussions of a political nature to take place at  this first Conference of Unesco. The question of  Republican Spain is not only a political ques-  tion, it is a fundamental question.  We have destroyed fascism and now we are  tolerating the sufferings of the Spanish people.  We have created a diplomatic precedent at  this Conference, because at the Arts Exhibition, °  presided over and organised by Unesco, we have  shown pictures by the greatest modern Spanish  painter, Picasso.  Picasso has worked with the finest French  painters, but has always remembered his Spanish  nationality and his common sufferings with Spain.  Moreover he has not shown his pictures in the  French, but in a Spanish Section. This is there-  fore a precedent. .  I know we want to avoid political discussions  and difficulties here in so far as is possible. We  do not want to introduce into Unesco the fierce  debates of other institutions of a more political  nature. However, I would strongly underline our  sympathies, with the Spanish people and our view  that it would be wise to find a satisfactory solut-  ion which would enable us to meet the request  of the Spanish Republicans.  Would it not be possible for the Secretariat  to draft a text enabling Spanish Republican re-  presentatives — and this is the wish of the Po-  lish delegation — to be sent to our Conference?  M. René CASSIN (France) (translation) : On  behalf of the French delegation I would like to  add my support to those who have just shown their  sympathy for the Spanish nation and for its an-  cient culture, which has the right to be repre-  sented in an Organisation like ours.  Had it been possible to do so, we, as French-  men, would have asked for the Spanish Republi-  can Government to be admitted, If unity can be  achieved on the lines proposed by the Committee,  we shall not insist. If, on the contrary, this pro-  blem were found to deserve closer consideration,  it might be necessary, as suggested by our Polish  colleague, to forward it to another body, but in  any case it is good and necessary that the Span-  ish nation should ;be represented at our Confe-  rence.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Gentlemen,  will you urge the Conference to accept the Com-  mittee’s proposal, a proposal which I may say,  without betraying any secrets, originated from the  Polish delegate? We have made this suggestion,  because it would enable us to avoid a difficult  debate which might split the Conference. We find  ourselves facing a complicated legal situation,  since the Spanish Republican Government is re-  cognised by certain governments represented at  the Conference, but not by others. This solution  would enable us, whilst avoiding these debates  and these splits, to express feelings which are  common to us all, namely feelings of special  friendship towards the Spanish people.  It isthisview that determined the Committee's  decision, and I would urge the Conference to ratify  - this proposal unanimously.  I shall now put the proposals, of the General  Committee to the vote.  M. DRZEWIESKI (Poland) : On behalf of the  Czech and Polish delegations I wish to announce  that, in order to stress our will for unity, we  shall abstain.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Under these  conditions I shall put the proposal to the vote.  Are there any other views?  (Adopted. )  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The repre-  sentatives of Sweden, Iceland and Switzerland  will be present at the Conference.
9. REPORT AND GENERAL DISCUSSION  ON THE WORK OF THE PREPARATORY  COMMISSION fconlinuation)  We shall proceed with the general discussion,  and I call upon M. Gielen, Netherlands Minister  of Education. '  M. GIELEN (Netherlands) (translation) : The  Netherlands delegation wishes first of all to join  those who have paid tribute to the welcome the  French Government with its traditional hospit-  ality has given us. I am all the more happy as,  in my opinion, the cultural climate of France,  and of Paris, lends itself to the noble aims of  this Conference.  Almost a year ago, my predecessor spoke a few  words to the members of the Conference which  met in London in November 1945 to create an  organisation of the United Nations for education,  science and culture. At that time, the Nether-  lands were still suffering from the woundsinflict-  ed by oppression and hunger. I bring you not  only a cordial greeting, but also a measure of  encouragement on behalf of a country in full re-  covery. The moral and spiritual problems we have  to consider at home remain very serious, but  we hope to solve them, and the good relations  between our friends, former allies and other coun-  tries, wil help us in his task.   In 1945 the Netherlands signed the San Fran-  cisco Charter and thereby accepted the principles  of international cooperation in the fields of the  intellect, culture and education.  It is not difficult for the Dutch to accept these  principles and to honour these obligations: in  touch with threecivilisations, they have been seek-  ing for a long time, I may even say centuries,  to know the spirit and the culture of neighbour-  ing peoples, in order to strengthen peace and en-  rich the spirit and culture of their own country.  Compulsory elementary education (since 1901),  the development of secondary education and vo-  cational training, the large number of universi-  ties and schools, the numerous peoples’ universities  and all sorts of institutions for the education of  the working man, cultural. societies in all fields  (and these based all on the freedom of education, of  the press, and of assembly) have enabled culture  in the Netherlands to reach its present position  in our public life. I would add that the policy  adopted by the Netherlands on this subject was  based on the principle that, in so far as educat-  ion is concerned, the state must not be all-  powerful. :  Considering its interest in foreign languages, the  Dutch nation find no difficulty in taking an in-  terest in the culture of other countries. Unfortun-  ately, the limited Dutch-speaking territory has pre-  vented the wide dissemination of written works;  however, visual arts and music are known abroad.  My compatriots will welcome plans to link the  national cultures so that the whole world may pro-  fit by the cultural achievements of each nation.  They are therefore fully disposed to give all pos-  sible aid to these projects. Though the cultural  life of the Netherlands has suffered great losses,  personal as well as material, as a result of the  war, the Dutch people think they are in a position  to share their cultural and intellectual life, with  other countries while being on the other hand  ready to receive gratefully the assistance of  friendly peoples.  Because of the great losses which we, in com-  mon with other members of Unesco, have suffer-  ed, we find ourselves compelled to import most  of the materials we need for reconstruction. This  position imposes serious economies upon us. It  is essential that we live soberly so that all classes  of our population may have everyday necessities  and may live, without too many worries of a  material kind. Considering the impoverishment of  so many countries, I think it essential to secure  an economic administration and a wise spending  of the funds voted for Unesco.  I would like to mention straight away the  subject of the cultural situation in Germany,  which the Secretary-General has already broached.  While acknowledging the efforts made by the  occupying authorities, we think it our duty to  mention that important groups in Germany find  themselves in complete cultural isolation. After  an exclusively National Socialist education, the  Germans are completely ignorant of the ideas of  a democratic world. We consider this spiritual  isolation a danger which threatens the whole world.  Meanwhile, the Netherlands delegation is of  the opinion that Unesco should not be satisfied  only with the fulfilment of the projects propos-  ed. If the peoples really intend to create mutual  understanding in order to establish world peace,  a serious consideration of the spiritual basis of  culture will be absolutely necessary. An exchange .  of cultural goods will not be sufficient. It will  also be necessary to find standards with which  to measure culture that can be accepted as the  main element of peace and harmony.  In the general introduction to the Preparatory  Commission's report, an evolutionist background  is mentioned. In our opinion, in this matter, the  Conference would do well to pay attention to the  religious communities which will be able to make  à large contribution towards the mutual under-  standing of peoples. The Netherlands delegation  is convinced that only thus will spiritual deve-  lopment be accessible to all.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I now call  upon the delegate of Brazil, H. E. M. Moniz de  Aragao.  M. MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Brazil) (translation) :  All those who have followed closely the gradual  rise of the United Nations Educational, Scienti-  fic and Cultural Organisation, today have excel-  lent reasons for feeling proud and confident. A  year ago we placed our hopes in the text of an  International Convention open to all peoples to  establish peace and security ‘‘ on the basis of  the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind ”.  Perhaps for the first time in history, the in-  ternational order was considered apart from its  purely political elements, and the first place was  given to spiritual forces capable of ensuring ‘“ re-  spect of justice, law, the rights of man, and the  fundamental freedoms for all, without distinct-  ion of race, sex, language, or religion ”’.  The project which at the time appeared fan-  tastic is now a living fact. Unesco, supported by
28 nations which have already ratified its Con-  stitution, calls together today its first General As-  sembly consisting of representatives of forty-one  nations. Linked by a common ideal, we answer-  ed its appeal; moved by the will to join our  efforts in the task to be accomplished.  Our task is su generis. The Constitution we  are called upon to put into éxecution, imposes  upon us duties which exceed the usual limits of  international obligations. We do not have toworry  about the frontiers, wealth or ‘power of nations,  but of the human heart and mind. The treas-  ures which we intend safeguarding and augment  ing are the collective patrimony of humanity, the  fruit of its creative genius, or the anonymous  contribution of past generations.  Unesco aims first of all at developing the plans  and techniques of education as à means of im-  proving human nature in its physical and intel-  lectual as well as moral aspects. It then proposes  to assist the development of science by all pos-  sible means. Knowledge of the laws which govern  the world and mankind alone enable us to fore-  see events, and to alter the natural economy  to the advantage of our species. Lastly, its pro-  gramme covers letters, philosophy and humanistic  studies under the general name of culture.  — 32 —   Thus the whole field of knowledge and the  means by which it can be turned to best account  in the service of society come within the plan  and scope of Unesco, .  Are we to see in it a college of philosophers,  scholars and artists, wholly devoted to disinterest-  ed research, to international education and the  creation of arts? Or will it just remain a centre  of co-ordination and diffusion of all free educa-  tional, scientific and cultural efforts in the world?  In one way or another Unesco will know how  to fulfil its mission of a spiritual link between nat-  ions. An international public opinion inspired  by Unesco will spring into existence and, little  by little, the intellectual and moral unity of man  will find in it its principles and its tools.  It is a promising sign that on the morrow of  the severest trial it has ever known, the world  should recover without scepticism or discourage-  - ment, and agree to advance towards higher pur-  poses under the banner of international solid-  arity.  Unesco will be a work of faith, or else it will  sink beneath the weight of an administrative  machinery as vain as it is sterile.  The colossal work already done by the Secre-  tariat of the Preparatory Commission, the impe-  tusgiven it byitseminent Executive Secretary, are  sure guarantees of its future. We find the proof  of it in the brilliant report presented by Profes-  sor Julian Huxley, rich in information and gener-  al ideas on the vast programme fixed for the  next few years.  I cannot praise sufficiently the breadth of the  scheme contemplated nor the precision of the  plans submitted to the General Conference for its  approval. A complete overhaul of intellectual act-'  ivities will result from the discussion of the plans  elaborated by scientists, artists, experts and tech-  nicians. New horizons will be opened to research  by the measures of co-ordination to be adopted.  A new attitude of mind will arise which will  bring to the work to be done in common that  leaven of wisdom and solidarity without which  nothing great is built.  The Brazilian nation and Government are glad  to assist in this great task of international rappro-  chement. Our faith in the letter and spirit of  Unesco was pledged years ago. As original mem-  bers of the Committee of Intellectual Co-operat-  ion, we took part in all the work of the Paris  Institute.  Faithful to this tradition, we accepted in 1943  the invitation to participate in the work which  resulted in 1945 in the foundation of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Or-  ganisation. Shortly after, in 1946, the Brazilian  Government created at Rio de Janeiro its Nation-  al Commission, under the name of Brazilian Ins- -  titute for Education, Science and Culture.  The new Brazilian Constitution also reflects the  interest aroused in public opinion by the problems  Unesco is called upon to solve. It allocates ten  per cent of the national revenue from taxation  and twenty per cent of that received by Federal  Districts and municipalities to the maintenance  and «development of all grades of education.  Now, at the moment when the General Con-  ference is about to debate the Agenda, I thought  it appropriate to emphasise the warm support my  country is giving to the United Nations Educat-  ional, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. May  it succeed before it is too late, in founding that  ‘‘ Society of Minds ” which has been promised  to mankind for its salvation.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 call upon  the delegate of China, Dr. Yuen Ren Chao.  Dr. Y. R. CHAO (China) : As Acting Chief  Delegate of the Chinese Delegation to the First  General Conference of Unesco, I have the honour  of transmitting to you the following telegram  from our Minister of Education, Chu Chiahua,  who was to come as our Chief Delegate :  ‘‘ Ambassador Tsien Tai Chinese Embassy Paris  France. Please transmit to Chinese Delegation to  Unesco for presenting to Conference. Detained  by meeting of National Assembly : deeply regret  inability to come to participate in work of Con-  ference; wish full success; hope concrete resolut-  ions will be made toward channelizing of world  cultures for increase of mutual understanding  among men and strengthening of forces for peace.  Chu Chiahua..”  May I assure you that our Minister of Educa-  tion is unable to be present, not because he re-  gards the work of this General Conference as  less important, but because his immediate and  constant attention is required for an even more  pressing duty; he is now striving to rehabilitate  evacuated and devastated schools and universi-  ties, to regain the rapid liberalisation and mo-  dernisation of education, and, in order to make  this process even more rapid, to establish the rule  of constitutional law — as a means of directing  the affairs of the nation.  To understand why a man who is entrusted  with the direction of education should be immed-  iately concerned with the general functions of a  National Assembly, we have only to ask ourselves  the same question. I imagine that the majority  of us have been concerned or interested in actual  teaching, research, or creative work. Why, then,  should we gather here and spend our time in  general discussions of a General Conference on  education, on science, and on culture, not to say  in listening to such general talk? The answer is  quite clear. As has been stated in the Constitüt-  ion of our Organisation, we are concerned with  education, science and culture, and particularly  with the contribution of these activities of the  mind to the peace, security and welfare of man-  kind; it is this general and universal aspect of the  mind of men that we want to keep constantly in  the foreground of our minds.  Having stated this fundamental point of view, I  feel that we are now ready to undertake the con-  crete activities of the new Organisation, and I feel  confident that increase in variety and richness  of their content will contribute towards solidar-  ity rather than division. As Dr. Huxley has said,  the proposals in our programme, in spite of the  multiplicity of detail, form one harmonious whole,  This 1s so because, once the right guiding prin-  ciples are adopted, every specific project inevit-   ably becomes a contribution to, and not a dis-  traction from, our principal aim.  May I give a few examples? There is, I under-  stand, a plan for co-operation with international  scientific unions. Now specialists in every field  appear to the general public as rather provincial-  minded people, But look at the behaviour of men  at an international reunion of specialists. The com-  mon bond of a common heritage of the mind  makes them brothers, in feeling as well as in  interest. Unesco exists in embryo in every inter-  national scientific union, and that is why we want  to be friends with international scientific unions  — and make them friends with each other.  Some parts of our programme may seem to  distinguish between Eastern and Western culture  and, since our aim is for unity, it is fitting and  proper that we should interpret oné to the  other, encouraging reciprocal knowledge of the  different cultures. This is all to the good. But  we can do more and, if our projects are car-  ried out in the spirit in which they are meant  to be carried out, we shall do more. If I may  be pardoned for speaking professionally, one of  the stimulating factors that favoured the recent  revival of linguistic and philological studies in  China was contact with Western methodology.  The rigorous methodology of philology in 1oth  century China found its next of kin in 1gth cen-  tury Western philology, to the great benefit of  new research into the old. You will recall that  Western philology is called Indo-European phi-  lology. Why? Because, both in content and in  method, it was in India, the Middle East, be-  tween the west and the east, that this scientific  tradition began. While, therefore, we of the Orient  welcome the value of scientific knowledge as a  powerful instrument for the furthering of human  welfare, it is much more in the spirit of scient-  ific methodology and free inquiry that a more  ‘organic approach of minds will come about, or  rather is coming about.  We of the Orient, as the honourable delegate  of India has emphasised, value quality. Not that  we have a monopoly in this. Over two milleniums  ago, mathematics was valued in the West for  its beauty as well as for its utility. But as the  Indian delegate observed, we put more emphasis  on intrinsic values. If Plato heard celestial music,  the skies are now silent for too many peoples  inthe West. But over in China, especially in  recent years, people continue to practise calli-  graphy as a fine art.  I need not take up any more of your time with  further details. I feel that the most fruitful con-  tribution we can make is to try to achieve, in  whatever intellectual or practical pursuits we hap-  pen to be concerned (in or out of Unesco), that  interpenetration of the spirit, that mutual re-  spect of the importance which each gives to some  aspect of life which, as Unesco and United Nations  grow toward manhood, will bring about the com-  munity of mind that is the aim of this Organis-  ation. China is happy to make her modest con-  tribution to the realisation of this united world  of education, science, and culture which we are  striving to build.  Yesterday, at the opening meeting of this Con-  ference, one of the honourable delegates of France  sitting beside me paid me the compliment of  remarking that China was the country which  first proposed at the San Francisco Conference  for the United Nations the initial idea of such  an organisation, and he nodded to me when  M. Naegelen mentioned it again in his address.  All T could say to my neighbour was a sincere  ““ Thank you ”, but, like so many appropriate re-  marks that otcur to one only long after the occa-  sion was over, it occurred to me that I should  have made this reply. I should have said ‘“ Thank  vou, sir, but we were not the first. We seemed to  be ahead of the times only because the times  were already going our way. ”  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 now call  upon Dr. Mills, first delegate of Australia.  Dr, R. C. MILLS (Australia) : The Australian  delegation desires to join in congratulating the  Preparatory Commission and its Secretariat on  the work that has been accomplished since the  London Conference a year ago. Australia was  among the first nations to complete the necessary  formalities for membership of Unesco, and has  welcomed the opportunity of sharing in the de-  velopment of the programme and the organisation-  al plans that are now submitted to this Confe-  rence by the Preparatory Commission. We are  sure that Unesco has an extremely important  contribution to make towards the building of  international society, the preservation of world  peace, and the promotion of human welfare. The  Australian Government and people are determin-  ed to participate fully in this, as in other forms  of international co-operation under the aegis of  the United Nations,  The views of the Australian delegation on the  programme and the administrative arrangements  proposed by the Preparatory Commission will be  expounded in detail in the appropriate Commis-  sion of this Conference. On this occasion I wish  merely to mention some of the more fundament-  al issues which the Australian "delegation believes  should receive the attention of the Conference  and its Commissions.  President Bidault referred, in his address of  welcome, to the importance of securing the mem-  bership of those United Nations that have not  vet joined Unesco. The Australian delegation,  too, would stress the urgency of this problem.  Let us not delude ourselves into thinking that.  our limited membership can be compensated for  by our enthusiasm. Truly Unesco can perform  useful services for its members, though their num-  bers may be small; but it cannat achieve its main  purposes so long as its support is confined to  “one-half or even two-thirds of the United Nations.  We all regret the delays that have prevented a  larger membership at this first General Conference,  and particularly we regret the absence of the  Soviet Union, a foundation member of the Uni-  ted Nations, very much concerned with the pro-  blems of educational rehabilitation and progress.  We believe some time should be made in the  course of the Conference to consider the problem  of bringing into Unesco those nations who have   not yet joined. In our examination of our future  programme of work we must bear in mind the  importance of extending the range of internation-  al collaboration, and we must see to it that  our programme is such as to facilitate the adher-  ence of those of the United Nations which are  not yet convinced that Unesco is worth while.  For this reason alone, although for other rea-  sons also, it is imperative that we should, in this  “Conference, step back a little, as the artist does  from an unfinished painting, and look at our  programme as a whole. The members of the Pre-  paratory Commission, the experts aiding them,  and the Secretariat itself have all been working  at high pressure, and have produced an extensive  and impressive list of projects, many of which  considered by themselves, are admirable. But now  we have the opportunity and the duty to look  critically at the programme as a whole, and to  examine its balance. One way of doing this is to  consider the proposed distribution of expenditure  over the various divisions of the programme.  Of the general budget of 7,505,000 dollars, the  Programme Department is allotted almost 72 per  cent. Of this, little more than ‘one-sixth is pro-  posed for the Education Division, and the remai-  ning five-sixths are reserved for other parts of  the programme. The Australian delegation will  ask the Programme Commission to consider whe-  ther these proportions are justified, taking into  account the world’s needs at the present time,  It is true that the adoption of the Preparatory  Commission's proposals on Educational Rehab-  ilitation would increase somewhat the weight  given to education in our total programme, and  I would say that, in the opinion of the Austra-  lian delegation, the preparation of these pro-  posals is the most significant development in the  work of Unesco in recent months. Nevertheless  we believe that one of the crucial issues before  this Conference, 1s to decide whether there should  not be a re-adjustment of the balance of our pro-  gramme as a whole, so that Education and Educ-  ational Rehabilitation would together absorb a  considerably higher percentage of the total bud-  get than is at present proposed, Although detail-  ed discussion of the Rehabilitation proposals will  be referred to a special Commission, we consider  that the Programme Commission must discuss  thoroughly the general issue of the relative im-  portance of Unesco's activities in education and  in the other fields.  We also hope that there will be an opportu-  nity during the Conference to have some discus-  sion of the problem of merging the work of Educ-  ational Rehabilitation into that of raising educ-  ational standards and facilities in countries that  suffer from the prevailing inequality of educa-  tional development. I'ollowing this Conference this  particular problem must be one of the principal  matters to be considered by the Executive Board  in the course of the coming year.  Another aspect of the Programme Report that  needs further consideration than the Preparatory  Commission has been able to give to it, is the  relationship between the work of Unesco and  that of the United Nations and the other Spe-  cialised Agencies. The Australian Government at-  taches the greatest importance to the co-ordination  of the many separate international governmental  organisations that have been and will be esta-  blished, Although this problem has not been over-  looked by the Preparatory Commission, it de-  mands still more explicit recognition in the Pro-  gramme.  One final word. In the introduction to the  Report before us, reference is made to “ a first  impression of diffuseness and scattering in Uniesco’s  programme ’’; but it is suggested that ‘“ second  thoughts show that a real unity of purpose  exists behind this multiplicity of detail. ” Lam  not sure that second thoughts do,in fact, dispel  the first impression of diffuseness, and we must  remember that many people, and many Govern-  ments will examine Unesco’s programme.in a  critical, though not- necessarily unsympathetic  manner. It is our responsibility to see that the  programme will stand up to such critical examin-  ation. The programme that finally emerges from  this Conference must not give an impression of  diffuseness. It must carry its own conviction, in  terms of practical commonsense. Some of the  projects now listed must be sacrificed, or at least  postponed, simply because Governments will not  be prepared to support on an international scale,  activities that they do not consider to be appro-  priate for Governments on the national scale.  Others will probably have to be postponed, to  make way for work of greater practical urgency.  Our task is to see to it that those projects that  remain, constitute a solid foundation, on which  to build in the years ahead,  The fundamental issues which I have mention-  ed and which we hope will be fully examined  by this Conference are : the present limited mem-  bership of Unesco ; the balance of its programme  as a whole; the relationship of its work to that  of the United Nations and to that of other  Specialised Agencies; and the necessity for a pro-  gramme of activities which will be practical and  convincing.  M. NIELSEN (Denmark) : At the first General  Conference of Unesco the adhering nations meet  with an ardent wish that the new Organisation,  which 1s now firmly established and to which so  many hopes are attached, should start weli. We  have all followed with keen interest the impos-  ing amount of work of the Preparatory Com-  mission and its Secretariat in preparing all bran-  ches of the activity of Unesco; everybody will  agree that we have before us an example of care-  fu! planning and bold enterprise which are indeed  promising. Moreover, the Executive Secretary has  laid before us a highly interesting essay on his  personal view of the leading ideas behind Unesco’s  work. In the view of the Danish delegation, how-  ever, considerations of such general nature, inspir-  ing and stimulating though they certainly are.  should not be in the foreground of our discussions  at this early stage in Unesco’s life. Unesco will  be judged not by its philosophy nor even by its  programme, but by its achievements. We there-  tore think that, in the first instance, we should  concentrate upon the more tangible items of the  programme which promise early results, and, while   not losing sight of our general aims, allow the  more ambitious plans to develop in the course  of time, as the Organisation grows in strength,  and its vast possibilities become evident to every-  body.  One may even be justified in saying that the  philosophical framing of our general aims need  not necessarily be conceived in advance, just as,  to quote a somewhat parallel case, epistemology  in recent times has had to refrain from formul-  ating by anticipation the methods of science  and has tended more and more to derive its  theories from what the scientists are really doing.  The programme which has been laid before us  and which, of course, may be completed by new  projects, gives us the possibility of attacking pro-  blems not previously undertaken, or which have  been coped with in an insufficient way. If we  succeed in solving them quickly, their prompt  solution would give an impetus to other pro-  positions and recommendations which Unesco can  make. We must bear in mind that there will be  considerable inertia to overcome in all nations,  and even some suspicion (in my view unjusti-  fied) that Unesco may become a sort of inter-  national debating club. If I am correctly inform-  ed, such inertia has already been met when the  Secretariat approached different Member States  on special questions. This is perhaps natural; in  our view it is by its record of successes that  Unesco can impress upon the individual nations  the necessity of taking an increasingly active part  in its work. Without such active collaboration  the central organisation of Unesco will be inef-  fective. Unesco is fortunate in that those diffi  culties and obstacles which, as we all know, often  beset international negotiations in the political  sphere will not arise in that domain of common  human interests with which we are concerned.  It should not therefore be difficult to reach agree-  ment on many of the plans and projects before  us.  Most of us will doubtless be glad to see defi-  nite measures emerge from what was recently de-  scribed as ‘“ a pile of papers”. From the report  of the Executive Secretary yesterday, we may  feel sure that definite action will be soon forth-  coming.  Among these plans there is one task of supreme  importance, that of cultural rehabilitation of the  war-devastated areas, In a memorandum laid be-  fore us by the Technical Sub-Committee there  is a sentence which sounds like a sigh : “ Until  this weight is reduced, Unesco cannot run its  best race, ©’ That may be true, but we must  remember that this task, even if a temporary  one, is one of the starting points in the existence  of our Organisation. The Conference of last year  was aware that urgent educational needs cannot  await official ratification and therefore provided  for immediate action by the Technical Sub-  Committee of the Preparatory Commission. We are  only at the beginning and nobody can underrate  the difficulties involved, but it will be the duty  of this General Assembly to see that this painful  problem shall not be overshadowed by more  ambitious permanent plans, Here too, I think the  Executive Secretary's report will reassure us. One  may even turn the sentence quoted the other  way round; if in the near future we are able to  reduce that weight substantially, it will be enor-  mously to the credit of Unesco, and the goodwill  thus created may prove of decisive importance  to the success of Unesco’s permanent work.  The incredible energy displayed by the United  Nations during the war was bound to slacken  with the end of hostilities. But if can be said  that the war has not ceased as long as many of  the fighting nations are neither able to provide  the most fundamental educational needs nor to  develop a normal cultural life.  The PRESIDENT {translation} : 1 call upon  the delegate of the Lebanon.  Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) (translation)  Mr. President, twice in less than half a century  the dream of building the world on a material  basis alone has been submerged in terrible blood-  shed. As a result of the double tragic experience  which this century has witnessed, it is now real-  ized that if the benefits of peace are to be enjoyed,  it is necessary to work for the union of peoples,  not only by economic planning and political treat-  ies between nations, but also by teaching the  one real truth and by instigating a love of the -  one real good. It is with the weapons of the  spirit that we must in future forge the defences  of peace.  It is precisely with these spiritual defences of  peace, with their creation and consolidation, that  you, Members of Unesco, have been concerned  during the whole of your career, by the teaching.  which you give and through the outpourings of  your hearts and minds.  Until now your teaching has reached the few  thousands who gathered about your great and  ancient Chairs, Today this Assembly 1s.concer-  ned with leading all the nations into the way  of truth.  The present speaker has a double claim to be  a representative of the spirit. I belong to a coun-  try which has always made an unconditional cult  of spiritual values, a cult which one only finds  in a country submitted during centuries to the  most terrifying austerities of life, but which  nevertheless remains faithful to the truth which  preceded it and which will outlive it, to the eter-  nal truth which comes from above.  I belong also to an institution over 2,000 years  old on whose facade these two words of its Divine  Founder are ineffaceably carved : ““ in spiritu et  in veritate "  This beautiful maxim of the Gospel has been  reproduced by Unesco in a more concrete form  in the statement which prefaces the programme  on which it aims to establish the peace of the  world. ‘‘ Unesco is a keystone in the arch of peace,  which these agencies (the Economic and Social  Council, the Security Council, the Council for  Finance and the International Labour Office) con-  stitute. A successful Unesco is a pre-requisite for  the full development of all the other elements. ”  In other words, the reign of the spirit must be  firmly established. :  The United Nations Organisation hopes to build   the great edifice of peace on the triple foundation  of education, science and culture.  May I point to a crack in these foundations  which, if care is not taken, might grow, with  time, and again threaten the whole structure?  According to the programme submitted, this  assembly hopes to build the foundations of peace  by influencing human intelligence.  According to the Western world, intelligence  is the only authentic manifestation of the spirit.  All the masters of Western philosophy have con-  sidered understanding to be the supreme hap-  piness of man, or at least the essential and the  satisfying condition of his happiness. Socrates-  Plato and Aristotle bore witness to this in an,  tiquity, as did Descartes, Leibnitz and Comte in  modern times, to mention only a few. Consequent-'  : ly, the Western world has always tried to de-  velop primarily man’s reason by cultivating and  enriching hisintelligence. The non-intellectual ma-  nifestations of the spirit, such as intuition, moral  sense and above all the sense of what is sacred,  are relegated by the West to a secondary place  when, that is, they are not scornfully disdained.  These activities which [have called non-intellect-  ual, but which are nevertheless fundamental to  the human spirit, are often ‘so atrophied in  modern man, that he seems to be spiritually blind.  An infirmity of this kind means that the indi-  vidual is no longer a healthy member of the body  of society. Should not the evil uses of science,  and the collapse of all civilization be ascribed to  the bad quality of the individual?  The oriental conception of the spirit is more  exhaustive and consequently more human. For  us it is at once logical and intuitive, a light of  the intelligence and an impuise of the heart,  “ animus ef anima "  All these activities interpenetrate and supple-  ment each other, and give to the human person-  ality its unity, its balance and its full develop-  ment. The human spirit is not made up of reason  more than gf emotion, it is both at once.  It is therefore indispensable, indeed urgent, to  restore to humanity this part of itself, by which  it can communicate with the vastly more myster-  ious infinity of the spiritual world, with God.  The re-education of humanity, which Unesco  is charged to undertake, must be complete, and  include, if it is not to ruin everything, the de-  velopment of tke intelligence by science and cul-  ture, and the development of the moral and reli-  gious sense by a carefully defined spiritual choice.  Certainly, the different spiritual communities  have the duty to break the bread which gives  strength and life to human souls and to bring  them to drink at the source of life eternal. But  those who have been chosen to be the architects  of the great edifice of peace must realise with  the psalmist that : ©“ Except the Lord build the  house, their labour is but lost that build it. ”  I know that a sincere and pressing ‘appeal is  being made by your assembly to all men of good  will, Catholics, Protestants, Mohammedans and  Jews. À meeting-ground, a common ground of  understanding, has, however, still to be found.  Gentlemen, it seems to me that this meeting-  ground exists for everybody. It is in God, not  the God of the philosophers, but the living God  of the Bible, that sacred Book which has always  been a perpetual source of inspiration, joy and  exaltation for all the highest forms of human  thought.  How tragic that this Book should be absent  from our schools and universities and, as a result,  what a dark and heavy night has fallen on human  intelligence for nearly two centuries! What in-  effable anguish it has engendered in the hearts  of those who, in their search for God, beat them-  selves against the relentless and insuperable bar-  rier of matter. How much happier are those who,  watching the phenomena of the universe, and  the single events and facts, rest upon the magni-  ficent synthesis of which God is the centre, and  who sing Dante's immortal lines: *“ In the depths  of paradise, I saw bound into a single book with  a thread of love everything which in the world  is scattered in loose pages. ”  These scattered pages, gentlemen, aré not only  the various natural sciences, the various orga-  nizations of the nations, but also our own honest  efforts as men of goodwill to promote the common  apd lasting good of humanity through the pur-  suit of truth.  These scattered pages must be bound in a vo-  lume. The golden thread which holds them, binds  them and will unite them, can it be other than  the living God of our great Bible?  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 call upon  the delegate of Belgium.  M. KUYPERS (Belgium) (translation) : I shall  try to do more than fill up a gap of a few minutes,  in the first place by associating myself with all  who have taken the floor today and then by paying  a tribute, a warm and justified tribute to the  Rapporteur. The document which was read to us  yesterday is of the greatest importance.  Moreover, the booklet which has been distri-  buted shows that the Preparatory Commission,  in addition to stating the general principles so  remarkably developed by Dr. Huxley, has class-  ified our tasks and clarified our ideas. Thus,  from a melting pot of ideas from the four corn-  ers of the globe, an attempt has been made to  extract what is really important, a series of feas-  ible tasks, wisely classified according to their  importance. For, to be brief, what do the final  pages contain? Immediate tasks, tasks for 1947,  .tasks for later.  What is our work as an international organi-  zation? First to consolidate our position and to  show the world that we are able, like skilful navi-  gators, to steer our frail craft so as to avoid the  © shoals that threaten it to right and left.  I come from a small country. We are supposed  to be a people with a measure of commonsense.  We are not much given to dreams, castles in  the air which are not built upon rock. We are  fond of an image conceived by one of our poets :  the plough in the hands of peasants of our soil,  * but peasants who look towards the star of Unesco.  It is this comparison which will enable me to  develop, without entering into detail, a point by  which we have been somewhat impressed.  — 37 —   When we examine Unesco’s budget, which is  by no means heavy for a work of such world  importance, we note an enormous disproportion  as regards costs of an administrative and mater-  tal kind — staff, conferences, etc. The Austra-  lian delegate has already asked that credits for  education should be increased. What strikes us  is that, apart from the very large sums earmark-  ed for the items I have just mentioned, there  is but little money for useful immediate tasks,  and in this connexion we should like certain  explanations, in order to be sure that we shall  avoid the pitfalls to which M. Naegelen and  Mr. Hardman so eloquently drew our attention  at the Sorbonne.  Our opinion is that, on education and the cam-  paigns against distress and ignorance in devast-  ated or backward countries, it is impossible to  spend too much money. We ask that every neces-  sary credit should be voted for the re-education:  of young people in the ex-enemy countries. We  are in agreement on many other points, but it  seems to us that the instrument which is now  in our hands, if it is to be fully efficient, should  have supplementary credits for useful tasks, for  the veritable undertakings before us, for real cons-  tructive expenditure.  Then again we must make the following point.  Unesco, whose essential task, clearly indicated,  is to stimulate, group, help, give a fresh impetus,  promote exchanges, mutual knowledge, etc. —  Unesco, whose budget is not drawn up on busi-  ness lines, since 80 per cent of the credits repre-  sent expenses on material and staff, etc., 20 per  cent only for really useful action in the form of  + scholarships, etc., — Unesco, which is not a busi-  ness firm, but an organisation of a special kind,  for which we do not propose to ask that it should  be governed by principles which are sound in an  industrial organisation, where in general the over-  head costs do not exceed a quarter of the total  budget — does Unesco propose to appeal for finan-  cial assistance elsewhere, for example from Govern-  ments, from organisations of all sorts which it  will assist, whose action it will endeavour to deve-  lop? If not, it will be necessary to reduce the  expenses on material and administration. This is  obviously the duty of the Budget Commission.  We do not propose to discuss this here, but in  any case, it will be necessary to increase the part  of the budget earmarked for constructive expend-  ture.  My third question -— and I propose to dwell  upon it a little longer — is as follows: Is it not  possible to make a clearer distinction in the budget  between ordinary expenditure and initial capital  outlay? It is clear that Unesco’s establishment     in Paris in this fine hotel, its purchases of fur- -  niture, etc., will cost money during the first and  perhaps the second year, but not during the years  that follow. Is it not possible to classify these  costs under a separate heading and to agree here  and now that the credits utilised this year for  these purposes may be used in the future in a  way that we should call really useful, that is  to say, on constructive expenditure, veritable  financial intervention on the part of Unesco in  the various fields of interest to us?  I propose to end my speech with this final  suggestion and T hope that no one will take what  I have said as negative criticism of work which  is beginning under the best possible auspices and  in which Pelgium, by unanimous votes in her two  legislative dssemblies, has gladly associated herself.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 call upon  the delegate of Yugoslavia.  M. Vladislav RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) (trans-  lation) : Although the Government of Yugoslavia  has not until today, that is, until the meeting  of the General Conference, decided to recommend  ratification of the Unesco Constitution to Parlia-  ‘ment, it has deemed it necessary to send to the  Unesco Conference the delegation over which I  have the honour to preside.  A little over a year ago, the Government of  the Peoples’ Federative Republic of Yugoslavia  willingly accepted the British Government's in-  vitation to the United Nations Conference to  create a United Nations Organisation for co-oper-  ation in the field of education and intellectual  culture, The Government of the Peoples’ Fede-  rative Republic of Yugoslavia realised the possi-  bilities such an erganisation offered to all nations  which had defeated the greatest enemies of huma-  nity — German and Italian Fascism and Japa-  nese Imperialism — and had fought for the fund-  amental right of peoples and individuals to a  free and independent life. I't realises that the or-  ganisation will make loyal and effective co-oper-  ation in the cultural field likely and will thus  contribute to the establishment and strengthe-  ning of a lasting peace between the peoples of  the world. That is why the Yugoslav delegation  took part in the work of that Conference and  signed the Constitution which was drawn up, even  though it could not approve of certain aspects  of the text of this Constitution.  The Yugoslav delegation felt that it was, above  all, necessary to create an organization based on  the general rules of the Constitution and con-  sidered that this Organisation would accomplish  practically all that the freedom-loving nations ex-  pected of it. The delegation felt that the more  or less abstract principles of this Constitution,  with which we cannot agree, will not have any de-  cisive influence on the future activities of Unesco.  One of these concepts, for example, is that which  appears in the first sentence of the preamble to  the Unesco Constitution, that is : ‘“ That since  wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds  of men that the defences of peace must be cons-  tructed ”; and again, the following text : “ That  ignorance of each others’ ways and lives has been  a common cause, throughout the history of man-  kind, of that suspicion and mistrust between the  peoples of the world through which their diffe-  rences have all too often broken into war. ‘1  feel certain that any man acquainted with his-  tory and who has understood the origins of the  war which has just ended, will agree that such  arbitrary conclusions show a lack of material and  scientific knowledge; that they give an inaccurate  picture of the causes which, in the history of  mankind, have provoked wars between nations,  — 38 — |   and that it is impossible to remove the causes  of war effectively by such principles.  However, the Yugoslav delegation signed this  Constitution, firmly convinced that declarations  of policy were of less importance than the oppor-  tunity offered for cultural co-operation between  the United Nations.  After signing the Unesco Constitution, the Go-  vernment of the Peoples’ Federative Republic of  Yugoslavia waited to sce how the activities of  Unesco would confirm this hope. It has studied  the proposals in Unesco’s practical programme  before deciding its final attitude towards this  Organisation.  During last Spring and Summer, the Prepara-  tory Commission drew up a whole series of pro-  posals which, if accepted by the General Confe-  rence, would form the basis of Unesco’s future  work. Among these proposals are some which,  in the opinion of the Government of the Fede-  rative Republic of Yugoslavia, would contribute  to the attainment of the general aims suggested  to Unesco; that is, they would favour the deve-  lopment of cultural co-operation between the na-  tions and the consolidation of a lasting peace.  But some of these proposals are far from these  aims, for they take no account of the facts of  modern life or of the particular relations in the  present-day world, and are consequently inappli-  cable in practice. Moreover, the very spirit of  some of them is contrary to the idea of co-oper-  ation and to the reinforcement of a lasting peace.  These proposals, inapplicable in practice and  contrary to the strengthening of lasting peace  and international cultural co-operation, have,  up to the present, prevented the Yugoslav  Government from proposing the ratification of  Unesco’s Constitution to their Parliament, and  induced them to await the result of this General  Conference before deciding finally whether or not  Yugoslavia will become a member of Unesco.  We presume that our Government’s attitude  will give rise to objections. It may be contended  that we should have already joined the Organisa-  tion and have explained and defended our point  of view before the General Conference in the  capacity of a regular member. However, in the  light of the very recent painful experience that  Yugoslavia suffered at the Paris Conference, where,  without formality, the indisputable rights of  Yugoslavia were disregarded and most of the  Yugoslav delegation’s proposals were defeated —  however well the evidence spoke in their favour  — and without any real discussion, simply through  fortuitous circumstances of voting; if, as I say,  we remember this experience, the decision of the  Yugoslav Government becomes quite understand-  able. Yugoslavia has no desire to find itself once  more in a position where the result of a vote  would force upon them decisions contrary to their  fundamental interests.  In the present general discussion we shall not  discuss the proposals for the Unesco programme  that, in our opinion, are not in accordance with  the principles on which Unesco’s work should be  based. We shall merely illustrate the tendencies  -and general trend of such proposals, which, if  endorsed by this Conference, would jeopardise  _ every possibility of international co-operation in  the cultural field.  Article I, Section 3, of the Unesco Constitution,  says that ‘“ With a view to preserving the inde-  pendence, integrity and fruitful diversity of the  cultures and educational systems of the States  Members of this Organisation, the Organisation  is prohibited from intervening in matters which  are essentially within their domestic jurisdiction ”’.  It follows, therefore, that the view expressed in  the Unesco Constitution is that the diversity of  cultures and educational systems in the various  countries is a positive factor in the development  of the general culture of mankind; that any out-  side influence intended to divert the development  of these various cultures from the channels which  they would follow if they were free and in-  dependent, must necessarily be harmful. Neverthe-  less, in the numerous proposals concerning the  Unesco programme submitted by the Prepara-  tory Commission, and in the drafting of these  proposals, we notice a persistent tendency which
1s absolutely contrary to the view of the Con-  stitution and which consistsin directing Unesco’s  activity to the casting of the various national  cultures in a standard mould, thus destroying  the individual character of each culture.  The drafting of these proposals reveals that  Unesco has even elaborated its own philosophy,  labelled ‘ World Scientific Humanism ”, which  according to the programme, will be forcibly dis-  seminated to and imposed upon the peoples of  the world. In defining its philosophy, Unesco has  found it necessary to condemn various concept-  ions of the world and of life which do not cor-  respond with its own philosophical concepts. For  example, it entirely rejects materialist philosophy  and questions the scientific character of dialect-  ical materialism.  These tendencies to constitute a centre for the  direction of national cultures, to proclaim  philo-  sophy which should be, as it were, an interna-  tional official philosophy, would lead to the en-  slavement of thought and of the spirit of creation  and would form an arbitrary obstacle to the spread  of culture.  This would be tantamount to the renunciation  by mankind of its enormous share in the treas-  ures of thought, for materialist philosophy has  existed down the ages in the human mind; it  has represented a factor of progress in knowledge  and, without the achievements of materialist philo-  sophy, it is impossible to conceive the mental-  ity of modern man. If materialist thought were  to be banned, it would amount to the suppres:  sion in England of a marvellous philosophic and  scientific inheritance, to the suppression in France  of its greatest age of philosophy and to holding  up the creative advance of younger peoples. This  would deprive science of the methods by which  it has become science, and in the last instance  would amount to subjecting science to meta-  physics.  If on many international questions (such as,  for example, that of peace), it may be possible  and necessary to reach an agreement (that is,  unanimity), reflected even in vote, objective truth  in the world ef scientific philosophy cannot be  TIT
3  established by vote or the plaudits of an assem-  bly, whatever the number of scholars and philo-  sophers in the hall.  Objective truth is to be reached by research,  and 1s confirmed by the experience of men, of  peoples, of mankind in general. Is it possible to  reject a philosophic and scientific conception,  namely dialectic materialism, whose principles and  even scientific forecasts are confirmed in practice?  No one can deny that, in the history of man-  kind, all progress has been linked with material-  ist thought, and that, of all world outlooks,  only dialectical materialism succeeds in confirming  scientific principles by experience of life. In the  case of the United Nations, is it possible to pro-  claim as official a speculative philosophy which  in meetings and commissions would amount to  a kind of philosophic esperanto, and, accordingly,  not to admit or even to reject, from the cultural  sphere, a philosophy which has become the out-  look of millions of men of all countries, precisely  because it is confirmed by experience?  It should not be forgotten that dialectical ma-  terialism is recognised and its general outlook  adopted by a great country, the Soviet Union,  whose social order is based precisely on science,  and where, for the first time in history, science  has made it possible for men to organise their  lives with a full knowledge of their real needs.  Let us suppose, what is not the case, that the  philosophy of dialectical materialism is confined  to the Saviet Union. Do the principles of cultural  co-operation of the United Nations permit us to  reject a great culture, the most advanced and  most in line with the desires of the peoples — a  culture which has survived where others would  have succumbed, a culture like that of the Soviet  Union, a country which in the war on the Fascist  barbarians contributed more than any other to  the salvation of mankind and civilization?  Let us not forget that the campaign against  dialectical materialism was one of the main fea-  tures of the Fascist regimes; they called upon  the peoples to fight the Soviet Union in the name  of European civilization. It is impossible for  Unesco to take a similar attitude, while declaring  itself in favour of international co-operation and  the ‘‘ free flow of ideas ”.  After this most terrible of wars against the  Fascist barbarians and aggressors, a war of which  we still bear the scars and whose last adepts  are still endeavouring to exercise their activity  within democratic countries, we should not, in  the name of cultural co-operation, proclaim a new  spiritual war against a philosophy which has been  . proved truly human.  We consider that this philosophy should not  be excluded from the ideological programme of  Unesco; but we do not mean that Unesco should  impose philosophic materialism on all members  of its organization. International cultural co-oper-  ation means fruitful emulation on the creative  plane, emulation between cultures, from which  should emerge the stabilization of values corres-  ponding to the interests of the United Nations  and of mankind.  We believe that such exclusivity on the part  of Unesco in the domain of thought can have  only one reason; to prevent, contrary to the ob-  jects defined in its Constitution, cultural co-oper-  ation between all United Nations, in the first  place between the western countries and the So-  viet Union.  The victory liberated many great and small  nations, bringing with it a freedom of which many  had till then been deprived. During the last two  years, those of the peoples who re-conquered fuil  freedom and independence have achieved a cult-  ural development which far exceeds that of many  past decades, for through their fight for freedom  they have created their new conditions of life.  This 1s the case in Yugoslavia, where education  and culture have developed apace, in such a way  that we can speak of a veritable cultural rebirth.  This proves that in these countries the educat-  ional systems and the general conditions neces-  sary to a speedy development of national culture  correspond to the real needs of these peoples.  Therefore, it is not necessary to alter and cor-  rect these systems and conditions by external  influences, as would seem to be contemplated in  certain proposals of the Preparatory Commission.  On the contrary, we think that Unesco should  encourage the development of national culture  on the lines on which it has already developed,  in so far as this is not contrary to the interests  of the United Nations. This is why we are against  any attempt to create any kind of cultural cen-  tralization. Only free development and friendly  competition between the various national cult-  ures will secure fruitful co-operation between all  the United Nations, a co-operation which would  speed up the general progress of mankind. And  it is only in this way that we shall achieve the  natural harmony of a culture common for all  mankind.  According to the Unesco Constitution, the fun-  damental aim of cultural co-operation between  the peoples is to contribute to the maintenance  of peace and security. This is to say that Unesco  should actively employ every means to this end.  It would therefore appear that Unesco is required  not only to use the means available in advocat-  ing peace and co-operation — this is not enough  — but to oppose any attempt at provoking sus-  picion and hatred between the peoples and to  prepare public opinion in certain countries against  such provocations. Unfortunately such attempts  are numerous in these days. They are reflected  in part of the world press, in various publications,  on the wireless, in arts and letters, in a word  in all spheres within the scope of this organiza-  tion. Unesco should not remain inactive in the  face of such attempts. It should not only reprove  them, but take active measures to suppress them.  But among the proposals put forward by the  Preparatory Commission we cannot find one which  touches this question. There is no reproof against  those who preach war, their press, their broad-  casts, their publications; nor is there any word  on the possible means, either for dealing with  such enemies of peace and co-operation or for  opposing the destructive activity of Fascist and  pro-Fascist elements which, in many countries, are  still able to exist and even benefit by a certain  protection. On the contrary, a whole series of  — 40 —   proposals by the Preparatory Commission, mis-  using the principle of “ free flow of ideas ”, pro-  vides for the penetration of the masses by a pro-  paganda devised by the adversaries of peace and  the instigators of new wars.  If we wish to preserve and consolidate peace,  we should fight for peace as we should fight the  enemies of democracy, as we should protect the  latter against the attacks of Fascist and pro-  Fascist forces. In out opinion, Unesco should in  no circumstances assist forces which consistently  oppose peace and democracy; otherwise Unesco,  sooner or later, will place certain democratic coun-  tries, Members of the Organisation, in a position  where they will be obliged to reject or not to  execute recommendations made by this Organi-  zation.  In drawing attention to these points, the Yugo-  slav delegation wishes to stress the consequences  which would affect relations between the United  Nations and which would have a negative in-  fluence on the general spirit of solidarity and  international peace, if the General Conference were  to adopt the proposals of the Preparatory Com-  mission in the form and spirit in which they have  been presented. The Yugoslav delegation already  deplores the appearance of the first negative re-  sults of the work of those bodies of the Pre-  paratory Commission which have taken part in the  establishment of the Unesco programme. The ab-  sence of a Soviet delegation to the General Con-  ference shows that such work cannot succeed. It  seems unnecessary to point out that no cultural  co-operation between the United Nations is con-  ceivable without the collaboration of the Soviet  Union, just as it would be difficult to imagine  the United Nations without the Soviet Union.  The Government of the Federated Peoples’ Re-  public of Yugoslavia has valid reasons for not  accepting any decision on the question of the  ratification of the Unesco Constitution. Our dele-  gation appeals to all delegations, friends of the  United Nations, taking part in the General Con-  ference, to take into due account the attitude  of the Government of the Federated Peoples’ Re-  public of Yugoslavia and to recognise our parti-  cipation in the General Conference as Observers  by permitting us to say a word on certain definite  questions of the programme, which are to be dis-  cussed at meetings of the commissions and sub-  commissions.  If, in the decisions of the General Conference,  due regard is paid to the fundamental conditions  necessary for fruitful work on the part of Unesco  (as already stated, these conditions are : respect  for the independence of national cultures, effec-  tive assistance in the cultural development of  each people, suppression of any activity against  peace and international co-operation}, if all this
1s taken into account, the Organisation will be  able to carry out its tasks. The Yugoslav dele-  gation is convinced that, if understanding and  loyalty reign in our discussions, the work of the  General Conference and the future activity of  Unesco may achieve definite results. It is only  in this way that the Organisation can fulfil the  hopes with which all friends of freedom greeted  its foundation.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Those of the  addresses you have heard this morning which are  of a philosophical nature will be discussed in  committees under Item 15 of the Agenda.  FOURTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 21 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  President : M. LEoN BLUM, President of the Conference
9. GENERAL DISCUSSION ON THE  WORK OF THE PREPARATORY  COMMISSION (continuation)  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 wish to  inform delegates that in accordance with the de-  cision taken this morning by the Conference. three  Swedish observers are now present at this meet-  ing on behalf of the Swedish Government, and  one observer representing the Swiss Government.  The first speaker on my list is H. E. M. Raphael,  delegate of Greece, who will now address the  meeting.  M. RAPHAEL (Greece) (translation) : Before  considering the questions raised in the report of  the Executive Secretary, I should like to say how  happy I am to convey the greetings of my Govern-  ment and of the Greek people to the first General  Conference of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organisation. I wish to  express the confidence which my country places  in this Organisation, and its sincere wishes for  its success. The eminent men who from the start  have worked for its establishment and for the  civilizing mission which it is called upon to fulfil  in the world, justify the hope that its work will  be both fruitful and beneficial.  This is not the first attempt to organize cultural |  collaboration on an international scale. From the  first Amphictyones of antiquity, who were a spirit-  ual rather than a political body, down to the  recent efforts of the League of Nations, the world  has never ceased trying to increase knowledge  and extend its cultural contacts. This is, however,  the first time that the problem is being considered  as a whole and that an international institution,  which we all hope will receive the support of all  United Nations, is being set up for the purpose  = 41