SUB-COMMISSION 7  ON CREATIVE ARTS  FIRST PLENARY MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1946 at 10.20 a. m.  At the opening of the meeting, the Sub-Com-  mission on Creative Arts elected its officers :  Chairman : Dr. REININK (Netherlands).  Vice-Chairman : M. CHARLIER (Belgium).  Rapporteur : M, J. Cassou (France).  The draft agenda was approved. |  The CANADIAN delegate proposed that the Sub-  Commission should be sub-divided into four  groups: Literature, Drama, Visual Arts and Music.  After some discussion, it was decided, on the  proposal of M. THomas (Secretariat) to split up  into two sub-committees, one to dèal with ques-  tions of Literature and the Theatre, the other with  Visual Arts and Music.  M. THomas (Deputy Executive Secretary) sub-  mitted the programme, of which the basic docu-  ments were the following : Chapter 7 of the Pre-  paratory Commission’s Report, which showed the  desirability of encouraging the establishment of  an International Theatre Organization, a propc-  sal for the establishment of an Information and  Survey Organization, and various written sugges=  tions submitted by the French delegation.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate underlined two  main points :
1) Unesco must act as'a centre of informa-  tion without trying to impose its views.
2) The Theatre was an independent art of  major importance. ’  With regard to the organization of the Secre-  tariat, the CANADIAN delegate asked that the Crea-  tive Arts programme be divided into four sepa-  rate sections (Visual Arts, Music, Literature and  Theatre), all under one control.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the Meeting of the  four points which the Programme Commission had  emphasized and asked the Sub-Commission to bear  them in mind.  Dr. HuxLEY said that it was essential to give  ‘Creative Arts an important part in the programme.  At the request of the Meeting, the CANADIAN  delegate resumed his statement and said that the  most important task was the immediate creation  of Information Centres all over the world to faci-  litate relations between artists.  Dr. HUXLEY considered that it was not neces-  sary to create-a special organization for this and  that the interchange of information could be link-  ed with the projéct concerning surveys.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate pointed out that  Unesco must not undertake the centralization of  information to the detriment of other already  existing organizations.  The BRAZILIAN delegate proposed that, since  they lacked data, the discussion on Information  Centres should be adjourned.  ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INFORMATION ORGAN-  IZATION ATTACHED TO THE CREATIVE ARTS  SECTION OF UNESCO.  The SECRETARIAT pointed out that, in accor-  dance with the Constitution, Unesco should ensure  the more efficient co-ordination and diffusion of  cultural and artistic information available in the  various countries.  The publication of an Information Bulletin  should be considered. In reply toa question by  M. CAIN, the SECRETARIAT explained that there  was no question for the moment of conducting  enquiries; they would devote themselves to ques-  tions strictly concerning information.  The NEW ZEALAND delegate obtained the adop-  tion of an additional clause, whereby the organ-  ization in question should work in close co-ope-  ration with parallel organizations of the other  Unesco Sections, in order to obtain efficient co-or-  dination and to ecônomize staff.  INTERCHANGE OF CULTURAL  AND ARTISTIC PERSONNEL.  In this regard, the CANADIAN delegate recom-  mended for study :
1. Direct exchanges between students, teachers  and artists.
2. The organization of students’ visits or study  courses abroad.  The establishment of vocational schools or  courses of an international character.  . ) The organization of festivals, artistic and  "theatrical tours, and international artists’  conferences.  These recommendations were adopted in prin-  ciple.  COPYRIGHT AND ROYALTIES.  The CANADIAN delegate recommended the crea-  tion of a Unesco Committee comprising an equal  representation of authors and publishing firms, to  get in touch with Authors’ Societies and the va-  rious Governments with a view to the establish-  ment of a new International Copyright Conven-  tion.  The Sub-Commission decided to appoint a sub-  committee of four of its members, to get in touch  with the sub-committee of the Sub-Commission  on Mass Communication, which was dealing with-  this matter.  INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE ARTS ORGANIZATION.  The Sub-Commission adopted a recommend-  ation asking Unesco to collaborate with existing  -— 180 —   bodies in this field, with a view to the creation  of such an International Organization.  RECOMMENDATIONS TO MEMBER STATES.  The CANADIAN delegate recommended the esta-  blishment of two committees, attached to. the  Unesco Executive Board, which would be respon-  sible for proposing to Member States, firstly, a  reduction of postal rates and customs duties on  cultural and artistic material circulating between  the various countries under Unesco’s authority;  and, secondly, reductions in passenger fares for  students, lecturers and artists travelling in these  areas.  After the UNITED STATES and FRENCH delegates  had pointed out that this was an international  question, which equally concerned all sections of  Unesco, the Sub-Commission decided to leave it to  the Secretariat, under the Executive Board's res-  ponsibility, to undertake an enquiry on this mat-  ter, and submit to the Member States any recom-  mendations they considered necessary.  UNESCO PRIZE FOR LITERATURE.  The CANADIAN delegate proposed that, failing  the establishment of a Unesco prize on the same  lines as the Nobe] prize, three Unesco medals for  literary work should be awarded this year.  Supporting the opinion expressed by the FRENCH  delegate, the Sub-Commission decided to post-  pone this matter for further study and to adopt  no resolution of principle for this year.  Enquiry ON THE TEACHING  OF ART AND LITERARY RESEARCH.  , The CANADIAN delegate proposed that a recom-  mendation should be made to the United States  that they enquire into the conditions of the teach-  ing of art and literary research in that country.  The results of such an enquiry would then be sub-  mitted to Unesco, which would co-ordinate them  and ensure their dissemination.  The SECRETARIAT considered that such an en-  quiry would yield better results if Unesco conduct-  ed it itself, particularly through its Secretariat  and in co-operation with the cultural organiza-  tions of the Member States.  The Sub-Commission decided to refer the mat-  ter to the Sub-Committees for further conside-  ration.  SECOND PLENARY MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946 at 3. p. m.  At the opening of the meeting, the CHAIRMAN  submitted for approval the proposal of the BEL-  GIAN delegation, in respect of which no decision  had been taken.  After a prolonged discussion and successive  votes, the following motion was finally adopted :  ‘“ The Arts Sub-Commission (Sub-Committee on  Visual Arts and Music), at its meeting of the  morning of 27 November, recommends that  in 1947 Unesco should concentrate its efforts  mainly on musical education, [caving on one  side for the time any other activity in this field.  It regards also as urgent the organization of a  Musical Information Centre. ”  A proposal by the UNITED KINGDOM delega-  tion was also discussed at length. Several votes  were taken and the proposal was adopted in the  following form : oo  ““ The Sub-Commission also recommends a  study of the manufacture of musical instrum-  ents, of the dissemination of records and musical  publications, and the continuation of the work  of international organizations interested in the  recording of folk music and the encouragement  of recording where there are no national organ-  izations for the purpose.”  After a few minutes’ interval, Dr. HUXLEY  summarized and classified the recommendations  of the Sub-Committee on Visual Arts and Music.  His proposal was as follows :  I. Imniediate organization of travelling exhi-  bitions.
2. Organization of exhibitions, festivals and  concerts, and study of the possibility of exchang-  ing such manifestations, ;
3, Relations between the visual arts and mu-  sic, on the one hand, and education, on the  other, r  (a) Study of conditions and needs of artists.  (b) Study of the technique of polychrome re-  production.  (c) Study of the influence of mass media on  music and the arts. .  (d) Methods for the protection of the arts and  of culture innon-industrialized countries.  (e) Study of the professional training of artists.  (f) Art and music as methods of general edu-  cation (study to be undertaken in colla-  boration with the Education Section).  The report by M. Cassou to the Sub-Committee  of Visual Arts and Music was adopted.  The Sub-Commission agreed with M. CAssou  that the creation of a special organization for en-  quiry and study within the Arts Section was not  necessary.  Dr. HUxLEY's memorandum encountered cer-  tain minor objections : the UNITED KINGDOM  delegate asked that, instead of organizing travel  exhibitions, Unesco should content itself with  encouraging and facilitating them.  He also raised certain general objections :  I. The wording was not definite enough and  did not keep to the text of the recommenda-  tions proposed by the sub-committees.
2. It did not establish the order in which the  different recommendations should be dealt with.  Certain delegations (FRANCE, NEW ZEALAND)  proposed that the Memorandum should be adopt-  ed subject to the observations made by delegates,  and that it be left to the Secretariat to establish  the order in which recommendations should be  dealt with, according to the technical possibilities  and requirements of the various regions.  “ The CANADIAN delegate, on the contrary, pro-  posed that the question should be referred to a  Sub-Committee of nine members, which would  examine and classify the recommendations in the  order in which they were to be taken, and would  — IBI —