TWELFTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 9 December 1946 at 10.36 a. m.  President : M. CARNEIRO (Brazil)
13. CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS OF  THE COMMISSIONS (continuation)  D. — REPORT OF PROGRAMMF  COMMISSION (Annex 1.)  On the agenda we have the consideration of  the report of the Programme Commission. I call  upon Mr. MacLeish, the Rapporteur of the Com-  mission.  The RAPPORTEUR OF THE PROGRAMME  COMMISSION : I am speaking in my capacity of  Chairman of the Drafting Committee, appointed  by the Programme Commission to submit areport  on its work to the General Conference.  I first wish to explain how this drafting com-  mittee came into existence and define the re-  sponsibilities which rest upon its members. This  committee was composed of M. Gilson, represen-  ting France, Mr. Grierson, representing the. Uni-  ted Kingdom, and myself, and was entrusted  with the drafting of the report. The report was  to be drafted in two languages, and we intended  to have as thorough and detailed bilingual dis-  cussions as possible concerning its wording. Un-  fortunately, time was short, with the result that  I am submitting a report I drew up alone and  in English only, as M. Gilson was not able to  follow all our work. M. Gilson wishes to stress.  that he is not responsible for the French text,  which is all the more unfortunate as we had  worked in perfect harmony together in London,  in the period prior to the drafting of the Unesco  Constitution.  Mr. Grierson, however, shoulders the entire  responsibility for the English text, together with  myself.  In view of the importance of the declaration I.  have just made, I request that it be translated  into French and that the interpreters indicate  the corrections to be made in the French version.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Allow me to  thank the Rapporteur for the excellent report  submitted to the General Conference and to con-  gratulate him on the form as well as on the subs-  tance of this document, which will remain one  of the factors guiding thé activity of Unesco  during the coming year. It will be one of our  most useful working implements.  Let me also thank the Secretariat for their  achievement in circulating this document, both  in English and French, the final draft of which-  was only ready yesterday at 3 p. m. |  It does not seem, therefore, necessary to make  an oral translation of it at the meeting, since the  French version has been circulated. The inter-  preter will only read out a short correction of  the French text, after which I shall call upon  the Director-General, who will comment upon.  the report before the discussion begins.  The anterpreter then read out the text of a correc-  tion on page 10 of the French text.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I wish to make  a few specific suggestions. First, I must say that  the translation and documentation services have  carried out a technical feat in view of the limited-  time at their disposal. I must also stress that it  was no mean achievement on the part of Mr. Mac-  Leish to make a choice, in so short a time, of the  wealth of detail to be included in the introduction  of the programme he has submitted as rapporteur.  Here are my suggestions : first, that we adopt  the report of the Chairman of the Commission  by a motion of approval. Fhis report would thus  be incorporated in the general report, together  with the six reports of the sub-sections or Pro-  gramme Sections. .  Secondly, this introductory report could be  widely circulated, and especially among people  who are not technicians, among the press, for ex-  ample, as it is more readable than reports of a  more technical nature, like those of the other  sections.  Thirdly, I wish to point out that the Green  Book, drawn up by the Preparatory Commission,  contains many ideas, especially in the introduc-  tion. It would be unfortunate if all this were to  be wasted.  I therefore think that it would be worth while  to circulate this introduction together with copies  of the report, for information, for these docu-  ments contain useful reading matter and show  the foundation upon which our programme study  has been based.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The discus-  sion is now open and I call upon Mr. Hardman.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre-  sident, ladies and gentlemen, fellow delegates,  first let me tell you that I have been much im-  pressed by the achievements before us, which are  ‘the result of the efficient work of our sub-com-  missions. These achievements were not the mono-  poly of the Great Powers or of war-devastated  countries in search of relief and which we intend  to help. .  All the countries represented at Unesco, of  course, have had their own interests in mind,  go      but have also made a point of co-operating with  other nations for the benefit of all.  We congratulate the Commission on its report  and I think that I express the opinion of all  when I address these congratulations more espe-  cially to the Chairman. i  The Report of the Programme Commission  stresses the urgency of rehabilitation, more espe-  cially in countries which bore the brunt of the  war.  I entirely agree with the insistent demands  made on governments for contributions. I can  guarantee the participation of my government in  the supplying of materials, most needed in war-  devastated countries and can say that we are  ready to co-operate with other nations in the  sharing of all technical equipment available.  My country is among the nations which have  aided the technical advance of our generation.  It would, however, be a privilege for us to make  use of our experience, efficiency and personnel for  the service of mankind. I also request that the  report stress the welfare of mankind and the defi-  nition of this term. I agree that peace is not  only the cessation of war but the efficient and  dynamic implementation of human co-operation  for the benefit of all. Such is the foundation of  common interest.  As the representative of Great Britain, I am  much interested by the observations contained  in the report of the Programme Sub-Commission  concerning the dissemination of knowledge by  teaching and mass communication. The task of  my country is to administer vast expanses of the  world. For this very reason we have invited some  of our most competent colonial experts to this  conference with the idea that they would carry  away with them a new spirit of objectivity with  which to consider the scientific education of the  masses and the culture of the peoples to whom  they devote their activity.  In the United Kingdom we have, during the  last twenty years, shown a marked interest in the  new media of mass education, and I think that  we have widely contributed to the advance which  has been achieved in this field. We think that  the experience thus acquired could be applied  with energy and enthusiasm to the implementa-  tion of the general programmes which Unesco  now proposes.  Mr. President, our world-wide experience also  accounts for my special interest in the observations  made concerning mass media of information. We  are to-day in a position to develop international  contacts for the benefit of the masses, and we  are perfectly aware of the international signi-  ficance of the radio. However, I would not res-  pect the spirit in which my government has adher-  ed to Unesco, if I did not again stress the need  for each country to have its own means of com-  munication and information, and the desirability  of developing nationai cultures throughout the  world. In discussions on the media of mass com-  munication, the experts of the various delegations  have taken into account the technical opportu-  nities which are due to the advance of the mod-  ern world. The press, the radio and the film  can pave the way to common understanding in  a world where half of the population is unfortun-  ately still illiterate. These discussions illustrated  the threat of encroachment on the culture of  backward peoples by peoples who are highly  developed technically and who consider their own  culture as a surplus for exportation. These privi-  leged countries, among which I number my own,  should be ready to supply handicapped countries  with the maximum of information and material  resources. They would thus be in a position to  develop their own cultures, and we, in our turn,  would benefit by their advance.  Mr. President, fellow delegates, what finer task  is there than to place the advantages of science  and culture at the disposal of a knowledge-hungry  world?  We all know the ‘“ dark zones ” in our own  knowledge, as well as the ‘‘ bright zones ’ of our  common culture. Among the commissions work-  ing for our common aim, let me mention the  Sciences Commission, the delegates of which,  speaking the common language of facts and needs,  have set up a programme which demands the  co-operation of the more advanced nations with  those which are not so favoured and are in need  of technical assistanée. Our project is both crea-  tive and practical; it contains the problems at  which we must work, and transports us to the  different countries of South America, to Africa,  to the Far East. The bright picture of the Ten-  nessee Valley casts its reflection upon other darker  valleys in other parts of the world; in fact we  may wonder if it is not the very picture of peace  itself.  Since the beginning of the Conference 1 have  been back to my country and have been in close  "touch with my Government and .members of  . Parliament. I noted a friendly but critical inte-  rest in our work. Members of the House of Com-  mons have discussed Unesco and it would appear  from their discussions that the statesmen of-Great  Britain have a realistic view of our Organization,  and that they wish to see the nations concerned  implemert a realistic programme. This is only  feasible if we make the conclusions of this Confer-  ence available to public opinion in our country.  It must be clearly realized that the economic  development of rehabilitation is one of the essen-  tial tasks which Unesco must undertake if civil-  ization is to survive.  If we sincerely believe in what has been accom-  plished here -— and personally I do believe in the  aims we have reached by our common effort —  we must, as delegates, return to our countries,  decided to carry out what we believe in, through  those governmental organizations upon which we  can exert some influence. That is why I move  a resolution, the implications of which must be  realized by all.  Let Unesco recommend that the government  of every State Member use every means and  avenue to carry out the programme of Unesco,  as it is here defined.  Twenty years ago I had the honour to sit on  the commissions which met at Geneva in those  optimistic days in the nineteen-twenties. At that  time we talked a lot and thought we were doing  a lot. Mr. President and fellow delegates, let that  — 80 —   experience be useful to us and let us to-day  accomplish a realistic and constructive task.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I call upon the  delegate of Yugoslavia.  The delegate of YUGOSLAVIA (translation):  Mr. President, as spokesman for the Yugoslav  delegation, I shall comment only generally upon  the report of the Programme Commission.  During the general discussion, the Yugoslav  delegation made known its point of view, accor-  ding to which the success of Unesco depends  upon a programme based on the following three  principles :
1) Absolute respect for the individuality of  the culture of every country and for its inde-  pendence and integrity.
2) Effective support for the natural develop-  ment of the culture of every people.
3) Prevention of all activity directed against  peace or against international co-operation.  At the same time the Yugoslav delegation -  drew attention to the fact that a certain number  of proposals, moved last summer at the meet-  ings of the Preparatory Commission, were at  variance with this principle.  We have realized with satisfaction, at the Ge-  neral Conference, that many delegations share  our point of view and that the work of the com-  missions, in a certain measure, has developed in  harmony with the three principles outlined above.  Thus, some of the proposals of the Preparatory  Commission have been amended, for example,  those concerning international literary reviews,  the International Theatre Institute, the Internat-  ional Translation Office, etc. Others have been  deferred; lastly, certain delegations have sub-  mitted new proposals tending to circumscribe the  influence of Unesco in the development of the  specific cultures of each nation. ;  Apart from questions which have been finally  solved in the Commissions, there are a number  of problems concerning the programme of Unesco  — these are of paramount importance to the fu-  ture cultural relations between peoples — which  have, in fact, first been raised in the Commis-  sions and are now before the General Conference.  Most of them are to be settled in 1947 or later, by  conferences of expert committees to be convened  by Unesco.  To sum up the work of the Conference in the  light of decisions so far taken, we can say that, in  the majority of the most important cases, the Con-  ference has only assigned to the executive bodies  of Unesco for 1947 the task of examining tho-  roughly and exhaustively (after preliminary sur-  veys and investigations on an international scale)  basic questions of cultural co-operation, so as to  supply the next General Conference with enough  concrete material to take new decisions on these  questions.  » This being the case, we can only welcome the  ‘fact that the General Conference has taken no  final decisions on questions which have not before-  hand been the object of sufficient study. But, we  can also conclude that this attitude is the result  of a basic weakness of the whole organization — a  weakness due to the lack of information which  would afford a general view of the scientific and  cultural life of peoples. Since all the United Na-  tions are not represented at the Conference of  Unesco, the latter has to allow for the absence of  representatives of Soviet culture and science,  which constitute an all-important factor in the  cultural life of mankind.  If the draft projects which are to be submitted  to the Secretariat are to be worked out in the  absence of representatives of the Soviet Union,  it is doubtful whether the premisses for the tak-  ing of final decisions on these important ques-  tions will be any more favourable in a year’s time  than they are today.  Allow me to make a few remarks of a general  nature concerning this future work of the Secre-  tariat. |  It sometimes happens, and it may happen in  our case, that general agreement is easily reached  on certain formulae, but that their implementa-  ing gives rise to differences of opinion. This may  be due to the fact that some of the technical terms  we use are not universally accepted.  Take the words ‘‘ democracy ” and ‘“ freedom ”  for example, words much used in the past, and  much used — not to say abused — today. There  are some who give them the meaning attached to  them by the literature and the political traditions  of the governing classes of the nineteenth century,  others who understand them in a wider or a nar-  rower sense, There are differences of interpretation  not only between the nationals of different count-  ries, peoples and cultures, but among individuals  and groups of the same nation. These differences  appear even in practice : the democracy of Yugo-  slavia cannot be compared with the democracy of  certain countries of Western Furope or America,  for example, or even with that of present-day  Greece.  Let us take another example. We are speaking  here of the “‘ dignity of, and respect for, man”. We  all know that this conception, too, is not the- same  for all. The ‘‘ struggle for human dignity and res-  pect ”’ means for some the struggle for full equal-  ity of rights between individuals, for the removal  ‘of economic shackles, ‘for the prevention of the  exploitation of one man’s work by another. Others  see in these words abstract ideas of ethical or moral  significance.  Again, Unesco contemplates a conference with  a view to making a Declaration of the Rights of  Man. I am not satisfied that this declaration will  contain one of the fundamental human rights :  the right of each man to work. This right is as a  rule ignored, for the simple reason that, outside  the Soviet Union, there is not a single country  where it is safeguarded. The Soviet citizen, whom  we cannot afford to neglect in our work, actually  possesses this right and prizes it above all others.  The same applies to a Code of Civil Rights  applicable to all nations. Co  I may quote another term used in the report of  the Preparatory Commission : the word “‘ total-  itarianism ’’. It was introduced into the political  vocabulary of pre-war days by the exponents of  Fascism, to describe their anti-democratic political  system and their social and economic organiza-  tion. Today, in a section of the reactionary press,  — 81 — .   which does not hide its fascist sympathies, the  ‘word 1s used tendentiously, with the propagandist  aim of sowing distrust among the United Nations  and thus obstructing the organization of a lasting  peace throughout the world.  Unesco should not become, unwittingly, the  instrument of such propaganda. Each time that  the words ‘totalitarianism ” or °° totalitarian  ideology ’’ appear in the documents of Unesco, it  should be stressed that they mear “ Fascism ”  and ‘ the system of Fascist domination ”.  The Secretariat has undertaken to establish an  international glossary of the different meanings  of technical terms used in the social sciences. This  glossary should be conceived on a really scientific  basis, points where a double interpretation is  possible being meticulously defined.  Since we are considering the report of the Pro-  gramme Commission, allow me to make a few  more general remarks. I deplore the fact that the  programme of Unesco does not take sufficient  account of the third principle upon which the  Yugoslav delegation insisted during. the general  ‘ discussion. Thus, not one of the proposals of the  Programme Commission would enable Unesco  effectively to oppose activity directed against  peace and friendly co-operation between peoples.  Contending that the problem of war and peace  can be solved, in a great measure, by the educa-  tion of youth and a higher cultural level of the  masses, the Programme Commission has centred  its attention on thé question of instruction and  education of peoples. But although general edu-  cation is admittedly an important factor in the  political conscience of peoples, we do not consider  that the premisses’ adopted by the Programme  Commission touch the core of the problem. His-  tory shows that wars are not caused by the masses  and that their cultural level has no decisive in-  fluence on their being drawn, against their will,  into wars of conquest. Today, for example, it is  obvious that the masses of free peoples deeply and  sincerely want peace. Nor does youth constitute  a factor which can shake the foundations of peace.  + War-mongers are not to be looked for among  the masses of the people, nor among youth; oppo-  sition between nationalism and internationalism  does not create ‘tension spots’. These war-  mongers are to be found among certain social  groups which are very influential in certain coun-  tries. These groups have an interest in dragging  peoples into wars of conquest and to this end make  ruthless use of all the means of propaganda at  their disposal. Unesco, whose first and foremost  task is to safeguard peace and security, must di-  rect its activity against these anti-peace media of  propaganda, against their press, their radio, their  films and. their publications. This specific part of  Unesco’s work should not be restricted to the fields  of culture and art, but should extend to all media  of general information — especially political in-  formation, which is the most penetrating, the  most effective for good as for evil — thereby in-  fluencing culture itself.  The Mass Communication Sub-Commission has  , considered this problem; it has discussed how to  prevent the dissemination of false news in the  press. Someone declared that it was impossible to  give a definition of the term ‘ false news ”. On  the contrary, we consider that it is by no means  difficult to expose false news in’ the press. As a  newspaper-man myself, this seems to me a very  simple matter. Let me give you a recent example,  which I can guarantee, all the more as it concerns  my own country.  À few days ago, during the General Conference,  the papers printed sensational news of.a conflict on  the Greek-Yugoslav border, inferring that the  Yugoslav Army was moving towards Greece. This  news was repeated systematically by the press  all the time that the debate on Trieste, of para-  mount importance to Yugoslavia, was taking place  in New York.  Suddenly these reports ceased, at the very mo-  ment that the question of Trieste was removed  from the agenda.  Such reports are circulated every time that  vital issues for peoples are at stake at international  conferences. They are most often an organized  campaign on the part of papers connected with  the no less influential groups that I have already  mentioned. I do not think that those who seek the  truth, and more particularly Unesco, would find it  difficult to establish the falsity of such reports.  The above observations are of a general nature  and apply to the programme proposals and to the  terminology used. I have one more remark to  make, I said that it was easier to agree upon for-  mulae than upon their interpretation. Those who  will first have to construe and carry out the adopt-  ed proposals are those whom the General Confer-  ence has placed at the head of Unesco. Unesco’s  future work will be dependent upon these direc-  tors, upon their capacity for organization and their  breadth of view on cultural questions of inter-  national moment. I am convinced, therefore, that,  for countries which have not yet taken their stand  towards the Organization, the question of the di-  rectorial set-up of Unesco is as important as the  programme itself. The substance of Unesco’s pro-  gramme, and to gn even greater degree, the way  in which tffis programme is carried out, and also  Unesco’s ability to overcome its initial handicap  of having no representative of the Soviet Union —  all these factors will determine whether or not  States Members of the United Nations who have  not joined Unesco will be able to co-operate with  this Organization.  Only when Unesco has overcome this weakness  shall we be able to say whether the words ‘‘ inter-  national ”’ and “ universal ”, of which Unesco  makes frequent use, have any definite’ meaning,  or whether they are limited to the ideology of a  fraction of mankind and mean, in culture, domi-  nation by one nation or group of nations.  The PRESIDENT (translation)  upon the delegate of France.  M. CASSIN (France) (translation } : The French  delegation deplores that it was not able, because  of the haste with which the Drafting Commission  had to work, to co-operate as much as it would  have wished, and take its full share of responsibi-  lity. It is all the more pleased to pay tribute to the  quality and the importance of the report which  Mr. MacLeish has. drafted in such lofty terms.  : IT now call  . —- 82 —   À summing up of the work of the Programme  Sub-Commission became an obvious necessity;  several sub-commissions had already endeavour-  ed to group, under more general headings, a series  of projects which, though interesting in them-  selves, needed classifying in wider categories. The  effort made in this direction has resulted in a gene-  ral clarification and will give great assistance to  the men responsible for executing the first pro-  gramme, as drawn up by the 1946 Conference.  The small modifications to tlre Report which  the Chairman agreed to make it more in harmony  with the realities of our work. In the Soctal  Sciences field, the study of Nationalism and Inter-  nationalism, the enquiry into war psychoses,  were discussed. This whole series of problems is  all related to the same idea : that Unesco should  make a scientific and objective study of Inter-  national Relations.  Around this one idea, international relations,  many apparently divergent studies could be group-  ed. Obviously if the terms of the ‘“ Commentary”  had been too rigid in the matter of responsibilities,  the Executive Board and the Director-General.  would perhaps not have been able to adopt the  classification now possible.
1 wish to stress the French Delegation’s interest  in the suggestion of publishing a certain number of  works already printed by Unesco, but I venture  to doubt whether the proposed methods of dis-  tribution strictly correspond to the Director-Gen-  eral’s point of view. Having spent 25 years in the  field of popular education, I would hesitate to  put the Preparatory Commission reports into the  hands of people who did not know much about  Unesco. These reports were for people sharing in  Unesco’s activities, who were in a position to  appreciate the wealth of ideas accumulated in a  year's work. However, the Conference documents,
1. e, the resolutions which have been passed and are  still to be passed, should be distributed as widely  as possible among the general public.  It is time for me to leave the plane of technical  discussion and to turn to the question presented  in so interesting a manner a few minutes ago. Our  delegation, slike many others, is convinced that  the supreme aim of Unesco, its very substance and  justification is to become universal and to achieve  co-operation with all organized states, with organ-  izations like Scientific Societies which are not  strictly governmental, and lastly, with men, in  all the countries of the world, whatever their race, |  creed, language and political ideas. If I may make  a suggestion, I think we might achieve universal-  ity quicker if, in carrying out the world stock-  taking necessary to a survey for the next con-  ference, we extended our enquiries not only to the  countries which have joined Unesco, but to all  other countries as well. In this manner we should  avoid big gaps in our information, a danger to  which the delegate of Yngoslavia alluded.  Further, still with a view to universality, the  first duty of Unesco is to give a constructive cha-  racter to its work, stressing all that unites peoples  instead of all that divides them.  It is very fortunate that the discussion of poli-  tical questions in the commissions — which was  not our task — has been eschewed, and that the  definition of certain terms was avoided as long as  all nations are not represented, for these terms  have different meanings in different countries.  Alongside with universality, independence is  among the basic aims of Unesco.  True, we have tried to make Unesco a specia-  lized organization, one of the agencies of a whole  system, geared for the establishment of peace  throughout the world. But Unesco must not be-  come a spiritual isolationist state detached from  the United Nations, from the great Specialised  Agencies already in existence or which we wish  to create. At the same time Unesco must be  independent in its choice of methods, which is why  we think that it must not, at the outset, adopt a  uniform philosophy, which would hamper the  variety of thought, not only of nations, but of the  individuals making up those nations.  Apart from this negative aspect of Unesco’s  independence there is a positive aspect. You refus-  ed, in the commissions, to limit the role of Unesco  : to that of a co-ordinating agency, although the  importance of co-ordination and stock-taking  will be paramount for some time; Unesco must  have other aims, creative aims, original aims, mo-  dest as they may be. This is neither too vast nor  too ambitious a project. Men are willing to co-  operate and all the goodwill ¢f the human race is  in search of a meeting place.  The great project of the Tennessee Valley was  mentioned; our programme contains a notable  and well-defined project for the Amazon Basin.  In the past, astronomers co-cperated to draw a  map of the sky. Now, it is for Unesco to become a  laboratory of new enterprise, capable of develop-  ing initiatives which are entirely independent of  what any nation, or group of nations, has ever  conceived.  I now come to the third rule for Unesco’s work :  the rule of effectiveness. All new-born organiza-  tions are threatened by a flood of written and prin-  ted matter, to the point where thoughts and ideas  are submerged in paper. We do not want Unesco  — and this is borne out by recent votes —- to be-  come a paper machine, we want it to be a centre  of thought. And this centre of thought must ap-  pear to the outside world, as rapidly as possible,  as the initiator of useful and effective action. We  were glad to hear Mr. MacLeish declare in his pre-  liminary commentary that the first task of Unesco  was the rehabilitation of countries devastated by  the war, by a war waged for all nations, for all  peoples are the debtors of those who suffered for  the comity of nations.  Speaking of effectiveness, allow me to stress the  danger there is of attempting to prescribe a uni-  form pace for all. During the war, when it was ne-  cessary to transport soldiers, passengers and goods  across mine and submarine infested oceans, ships  were assembled in convoys. The fastest steamers  were often obliged to reduce their speed to four  knots, so that the slowest cargo boat could keep  ace.  ? But peace has come; the development of nations  varies with their geographical situation. The great  effort we are contemplating, to raise the general  level of peoples, must by no means handicap the  forward march of pioneers, whose pace is quicker.  — 83 —      They pave the way for future convoys and, with-  out them, we could not even discuss the general  education of the masses.  We must, therefore, in Unesco always bear in  mind the advance of the masses and favour the  growth of talent, development of thought, scien-  tific discoveries, new research methods in the var-  ious fields of science, which will result in a better  standard of life for mankind and also in a higher  level of general education.  “ Education ” is not enough. The final aim  towards which Unesco must strive, with other  international organizations, the specific responsi-  “bilities it will shoulder in the field of action in  which it is engaged, impel it to demand of peoples,  and of their leaders, that they become more keenly  aware of the meaning of an international spirit.  Mere knowledge must not be confused with an  international spirit. We have a recent example of  peoples of a high level of education becoming the  victims of propaganda which all but led them to  destroy human civilization.  Nor must knowledge and civilization be confus-  ed. Civilization implies, besides added knowledge,  a response from the heart, and what I called just  now an awareness of the common elements which  bind the people of one country to the people of  another.  That is the fundamental aim of Unesco. It is no  denial of the tremendous importance of material  progress to say that material conditions and edu-  cation combined did not ensure peace and the  progress of human civilization, unless there were  above it all a will and a capacity to understand,  and a desire to act in an international spirit in the  highest sensé of the term.  THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 9 December 1046 at 2.45 p. m.  President : Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)
13. CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS OF  THE COMMISSIONS conlinuation )  D. — REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME  COMMISSION (continuation) (Annex 1).  The PRESIDENT : I imagine delegates would  like to know a little of the business we have before  us this afternoon, Three other delegates wish to  ‘speak on the general programme which was. sub-  mitted this morning; then there will be a brief re-  port from the Unesco Month Sub-Committee and  a resolution to be proposed and discussed. After  the discussion of the resolution from the Unesco  Month Sub-Committee, there will be a report and  resolution from the Comittee on Procedure. After  that, of course, there is a very important discus-  sion on the budget, so we have a very full after-  noon.  I now call upon Miss Bose, one of the Delegates  from India, to address the Conference.  The delegate of INDIA : Mr. Chairman, and  fellow-delegates. On behalf of the Indian dele-  gation I should like to express our whole-hearted  approval of the recommendations of the Pro-  gramme Commission, so ably presented to us by  its Chairman. We especially welcome the sentence  which reads as follows :  ‘ The present educational inequality be-  tween nations represents a danger to the peace  of the world which cannot become one if half  of it remains illiterate.  To this word “ illiterate ” 1 should like to add  “hungry and in bondage ‘’. This would meet from  another angle the sentiment expressed by the lead-  er of the British Delegation to the effect that our  spiritual enrichment should be built up on the  basis of economic security.
1 am glad that the Programme Commission has  warned us that we should not bite off more than  we can chew — it is one condition necessary for  our success. There is a second condition which I  should like to emphasize. In this organisation we  should be willing to eschew all political considera-  tions so that we may not only visualize, but-also  realize, our cultural and educational and scientific  programmes as an integral whole.  I should like to express, on behalf of the Indian  Delegation, its sincere desire that the universality  that M. Cassin has emphasized should be speedily  realized by the inclusion of all these nations who  are not yet members of Unesco. I need hardly add  that India would be à willing co-operator in giving  effect to the programme, both within her frontiers  and in the wider field of international effort.
1 therefore gladly support the proposal of the  British delegate.  The PRESIDENT : I call next upon the Dele-  gate of Australia, Dr. Mills.  The delegate of. AUSTRALIA : Mr. President,  I wish first of all to move that the report now  before the Conference be adopted. Next, on behalf  of the Australian Delegation, I wish to associate  myself with the views expressed by the other  speakers on their admiration for the task perform-  ed by the Committee which drew up this report.  I further would like myself to offer. special  thanks for the following reasons : it had been my  intention to point out that the test s had not been  sufficiently applied and to suggest that a small  Committee of three should be appointed as a Draft-  ing Committee, and should be asked to draw u  the total programme to be adopted by the Com-