CINÉMA (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting of the six  proposals the British delegation had nfade regar-  ding films (U. N.-Unesco Film Office, ¢learing or-  ganization, demonstration service, provision of ap-  propriate films to backward countries, institution  in the various countries of a National Council of  Visual Media, co-operation with international or-  ganizations and creation of national institutes of  scientific information). :  These six proposals were adopted.  The delegations of CANADA and BRAZIL propos-  ed a motion recommending the development of  the visual rather than the auditory aspect of films.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM made reser-  vations as to the efforts Unesco should make to  improve the technique of sound and sound-record-  ing in the various languages.  The principle of the motion presented by  CANADA and BRAZIL was agreed to subject to an  agreement with the British delegation before the  final drafting of the text.  À recommendation, submitted by the BRAZILIAN  delegation, that “ the Cinema be considered as an  art’ was also agreed upon.  With regard to the second part of the BRAZIL-  IAN proposal, concerning the award of prizes by  Unesco, directly or indirectly, the CHAIRMAN re-  commended that the Brazilian and British dele-  gates should agree on a text during the lunch-  hour in order not to delay the work of the Sub-  Commission.  At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, the propo-  sal of the LUXEMBURG delegation regarding the  supply of educational films and film material to  their country, was forwarded to the Rehabilitation  and Reconstruction Commission for study.  A discussion then followed on the use of educat-  ional and scientific films of German origin. The  question was whether this problem fell within the  competence of Unesco or of the Peace Conference.  Several delegates spoke, in particular the delegates  of the NETHERLANDS, UNITED STATES, LUXEM-  BURG, INDIA, and POLAND, and the Sub-Commiss-  ion finally agreed with the Chairman’s proposal  that these films be used only after all the necessary  de-nazification precautions had been taken.  Lastly, the CHAIRMAN submitted the conclusions  of the Sub-Committee responsible for studying the  question of the Films Convention. M. TURCOTTE  (Canada), Chairman of the Sub-Committee, read  a French translation of the English text of the  agreement. The French text, however, had not  been finally drafted; it was therefore necessary to  take the English text as a basis; the French text  would be circulated before definitive approval.  The delegate of POLAND, who proposed that a  clause protecting national production in Article 6  be maintained — a clause which M. Turcotte, on  behalf of the Sub-Committee, said he could not  accept — decided to approve this text pending fur-  ther instructions from his Government.  The text was unanimously adopted (subject to  production of the text in French).  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 3 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : M. KUYPERS (Belgium),  The CHAIRMAN proposed that certain amend-  ments be made to the text of the project of the  Sub-Committee on the convention dealing with the  cinema.  These proposals were adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then read the combined text of  the French and English proposals, which had been  adopted the previous day concerning rehabilitation  and professional training.  This text was approved.  “Mlle Eve CURIE (France) moved that at the  beginning of the second text an amendment should  be added with a view to encouraging exchanges of  instructors and probationers on the widest pos-  sible international basis.  This motion was adopted.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDON pointed  out the importance of the question of exhibitions  of Mass Media and stressed the role Unesco could  . play in promoting and giving information on sub-  jects coming within this sphere.  The CHAIRMAN also stressed that, in developing  auditory and visual media, Unesco must not lose  sight of their possible application to education, and  added that its pressure in this field must not relax.  He read out a recommendation to this effect  which was unanimously approved.  PRESS.  Mrs. MacCormick (United States) emphasized’  the importance of telecommunications and insisted  that all measures be taken to promote their deve- °  lopment and reduce rates.  Mlle Eve Curie (France) made definite propo-  sals intended to stimulate production, dissemina-  tion and exchanges to ease the task of journalists;
1. To improve the circulation of press organs  between different countries.
2. To give free access to the sources at which  information can be checked.
3. To.open working centres for journalists in  the big capitals.
4. To organize collective tours for journalists  in the very first year.
6. To study carefully the problem of periodi-  cals for young people.  Mlle Curie recalled the question of exchange fa-  cilities for foreign correspondents and centres of  professional training with international exchanges  of students and professors.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM pointed  out that, if some of the projects submitted by the  United States and French delegations did not ap-  pear to meet with the approval of the delegation  of the United Kingdom, it was that the latter  wanted not so much to reject those projects, as to  make reservations as to the means of carrying  them out.  The delegate of CANADA said that the United  Nations intended creating regional centres, and  — 160 —   Unesco could make use of them. These centres  could afford journalists advantages which would  not require great expenditure on the part of  Unesco. ;  The PorrsH delegate emphasized the part played  by the press in international relations. He would  like to see the technical conditions of the press  improved and its cultural level raised. He assured  the Secretariat that the Polish delegation was pre-  pared to collaborate in all concrete projects which  might assist the press in working for peace be-  tween nations. ;  The UNITED NATIONS observer pointed out that  these questions had already been discussed by the  United Nations It had been recommended that  Unesco should participate in a Conference organ-  ized by the Freedom of Information Sub-Commis-  sion of the Commission on Human Rights. The  creation of working centres, regional offices and  information centres had also been discussed, and  their principle agreed to.  The CHAIRMAN submitted the following reso-  lutions for approval :
1. That of the United States delegation, with  a view to making a study of the means for  improving, extending and cheapening of tele-  communications and postal services for the use  of the press;
2. That of the French delegation, which had  already been read to the Sub-Commission;
3. That of the United Kingdom delegation  under the following headings : A, 12; 13, 14,  B, 5, 6, 7, 8, of the delegation’s memorandum.  These proposals were all unanimously adopted  by the Sub-Commission.  INFORMATION, RESEARCH, STUDIES.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegation stressed the  expediency of undertaking in 1947 an enquiry  into instructional and documentary films, and also  concerning the press, from the threefold point of  view of national and international diffusion, and  the main tendencies and features of its economic  structure,  The FRENCH delegation submitted a proposal  which aimed, on the one hand, at undertaking a  study of press laws and the status of journalists  and, on the other, of summoning an international  conference of journalists. This conference would  lay the foundations for unifying the rules and  practices of journalism and for establishing spe-  cial committees for investigating questions of pro-  fessional misconduct.  The Vice-Chairman, M. WANÉERG (Denmark),  who referred to what had been done in this con-  nection before the war, emphasized the impor-  tance and the equally great difficulty, of esta-  blishing such committees.  Both the British and French proposals were  adopted unanimously.  STUDY OF OBSTACLES TO THE FREE FLOW  OF MASS COMMUNICATION,  The UNITED STATES delegation submitted a re-  solution emphasizing the importance of the iree  flow of communications and inviting Unesco to  undertake immediate action, in conjunction with  the Human Rights Commission of United Nations,  to draw up a clear and well-defined report deal-  - ing with the various obstacles to the free com-  munication of information and ideas.  This motion was unanimously adopted.  ASSISTANCE TO ORGANS CONCERNED WITH  MASS COMMUNICATION.  The FRENCH delegation asked that the question  of press agencies should be specially studied in  all its aspects by a world conference of experts  and journalists.” The report of this conference  should be very useful for the next General Con-  ference of Unesco. \  The French proposal was adopted, after the Unit-  ed States delegation had pointed out that the  proposed conference might fit in with the Con-  erence on Freedom of Information which the  United Nations intended to summon, and in which  Unesco should take a prominent part.  GENERAL DISCUSSION.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegation drew atten-  "tion to two points :
1) in-view of the number and importance of  the projects adopted, it will be'essential to main-  tain the budget of the Sub-Commission on Mass  Communication at its present figure, if not to  increase it;
2) the staff of the Mass Communication Sec-  tion must be numerous and of first-çlass qua-  lity. These factors must be taken into account  in fixing salaries.  The CHAIRMAN congratulated the Sub-Commis-  sion on its work. The FRENCH and UNITED STATES  delegation thanked the CHAIRMAN and the offi-  cers in the name of the Sub-Commission for the  manner in which they had conducted the debates.  A