Resolution No. 10  Resolution No. 10, proposed by the Belgian de-  legation, and scconded by the French and Greek  delegations, was unanimously adopted.  FIFTH MEETING  Heid on 27 November 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : M. B. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).  RESOLUTIONS PROPOSED FOR CONSIDERATION BY  THE RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION  COMMISSION.  (Doc. Unesco /c/19) (continuation).  It was decided that some of the resolutions  would be set aside, either because they had al-  ready been dealt with, or because it was advisable  to postpone their diseussion.  Resolution No. 1 was referred to the Executive  Board for consideration. '  The Meeting then dealt with the text which  the délegations of the UNITED STATES, FRANCE,  GREECE and the UNITED KINGDOM proposed to  substitute for paragraph 2, page 5, of Document  C/11 (English). This text was approved.  Resolution No. 2 submitted by the UNITED  KinGpou delegation, which provides for the mo-  dification of Recommendations Nos. 2'and 3 (ap-  pearing on page 5 of the English text of C/11)  and for the addition of a Recommendation No. 4,  was then taken up.  With regard to the proposed alteration to Re-  commendation No. 2, the CHAIRMAN considered  that this Recommendation should be taken as  adopted, by virtue of the approval given to the  text submitted jointly by the delegations of the  UNITED STATES, FRANCE, GREECE and the Unit-  ed Kingdom. A  The United Kingdom delegate having stated  his views on the amendment to Recommendation  No. 3 and on the adoption of Recommendation  No. 4, these items were also considered as appro-  ved,  Resolution No. 3, proposed by the UNITED STA-  TES. and Resolution No. 5, proposed by FRANCE,  were considered as adopted by virtue of the Com-  mission's approval of the text submitted jointly  by the delegations of the United States, France,  GREECE and the UNITED KINGDOM.  The same decision was taken in regard to the  first part of Resolution No. 7, proposed by the  GREEK delegation. The second part of this Reso-  ution would be considered when the question of  Unesco’s relations with other international organ-  izations was reviewed.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that Proposal No. 9  and paragraph 1 of Proposal No. 10 had already  been adopted. As there were no objections made  to paragraphs 2 and 3, the latter were also con-  sidered as approved. -  The discussion then began on Resolution No. 11.  The Curnese delegate hoped that Unesco would  continue the work undertaken by Unrra. The  GREEK delegate expressed the same hope. The  UNITED KINGDOM delegate pointed out that when  pursuing the task undertaken by Unrra, unless  precautions were taken, there was a danger of  encroaching on other international organizations,  such as the World Health Organization. Unesco’s  ‘ functions must be clearly determined.  The FRENCH delegate supported the United  Kingdom delegate and proposed the addition to  Resolution No. 11 of a motion which the French  delegation would communicate to the Chairman  and which would provide for the establishment  of an organization to continue the work of Unrra  in the material field, and stipulate that Unesco  should concern itself with questions of an intellect-  ual character and with vocational training.  The CHAIRMAN proposed the adjournment of the  discussion on this question until the problem of  Unesco's relations with other international organ-  izations was dealt with.  The meeting then turned to Resolution No. 12,  After taking into consideration the observations  by the UNITED STATES and FRENCH delegates, the  CHAIRMAN suggested that the first part of this Re-  solution could be submitted for the Commission’s  approval and that they should wait until the Sec-  tions were in a position to send in more detailed  reports before taking up the second part.  The Danisu delegate suggested that the first  part of a project which he had communicated to  the Chairman, concerning the assistance to be  granted to teaching staff, should then be consid-  ered. :  The CHAIRMAN proposed that this question  should be postponed until they had dealt with the  Resolutions submitted to the Commission.  With regard to Resolution No. 13, it was pro-  posed to alter the English text in order to make  it quite clear that national organizations will be  able to operate not only in war-devastated coun-  tries, but in any other country. In reply to a ques-  tion by the UNITED KINGDOM delegate, the CHAIR-  MAN pointed out that these organizations could  be under either government or private control.  Resolution No. 14 was adopted.  With regard to Resolution No. 13, the FRENCH  delegate proposed that the term ‘‘ countries re-  ceiving assistance ’’ should be substituted for ‘“ im-  poverished countries ’’. The Resolution was adop-  fed with. this alteration.  The CHAIRMAN stated that Resolution No. 17  would be considered in conjunction with Ttem 4  (c) of the Agenda (co-operation with private in-  ternational organizations).  The Meeting then dealt with the alterations to  be made to the draft of the second paragraph of  Article V concerning Youth Camps (Document  C/11, English text page 9). After a short discus-  sion, the delegates of the UNITED STATES, FRANCE  and the UNITED KINGDOM agreed upon the sub-  stitution of the following text for that which ap-  pears at the beginning of paragraph 1 : “ Even  if Unesco takes the initiative of organizing camps,  this in no way implies that... ’’ The reason for  this proposed alteration was that it was not nor-  mally Unesco’s responsibility to take the initia-  tive in this respect.  The proposal submitted by the DANISH delega-  — I42 —   tion, concerning the assistance to be given to tea-  chers and eventually to students, was then taken  up and was supported by the NORWEGIAN delega- .  + tion. The delegates of FRANCE and the UNITED  STATES having suggested that more emphasis  should be laid on the assistance to be given to chil-  dren, the CHAIRMAN asked them to consult with  the Danish delegate in order to re-draft the pro-  posal.  The meeting then resumed consideration of the  Agenda, and, in relation to Item 4 (c), studied  Proposal No. 17, which was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that they should deal  later with a motion submitted by the Frencu  delegation. This motion expressed ‘‘ the hope that  the work of Unrra will be continued for the bene-  fit of needy and ill-nourished children in war-de-  vastated countries ”,  Dr. WILSON asked permission to move an amend-  ment to Resolution No. g in spite of the fact  that the latter had already been adopted. He con-  sidered that the first paragraph should be altered,  so as to makeit clear that the Council would main-  tain a certain degree of independence in regard  to Unesco. The text should therefore read ‘“ Unesco  should take immediate steps to urge the establish-  ment of a Council... ”  The amendment was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then took up Resolution 11, con-  cerning which the FRENCH delegate desired to  table a motion. Pending communication of the  text to the Chairman, the meeting adjourned for  a few minutes.  The meeting was resumed at 11.55 a. m., under  the Chairmanship of M. DRZEWIESKI,  The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that  the officers of the Commission had suggested that  the report should be drafted by the rapporteur,  Mr. BRUMBAUCH, assisted by M. HEMPKIN, and  that it should subsequently be approved by the  Chairman.  This procedure was agreed to.  With reference to the budget of the Techni-  cal Sub-Committee, the officers proposed that it  should net be discussed by the Reconstruction  Commission until it had been examined by the  Financial Sub-Committee.  This proposal was agreed to.  The CHAIRMAN submitted for the Commission's  approval an amendment to Resolution No. 17, pre-  sented by the FRENCH delegation,  Resolution No. 17 was adopted, subject to this  amendment.  At the proposal of the GREEK delegate, it was  decided to insert in Resolution No. 7 words indi-  cating that the World Health Organization should  figure at the head of the list of bodies dealing  with the health of young people.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, as the World  Health Organization was affiliated to the Econce  mic and Social Council of the United Nations, the  wish thus expressed by the Unesco Conference  should be transmitted directly to this Organiza-  tion.  The CHAIRMAN submitted Resolution No. 5, con-  cerning the part to be played by Unesco in the  task of rehabilitation, for the Commission’s ap-  proval.  He drew attention to the fact that reference was  made in paragraph 1 of the Resolution to a point  already dealt with in the introduction to the re-  port. He thought it would be expedient, when  drafting the report in its final form, to eliminate  repetitions as far as possible. :  The UNITED STATES delegate pointed out tha  the Resolution in question was too important to  discuss without having a written text available;  and it was therefore decided to have it duplicated  and distributed to members, and to adjourn the  discussion to a later meeting.  The CHAIRMAN announced that the Agenda of  the Commission was nearly exhausted, since the  debate on the budget had been adjourned to a  later meeting. He also recalled that Resolution  No. 12, paragraph 2, had been referred to the  Education Sub-Commission for their opinion. This  Resolution would therefore not be discussed by  the Reconstruction Commission until the Educa-  tion Sub-Commission had expressed its opinion on  the question.  The GREEK delegate proposed that the next  meeting of the Commission should take place on  Wednesday, 4 December, at 3.0 p. m. This pro-  posal was accepted. ;  In order to comply with requests submitted by  the UNITED KINGDOM delegate, it was decided  that delegations which had views to express on  the allocation of funds earmarked for certain pur-  poses in the budget estimates should forward their  observations to Room No, 438 before 12 o’clock  on Thursday. These recommendations would be  transmitted to the Finance Sub-Commission.  The FRENCH and UNITED STATES delegates, on  behalf of all the delegations which had partici-  pated in the work of the Reconstruction Commis-  sion, expressed their thanks to M.DRZEWIESK1 for  the firmness and efficiency with which he had pre-  sided over the Commission's proceedings.  The CHAIRMAN replied that he had endeavour-  ed, above all, to secure agreement between all  the members of the Commission, as an expression  of the general desire to build a better world.  SIXTH MEETING  © Held on Wednesday, 4 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : M. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).  The CHAIRMAN requested the Rapporteur to sub-  mit the amendments to the Report contained in  document Unesco/C/11 Corrigendum.  All these amendments were adopted, except  page 3 of the corrigendum, Article 4 “ Field Con-  sultants” , fourth line : delete the word ‘‘ consul-  tation ”’.  The Commission adopted two additional amend-  ments ;  I. Page 7 of the Report, instead of “ Publica-  tions ’’ read ‘‘ Publications for teachers ”.
2. Page 7 of the Report, penultimate paragraph.  For “ Unesco should prepare pamphlets ”  read ‘“ Unesco should promote the publi-  cation of pamphlets... .”