3. DUTIES OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD.  The UNITED STATES delegate suggested that  the General Committee should, at one of its next  meetings, examine the nature and extent of the  powers of the Executive Board, a point on which  there seemed at present to be some doubt. The  proposal was adopted.  The meeting rose at 10. 20 a. m.  ELEVENTH MEETING  Tuesday, 3 December, 1946  The Meeting opened at 0. 40 a. m. with M,  MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Brazil) in the Chair.  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : China, France, Norway, Philippines, Poland,  salon of South Africa, United Kingdom, United  tates.  Li  I. LETTER AND NOTE FROM THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD.  The CHAIRMAN read a letter addressed to the  President of the Conference by the provisional  Chairman of the Executive Board, requesting that  the part of the Staff Regulations and Financial  Regulations of Unesco concerning the functions  of the Executive Board and those of the Director-  General should be considered by the General Con-  ference®at a full meeting, to be held on Friday  morning, 6th December, in the light of the report  prepared by the Administrative and Legal Com-  mission.  After discussion, and having regard to the re-  quirements of the Programme Commission and the  time needed for the establishment of its general  report, it was decided that the full meeting of the,  General Conference arranged for Friday morning,
6th December, should be devoted, not to the dis-  cussion of the report on Fundamental Education  (already examined by the Education Sub-Com-  mission), but to the discussion of the Staff Regul-  ations and Financial Regulations in the light of  the report of the Administrative and Legal Com-  mission.  The plenary meetings of the Programme Com-  mission booked for Wednesday, 4 December were  cancelled; the Programme Commission would hold  full meetings on Thursday, 5 December, at the  same time as the Administrative and Legal Com-  mission. :  The CHAIRMAN then read a note from the Exe--  cutive Board, previously communicated to the  Administrative and Legal Commission, concern-  ing the programme of work and the functions of  the Executive Board during the coming months.  It was decided that this note should be circulated  to all delegations.
2. REQUEST FOR ADMISSION FROM THE  Swiss FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.  The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Swiss  Federal Government expressing a wish to become  a Member of Unesco.  In accordance with the Constitution and with  the procedure existing for cases of this kind, it was  decided that the Swiss Government’s request  should be communicated to the Executive Board  before being transmitted to the Economic and  Social Council of the United Nations.
3. ESTABLISHMENT OF FINAL REPORTS.  At the request of the United States delegate,  the Secretariat described the procedure to be  adopted : :
1. Rapporteurs of Sub-Commissions would  hand in reports of two or three pages to the full  Commission;
2. These reports would be examined and dis-  cussed by the Co-ordination Committee;
3. They would be sent back to the Rappor-  teurs, who would prepare memoranda taking  account of the observations of the Co-ordination  Committee;
4. A drafting committee would draw up the  general report of the Commission, with annexes  including the reports of the six Sub-Commis-  sions. The meeting rose at 10. 25 a. m.  TWELFTH MEETING  Wednesday, 4 December, 1946  The Meeting opened at 9. 50 a. m. with Dr. Y. R.  CHAO (China) in the Chair.  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : the United States of America, Brazil,  France, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom,  Philippines, Poland, Norway.  I. SEAT OF 1948 CONFERENCE.  The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Egyptian  delegation confirming the Egyptian Government’s  invitation to Unesco to hold the 1948 General  Conference in Cairo.  The delegate of Norway reminded the meeting  that the Norwegian Government had already  invited Unesco to hold the 1948 Conference in  Oslo. ;  The Executive Secretary stated that the Nor-  wegian government’s invitation had been trans-  mitted to the Executive Board and the Egyptian  government’s letter would also be transmitted to  that body.
2. MEETING OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND  LEGAL COMMISSION.  The delegate of Norway said that, as the Ad-  ministrative and Financial Sub-Commission did  not expect to finish its agenda by the end of the  day, it was unlikely to be ready for the full meet-  ing of the Administrative and Legal Commission  “ scheduled for Thursday.  As the Staff Regulations and the Financial  Regulations were to be discussed at the plenary  meeting of the General Conference on Friday  morning, it was agreed that the full meeting of the  Administrative and Legal Commission on Thurs-  day should examine the report of the Legal and  External Relations Sub-Commission and part of  the report of the Administrative and Financial  Sub-Commission.  The meeting rose at 10 a. m.  T2C PS