proposals relating to technical equipment and to  the professional duties of staff, which were embod-  ied in a report attached to the proposals.  The CHAIRMAN asked the Secretariat to prepare  for Tuesday morning’s meeting a report which  would combine all the proposals by the United  Kingdom and French delegations concerning the  rehabilitation and éxtension of mass communica-  tions facilities. He suggested that the Chairman or  Rapporteur of the Reconstruction and Rehabilit-  ation Commission should assist in the drafting of  this report.  This proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN communicated a proposal by cer-  tain delegations recommending that, in order to  facilitate the Sub-Commission s work, the items  of the agenda should be grouped under the follow-  ing headings : -  A. Rehabilitation (which -the Sub-Commis-  sion had just examined).  B. Stimulation of production, dissemination  and exchange.  C. Information, research and studies.  D. Removal of barriers to the free diffusion  of mass information.  E. Aid to existing mass communication organ-  izations.  The proposal was adopted.  STIMULATION OF PRODUCTION,  DISSEMINATION AND EXCHANGE.  Mr. PriesTLEY (United Kingdom) proposed the  adoption of projects A. 3, 4 and 5 in the British  delegation’s report. These were :
3. Project concerning big world events,
4. Bureau of International Ideas,
5. An international forum.  After the SECRETARIAT had suggested that these  projects should be regarded, not as strict injunct-  ions but rather as examples of tasks to be accomp-  lished, Mr, PrirsTLEY (United Kingdom) replied  that the United Kingdom delegation had no wish  to dictate to the Secretariat, but rather to add  precision to the rather vague programme of the  Preparatory Commission.  The CHAIRMAN then pointed out that the word-  ing of the Upited Kingdom delegation’s propo-  sals was sufficiently elastic.  The delegate of INDIA approved the three pro-  posals of the United Kingdom.  The delegate of BRAZIL agreed with the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom, except on the point  concerning cinema prices.  The Sub-Commission unanimously adopted the  three proposals by the United Kingdom. delega-  tion concerning cinema, radio and press.  Ranbpro.  M. PorcuE (France) submitted the proposal con-  tained in the French delegation’s report, Annex
2 E-3. This was to make use of certain transmit-  ters in different countries for the purpose of broad-  casts, whose international programmes would be  made up from programmes prepared by the Unesco  radio station and would be put out by national  stations.  v  The SECRETARIAT then informed the Sub-Com-  mission of the plan for an International Broad-  casting Station now under discussion in the Uni-  ted Nations. Unesco would contribute to this sta-  tion’s programmes in the fields of education,  science and culture. This plan contemplated a long-  wave station for Europe and a short-wave station  for other countries.  Mrs, MacCormick (United States) approved the  French delegation’s proposal and suggested that  the Secretariat should get at once to work and  prepare a specimen programme of a week of broad-  casts.  The delegate of INDIA suggested that the per-  manent Unesco station should maintain a trans-  cription service in the different languages of the  States Members.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946, at 3. 30 p. m.  Chairman : M. KUYPERS (Belgium).  The UNITED STATES delegate, in agreement  with the French delegation, submitted a resolut-  ion calling on the Secretariat to appoint a com-  mittee of experts to examine the question of the  organization of an international broadcasting net-  work, to be directed in the matn by Unesco.  The CHAIRMAN remarked that this was a very  complicated technical matter, very costly to car-  ry out but he proposed that the Franco-Ameri-  can motion should be accepted.  The CANADIAN delegate regretted that no time-  limit was specified and suggested that, pending  the conclusions of the experts, Unesco should  make use of existing organizations and establish  a clearing house for the transmission of cultural  programmes over national systems.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate supported the  Franco-American draft and withdrew his own re-  esolution of that morning, finding the Franco-Am-  rican plan more comprehensive. He also seconded  the Canadian delegate’s proposal for.immediate  action and added to it a request for the setting  up of an International Office of Broadcasting In-  formation.  The Porisu delegate supported the Franco-  American proposal, provided this ambitious en-  terprise was not to be a starting-point, but the  outcome of thorough study and on condition that  its execution followed in accordance with the pro-  gress of the enquiry..  Mr. FREE (Secretariat) asked for the Sub-Com-  mission’s instructions on three points :
1) A conference on the rehabilitation of edu-  cational broadcasting equipment in Europe.  : 2) An international programme transcription  service.
3) Co-operation with the United Nations, pen-  ding the Experts’ Report.  The INDIAN delegate observed that the first two  points had been implicitly approved at the morn-  ing meeting, along with the United Kingdom pro-  posals. As regards the third point, the Chairman  had recommended prudence.  Fhe CHAIRMAN then took a vote on the Franco-  — IRE —      American proposal, which was adopted unanimous-  ly. BE  The United Kingdom proposal, seconded by the  French delegation, concerning the establishment,  under Unesco’s aegis, of an international commit-  tee on cultural programmes to be broadcast over  the national networks, was also adopied unani-  mously.  Mr. FREE pointed out that the question of co-  operation with the United Nations in the sphere  of broadcasting was now a practical one, and he  proposed that the Secretariat should be author-  ized to implement this co-operation, subject to ap-  proval by the Executive Board.  The CHAIRMAN, in taking note of the adoption  of a British plan for an international Broadcast-  ing University, thought that the Executive Board  did not possess the necessary technical competence  to direct the Secretariat in this matter. The Sub-  Commission agreed.  The PorrsH delegate asked the Secretariat to  concern itself further with the supply of cheap  wireless sets for devastated or backward countries.  This proposal was adopted.  CINEMA.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate proposed that cer-  tain paragraphs in the United Kingdom memo-  randum should be grouped together so as to hast-  en the work. .  The BRAZILIAN delegate stressed the artistic side  of the cinema; it was essentially an art of demons-  tration and should contribute effectively: to the  democratization of culture, provided that care  was taken to secure artistic quality. For this pur-  pose, he urged the development of cinema clubs  and libraries, and repeated a suggestion in the  French memorandum about copyright. Finally, he  recommended an international cinema prize to be  awarded by Unesco.  The DANISH delegate stressed the need to take  account of such existing international institutions  as CITAES. :  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate enlarged on pro-  posals B 8,9 & 10, and C 2, 3 & 4 iri the British  memorandum. He communicated an offer by his  government to distribute educational films for the  benefit of less well-equipped countries. Lastly, he  recommended an international film council which  would allow Unesco to stimulate film manufac-  turers to develop the ideas and topics in which  Unesco 1s interested.  The LUXEMBURG delegate reverted to the ques-  tion of instructional films and suggested that  such films should be tried out on schools in his  country, on condition that the necessary equip-  ment was supplied by better equipped countries.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 3 December 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : M. KUYPERS (Belgium).  COPYRIGHT.  The SECRETARIAT submitted the question of  -copyright. An international conference was under  consideration, and its task would be to work out  a world convention on this subject. Belgium had  been entrusted with the preparation of this con-  ference and negotiations had started between the  Secretariæt and the Belgian Government, with a  view to establishing Unesco’s part in the organ-  ization of*this conference.  . M. GuIsLAIN (Belgium) explained how, before  the war, the Bureau of the Berne Convention had  entrusted the Belgian Government with the res-  ponsibility for this conference. As to its aims, it  was intended to obtain the general application of  the present systems of protection and their incor-  poration in a world convention.  M. Julien CAIN (France) considered that the sub-  stance of the question was a matter for the Gener-  al Conference. When the Legal Section studied  the problem as a whole, it would have to keep  in close contact with the Mass Media, Arts, Edu-  cation, Libraries and Museums and Sciences Sec-  tions.  The delegate of CANADA proposed a motion re-  commending that the new copyright convention  should include the arts and.that there should be  close collaboration with associations of authors  and composers.  The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat would  get in touch with the Bureau of the Berne Conven-  tion with a view to organizing a world copyright  conference undér the auspices of Unesco. Further, .  the Secretariat would set up a conimittee of ex-  perts consisting of the following Sections : Mass  Communication, Arts, Libraries and Museums,  Sciences and the Legal Section. This Committee  would obtain all useful advice.  With regard to the motion proposed by the Can-  adian delegate, it would be voted upon at a later  meeting, when the Secretariat would have worked  out a text.  This proposal was unanimously adopted.  RADIO (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN requested the Rapporteur to  read a draft resolution concerning radio :  “ The Secretariat is completely free to co-  operate with the United Nations and all other  organizations with a view to presenting inter-  national programmes; however, Unesco cannot  enter into any engagements concerning an in-  ternational broadcasting network without ha-  ving previously consulted the Committee of  Experts. ”  The delegates of FRANCE and INDIA criticized  this text, especially in respect of the role of the  Programme Committee, and the respective powers  of the Secretariat, the Technical Committee and  the Executive Board.  Mr. MumrorD, United Nations observer, reserv-  ed his opinion on the work of the Commission  concerning the negotiations that were taking place  at the moment between the United Nations and  Unesco on the subject of the collaboration of their  information services.  At the CHAIRMAN’S proposal, it was decided to  abide by the decisions adopted the day before,  and to instruct the Secretariat to appoint the Pro-  gramme Committee and the Technical Commit-  tee as soon as possible.