honour to be the Chairman? The Natural Sciences  Sub-Commission was the only one to draw up a  budget for its programme in 1947, and it'has  recorded its opinion in the report which is now  before you * that no sum less than 1,000,000 dol-  lars in any year would allow of the carrying  through of an effective programme ”. The reasons  for this recommendation were put before the  Programme Commission by the rapporteur, Mr.  H. A. Compton, of the United States delegation.  ‘The public today is fully aware of the large sums  that are spent on scientific work. Even in India,  a sum of 1,000,000 dollars would be considered  inadequate to establish a National Laboratory in  one branch of science alone. À single instrument  of research, like a Betatron or Cyclotron, may cost’
1,000,000 dollars. The expenditures for scientific  enterprises are well known, at least as to the order  of magnitude. In the face of these facts the mem-  bers of the Natural Sciences Sub-Commission felt  that for an effective programme Unesco would  have to spend at least 1,000,000 dollars a year in  the Natural Sciences Section. Anything else would  appear to thé scientists of the whole world and -  even to the informed lay public as totally inad-  equate. Indeed, many may feel that if the Budget,  and possibly the allocation for Science be reduced,  the inclusion of science in Unesco was unfortunate,  in that, instead of promoting, it might in fact result  in hindering the growth of enterprises in science  involving international action and co-operation.  We scientists believe that science should be asso-  ciated with the educational and cultural activities  of the United Nations, but it would be difficult  to support such an association’if the price was  the crippling of the very activities it was our  intention to promote. We therefore urge strongly  that the total budget for the year 1947 should  not be substantially reduced below the figure  envisaged by the Preparatory Commission. I refer  to the remark made by the Australian délegate in  the commentary presented yesterday by Mr. Mac-  Leish, Chairman of the Drafting Committee, that  there was in fact no choice of schemes made.  You will see on page 2 of Mr. MacLeish”s report :  ‘“ There are, of course, many additional proposals  listed in the reports of the Sub-Commissions which,  equally with the proposals here named, are before  the Conference for adoption. ’’ So, in fact, there -  are now before us many" proposals from. which  we yesterday selected sqgme, but the whole report  of Mr. MacLeish was adopted, and, in fact,  Mr. MacLeish’s report was a preamble to the  report of the Sub-Commissions that followed it.  Speaking now on behalf of the Indian delega-  tion, T wish to say that my delegation supports  the British amendment. The sums involved are  indeed small. The whole budget of Unesco is  small compared with the billions of dollars, mil-  lions of pounds and milliards of roubles which  are spent by the Great Powers annually, not only  on armaments, but on scientific research for mili-  tary purposes.  Mr. Benton, in his first address to this Confer-  ence, sald that the combined budget of all na-  tions for military and naval establishments for  this year is at least ten thousand times the size  of the budget now centemplated for Unesco, and  it is proposed to cut this mark, If we truly believe  in the activities of Unesco, we must prove it to  the people of the world by our acts. The various  small savings of money involved in the reduction  , of the budget at this stage would be more than  offset by the adverse psychological effect, which  is a very important consideration at this point.  It would show the world that we who are met  here to draw up the plans for this great enter-  prise lack faith in ourselves. India is a poor  country, and it is not easy for us at the present  time, when we wish to utilize all our financial  resources for a rapid development of the country,  to make large contributions to international organ-  izations. Nevertheless, India is prepared to con-  tribute her full share to the work of Unesco and  feels it would be very regrettable if its activities  were crippled at the beginning by a reduction in  the budget at this stage. :  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I cali on  the delegate of South Africa.  The delegate of SOUTH AFRICA : The stir-  ring appeals of the delegates, particularly from  the United Kingdom and from Poland, have  brought to us a very gratifying realization of the  high 1deals which prompt every single delegation  to come here and take part in these discussions.  I submit, however, that these high ideals need  not be emphasized at this stage. We are all aiming  at the stars, and, with God’s help, we will get  a bit higher than we have done in the past on  the way to Peace. But, at this moment, one has  to be realistic — and I very much regret I have  not heard any arguments which can satisfy the  doubt that I have entertained as to the practic-  ability of a programme larger than that for  which the Sub-Commission has made provision.  I have heard no answer to the argument which  has been advanced by the delegate from the Unit-  ed States. I had sincerely hoped we would have  been able to get figures which would have con-  vinced.me that, before the end of 1947, we would  be in the position to buy even that million pounds’  worth of apparatus which could possibly be util-  ized in the interests of science. I would have  been heartily in favour of such an extension, and  feel that there must be no limit, as far as it is  humanly possible for us to meet the financial  burden. But the time, I am satisfied, is not yet,  and for that reason I am going to support.the  proposal which I seconded in the Sub-Commis-  sion. I do so in all confidence that, if the motion  is carried, it will not interfere with the good  work of the Organization, and that, in fact, so  far from having a bad psychological effect on  the world, it will have a very salutary effect,  because it will make the world realize we are  practical men and women in spite of Unesco’s  high ideals, and are setting about our task in a ‘  businesslike manner.  The delegate of NEW ZEALAND : I know  that what I have to say has been said already,  but I will make it very brief. I feel I could not  cast my vote without giving briefly my reason  for voting against this amendment. May I make  one or two things clear? The New Zealand dele-  es 103 pt.