American proposal, which was adopted unanimous-  ly. BE  The United Kingdom proposal, seconded by the  French delegation, concerning the establishment,  under Unesco’s aegis, of an international commit-  tee on cultural programmes to be broadcast over  the national networks, was also adopied unani-  mously.  Mr. FREE pointed out that the question of co-  operation with the United Nations in the sphere  of broadcasting was now a practical one, and he  proposed that the Secretariat should be author-  ized to implement this co-operation, subject to ap-  proval by the Executive Board.  The CHAIRMAN, in taking note of the adoption  of a British plan for an international Broadcast-  ing University, thought that the Executive Board  did not possess the necessary technical competence  to direct the Secretariat in this matter. The Sub-  Commission agreed.  The PorrsH delegate asked the Secretariat to  concern itself further with the supply of cheap  wireless sets for devastated or backward countries.  This proposal was adopted.  CINEMA.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate proposed that cer-  tain paragraphs in the United Kingdom memo-  randum should be grouped together so as to hast-  en the work. .  The BRAZILIAN delegate stressed the artistic side  of the cinema; it was essentially an art of demons-  tration and should contribute effectively: to the  democratization of culture, provided that care  was taken to secure artistic quality. For this pur-  pose, he urged the development of cinema clubs  and libraries, and repeated a suggestion in the  French memorandum about copyright. Finally, he  recommended an international cinema prize to be  awarded by Unesco.  The DANISH delegate stressed the need to take  account of such existing international institutions  as CITAES. :  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate enlarged on pro-  posals B 8,9 & 10, and C 2, 3 & 4 iri the British  memorandum. He communicated an offer by his  government to distribute educational films for the  benefit of less well-equipped countries. Lastly, he  recommended an international film council which  would allow Unesco to stimulate film manufac-  turers to develop the ideas and topics in which  Unesco 1s interested.  The LUXEMBURG delegate reverted to the ques-  tion of instructional films and suggested that  such films should be tried out on schools in his  country, on condition that the necessary equip-  ment was supplied by better equipped countries.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 3 December 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : M. KUYPERS (Belgium).  COPYRIGHT.  The SECRETARIAT submitted the question of  -copyright. An international conference was under  consideration, and its task would be to work out  a world convention on this subject. Belgium had  been entrusted with the preparation of this con-  ference and negotiations had started between the  Secretariæt and the Belgian Government, with a  view to establishing Unesco’s part in the organ-  ization of*this conference.  . M. GuIsLAIN (Belgium) explained how, before  the war, the Bureau of the Berne Convention had  entrusted the Belgian Government with the res-  ponsibility for this conference. As to its aims, it  was intended to obtain the general application of  the present systems of protection and their incor-  poration in a world convention.  M. Julien CAIN (France) considered that the sub-  stance of the question was a matter for the Gener-  al Conference. When the Legal Section studied  the problem as a whole, it would have to keep  in close contact with the Mass Media, Arts, Edu-  cation, Libraries and Museums and Sciences Sec-  tions.  The delegate of CANADA proposed a motion re-  commending that the new copyright convention  should include the arts and.that there should be  close collaboration with associations of authors  and composers.  The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat would  get in touch with the Bureau of the Berne Conven-  tion with a view to organizing a world copyright  conference undér the auspices of Unesco. Further, .  the Secretariat would set up a conimittee of ex-  perts consisting of the following Sections : Mass  Communication, Arts, Libraries and Museums,  Sciences and the Legal Section. This Committee  would obtain all useful advice.  With regard to the motion proposed by the Can-  adian delegate, it would be voted upon at a later  meeting, when the Secretariat would have worked  out a text.  This proposal was unanimously adopted.  RADIO (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN requested the Rapporteur to  read a draft resolution concerning radio :  “ The Secretariat is completely free to co-  operate with the United Nations and all other  organizations with a view to presenting inter-  national programmes; however, Unesco cannot  enter into any engagements concerning an in-  ternational broadcasting network without ha-  ving previously consulted the Committee of  Experts. ”  The delegates of FRANCE and INDIA criticized  this text, especially in respect of the role of the  Programme Committee, and the respective powers  of the Secretariat, the Technical Committee and  the Executive Board.  Mr. MumrorD, United Nations observer, reserv-  ed his opinion on the work of the Commission  concerning the negotiations that were taking place  at the moment between the United Nations and  Unesco on the subject of the collaboration of their  information services.  At the CHAIRMAN’S proposal, it was decided to  abide by the decisions adopted the day before,  and to instruct the Secretariat to appoint the Pro-  gramme Committee and the Technical Commit-  tee as soon as possible.   CINÉMA (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting of the six  proposals the British delegation had nfade regar-  ding films (U. N.-Unesco Film Office, ¢learing or-  ganization, demonstration service, provision of ap-  propriate films to backward countries, institution  in the various countries of a National Council of  Visual Media, co-operation with international or-  ganizations and creation of national institutes of  scientific information). :  These six proposals were adopted.  The delegations of CANADA and BRAZIL propos-  ed a motion recommending the development of  the visual rather than the auditory aspect of films.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM made reser-  vations as to the efforts Unesco should make to  improve the technique of sound and sound-record-  ing in the various languages.  The principle of the motion presented by  CANADA and BRAZIL was agreed to subject to an  agreement with the British delegation before the  final drafting of the text.  À recommendation, submitted by the BRAZILIAN  delegation, that “ the Cinema be considered as an  art’ was also agreed upon.  With regard to the second part of the BRAZIL-  IAN proposal, concerning the award of prizes by  Unesco, directly or indirectly, the CHAIRMAN re-  commended that the Brazilian and British dele-  gates should agree on a text during the lunch-  hour in order not to delay the work of the Sub-  Commission.  At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, the propo-  sal of the LUXEMBURG delegation regarding the  supply of educational films and film material to  their country, was forwarded to the Rehabilitation  and Reconstruction Commission for study.  A discussion then followed on the use of educat-  ional and scientific films of German origin. The  question was whether this problem fell within the  competence of Unesco or of the Peace Conference.  Several delegates spoke, in particular the delegates  of the NETHERLANDS, UNITED STATES, LUXEM-  BURG, INDIA, and POLAND, and the Sub-Commiss-  ion finally agreed with the Chairman’s proposal  that these films be used only after all the necessary  de-nazification precautions had been taken.  Lastly, the CHAIRMAN submitted the conclusions  of the Sub-Committee responsible for studying the  question of the Films Convention. M. TURCOTTE  (Canada), Chairman of the Sub-Committee, read  a French translation of the English text of the  agreement. The French text, however, had not  been finally drafted; it was therefore necessary to  take the English text as a basis; the French text  would be circulated before definitive approval.  The delegate of POLAND, who proposed that a  clause protecting national production in Article 6  be maintained — a clause which M. Turcotte, on  behalf of the Sub-Committee, said he could not  accept — decided to approve this text pending fur-  ther instructions from his Government.  The text was unanimously adopted (subject to  production of the text in French).  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 3 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : M. KUYPERS (Belgium),  The CHAIRMAN proposed that certain amend-  ments be made to the text of the project of the  Sub-Committee on the convention dealing with the  cinema.  These proposals were adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then read the combined text of  the French and English proposals, which had been  adopted the previous day concerning rehabilitation  and professional training.  This text was approved.  “Mlle Eve CURIE (France) moved that at the  beginning of the second text an amendment should  be added with a view to encouraging exchanges of  instructors and probationers on the widest pos-  sible international basis.  This motion was adopted.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDON pointed  out the importance of the question of exhibitions  of Mass Media and stressed the role Unesco could  . play in promoting and giving information on sub-  jects coming within this sphere.  The CHAIRMAN also stressed that, in developing  auditory and visual media, Unesco must not lose  sight of their possible application to education, and  added that its pressure in this field must not relax.  He read out a recommendation to this effect  which was unanimously approved.  PRESS.  Mrs. MacCormick (United States) emphasized’  the importance of telecommunications and insisted  that all measures be taken to promote their deve- °  lopment and reduce rates.  Mlle Eve Curie (France) made definite propo-  sals intended to stimulate production, dissemina-  tion and exchanges to ease the task of journalists;
1. To improve the circulation of press organs  between different countries.
2. To give free access to the sources at which  information can be checked.
3. To.open working centres for journalists in  the big capitals.
4. To organize collective tours for journalists  in the very first year.
6. To study carefully the problem of periodi-  cals for young people.  Mlle Curie recalled the question of exchange fa-  cilities for foreign correspondents and centres of  professional training with international exchanges  of students and professors.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM pointed  out that, if some of the projects submitted by the  United States and French delegations did not ap-  pear to meet with the approval of the delegation  of the United Kingdom, it was that the latter  wanted not so much to reject those projects, as to  make reservations as to the means of carrying  them out.  The delegate of CANADA said that the United  Nations intended creating regional centres, and  — 160 —