tions from authorized international associations  for assistance in respect of the organization of  festivals and of any activities included in the
1948 programme. ” |  A representative of the Secretariat stated that  the International Dance Archives had requested  Unesco to sponsor the International Ballet Com-  petition they were organizing in 1947; and a gene-  ral discussion took place on the subject, at the  end of which it was decided that the Sub-Com-  mission should give general instructions to the  Secretariat, and that the latter should be free  to establish relations with any given organization,  should it deem this necessary.  The CHAIRMAN thanked delegates for their pa-  tience and declared the meeting closed.  SUB-COMMITTEE  ON LITERATURE AND THEATRE  FIRST MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1046 at 3 hp. m.  Chairman : M. CHARLIER (Belgium).  The Sub-Committee appointed as rapporteur  Dr. Alfonso REYES (Mexico).  M. SLONIMSKI (Secretariat) explained the spe-  cial character of the task which the Literature  Section proposed to undertake; namely, to com-  bat, withthe power of the written word the exag-  gerated development of mechanization; to incul-  cate in the masses the knowledge of intellectual  achievements which were not otherwise dissemi-  nated; to renew between peoples those cultural  links which had been sevéred and to create new  ones.  TRANSLATIONS.  M. SLONIMSKI declared that work had already  been started in this field : the compilation of a  list of books which Unesco could suitably recom-  mend for translation in certain countries. :  The FRENCH delegation, supported by the Ca-  NADIAN delegation, suggested that, before embark-  ing on any definite undertaking, the basic organ-  ization — the translation office — which would  alone be qualified to deal with it, should be set up.  This Office would constitute a Translation Cen-  tre at the disposal of all Unesco Sections. It would  draw up, in every field, lists of works to be trans-  lated and lists of potential translators, would  act as a clearing house for authors, translators  and publishers, and would resume work on the  Index Translationum.  The principle of the immediate establishment  of this office was adopted. Tts duties would be :
1. Publication of the Index Translationum.
2. Establishment of a list of translators.
3. Establishment of a list of works for trans-  lation.  A discussion began on point 3 above.  The CANADIAN delegate asked that, in drawing  up this list of works, Unesco should avoid direct  contact with authors or literary organizations,  and confine itself to receiving the lists drawn up  by Member States under their own responsibility  in co-operation with National Commissions.  The delegates of FRANCE and of the Unttep  KINGDOM were opposed to the establishment or  recommendation of such lists by Unesco; they  considered it was not Unesco’s responsibility to  be a judge of taste. Unesco must carefully avoid  putting an official hallmark on a selection of  works that must necessarily be arbitrary, and  must confine itself to recording the National  Commissions’ selections.  It was further considered desirable that the  list of translators should also be drawn up in  agreement with the various governments.  These suggestions were adopted.  PuBLICATIONS.  A) Plan for an International Review Service  (to function as a Dissemination Centre for Lite-  rary Reviews of International interest). This inter-  national pool would, in particular, ensure the  circulation of literary reviews from far-off coun-  tries.  This item was adopted.
13) Anthologies,  M. SLONIMSKI announced that, to begin with,  the publication by Unesco of an ‘“ Anthology of  Resistance Movements ” was under consideration.  The delegates of CANADA, the UNITED KING-  DOM and the UNITED STATES expressed the view  that Unesco must not come into competition with  publishing firms. Unesco’s role was to give infor-  mation and stimulate private initiative in this  sphere, not to replace private initiative. The  above delegates were, however, prepared to make  an exception in the case of an anthology of resis-  tance movements, which Unesco might undertake  to publish, if publishing firms suitable for this  task could not be found in the various countries.  In future, if Unesco were to draw up a publish-  ing programme, it should confine itself to recom-  mending this programme to Member States.  The FRENCH delegate read the programme of  publications shown on page six of the French  delegation’s report, and asked that this pro-  gramme be studied by the Secretariat with a  view to arrangements for its implementation, on  the understanding that Unesco would not enter  into any formal engagement in this respect.  This suggestion was adopted.  Finally, there was a discussion as to whether  — 184 —   Unesco, without undertaking publishing work on  its own, could assist or sponsor the publication  of anthologies of international interest.  It was decided that Unesco could do this in so  ‘far asthe publications referred to offered sufficient  guarantees.  RELIEF TO AUTHORS AND READERS.  Copyright and Literary Property.  The CANADIAN delegate, reverting to a decision  taken that morning, asked for the creation of a  Mixed Committee of the Sub-Commissions on  Mass Communication and Creative Arts, to study  this important question.  M: THOMAS, on behalf of the Secretariat, under-  took to ask the Co-ordination Committee to ar-  range a joint meeting of the two Süb-Commissions  at which the question of literary property would  be discussed, with particular reférence to the  jarticipation of Unesco in the work of the Brussels  onference: |  SECOND MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1046 at 10 à, m.  Chairman : M, CHARLIER (Belgium).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES was afraid  that the Sub-Commission had given an unduly  small place to literature in the programme of  Unesco.  Referring to Items 1 and z on the agenda (Trans-  lations and Publications) he‘suggested that Unesco  while continuing to assist and stimulate national  and private undertakings in this field, should (1)  itself undertake an enquiry into the place of lite-  rature in international relations and (2) recom-  mend translations which would be likely to con-  tribute to a better understanding between peoples,  He doubted whether the National Commissions  would be competent to draw up a list of this kind.  During the discussion which followed, it became  evident that it would be equally dangerous for  Unesco either to accept without examination the  lists chosen by the National Commissions or to  take on itself the role of arbiter.  Agreement was reached on the following motion  presented by ‘the French delegation : .
1. Unesco should in no case undertake the  responsibility of preparing lists of works for  translation;
2. Unesco should carry out the functions of  co-ordination, by publishing lists prepared not  only by the National Commissions, but also b  all kinds of cultural organizations to which it  might think fit to refer. This motion was adopted  in principle, with the following amendments  suggested by the delegates of China, Yugosla-  via and the United States of America :  I, The Secretariat of Unesco could put for  ward recommendations in its own name on the  subject of translations.
2, Cultural groups to which it might refer  should be really representative of the national  cultures.
3. The Secretariat of Unesco could consult  Committees of Experts in this field.  ASSISTANCE FOR AUTHORS AND READERS.  Consideration of the question of copyright was  postponed until the next meeting.  The following points of the report were adopted  without discussion at the suggestion of the Secre-  tariat ;  I. Assistance for authors in devastated coun-  tries.
2. Organization of reading groups.
3. Co-operation with'other Sections of Unesco.  At the request of the French delegation a fur-  ther recommendation was made to the Secretariat  that it should consider the question of internation=  al ‘booksellers, particularly the sale of transla-  tions and books in foreign languages:  THEATRE.  It was stated that as a matter of administrative  organization, the Theatre (including Ballet and  pera) formed one of the four sections under the  heading of Creative Arts, the others being Visual  Arts, Music and Literature, close contact between  the different sections being carefully maintained.  The Secretariat asked the Sub-Commission to  approve en bloc the recommendations 1-9 contain-  ed in document Unesco/C/12 (page 6 of the En-  glish text, page 7 of the French text).  These recommendations were adopted subject  to an alteration in the wording of recommendat-  ion number 7, where the words : ‘‘ to assist ma-  terially ”’ were replaced by the words: ¢ give tech-  nical aid (such as documents, photographs, models,  plans) to”. This was at the suggestion of the  French delegation.  With reference to recommendation number 8  (Exchange of Personnel), it was stated that all  matters relating to exchanges and exhibitions  concerning the four sections of the Creative Arts  Department would be co-ordinated at the level  of the Directors of the Department.  INTERNATIONAL THEATRE INSTITUTE.  Agreement was quickly reached on a motion  presented by the delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM,  recommending that the Secretariat of Unesco call  as soon as possible an International Conference of  leading personalities in the theatre, with the aim  of creating an International Theatre Institute, to  be independent of Unesco.  The following points emerged during the dis-  * cussion :
1. This Conference should be really univer-  sal and should include representatives of the  U.S. S.R.  ‘2. While the choice of delegates should be left  on principle to the National Comm'ssions, the  Secretariat would be able to send direct invita-  tions to persons whose absence would prejudice  the work of the Conference.
3. While the expenses of this Conference  would be borne by Unesco, the subsequent acti-  vities of the various national centres of the In-  ternational Theatre Institute would be subsid-  ized by.the National Organizations. J
4. The Conference and the International  — 185 —