ADMINISTRATIVE AND LEGAL  COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946 at 3.13 p.m.  Chairman : Dr. SOMMERFELT (Norway).  Dr. Y. R. CHAO (China), Vice-President of the  General Conference, proposed M. SOMMERFELT  (Norway) as Chairman of the Commission.  M. SOMMERFELT was elected unanimously and  took the Chair.  The CHAIRMAN proposed the following appoint-  “ments :  Vice-Chairman of the Commission  HOWER (United States);  Chairman of the Administrative and Financial  Sub-Commission : Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand);  Chairman of the Legal and External Relations Sub-  Commission : M. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela).  M. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) proposed that  M. Luis Alberto SANCHEZ (Peru) be appointed in  his place.  With this alteration, the proposals of the Chair-  man were adopled unanimously.  Finally, M. GRUZON (France) was chosen as  Rapporteur of the Commission.  , The CHAIRMAN submitted the draft Agenda for  approval.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA proposed that the  following addition be made fo Item 6 of the  Agenda : ““ as well as other questions raised dur-  ing the general discussion ”. The Agenda was  adopted with this amendment.  The CHAIRMAN expressed the opinion that most  of the items on the Agenda should first be exa-  mined by the two Sub-Commissions. Consequently  he proposed that the Commission ‘should hold  only one Plenary Meeting and that the two Sub-  Commissions should start work the next morning.  This proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN called on M. Jean THomas, De-  puty Executive Secretary, to present Document  C /7, Report of the Preparatory Commission on the  General Conference, Administrative and Financial  Questions, Legal Questions and External Relations.  Chapter I, relating to the General Conference,  had already been examined by the Conference and  adopted.  The Commission had to consider Chapters II,  IIT and 1V : |  Chapter II : Administrative and Personnel Ques-  tions;  Chapter III : Budgetary and Financial Arran-  gements;  Chapter IV : Legal Questions and External Re-  lations; relations with the United N ations, rela-  tions with the Specialized Agencies, relations with  Non-Governmental International Organizations.  The following would also be submitted for the  : Mr, FIsEN-  consideration of the Commission : the Draft Agree-  ment with the United Nations, the Draft Conven-  tion between the Member States of Unesco con-  cerning Privileges and Immunities, the Draft  Agreement with the Government -of the French  Republic concerning the Privileges and Immu-  nities of Unesco, and the Draft Agreement with  the International Council of Scientific Unions.  The Administrative and Financial Sub-Com-  mission would consider Chapters II and III, and  the Legal and External Relations Sub-Commis-  sion, Chapter IV. ;  M. THomas then described the steps taken in  the preparation of the budget by the Preparatory .  Commission; he said that its preparation had ne-  cessitated the drawing up of a plan of the organ-  ization of the permanent Secretariat. As the Execu-  tive Board had requested the submission of se-  veral plans, Chapter II contained three schemes  for the organization of the Secretariat. The Bud-  get estimates were based on the first of these.  M. Thomas added that a supplementary budget  had been provided (pages 88-80 of the booklet)  for an intensified propaganda campaign for the  rehabilitation of culture in devastated countries.  The CHAIRMAN thanked M. Thomas for his sta-  tement. While the majority of the questions would  be considered by the Sub-Commissions, he pro-  posed that the problem of the size of the budget -  should be discussed immediately, in order to sa-  tisfy the requests of the Czechoslovak delega-  tion, which had raised this point in the Prepara-  tory Commission.  The delegate of CHINA made three observations :  I. He considered that the Director-General  should have power to change the allocation of  certain sums within the budget; 2. He recommen-  ded that the selection of the staff of Unesco be  made with due regard to an equitable geographi-  cal distribution; 3. He stated that China would  be glad to welcome centres for scientific co-ope-  ration and international laboratories.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA noted that the  budget provided for a total of 9 million dollars, a  third of the budget for the United Nations for
1047. He was of the opinion that the four mil-  lions allocated to staff expenses should include  unforeseen expenditure, and he was supported  in this by the delegate of VENEZUELA. These two  delegates considered that, while a certain elastic-  ity in the budget was necessary for the first year  the Director-General should only be authorized to  transfer funds from one item of the budget to  another in exceptional circumstances, and that  such a transfer should only be made after consul-  tation with the Executive Board or a Supervis ry  Commission. ; 0  The CHAIRMAN observed that, under. Rule 23  of the Draft Financial Regulations, the Director-  General had the power to make transfers within  the budget, during the financial year of 1047.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA made the following  two suggestions: 1. that the Administrative and  Financial Sub-Commission should not meet until  _ — I32 —   after the Programme Commission had finished its  work, because the budget could only be drawn up  when the main lines of Unesco’s work had been  decided; 2. that the Secretariat should prepare a  provisional scale of the contributions to be made  by the 28 States at present Members of Unesco.  The delegates of VENEZUELA and SOUTH AFRICA  seconded these proposals.  M. Tuomas said that the Secretariat was pre-  pared to draw up the scale requested, but that it  could be only provisional, as the number of Mem-  bers States of Unesco was increasing rapidly. Mo-  reover, he feared that postponement of the Admi-  nistrative and Financial Sub-Commission meetings  until the end of the Programme Commission would  prolong the General Conference.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES thought  that the Administrative and Financial Sub-Com-  mission could meet next day and begin its work  by considering questions of organization, postpo-  ning consideration of the budget until later. He  was supported in this by the delegate of FRANCE.  The delegate of BELGIUM thought that Unesco  should be guided by principles of economy — it  should not try to build up too vast an admini-  strative machine, but should rely on the co-operat-  ion of national and international intergovern-  mental institutions and act asa co-ordinating point  between them.  It was decided that the Administrative and  . Financial Sub-Commission would not consider the  budget until after the report of the Programme  Commission had been received. It would, however,  meet the next day to start discussion of the organ-  ization of the Secretariat and the Draft Staff  Regulations.  The delegate of NEw ZEALAND, as Chairman of  the Administrative and Financial Sub-Commis-  sion, asked for precise instructions for the work  of his Sub-Commission on Chapters II and III.  He asked if they were to prepare recommendations  to the Director-General, or definite instructions.  M. THomas explained the plan of Chapter II :  in the first part, the Preparatory Commission made  recommendations to.the General Conference; the  second part contained a report on the general prin-  . ciples of the organization of the Secretariat, and  the third part consisted of Draft Staff Regulations.  It was not possible to give rigid orders to the  Director-General at the First Conference, but it  would be as well to establish guiding principles  in line with international practice.  The delegate of NEw ZEALAND, supported by  the delegate of BELGIUM, observed that if the  conditional form were used it would be dificult  for the Director-General to decide what line of  action to take. They considered also that the  Conference should avoid the official adoption of  texts drafted in the conditional, which could not  be binding.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that this question be  referred to the Sub-Commission. This proposal  was adopled.  The delegate of CANADA suggested that the me-  mbranda referring to the powers of the Execu-  tive Board, mentioned in paragraph 11 of Article V  of the Constitution, be submitted to the consider-  ation of the Administrative and Legal Commis-  sion. This proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN fixed the time-table for the Sub-  Commissions.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Thursday 5 December 1946 at 3.15 $. m.  Chairman : Dr. SOMMERFELT (Norway),  later Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand).  The CHAIRMAN proposed to begin with the exam-  ination of Item 3 of the Agenda : Appointment  of a Sub-Committee to study the Report on the  Unesco Month.  As the Commission had not the time to consi-  der this report (Doc. Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S.  C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./18), the CHAIRMAN proposed  the setting up of a Sub-Committee, made up of re-  presentatives of countries most closely interested in  the Unesco Month, namely : China Egypt, France,  Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, the Uni-  ted Kingdom, and the United States. Mexico hav-  ing invited the General Conference for next year,  the Chairman suggested that this Sub-Committee  ‘should be presided over by that country.  This proposal was adopted.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  asked if delegates of countries not on the above  list could be represented on the Sub-Committee.  The answer was in the affirmative.  The CHAIRMAN then announced that the Admi-  nistrative and Financial Sub-Commission had not  yet been able to examine the report of the Pro-  gramme Commission on the organisation of the  Secretariat and on the budget. He therefore pro-  posed that the Sub-Commission should be autho-  rized to submit its report on these questions direct  to the General Conference, by-passing the Plenary  Commission.  After Mr. BEEBY, the Chairman of the Admi-  nistrative and Financial Sub-Commission, had  pointed out that the shortage of time made any  other procedure a practical impossibility, this  proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then called upon the Rappor-  teur of the Legal and External Relations Sub-  Commission, M. Louis GEERAERTS (Belgium), who  read the Sub-Commission’s report (Unesco/C/Ad-  min. & Jur./S. C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./5).  The CHAIRMAN opened a discussion on the dif-  ferent items in this report.  Item I. (Draft Agreement with the United Na-  tions) was adopted. The United Nations Observer  expressed his pleasure and said that the work was  progressing in New York on parallel lines and in  a satisfactory way.  Items II, III, IV, V, VI and VII were adop-  ted.  A discussion arose in connection with Item VIII  (Relations between Unesco and Member States),  paragraph 3, in which the French and English  texts differed slightly. It was decided to instruct  the Secretariat to bring the English translation  into agreement with the French text by restoring  the English text originally adopted by the Sub-  Commission.  — 133 —