SUB-COMMISSION |  . FIRST MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1946 at 10.20 a. m.  Chairman : H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  (Egypt).  Dr. WiLson(Deputy Executive Secretary) asked  that the Chairman of the Sub-Commission be elect-  ed.  H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY, delegate for Egypt, |  was unanimously elected (on the proposal of the  CHINESE delegation, seconded by the delegations  of FRANCE and the NETHERLANDS).  Mr. George D. STODDARD, delegate of the Uni-  ted States, was unanimously elected Vice-Chair-  man {on the proposal of the INDIAN delegation,  seconded by the Frencn delegation).  Dr, WizsoN, (Deputy Executive Secretary) brief-  ly listed the documents submitted for the exam-  nation of the Sub-Commission, the basis of which  was the Chapter ‘‘ Education ” in the Report of  Unesco’s programme. He pointed out that the pre-  paratory technical work of the conferences contem-  plated for 1947 could be done by correspondence  between experts. He stated that projects A, F,  H, I, M and N of the report on Unesco’s Pro-  gramme had been given priority on account of their  importance and because they could be executed  easily. '  The CHAIRMAN moved the acceptance of the  Agenda.  He read the resolutions adopted at the meeting  of Mohday, 25 November by the Programme  Commission regarding the work of the Sub-Com-  missions (contribution to peace, coherence, prac-  tical and financial feasibility, time-limits, general  instructions). :  The supplementary reports and documents, whe-  ther they figured on the agenda or not, but which  Dr. WILSoN did not refer to, were also enumerat-  ed.  There followed a general discussion.  The delegate of the NETHERLANDS asked for  the creation of a small group of competent ex-  perts, who would be responsible for opening up  Germany to education, by visiting the country  and establishing the necessary contacts with Ger-  man circles and the occupying powers,  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, since this was  a new proposal, it would have to be discussed  later, at the same time as paragraph 6, which  was especially set aside for the study of new sug-  estions.  The delegate of BELGIUM proposed, with a view  to preventing minds from being distorted by un-  sound education, and in order to convert the minds  affected by harmful propaganda :  I. That a short statement on the ends and  means of Unesco should be drafted and widely  distributed among teachers of all grades in all  countries;
2. The publication of anillustrated historical  ON EDUCATION  album of Unesco, in which photographs would  replace words; these pictures would be grouped  under various general headings. They would  constitute a sort of illustrated epic of human-  ity;
3. The publication of a history text-book of  “ world civilization, which would constitute a  basis for history-teaching in each country;
4. The preparation of illustrated synoptical  charts, specifying the great discoveries and in-  ventions that had influenced history and the  progress of man.  The delegate of INDIA urged priority for certain  projects — those that could be executed at once  and were of the first importance to the mainten-  ance of peace. He approved the suggestions made  by the Belgian delegate as well as the proposed  new procedure for the preparation of conferences  by correspondence.  The delegate of NICARAGUA and Costa Rica  supported the suggestion that a pamphlet on  Unesco be distributed in all schools throughout  the world and among the masses of the people  in every country; it would be a pamphlet in which,  without preaching hatred against the conquered,  efforts would be made to explain how certain ideo-  logies had been harmful. From the financial point  of view, he pointed out that Unesco must take  account of poor countries, so that all nations of  the world, without exception, could be represent-  ed. He regretted that Nicaragua and Costa Rica  ‘had not yet the right to vote.  The delegate for BRAZIL pointed out that, to  justify faith in secular education, the latter must  create an ideal; that ideal must be universal and  human and be based on a deep knowledge of man.  The aims of secular education must be to love,  know and serve humanity. It was only by deve-  loping this ideal that the work of secular edu-  cation could be useful and lasting, that altruism  could triumph over egoism.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA raised a simple ques-  tion of procedure; he asked that the projects pre-  sented be examined in order and one after the  other, until the list was exhausted.  The delegate of POLAND asked that Unesco  should establish close relations with the big in-  ternational teachers’ organizations (associations,  unions, organizations of world intellectual co-ope-  ration). Taking the example of Denmark, which  for nearly a century had had an advanced school  of popular education, he pointed to the value of  democratic education, particularly for countries  where the population was mainly rural. He advo-  cated the creation of a special international peda- .  gogic review dealing with sociology and social  history.  The CHAIRMAN announced that at the after-  noon meeting the proposal of the Australian de-  legate, seconded by the delegate of the United  Kingdom, relating to procedure, would be the  first to be examined.  — I49 —