that his country had greatly suffered during the  war, and thanked those powers which had al-  ready given aid, in particular the Canada, United  States, Sweden, Denmark and Belgium. He ad-  mitted that other countries had been even more  devastated and said thad France was prepared  to take a lower place in the queue.  He wished to stress three points :
1) Unesco’s task of reconstruction was not only  of immediate value, but also meant a lot from  the point of view of solidarity and international  co-operation. Its efforts must not be confined to  purely intellectual fields, but must penetrate the  life of nations.
2) Everything Unesco did must aim at the idea  of peace, and one way of attaining that aim was  to teach peoples about the horrors and devastat-  ion of recent years,
3) The French delegation would speak at the  afternoon meeting to give its point of view about  the technique of the work. He thought that  Unesco’s role should be one of research, co-ordi-  nation, and spread of information. Unesco was  not an institution for the receipt and distribution  of gifts.  The NORWEGIAN delegate thought that Unesco  should encourage private initiative. He suggested  the setting up of National Commissions to en-  courage reconstruction work. In this effort the  dominant factors were material and labour, not  money. Unesco must co-ordinate, but would leave  the choice of methods to the national bodies.  - The NETHERLANDS delegate considered the.  budget figure of 10,000,000 dollars too low. He  agreed with the Belgian delegate and thought, like  him, that there was need to obtain grants from  governments and not count only upon help from  private organizations.  Dr. WILSON drew attention to a typing error  in the report : the budget figure was 100,000,000  dollars, and not 10,000,000.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Monday, 25 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chazrman : Sir Ronald ADAM (Unided Kingdom).  Item 3 of the Agenda : REPORT AND RECOM-  MENDATIONS ON EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND  CULTURAL RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITA-  TION (Continuation of discussion).  The delegate of GREECE congratulated Dr. Wil-  son on his excellent report.  The war had caused extensive destruction and  devastation in Greece, and the Greek delegation  wished to thank the different organizations which  had helped to bring relief to the Greek people.  There was still much to be done in the educat-  ional field : according to Unrra statistics, 80 9  of the primary schools in Greece were either des-  troyed or so badly damaged that they were use-  less.  The Greek delegation were glad to note that  the Unesco teams fo be sent to the devastated  areas would include both resident staff and mo-  bile units. They were also glad to learn that  Unesco’s general programme would include med-  icine.  The delegate of INDIA expressed his country’s  deep sympathy with the war-devastated countries,  Educational, scientific and cultural reconstruction  in these countries should be one of Unesco’s chief  tasks. :  The proposals submitted in the Report might  be divided into two main categories : material relief  (provision of books, scientific apparatus, funds),  and psychological rehabilitation. The Indian dele-  gate welcomed the proposal to expand the scope  of Unesco’s work to include the important question  of the equalization of educational, scientific and  cultural opportunities throughout the world. Par-  ticular emphasis should be laid on the help that  could be given by voluntary organizations, and  one of Unesco’s tasks should be to stimulate and  co-ordinate the work of those organizations.  The delegate of DENMARK thanked Dr Wilson  for his excellent report.  With regard to the appeal, he thought that the  target of 10,000,000 dollars to be contributed in
1947 was by no means too high. He was, however,  doubtful whether Unesco needed such an intensive  propaganda campaign as that forecast in the Re-  port. The main work of collecting information on  the needs of the devastated areas should be done  by the National Commissions. He therefore pro-  posed a simplification of the programme on this  point.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA said that his dele-  gation wished to associate itself with those who  had already advocated a complete Unesco pro-  gramme for reconstruction and rehabilitation.  He stressed the importance of enlisting the help  of voluntary organizations, and cited the expe-  rience of Unrra, whose resources from government  contributions had been greatly increased by gifts  from voluntary associations. Governments could,  however, play an important part in encouraging  and assisting the campaign for voluntary contri-  butions. oo :  The Australian delegation was in favour of the  establishment by Unesco of a standing committee  to take the place of the former Technical Sub-  Committee. There should also be a small staff  within the Secretariat to organize both the intens-  ified campaign and the services which Unesco  would be called upon to provide.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES asked the  Commission to allow Mr. Brumbaugh, an expert.  on the work of voluntary organizations, to speak  for the American delegation.  Mr. BRUMBAUGH expressed his delegation’s ap-  preciation of Dr. Wilson’s report. 0  In the United States, the voluntary agencies  were the largest potential source of educational  reconstruction. They were also the best means of  keeping people informed of conditions in the war-  devastated countries and of enlisting their help.  A new co-ordinating agency — the Commission for  International Educational Reconstruction — had  been established and had recently held a confer-  ence in Washington. In the course of a brief des-  cription of the activities of organizations in the  United States, Mr. Brumbaugh said that, besides  gifts in kind and scholarships, these organizations
137 —   had contributed to -the relief of war-devastated  countries, since 1939, 40,000,000 dollars. It might  be expected that aid from these sources would  amount to 10 to 15 million dollars annually.  Unesco’s collaboration with the organizations  should take the following forms: (1) disseminat-  ion of information about the needs of the devastat-  ed countries; (2) dissemination of continuous and  accurate information regarding the relief activities  undertaken by ‘different countries; {3) collection  and distribution of gifts either in cash or in kind.  The UNITED STATES delegate pointed out that  the disappearance of Unrra necessitated the creat-  fon of a body responsible for administering and  distributing donations. The United States were  ready to give substantial aid to the devastated  countries. . Ç  The delegate for POLAND agreed with those de-  legations which advocated systematic and official  reconstruction. She said that there was close con-  nection between problems of reconstruction and  reparations; the aid given should correspond to  losses sustained. Unesco’s task was to assess these  losses and then draw up a plan for allocating re-  lief. She proposed that the problems should be  submitted to the United Nations through the  Economic and Social Council, for it lay with the  United Nations to find the means by which Unesco  could achieve its work.  The delegate for CZECHOSLOVAKIA thanked  Unesco for its programme of reconstruction and  rehabilitation. He asked that aid should be the  same for all countries that needed it, whether they  had been devastated by the war or for any other  reason. Czechoslovakia had sustained enormous  losses; her universities had been closed for six years -  but since the liberation she had proved her wish  to recover by her own resources, He thought that  international aid should be combined with a con-  structive programme within each country. The pro-  gramme of reconstruction and rehabilitation must  be put in hand quickly and it was to Unesco’s  interest. to make use of international organs such  as Unrra. The Czechoslovak delegation took this  occasion to express its country’s thanks to Unrra,  whose distribution of foodstuffs had saved the lib-  erated countries from starvation. Czechoslovakia  fully realized the need of a speedy solution to these  problems and would gladly fulfil her obligation to-  @ wards Unesco.  The delegate for the UNITED KINGDOM congrat-  ulated the Secretariat on its report and approved  the recommendations on page 5. He agreed with  the Norwegian delegate in favouring the use of  private co-ordinating bodies,  The SWEDISH observer emphasized the role of  the Unesco Nationa! Commissions in the collec-  tion of information and distribution of relief. She  stated that the Swedish Government had just gran-  ted two million crowns for cultural institutions in  countries most afflicted by the war. This grant  could be used for the publication of books for  foreign countries, the organization of internation-  al meetings and for exchanges between teachers,  The first duty of Unesco must be to collect in-  formation and io co-ordinate the work of the Na-  tional Commissions.  ‘According to the FrENCH delegate, the discus-  sion showed that they were all agreed in recog-  nising that Unesco must be an information centre  concerning the devastated countries and a propa-  ganda organ for their assistance. Two views how-  ever seemed likely to conflict : some delegations  were asking for Unesco to become a centre for  the receipt of gifts in cash and in kind, and for  their distribution. The French delegation on the  other hand thought that Unesco ought rather to  be a liaison organ between countries undamaged  by the war and devastated countries. The best  way of developing international solidarity and  obtaining effective relief was to establish direct  contacts between one school and another, one  university and another. For example, if an Ameri-  can university wanted to help a university in a  country affected by the war, it would apply to  Unesco fora list of universities, from which the  university inAmerica would make its choice.  To organize this assistance systematically, the  French delegate suggested the following methods :  I. Agents in the devastated countries would in-  form Unesco of the situation in those coun-  tries;
2. An information office would centralize these  particulars;
4. Propagandists in countries undamaged by the  war;
5. A liaison office which would put countries in  in touch with one another.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1946  at 10.30 a. m.  Chairman : M. B. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).  The CHAIRMAN said that, as Sections (a) and (c)  of Item 4 of the Agenda had already been discus-  sed, the Report could now be examined chapter  by chapter. The delegate of China had, however,  some general remarks to make.  The delegate of CHINA congratulated Dr. Wilson  and the Technical Sub-Committee on their work  during the past year.  The Chinese delegation approved the suggest-  ed programme and noted with satisfaction that  rehabilitation would be integrated in the general  programme of Unesco. oo  Owing to the war, China had suffered consider-  able losses both in material and in personnel. She  had received help from several quarters—notably  from the American Government and the British  Council — for which she was very grateful.  One of Unesco’s main tasks in the domain of  rehabilitation would be to collect and disseminate  information on the needs of the various countries  and to draw the attention of donors to the most  urgent problems. The Unrra assets to be taken  over by Unesco would include staff for relief work.  Mobile field units should be gent into the devast-  ated areas, and there should also be a small nu-  cleus of Unesco staff well acquainted with local  conditions.