i  FIRST PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday, 20 November 1946 at 10 a. m.  President : S. E. Dr. J. J. MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Brazil)  Later : Mr, D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)
1. OPENING OF THE SESSION  The PRESIDENT _({ranslation) : This morn-  ing we start our proceedings and I appeal to  delegations with regard to receptions, dinners, etc.  As you are aware, the programme of Unesco is .  a very heavy one, moreover, the French Govern-  ment and the City of Paris will also be sending  us invitations. I hope therefore that delegations  will refrain from giving large dinners or parties  which their colleagues might find difficult to  attend. Of course, it will always be possible for  delegates to meet in small groups if they wish  to do so. :  Before making an important communication,  I would request delegates wishing to speak to be  good enough always to indicate the name of the  country they represent.  As the Presidency of the Preparatory Com-  mission was held by the representative of the  Ministry of Education of the United Kingdom,  and since Miss Ellen Wilkinson is unable to be  present on this occasion and we have with us  the Minister of Education of the United King-  dom, I propose that we ask this Minister to  accept the privilege of presiding at this meeting.  Mr. Hardman might be asked to accept to take  the chair until the President is definitively elec-  ted.  Mr. Hardman takes the Chair.  : Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Ladies  and gentlemen, my first duty today is to convey  to you Miss Wilkinson’s great regret that she  is unable to be present at this Conference, and  I will read you the text of the message received  from her:‘“ Deeply regret my unavoidable-absence  from great conference we have all worked so  hard for. My heart-felt good wishes and hopes  that the first Congress of Unesco will inspire all  the world to establish values in the world of the  spirit.” Miss Wilkinson, as you know, has been  deeply interested in the work of the Preparatory  Commission, and it is a great disappointment,  not only to her but also to us, that she should  not be able to preside at the first General Confer-  ence of Unesco.  The honour which has fallen upon me is one  which I appreciate very deeply, and I wish also  to convey the appreciation of my Government.  That Government had some share in bringing  this Organisation to the point we have reached  today. Some members will recall the first meeting,  which took place in London in October, 1042.  The Chairman was Mr. R. A. Butler, who would,  I know, wish to convey to the Conference all  his wishes, for he is very interested in its work.  The Conference of Allied Ministers of Education  was reinforced by representatives of the United  States in 1944, and by representatives of China,  India and the Dominions. They were encouraged  by observers representing the Soviet Union. Fhe  Conference devoted itself to two main tasks : (1)  uniting Allied efforts towards educational recon-  struction; (2) plans for future co-operation in the  fields of education, science and culture.  Even in those days, when Science and Culture  were suffering continuous and rapid destruction,  faith in the future was not lacking. Today, I can  reaffirm the belief, which my Government shares  with you all, in the possibility of fruitful inter-  national collaboration in the things of the mind.  It is not the occasion for a long speech; this  conference has a great deal of work to do and  very little time to do it. I do not propose to  make any further review of the efforts of the  Organisation which begins its work today. Nor  do I propose to consider the work before us. We  are embarking upon a great adventure. Our tasks  are defined for us in the Preamble of our Cons-  titution and are familar to you all. I want to  say that, for our part, we are bound to accept  the obligations and responsibilities the Constitu-  tion lays upon us.  We have faith in the Organisation and believe  it will survive for years to come, for the advan-  cement of human welfare and international peace.  In all this you must remember that we shall be  judged by the things we do and not by the things  we say.  I thank you, delegates, once again, for the  honour you have done my country in inviting  me to accept the Chair.  We intend to start the meetings of the Plenary  Conference at 10.30 sharp each morning.
2. APPOINTMENT OF CREDENTIALS  COMMITTEE, THE COMMITTEE ON  PROCEDURE AND THE NOMINATIONS  COMMITTEE  May I suggest that the Credentials Committee  should consist of delegates from the following  countries : China, France, Greece, Lebanon, the  Netherlands, New Zealand, Turkey, United King-  dom, United States, and Venezuela. This, you  will remember, is laid down in the Rules of Pro-  cedure. '  Agreed.  Now we come to the appointment of a Procedure  Committee. I want to ask the Procedure Com-  mittee to facilitate the election of the President  and Executive Board by the full Conference. We  should have the meetings of these Committees and   then have a full meeting at 12 noon here, to  report progress, we hope that the Procedure Com-  mittee will have approved the procedure for the  election of the President, which is to be found  in Section IV of the Rules of Procedure.  Is that agreed?  Dr. MILLS (Australia) : I should like an ex-  planation. Mr. President, I understood you to say  that the Committee on Procedure would be asked  to consider the matter of nominations for the  Executive Board. Is it not our intention to ap-  point two committees, one for procedure and the  other for nominations?  The PRESIDENT : 1 think a further explana-  tion is needed. The suggestion was that the com-  mittee should report on procedure, to facilitate  the appointment of the Executive Board and not  actually to nominate the Board.  That is the formal business for this part of  this morning's session, and I suggest, in order  that these committees should get to work im-  mediately, that they meet as soon as possible after  this meeting is adjourned. I shall ask Dr. Huxley  to announce where the three committees will meet.  May I remind the committees, too, and the  members of the whole Conference, that we intend  to meet again this morning at 12 noon to hear  from the three committees how far they have  gone; in other words, each committee will report  progress.  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY : The three  Committees will meet in the following rooms :  The Credentials Committee in room 7, and might  I ask any delegations whose credentials have not  been handed in to hand in those credentials to  the committee in room 7?  The Committee on Procedure will meet in room
8. May I again stress what our President has  said with regard to the advisability that the Com-  mittee on Procedure should be able to report  on Section 1V of the Draft Rules of Procedure  at midday?  Thirdly, the Nominations Committee will meet  in room I.  All these rooms are on the ground floor of this  building.  The PRESIDENT : May I suggest again that,  to facilitate matters, the Vice-Presidents of Bra-  zil and Czechoslovakia and of the United States,  open proceedings in the following order :  Credentials Committee : Vice-President (Brazil).  Procedure Committee : Vice-President (Czecho-  slovakia).  Nominations Committee : Vice-President (United  States of America).  These Vice-Presidents, of course, are Vice-Pre-  sidents of the Preparatory Commission, and, as  soon as they have formally opened the meetings,  these committees will elect their own Chairman.  I declare the meeting adjourned until 12 noon  to-day, when the Committees will report.  The Meeting was resumed at noon.  ‘3. REPORT OF THE PROCEDURE  COMMITTEE  The PRESIDENT : I suggest that we take  the Report of the Committee on Procedure.  ADOPTION OF PROVISIONAL  RULES OF PROCEDURE  M. MARTINEZ-BAEZ (Rapporteur) (transla-  tion) : The Committee on Procedure metat 11 am.  It did me the honour to elect me as its Chair-  man, after which the Committee examined Sec-  tions IV, V and VI of the Rules of Procedure,  Section IV, bearing on the Presidency, Section  V on the General Committee and Section VI on  the Secretariat.  Section IV was adopted with the reservation  of an amendment put to Rule 20, Section V was  adopted with an amendment to Rule 23. ;  In the English text of the same Rule, the Com-  mittee decided to replace the word ‘ Commis-  sion ”’ in English by ““ Committee "'. *  As concerns Section VI — the Secretariat —  the United States delegation prepared an amen-  ded text modifying Rules 28, 2g and 30. Those  three Rules would be combined and replaced by  two Rules only, which would read :  “ Rule 28 : The Director-General shall act in  the capacity of the Secretary-General in all mee-  tings of the General Conference, including the  meetings of its committees and subsidiary organs.  He may appoint a member (members) of the  staff to act in his place at meetings of the Ge-  neral Conference and its subsidiary organs. ”  “ Rule 29 : The Director-General shall provide  and direct the staff required by the General  Conference and by any subsidiary organs which  it may establish. ”  This was adopted, because these Rules are sim-  ilar to those of the United Nations Charter, in  their general bearing.  The Committee decided to meet again the fol-  lowing day at 10 o’clock, to examine the rest  of the Rules of Procedure. :  The PRESIDENT : This report is now open  for discussion. I would remind the Conference  that Sections IV, V and VI, to which the Report  paid attention, are to be found in the Draft Rules  of Procedure and also in the Supplementary Rules  for the First Session of the Conference; with cer-  tain reservations those three Sections have been  approved.  Sections IV, V-and VI were adopted.
4. REPORT OF THE  CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  The PRESIDENT : I call upon the Lebanese  delegate, Rapporteur of the Credentials Commit-  tee.  The Rapporteur of the CREDENTIALS COM-  MITTEE : The Credentials Committee, under  the Chairmanship of M. Daouk, assisted by  — IG —   M. Warendorf, Secretary-of the Committee, has  accepted the credentials presented by thirty-nine  delegations.  Five delegations — Bolivia, Chile, Panama,  Haiti and Uruguay — will be admitted provision-  ally, and they are invited to present their cre-  dentials as soon as possible. The Credentials Com-  mittee will inform the President of the General  Conference when these credentials are received.  The question of the credentials of the delega-  tions taking part in the First General Conference  is, of course, bound up with that of the right to  vote. Under the terms of the Constitution, only  those States which have deposited instruments  of acceptance at the Foreign Office shall enjoy  the right to vote : twenty-four States have de-  posited their instruments of acceptance. The Uni-  ted Kingdom delegation is sure that it will shortly  receive instruments of acceptance from Belgium,  the Netherlands, Peru and Venezuela. The Cred-  entials Committee proposes that the Conference  should recognize the right to vote of the dele-  gations of those four States.  The PRESIDENT : I would remind the Con-  ference that any State which has signed the Cons-  titution, without depositing the instruments of  ratification, is authorized to send delegates, and  I hope the Conference will welcome such delegates.  Doesany delegate wish to speak on this Report?  The report of the Credentials Committee is  therefore adopted as a whole.
5. REPORT OF THE  NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE  The PRESIDENT : I call upon the Rapport-  eur of the Nominations Committee.  The Rapporteur of the NOMINATIONS COM-  MITTEE : In my capacity as Chairman of the  Nominations Committee and as delegate of New  Zealand, it is my duty to report that our Com-  mittee has decided unanimously to submit to the  First General Conference of Unesco the following  nominations to the General Committee :  Chairman : France '
7 Vice-Chairmen : United Kingdom, United States,  China, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, Philippines, Union  of South Africa.  We propose the following nominations to the  Chairmanship of the three main Commissions :  Programme Commission : Mexico  Administrative and Legal Commission : Denmark  Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Commission :  Poland.  The PRESIDENT : Have delegates any remarks -  to make on this Report?  The delegate of DENMARK : I am very sorry  to have to make a remark on this subject. In the  course of the Committee’s discussions, it was  proposed that Denmark should have the Chair-  manship of the Administrative and Legal Com-  mission. I raised no objection beforehand, as I  wished to ask the opipion of my delegation. I have  just asked for that opinion. The Head of the Dan-  ish delegation may have to leave beore the Con-  ference finishes its work or, at least, have to be  absent for a certain time. It therefore seems very  difficult for us to accept this Chairmanship.  I am glad, however, to be able to submit a  positive proposal. I suggest that you appoint  the Norwegian delegate to this Chairmanship,  which would give Denmark as much satisfac-  tion as if her own delegate occupied the Chair.  I hope you will agree to the Norwegian delegation  taking the Chair of this Commission, if it is in  a position,to do so.  At the same time I wish to thank you warmly  for thehonour you had conferred on my country,  an honour which will be as great for us if you  will accept its transfer to Norway.  The PRESIDENT : Has the Nominations  Committee any objection to this new nomination? -  The Rapporteur of the NOMINATIONS COM-  MITTEE : I do not think this nomination will  - give rise to any objection.  The PRESIDENT : If no member of the Nomi-  nations Committee has any objection, I will  ask the Norwegian delegation if it is prepared |  to accept the Chairmanship.  The delegate of NORWAY : The Nominations  Committee’s choice was very satigfactory to the  Norwegian delegation, which was particularly  happy that the Danish delegation had been  offered the Chairmanship of Commission B. The  Danish delegation now asks us to perform a  special service : to take the Chair in its place.  I have no objection, and will take the Chair  with pleasure.  The PRESIDENT : I am very grateful to the  Norwegian and Danish delegates for their help.  The Report is adopted.  I will adjourn the meeting until 3 p. m., so as  to enable the French delegation,to propose the  name of the President.  The meeting is adjourned.  L S