report. He wished to recommend to governments  that they should take into account the different  trends of national thought when forming the com-  missions.  “ The SECRETARIAT read the Draft Resolution  presented by the delegate of the UNITED STATES,  and amended by the delegates of FRANCE, POLAND  and the UNITED KINGDOM.  RESOLUTION CONCERNING RELATIONS WITH  MEMBER STATES.  I. — National Commissions.  The Sub-Commission recommends that :  I. The General Conference invite those of the  Member States which have not yet created Na-  tional Commissions or national agencies for  co-operation with Unesco to take the necessary  steps to apply the provisions of Article VIT of  the Constitution; ,(
2. The Director-General be invited to accord  to such Member States as may ask for it all  necessary help — except financial assistance —  in establishing National Commissions or natio-  nal agencies for co-operation;
3. Unesco undertake to keep each National  Commission informed of the relations esta-  blished in the country of the Commission and  act in agreement with the Commission on all  questions of a general character;
4. The general considerations on the National  Commissions appearing in the annex to this  report be submitted to the Executive Board to  serve as a basis for a comprehensive study of  the problem of National Commissions, a study  which will also be based on the work of the Con-  ference. These general considerations shall, after  revision, be communicated to the Member States.  II. — Reports by Member States.  The Sub-Commission recommends that the  General Conference invite Member States to sub-  mit to Unesco two months before the second 'ses-  sion of the General Conference a report containing  the following information : .  I. survey of institutions and associations of  national significance in the field of science, cul-  ture and mass communication;
2. information on national laws and regula-  tions applying to the same fields;
3. statistics available in these fields;  -- 4. reports on recent developments in educa-  tion, science and culture and suggestions con-  cerning the future programme and activities  of Unesco;
5. information on action taken as a result of  the recommendations made or conventions  adopted by the General Conference,  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 3 December 1946 at 9.30 p. m.  Chairman : M. Luis Alberto SANCHEZ (Peru).  The CHAIRMAN presented to the Sub-Commis-  sion the texts of the draft agreements between  Unesco, on the one hand, and the International  Institute cf Intellectual Co-operation and the In-  ternational Bureau of Education, on the other,  as prepared by the Drafting Committee.  These two draft agreements were adopted  without discussion.  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the  draft agreement between Unesco and the Inter-  national Council of Scientific Unions and the pro-  visional directive on the establishment of relations  between Unesco and non-governmental interna-  tional organizations (Document Unesco/C/Admin.  & Jur./S. C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./3) (see Annex 2 A).  The SECRETARIAT read the following resolution  - adopted by the Natural Sciences Sub-Commission :  ‘The Natural Sciences Sub-Commission can-  not agree with the point of view set forth in the  provisional directive summarising the relations  between Unesco and non-governmental inter-  national organizations, Document Unesco/C/Ad-  min. & Jur./S. C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./3, Part II  (see also Grey Book, English text, page 115),  stating that such organizations could benefit by  financial assistance to the extent of their admi-  nistrative costs. ;  « While recognizing that national govern-  ments already pay contributions — as in the  case of the International Scientific Unions —  the Sub-Commission considers that, in so far as .  this concerns international scientific organiza-  tions, the provisional directive should be so  amended as to include between paragraphs (e)  and (f) of Article V, a paragraph stating that the  financial aid to be given by Unesco for the above  administrative costs, as a provisional measure,  in the initial stages, shall only be granted if no  direct contribution is received for this purpose  from national governments. ”’  A discussion followed on the principle of finan-  cial assistance to be given by Unesco to inter-  national scientific organizations for their adminis-  trative costs. The DANISH, NORWEGIAN, BELGIAN,  UNITED KINGDOM and GREEK delegates thought  that Unesco might help these organizations finan-  cially in the initial stages, whereas the UNITED  STATES and- PoLisH delegates thought that such  assistance would be prejudicial both to the real  interests of Unesco, for which the financial bar-  den would be too heavy, and also to the interests  of the Unions, whose independence might be jeo-  pardized. :  The UNITED STATES delegate pointed out that  Article V of the provisional directive already co-  vered certain expenses, which included the most  important ones devolving upon international scien-  tific organizations, since paragraph (e) provided  financial assistance for certain specific tasks and  paragraph (f) facilities in respect of offices, secre-  tarial services, arrangements for meetings, infor-  mation, etc. The Sub-Commission as a whole asso-  ciated itself with this view and the provisional  directive was adopted.  The SECRETARIAT read out a draft resolution of  the Sub-Commission, worded as follows :  The Sub-Commission recommends that the  General Conference shall authorize the Director-  General to establish collaboration with non-  governmental international organizations on  the basis of the following provisional directive. ”  The resolution was adopted.  — 196 —   The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the draft agree-  ment between Unesco and the International Coun-  cil of Scientific Unions.  The draft agreement was adopted.  The Sub-Commission then considered the docu-  ment entitled “ Model of Agreements to be conclu-  ded with other Specialized Agencies ’ (Document  Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C. Leg. & Ext. Rel./4)  (See Annex 2 A).  After a slight modification of the English text,  Article I was adopted.  The GREEK delegate asked that the heading be  modified as follows : ‘“ Model of Agreements to be  concluded with other Specialized International  Organizations and Agencies ”’, but the Secretariat  explained that the term ‘“ Organization ” applied  specifically to institutions directly connected with  UNO (such as Unesco, the International Labour  Organization, etc.), and that this model agree-  ment applied precisely to the other ” interna-  tional institutions. ‘  The Sub-Commission accepted this view, and  the title finally adopted was : “ Model of Agree-  ments to be concluded with other Specialized  Agencies.  On an observation of the FRENCH delegate, it  was decided to replace the words ‘‘ pattern laid  down by the United Nations ” (Article VII) by  « principles laid down by the United Nations ”.  In Article VIII, at the request of the UNITED  STATES delegate, the words ‘‘ and organs ” were  added after ‘“ services ” and the sentence be-  comes : ‘“ …in close collaboration and co-ordina-  tion with the competent services and organs of  the United Nations ”.  The observer of the I L O welcoming the  action taken by Unesco to initiate steps to esta-  blish agreements for collaboration with other .  specialized agencies, pointed out that the exact  content of each agreement will require bilateral  negotiations.  The model of agreement was adopted.  An observer from the International Council for  the Exploration of the Sea asked what kind of  agreement would apply between Unesco and his  own organization, which was neither a Special-  ized Agency of United Nations, nor a private  international organization, but an inter-govern-  mental organization. |  The SECRETARIAT explained that no decision  had as yet been reached on this type of agree-  ment, but that Article XI, paragraph.1 of the  Constitution provided for the conclusion of such  agreements.  The SECRETARIAT submitted to the Sub-Com-  mission a note forwarded by the Executive Board  concerning its functions and powers (Document  Unesco/Cons. Exec./2) (See Annex 2 A).  A discussion took place on the paragraph con-  cerning the possible creation of a Standing Com-  mittee, acting under the authority of the Execu-  tive Board, the object of which would be to  maintain permanent contact between the latter  and the Director-General. :  Two questions were raised in this connection :  I. A question of a legal character : Had the  Executive Board the right to create such a  committee, since it was not provided for by  the Constitution and might become a new organ  of the Organization?  The Legal Sub-Commission, referring to Ar-  ticle V, paragraph 7 of the Constitution, consi-  dered that the Executive Board, since it could  appoint its officers, had the right also to choose  among its members the persons who would be  called upon to form part of the Standing Com-  mittee, provided that the Rules of Procedure  of the Executive Board, about to be approved  by the General Conference, made provision for  such a body.
2. A question of expediency : Was it neces-  sary to create such a committee?  The Sub-Commission thought the question  exceeded its competence. It emerged, however,  from the discussion that the creation of a stan-  ding Committee did not seem necessary to the  Sub-Commission, in view of the fact that the  Executive Board would meet three or four  times a year. Certain delegates were of the opi-  nion that such a body might unduly restrict  the liberty of the Director-General.  The Sub-Commission decided to submit the  ‘following resolution to the Executive Board :  « The Sub-Commission has taken cognizance  of the note on the functions and powers of the  Executive Board. It instructs the Secretariat  to communicate to the Executive Board the  summary record of the discussion which has  taken place on this subject.  At the request of the delegate of the UNITED  STATES, supported by the delegate of the UNITED  KinGpom, the Sub-Commission decided to ask  the Legal and Administrative Commission to in-  clude in its agenda the question of Unesco Month,  in order to facilitate the discussion of the General  Conference on this point.  The Sub-Commission decided that the Chair-  man and the Secretariat should be entrusted  with the duty of drafting this report for the Com-  mission, .[