three Summer Study Centres (instead of two); the  latter because it wished to create a working centre  for journalists. The total thus attained exceeded  the original budget by 46,373 dollars, Further-  more, the Reconstruction Commission had not  altered the figure provided for it. Consequently,  the Secretariat considered that the budget in the  Grey Book could be taken as a working basis.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES suggested  that, since the Sub-Commission was not going to  study the budget chapter by chapter, it should  first of all examine the scale of contributions by  states and the 1947 draft budget as a whole.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA agreed, but reques-  ted that the order be reversed. :  The delegate of the SOUTH AFRICAN UNION asked  if in the 1947 draft budget due account had been  taken of the fact that Unesco would not have de-  veloped its full activity in the first year. The SE-  CRETARIAT answered that the budget had been  established according to estimates of work actually  to be done in 1947, but that in 1948 none of the  programme chapters would involve larger sums  than in 1047. . :  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the motion of  the United States delegate, amended by the  Australian delegate.  This resolution was adopted and would form  the agenda of the next meeting of the Sub-Com-  mission,  TWELFTH MEETING  Held on Friday, 6 December 1946 at 7 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT (Document  Unesco /C/Admin. & Jur. /S. C. Ad. & Fin. /18).  The CHAIRMAN invited the delegate of the Uni-  ted States to present the report which was submit-  ted to the Sub-Commission for approval.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES pointed out  that the document, which was the fifth revision of  a previous document, was now ready to be adopted  by the Sub-Commission. He drew the attention  of the meeting to the three sections (Facts, Di-  rectives and Principles) into which the document  was divided and remarked that minor alterations  in wording might still be made by the drafting  committee. In conclusion, the United States del-  egate proposed that the meeting adopt the docu-  ment in its present form.  An amendment submitted by the delegation of  CzECHOSLOVAKIA to lay down the percentage of  posts to be filled on a permanent basis was reject-  ed.  The delegate of FRANCE drew attention to the  fact that Item B (2) was not consonant with the  decisions of the Executive Board, which had deci-  ded that the duties of the Deputy Director-Gene-  ral should be specialized. He proposed that Item  B (2) should be separated from the remainder of  the. report and should be submitted to the Gene-  ral Conference for decision the following day.  This led to a general discussion of the question,  as a result of which the French proposal was re-  jected. :  The delegate of FRANCE pointed out that, owing  to the confusion existing on this subject and the  absence of exact data, it was, in his opinion, inad-  visable to continue the discussion of the document.  For his part, he would abstain from expressing  his opinion on the matter.  The delegate of POLAND believed that the ques-  tion of the recruitment of staff should be re-exa-  mined; in his opinion, the system of competitions  in all member countries was undesirable. However,  he did not introduce any formal motion.  The: Sub-Commission adopted the document as  a whole in its present form.  THIRTEENTH MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1946 at 11.45 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT BUDGET FOR 1047.  The CHAIRMAN announced that their agenda  was the budget, and proposed for immediate dis-  cussion either the total sum of 8 1/2 million dol-  lars contemplated by the Preparatory Commission  or this amount increased by the figure contem-  plated for the supplementary budget of the Re-  construction Section.  The delegate of Uruauay, Chairman of the Re-  volving Fund Committee, announced that at the  last meeting of the Committee, the delegate of the  UNITED STATES had announced that for constitu-  tional reasons his government could not make any  contribution before next July. The Sub-Commit-  tee had asked its Chairman to inform the General  Committee of the Conference of the situation ari-  sing out of this statement. However, the delegate  of UrUGuAy wanted to know if he was qualified  to do so.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES said he  would like to consult his government once again  on this matter, and asked that the discussion be  postponed.  The SECRETARIAT informed the meeting that,  as no progress had been made regarding the loan  of 1 1/2 million dollars by the United Nations, a  telegram had been sent to the United Nations  pointing out the urgency of this question.  The delegate of FRANCE propésed that the Ame-  rican delegation consult its government and that  the question be then brought before the Revolving  Fund Committee.  The Sub-Commission adopied this proposal and  later resumed the discussion of the total amount  of the budget.  The CHAIRMAN stated that, according to Dr. Wil-  son’s estimates, the total budget, including the re-  construction budget, amounted to 8,993,839 doi-  lars. 4  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  that the total budget, including the figure for re-  construction, but not including the expenses of  the Preparatory Commission, should amount to
7,611,139 dollars. The delegate of NORWAY se-  conded this motion.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA proposed a to-  — 2I3 —   tal figure of 5.9 millions, it being understood that  the expenses of the Preparatory Commission would  not be discussed, since they could not be altered.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA,  supported by the delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKTA,  proposed six million dollars, because in his opinion  not all the projects of the programme could be  attempted in 1947, and it was easier to increase  than curtail the expenses. Moreover, Unesco should  not appear to be a burden to Member States be-  fore it had proved its worth by concrete results.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA declared that the  amount of 7.5 millions must be reduced and could  easily be; the instructions of the Programme Com-  mission had not been followed and some of the
1947 projects were neither very important nor  very useful.  He proposed, therefore, that the total amount  be reduced by approximately 30 per cent and that  the budget be considered in the light of this re-  duction.  The delegates of POLAND, BELGIUM and GREECE  supported this motion, but insisted that the  amount contemplated for reconstruction purposes  should not be reduced.  The report on the organization of the Secre-  tariat, which was to be submitted to the Plenary  Conference, was then read and approved.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA asked that, in  the course of the discussion on the budget, each  delegate should be authorized to speak more than  once on a given subject.  Adopted.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p. m. and reassembled  at 2.30 p.m.  The PoLrisH delegation seconded the proposal  of the AUSTRALIAN delegate and insisted partieu-  larly on the necessity of reducing the administra-  tive expenses to a minimum. Referring to the ques-  tion of scales, which the Sub-Commission had not  to discuss, the POLISH delegation pointed out that  the scale of contributions, as it was at present,  was not acceptable to it,  The delegate of NEW ZEALAND seconded the  AUSTRALIAN proposal, because he did not consider  that the figure of 7.5 millions rested on a serious  basis and could not understand what was the ba-  sis of calculation used. In any case, he thought the  programme would have to be completely revised  on the basis of the figure that would be fixed for  the budget. Moveover, in 1947, there would only  be a few months’ effective work, which should  allow of a substantial reduction of the budget.  The delegate of CANADA seconded the Austra-  Tan motion, whilst hoping at the same time that  the reduction would not affect the figure for re-  construction.  At the request of the delegate of AUSTRALIA, the  SECRETARIAT gave a brief account of the history  and establishment of the draft budget. Since the  programmg had been expanded after the budget  had been ®Mamed, there was no real relation be-  tween the figure considered and the nature and  number of projects. If they were to be compared  to those of the United Nations, the expenses would  not seem too high, especially with regard to staff,  for which only one-third of the requests by Heads  of Sections had been taken into consideration.  FOURTEENTH MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1940 at 3.20 b. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  At the request of the Unitep States delégate,  the CHAIRMAN put to the vote three resolutions  concerning the aggregate amount of the budget,  which had been submitted at the morning's mcee-  ting :
1st Resolution, submitted by the UNITED KING-  poy delegate, and seconded by the NORWEGIAN  delegate:  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). . . LLL.  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946  Total.  % 7,611,130
5 050,000  $ 8,501,139  znd Resolution, submitted by the CzECHOSLO-  VAK delegate and seconded by the delegate of the  UNION oF SOUTH AFRICA :  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). . . . . . . . . . . $ 6,000,000  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946 oo $ 950,000  Total. 5 6,030,000
3rd Resolution, submitted by the AUSTRALIAN  delegate and séconded by the delegate of the  UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA :  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). Ce  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946  Total.
3 5,700,000  # 950,600  $ 6,650,000  À vote was taken by roll-call.  The AUSTRALIAN resolution was rejected by 10  votes to 8.  The CZECHOSLOVAK resolution was adopted by 10  votes to 9; IT delegations abstaining.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate asked that the de-  tails of the vote should be accurately specified in  the report to be submitted to the General Con-  ference.  This proposal, seconded bv the FRENCH and  BELGIAN delegates, was adopted.  FIFTEENTH MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1940 at 6.10 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E .BEEBY (New Zealand).  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate, as Chairman of  the Drafting Committee, proposed the adoption  of Document 23 of the Administrative and Finan-  cial Sub-Commission, together with two resolu-  tions respecting :
1) the scale of contributions; oo
2) the total amount of the Revolving Fund.  The resolution regarding the adoption of Docu-  ment 23 was seconded by the BELGIAN and NOR-