+  its whole effort lay outside that of existing organ- -  izations.  M. Kuypers then said that one of the most im-  portant tasks was to overcome scepticism about  Unesco. There were two ways of doing that : a  common standard to be submitted to all the sub-  commissions, and success in their work, They  would have to do something big and practical.  The Belgian delegate ended by appealing for  frankness, personal ideas and hard work.  The NETHERLANDS delegate raised the question  of cultural relations with Germany. It was urgent  to throw open that country to democratic and  pacific influences. They could not leave eighty mil-  lions to ‘‘ stew in their own juice” behind an im-  penetrable wall.  The CzecHOSLOVAK delegate said that they could  not number Fascist and Nazi doctrines among  those allowed to develop freely. Fascism must be  fought wherever it existed and whatever mask  it might assume.  The delegate of BRAZIL remarked that it was  idle to discuss priorities in general terms. Every  part of the world had its own priority problems  and Unesco’s programme should be sufficiently  elastic to adapt it to the specific needs of different  groups of countries.  The delegate of the LEBANON made two sugges-  tions of principle ;  I. The institution in states members to Unesco,  side by side with national education, of.  teaching having a universal character,  with syllabuses, examinations and Unesco  diplomas giving admission to the inter-  ,Ç national universities already proposed.
2. In the case of Arabic-speaking countries, the  most urgent problem was the campaign  against illiteracy. For the purpose of this  campaign Unesco could enlist the aid of  Lebanese living abroad. -  The YvcosLAVv delegate took note of the replies  given by Dr. Huxley and other delegates to the  statements made earlier by M. Ribnikar in the  name of the Yugoslav delegation. He was pleased  to see Unesco repudiate the idea of a unified cult-  ure and base international co-operation on the .  free cultural development of peoples.  This closed the general discussion of the pro-  gramme.  ESTABLISHMENT OF SUB-COMMISSIONS.  The delegate of DENMARK having suggested a  sub-commission for the Exact Sciences, the CHAIR-  MAN asked the Commission to, abide by the six  sub-commissions arranged for. (Approved.)  The CHAIRMAN proposed to the Commission the  following names as Chairmen of the sub-commis-  sions :
1. Education : M. GHorBAL Bey (Egypt).
2. Mass Communication : M. KuyPErs (Bel-  gium).
3. Libraries and Museums : M. CIBULKA (Cze-  choslovakia).
4. Natural Sciences : Mr. BHABHA (India).
6. Creative Arts : M. REININK (Netherlands).  These nominations were adopted. |  Mr. MacLEÏsn (United States) proposed that  the Commission should adopt a number of recom-  mendations for the use of the sub-commissions.  These recommendations consisted of four prac-  tical rules, one basic principle and two injunctions.  Practical Rules. — To be adopted, all pro-  jects must :  I. Conform to Article I of the Constitution;
2. Form a coherent whole:
3. Not exceed Unesco’s financial means;
4. Take account of the small available staff.  Basic Principle. — Was the project the best  way of attaining the objective in view?  Injunctions :  I. From the point of view of time, projects to  be classified as : realizable in 1947, to be  submitted for study in 1947, and deferred.  N. B. — Classification to be by regions  with due regard for the different needs of  different countries.
2. Plans to be restricted to a few projects of  crucial importance and obvious benefit.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that  a committee would co-ordinate the work of the dif-  ferent sub-commissions of the Programme Com-  mission and of the Reconstruction and Rehabili-  tation Commission. :  THIRD MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1946 at 10.30 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. M. MARTINEZ-BAEZ (Mexico).  Before proceeding with the examination of Items
7 and 8 of the Agenda, Dr. WILSON (Secretariat)  explained the procedure adopted with regard to  the Programme Commission : In order to facili-  tate discussion, six Sub-Commissions, each cover-  ing one section of the programme, as well as a  Co-ordinating Commission, were created.  M, Cassin (France) requested that a sort of cal-  endar of the day’s discussions be established.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the reports from the  Libraries and Museums, Social Sciences and Edu-  cation Sub-Commissions would be examined dur-  ing the morning meeting.  Report of Libraries and Museums  Sub-Commission.  M. CAIN (France), Rapporteur of the Sub-Com-  mission, gave a summary of Doc.Unesco/C/Prog.  Com./S. C. Lib. & Mus./3 and he brought out the  following points :  Collaboration with specialized international or-  ganization. '  Public Libraries and Museums.  Reconstruction of collections and safeguarding  of monuments. ,  Removal of obstacles to free flow of informa-  tion.  Exchanges and distribution.  Bibliographical services.  _ 128 —   ‘Training of the technical staff of libraries, mus-  seums and archives. ' |  This was a vast programme, but most of the  projects under consideration could be undertaken  within the first few months of 1947. It would be -  necessary to give the Section the necessary  financial assistance, and the Sub-Commission con-  sidered that the present credits at the disposal of  the Section were insufficient. .  As the CHAIRMAN was due to attend a meeting  of the Executive Board, he requested that a Vice-  Chairman be elected.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  that M. TURCOTTE, delegate of Canada, be elected.  The delegate of GREECE seconded this motion.  M. TURCOTTE was requested to take the Chair.  The general discussion of the report was then  taken up again point by point, starting with point  B : Collaboration with specialised international  organizations.  The delegate of POLAND pointed out that the  four main international organizations mentioned  had already undertaken a number of tasks, and he  asked what Unesco could do to ensure :
(1) the continuation of the work already under-  taken; :
(2) that overlapping, which often occurred in this  type of bibliographical work, be avoided.  It might be possible to publish a record  of the works undertaken in this field, to  ensure that they were co-ordinated.  On behalf of Mr. MacLeish, the delegate of the  UNITED STATES submitted an observation concer-  ning point g, paragraph 4. The observation re-  commended that this paragraph be extended and  enlarged, by adding to it that Unesco should ren-  der appropriate services in exchange,  M. CAIN (France) moved that the Sub-Commis-  sion accept Mr. MacLeish’s proposal.  This proposal was unanimously accepted.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate warmly suppor-  ted the Report, but made a reservation about the  end of it. In his opinion, projects ought to be con-  “ sidered in relation to the budget.  The RAPPORTEUR mentioned that the tasks of  the Libraries and Museums Section concerned all  the Sections of Unesco, and ought not to be charg-  ed against only one of them. He agreed to the  referring of this question to the Budget Commit-  tee.  In answer to a remark by the BELGc1an delegate,  he explained that the term “ site ’’ meant ‘‘archaeo-  logical site ”.  With reference to point g, paragraph 2 of of  the Report, the delegate of POLAND asked for the.  legal aspect of the question to be examined by the  Executive Board.  Adopted.  The Commission then adopted the whole Re-  port.  Report of the Education Sub-Commission.  After stating the working documents of the Sub-  Commission and thanking the staff of the Section  for its excellent preparatory work, the Sub-Com-  a  a rem a Bc md Aap — = =  mission’s Rapporteur, Dr. Margaret READ, sub-  mitted the report, specified its important points  and made a re-arrangement of items. At the end  of her speech, she recalled the priority order of  the projects, which was indicated at the end of  the report.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate fully approved  the whole Report and thought that amendments  made in a hurry would not improve it. Unesco  should be judged by its influence on the masses and  the interest it aroused in them, and this report  was a first step towards success. Heavy respon-  sibilities had purposely been laid upon the Nat-  ional Commissions, so that they might co-operate  seriously with Unesco. The United Kingdom de-  legate recommended that the report should be una-  nimously approved with no amendments.  The UNITED STATES delegation supported the  proposal of the United Kingdom delegate.  The delegate of INDIA made a few remarks  about the priorities : (a) Aid to International Re-  lations Clubs should have A priority : (b) a World  Peace Day should also have A priority : (c) what  priority should be given to the re-education of ex-  enemy countries? (d) youth movements should be  included in item 1 (a).  The RAPPORTEUR agreed with the Indian dele-  gate’s last point. |  The delegate of FRANCE stressed the importance  of establishing equivalence between diplomas and  the teaching systems in the different countries. He  thought that this question should be studied at  once as part of the work of the Information Cen-  tre on international exchanges of personnel,  The RAPPORTEUR agreed with the French dele-  ate.  ¢ After indicating the order in which the reports  of the different Sub-Commissions (social sciences,  natural sciences, mass communication, creative  arts and general report) would be examined, the  CHAIRMAN closed the meeting.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December, 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : M. MARTINEZ-BAEZ (Mexico).  Report of the Education Sub-Commission  (continuation)  Mr. STODDARD (United States) reminded the  meeting that the American delegation had second-  ed the proposal by the delegate of the United  Kingdom for acceptance of the Education Sub-  Commission’s Report. Regarding the observations  by the INDIAN delegate concerning priorities, he  replied to two of his questions :
(1) As regards section V, paragraph (b), the  question would be referred to the Executive Board  -of Unesco;
(2) As for the question concerning paragraph  (d) of the same section, the Secretariat had been  asked to undertake this study in 1947. He agreed  with the INDIAN delegate’s proposal on youth  clubs, but thought that it was better to put it  into section I, 1 (e), rather than in section A.  The delegate of INDIA signified his approval and  the proposal was adopled.