tal figure of 5.9 millions, it being understood that  the expenses of the Preparatory Commission would  not be discussed, since they could not be altered.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA,  supported by the delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKTA,  proposed six million dollars, because in his opinion  not all the projects of the programme could be  attempted in 1947, and it was easier to increase  than curtail the expenses. Moreover, Unesco should  not appear to be a burden to Member States be-  fore it had proved its worth by concrete results.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA declared that the  amount of 7.5 millions must be reduced and could  easily be; the instructions of the Programme Com-  mission had not been followed and some of the
1947 projects were neither very important nor  very useful.  He proposed, therefore, that the total amount  be reduced by approximately 30 per cent and that  the budget be considered in the light of this re-  duction.  The delegates of POLAND, BELGIUM and GREECE  supported this motion, but insisted that the  amount contemplated for reconstruction purposes  should not be reduced.  The report on the organization of the Secre-  tariat, which was to be submitted to the Plenary  Conference, was then read and approved.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA asked that, in  the course of the discussion on the budget, each  delegate should be authorized to speak more than  once on a given subject.  Adopted.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p. m. and reassembled  at 2.30 p.m.  The PoLrisH delegation seconded the proposal  of the AUSTRALIAN delegate and insisted partieu-  larly on the necessity of reducing the administra-  tive expenses to a minimum. Referring to the ques-  tion of scales, which the Sub-Commission had not  to discuss, the POLISH delegation pointed out that  the scale of contributions, as it was at present,  was not acceptable to it,  The delegate of NEW ZEALAND seconded the  AUSTRALIAN proposal, because he did not consider  that the figure of 7.5 millions rested on a serious  basis and could not understand what was the ba-  sis of calculation used. In any case, he thought the  programme would have to be completely revised  on the basis of the figure that would be fixed for  the budget. Moveover, in 1947, there would only  be a few months’ effective work, which should  allow of a substantial reduction of the budget.  The delegate of CANADA seconded the Austra-  Tan motion, whilst hoping at the same time that  the reduction would not affect the figure for re-  construction.  At the request of the delegate of AUSTRALIA, the  SECRETARIAT gave a brief account of the history  and establishment of the draft budget. Since the  programmg had been expanded after the budget  had been ®Mamed, there was no real relation be-  tween the figure considered and the nature and  number of projects. If they were to be compared  to those of the United Nations, the expenses would  not seem too high, especially with regard to staff,  for which only one-third of the requests by Heads  of Sections had been taken into consideration.  FOURTEENTH MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1940 at 3.20 b. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  At the request of the Unitep States delégate,  the CHAIRMAN put to the vote three resolutions  concerning the aggregate amount of the budget,  which had been submitted at the morning's mcee-  ting :
1st Resolution, submitted by the UNITED KING-  poy delegate, and seconded by the NORWEGIAN  delegate:  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). . . LLL.  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946  Total.  % 7,611,130
5 050,000  $ 8,501,139  znd Resolution, submitted by the CzECHOSLO-  VAK delegate and seconded by the delegate of the  UNION oF SOUTH AFRICA :  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). . . . . . . . . . . $ 6,000,000  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946 oo $ 950,000  Total. 5 6,030,000
3rd Resolution, submitted by the AUSTRALIAN  delegate and séconded by the delegate of the  UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA :  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). Ce  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946  Total.
3 5,700,000  # 950,600  $ 6,650,000  À vote was taken by roll-call.  The AUSTRALIAN resolution was rejected by 10  votes to 8.  The CZECHOSLOVAK resolution was adopted by 10  votes to 9; IT delegations abstaining.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate asked that the de-  tails of the vote should be accurately specified in  the report to be submitted to the General Con-  ference.  This proposal, seconded bv the FRENCH and  BELGIAN delegates, was adopted.  FIFTEENTH MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1940 at 6.10 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E .BEEBY (New Zealand).  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate, as Chairman of  the Drafting Committee, proposed the adoption  of Document 23 of the Administrative and Finan-  cial Sub-Commission, together with two resolu-  tions respecting :
1) the scale of contributions; oo
2) the total amount of the Revolving Fund.  The resolution regarding the adoption of Docu-  ment 23 was seconded by the BELGIAN and NOR-