‘““ To do whatever may be possible to inform  the public of new scientific.discoveries and their  possible bearing on international and social re-  lations. ”  The Sub-Commission decided to insert as an  annex a suggestion by the UNITED STATES dele-  gation as follows :  “In the execution of these instructions, the  Secretariat of the Natural Sciences Section will  as far as possible co-operate with other sections  which deal with mass communication and also  with other institutions, national and inter-  national. ”  The Sub-Commission also decided to annex a  suggestion by the Secretariat that the latter should  study the possibility of Unesco printing a thou-  sand copies of scientific works and distributing  them to Member nations. These nations would  then make reprints of these works in the original  language or in their own.  al tem 15 thus amended was unanimously adopt-  ed.  Item 16.  In reply to a statement by the UNITED STATES  delegation, Dr. NEEDHAM explained that certain  international exhibitions could only be organized  by Unesco itself. At the Chairman’s proposal,  Item 16 was adopted with the following amend-  ment :  After the words ‘“ to consider ” insert the words  ‘“ or stimulate. ”  The Sub-Commission then went back to Item 12,  and decided to insert after the words ‘to take  responsibility © the words ¢ with other Unesco  Sections, ”  Document 13 a.  This document, which dealt with questions for  which no immediate action was proposed, was  adopted in its entirety with the understanding  that Items 1 and 3 were transferred from Cate-  gory C to Category A.  Question of Priorities.  The CHAIRMAN said that it was essential to  choose one or two concrete projects which would  strike the public imagination and clearly illustrate  the work done by Unesco for the welfare of peo-  ples. These projects would be given No. 1 priority.  The question of diseases and nutrition seemed  especially suitable for inclusion in this class, and  the CHAIRMAN reverted to a proposal by the IN-  DIAN delegation.  Dr. NEEDHAM said that the Secretariat appro-  ved this project, and a general discussion arose  on the matter, during which the delegate of Bra-  ZIL pointed out that its application to the Ama-  zon zone was only one part of the Amazon Basin  problem,  At the close of the discussion, the three follow-  ing resolutions were unanimously adopted :  “Flying teams of scientific and technological  experts on nutrition would be established in In-  dia and the Amazon Basin and, as soon as cir-  cumstances permitted, in China and Africa. ”  In the last sentence on page 2 of document 13,  the word ‘‘ necessarily ” would be deleted, and  at the end of that sentence the following sentence  would be added :  -  ““ The question of the creation of flying teams  of scientific and technological experts in nutri-  tion and also the scheme for the Amazon Basin  will receive No. 1 priority. ”  Passing to the question of the budget, the  CHAIRMAN proposed an. amendment to Item 5  which the Sub-Commission adopted unanimously :  After the word “ international ”’, insert the  words ‘‘ and national ”.  After a statement by the CHAIRMAN that the  Secretariat should be perfectly free to change the  allocation of funds, a general discussion on the  subject followed, at the end of which the Sub-  Commission adopted this resolution :  ‘““ That the Natural Sciences Sub-Comrnis-  sion is of opinion that the Secretariat should  be empowered, within the budget of the Natural  Sciences Section, to transfer funds from one item  to another in the course of its work, if it deems  t. rr 7  At the request of the FRENCH delegation the  Sub-Commission decided to add to this ‘“ though  seeking to keep purely administrative expenses at  the minimum, ”  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 3 December 1946 at 5 p. m.  Chairman : Professor BHABHA (India).  The CHINESE delegate recalled the decision tak-  en at the meeting held in the morning, concer-  ning the establishment of Food Study Centres in  India and in the Amazon Basin, and asked that  a third centre be set up in China, which had a  population of 400 millions.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate seconded this  proposal,  The UNITED STATES delegate considered it es-  sential that they should concentrate effort on a few  concrete proposals. The Chinese proposal should  be proceeded with as soon as circumstances per-  mitted, but, for the time being, it should be left  in abeyance, as it meant an excessive dispersal  of Unesco’s resources.  The CHINESE delegate asked that the establish-  ment of such a centre in China should be given  priority “ A”.  The CHAIRMAN considered that everyone was in  agreement with the principle of the proposal, but  the real issue was whether they disposed of suf-  ficient resources.  Dr. NEEDHAM (Secretariat) replied that the Se-  cretariat had no views on this point.  The NEw ZEALAND delegate considered that the  resources of Unesco were inadequate to undertake  this task on a large scale.  The CHINESE delegate explained that research  on food questions had already been carried out  long before the war, particularly in the Yunnan  Province.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that China should be  included in the project, together with India and  the Amazon Basin.  Adopted.  — 172 —   BUDGET.  The Budget was put to the vote in its present  orm and unanimously adopted.  Dr. NEEDHAM (Secretariat) expressed his deep  satisfaction at the adoption of the budget in its  present form. However, he proposed several alter-  native resolutions :
1. That the proportion of the total Unesco  Budget allocated to the Natural Sciences Sec-  tion should not be less than 20%; or
2. That the proportion of the total Budget  allocated to the Natural Sciences Section should  be increased during the coming years; or
3. That the Budget of the Natural Sciences  Section should be maintained at its present le-  vel, even if the total Unesco Budget were reduc-  ed.  The UNITED STATES delegate also proposed that  the Sub-Commission’s budget should not be affect-  ed by a possible reduction of total budget.  The CHAIRMAN and the UNITED KINGDOM dele-  gate both supported this proposal.  The CHAIRMAN read the text of the Amend-  ment : ‘The Budget allotted to the Natural  Sciences Section shall be increased in future years,  and in no case shall it be less than 1 million dollars,  even if the total Unesco Budget is reduced. ”  The Amendment was adopted unanimously.  Document IS.  The Meeting then considered the last document  on the Agenda : final report — Document 15.  Article 1 was adopted unanimously.  As regards Article 2, the CHAIRMAN suggested  the addition, at the end of this article, of a sen-  tence expressing the views of the Meeting on the  amount of the Budget granted to the Natural  Sciences Section.  This amendment was adopted.  The whole of Article 2 was unanimously adop-  ted.  Article 3 was also adopted unanimously.  The CHAIRMAN considered it would be neces-  sary to modify Article 4 in the light of the resol-  utions adopted by the meeting.  The UNITED STATES delegate was appointed De-  puty Rapporteur.  mt ms Boi | mn en roams mh