Dr. Huxiey (Executive Secretary) pointed out  that similar proposals had been made to the other  Sub-Commissions and they were considered pre-  mature.  The BELGIAN and UNITED STATES delegates  found this project premature and the CHINESE de-  legate thought it raised practical difficulties; the  delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM di sapproved the  idea of a competition and opposed the motion.  The motion was rejected by ten votes to eight.  The Sub-Commission took up the examination  oi point I. The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM  moved that this project be postponed.  The UNITED STATES delegate seconded the mo-  tion.  Adopted.  HUMANISTIC STUDIES.  Dr. Awap (Secretariat) explained that, since the  report on Humenistic studies had been prepared  after the Green Book was published, it was to be  found in Annex 1 of Chapter VI, Unesco/C/2. He  also pointed out that this report was not pres Sented  in the form of separate projects; it would therc-  fore be advisable to set up a small Sub-Committee,  which would study the report and compile a list  of projects to be submitted to the Sub-Commis-  SION.  The UNITED STATES delegate seconded the Se-  cretariat’s motion.  Dr. AwAn moved that the Sub-Committee con-  sist of a representative of CiniNa, the UNITED Kinc-  DOM, UNITED STATES, FRANCE, N ETHERLANDS, and  AUSTRALIA.  Adopled.  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Monday, à December 1940 al 3-p. mn.  Dr. E, ALZONA (Philippines). Chatrman :  M. Hota (Denmark) read the report of the Sub-  Committee on Humanistic Studies and submitted  the text for discussion.  The UNITED STATES delegate said that the re-  port seemed to offer no wider basis than the ra-  dius of action of the International Institute of  Intellectual Co-operation. te added that the Unit-  ed States delegation proposed the establishment  of study sections, of which he gave seven examples.  Their results would be submitted to the General  Conference and the programme for the next year  would be fixed accor dingly He suggested two prin-  ciples :
1. to study and define in 1947 the basic prin-  ciples for the direction of work;
2. to study, also in 1947, the applications of  these principles,  The delegate of the United States mainly com-  plained of the lack of scope and breadth in the  Sub-Committees draft. After a discussion he pro-  posed this resolution :
1. To set up, during the coming year, study  sections whose researches would deterinine in
1947 the future plan of work.
2. Fo study in 1947 the applications to be  made of the studies conducted by these sec-  tions.  The delegate of the UNIOX OF SOUTH ARICA  asked what was the relation between the United  States resolution and the fundamental principles  of Unesco, namely, contribution to world peace  and prosperity. He pointed oui that paragraph A  of the I'rench plan for establishirg priorities con-  tained concrete study proj cots,  After due reflection the UniTin STATES and  DENMARK presented a joint proposal in the form  of a resolution submitted by the United States  with a Danish amendment. The programme would  include : 1. The United States resolution; 2. À  number of urgeat tasks mentioned in the Sub-  Commitiee’s report.  The delegate of IRAN raised the question of  priorities and thought that not enough importance  wus given to the relations between the different  cultures.  The United States resolution was put to the  vote and adopted.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA remarked that  among other things the programme of study in  paragraph 7 was much too big to be carried out  in 1047.  The CHAIRMAN said that, though these projects  were for 1047, the programme was [aicly elastic  and the question of priorities would settle the  order in which they would be worked on.  Îtem 2 in the Sub-Committees report was put  to the vote and'adopred.  The Unirzn Kixopom delegate said that the  question of referring studies to the National Cor-  Hussions of States Membe rs had not been raised,  She thought that item 7 was a typical example  of a case which fell within the competence of the  National Commissions.  Items 3 and + were put to the vote and adopied.  The Uxiren States delegate, supported by the  delegaie of the UNION OF SOUTE AFRICA, Propo-  sed that items 5, 6, 7 and 8 should be referred  to the National Commissions.  M. Hora Denmark) agreed as regards items 7  and 8, but said that points 3 and & were to be  studied in the following year.  This proposal was adopted. Items 5 and 6 were  dropped and numbers 7 and $ werd approved by  vote, with an amendnwnt as follows : In colla-  boration with the National Commissions.  The Sub-Commission then passed on to points  K, L, M and N in the Social Sciences document.  The Uxrrzn Kivcpom delegate asked two ques-  tons about the third group
1. Were the 27 documents referred to of to-  pical importance?
2. Would the work be done in conjunction  ith the Education Section?  Awap replied in the affirmative  gate proposed that  document,  wi  Dr.  The Untied Kinobom dele  they should vote on the w hole of the  and this was ds lopted.  Professor Cassi pointed out that not enough  attention was being paid to questions of interna-  tioral law. re submitted a recommendation for  an international conference to make a compara-   tive study of the different national codes and to  provide for the circulation of its results.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate feared lest this  should lead to codification, which was a matter  for the United Nations and not for Unesco.  The delegate of ECUADOR supported the pro-  posal, but urged the constructive character of the  work to be done.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate suggested an  amendment to the l’rench recommendation to the  effect that the word “ circulation ” should be re-  placed by the word “ study ” in the paragraph  about international law studies.  À vote was taken on the French recommenda-  tion as amended by the United Kingdom. Adopted.  The Meeting then discussed the proposal of the  delegate of Ecuador. The recommendation for the  convening of a conference in 1947 or 1948 to deal  with legal questions was rejected.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate pointed to two ‘mist-  akes in Social Sciences Document number 2. These  were corrected.  Dr. Awan asked the Sub-Commission if it ac-  cepted the text of the report relating to the sepa-  ration of the Social Sciences Section from the Sec-  tion of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, which  belonged to the cultural field. This text would be  compared with that in the full verbatim report.  The meeting then passed on to the question  of priorities and, as it was late, decided to set up  a Sub-Committee, which would meet the next day  and would be made up of the delegates of the Uni-  ted States, Unites! Kingdom, France, China, Czes  choslovakia, Belgium and Union of South Africa.