‘Training of the technical staff of libraries, mus-  seums and archives. ' |  This was a vast programme, but most of the  projects under consideration could be undertaken  within the first few months of 1947. It would be -  necessary to give the Section the necessary  financial assistance, and the Sub-Commission con-  sidered that the present credits at the disposal of  the Section were insufficient. .  As the CHAIRMAN was due to attend a meeting  of the Executive Board, he requested that a Vice-  Chairman be elected.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  that M. TURCOTTE, delegate of Canada, be elected.  The delegate of GREECE seconded this motion.  M. TURCOTTE was requested to take the Chair.  The general discussion of the report was then  taken up again point by point, starting with point  B : Collaboration with specialised international  organizations.  The delegate of POLAND pointed out that the  four main international organizations mentioned  had already undertaken a number of tasks, and he  asked what Unesco could do to ensure :
(1) the continuation of the work already under-  taken; :
(2) that overlapping, which often occurred in this  type of bibliographical work, be avoided.  It might be possible to publish a record  of the works undertaken in this field, to  ensure that they were co-ordinated.  On behalf of Mr. MacLeish, the delegate of the  UNITED STATES submitted an observation concer-  ning point g, paragraph 4. The observation re-  commended that this paragraph be extended and  enlarged, by adding to it that Unesco should ren-  der appropriate services in exchange,  M. CAIN (France) moved that the Sub-Commis-  sion accept Mr. MacLeish’s proposal.  This proposal was unanimously accepted.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate warmly suppor-  ted the Report, but made a reservation about the  end of it. In his opinion, projects ought to be con-  “ sidered in relation to the budget.  The RAPPORTEUR mentioned that the tasks of  the Libraries and Museums Section concerned all  the Sections of Unesco, and ought not to be charg-  ed against only one of them. He agreed to the  referring of this question to the Budget Commit-  tee.  In answer to a remark by the BELGc1an delegate,  he explained that the term “ site ’’ meant ‘‘archaeo-  logical site ”.  With reference to point g, paragraph 2 of of  the Report, the delegate of POLAND asked for the.  legal aspect of the question to be examined by the  Executive Board.  Adopted.  The Commission then adopted the whole Re-  port.  Report of the Education Sub-Commission.  After stating the working documents of the Sub-  Commission and thanking the staff of the Section  for its excellent preparatory work, the Sub-Com-  a  a rem a Bc md Aap — = =  mission’s Rapporteur, Dr. Margaret READ, sub-  mitted the report, specified its important points  and made a re-arrangement of items. At the end  of her speech, she recalled the priority order of  the projects, which was indicated at the end of  the report.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate fully approved  the whole Report and thought that amendments  made in a hurry would not improve it. Unesco  should be judged by its influence on the masses and  the interest it aroused in them, and this report  was a first step towards success. Heavy respon-  sibilities had purposely been laid upon the Nat-  ional Commissions, so that they might co-operate  seriously with Unesco. The United Kingdom de-  legate recommended that the report should be una-  nimously approved with no amendments.  The UNITED STATES delegation supported the  proposal of the United Kingdom delegate.  The delegate of INDIA made a few remarks  about the priorities : (a) Aid to International Re-  lations Clubs should have A priority : (b) a World  Peace Day should also have A priority : (c) what  priority should be given to the re-education of ex-  enemy countries? (d) youth movements should be  included in item 1 (a).  The RAPPORTEUR agreed with the Indian dele-  gate’s last point. |  The delegate of FRANCE stressed the importance  of establishing equivalence between diplomas and  the teaching systems in the different countries. He  thought that this question should be studied at  once as part of the work of the Information Cen-  tre on international exchanges of personnel,  The RAPPORTEUR agreed with the French dele-  ate.  ¢ After indicating the order in which the reports  of the different Sub-Commissions (social sciences,  natural sciences, mass communication, creative  arts and general report) would be examined, the  CHAIRMAN closed the meeting.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December, 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : M. MARTINEZ-BAEZ (Mexico).  Report of the Education Sub-Commission  (continuation)  Mr. STODDARD (United States) reminded the  meeting that the American delegation had second-  ed the proposal by the delegate of the United  Kingdom for acceptance of the Education Sub-  Commission’s Report. Regarding the observations  by the INDIAN delegate concerning priorities, he  replied to two of his questions :
(1) As regards section V, paragraph (b), the  question would be referred to the Executive Board  -of Unesco;
(2) As for the question concerning paragraph  (d) of the same section, the Secretariat had been  asked to undertake this study in 1947. He agreed  with the INDIAN delegate’s proposal on youth  clubs, but thought that it was better to put it  into section I, 1 (e), rather than in section A.  The delegate of INDIA signified his approval and  the proposal was adopled.
129 —   The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the delegate  of the UNITED KINGDOM had requested that no  amendment should be made in the report.  The NEw ZEALAND delegate supported that sug-  gestion.  Mr. STODDARD proposed the addition of the fol-  lowing phrase in paragraph (d) of the section :  ‘including the study of the equivalence of school  standards and university diplomas ”.  M. WALLON (France) seconded Mr. Stoddard’s  proposal.  The delegate of INDIA asked whether this meant  that youth movements were included in item I (e).  The CHAIRMAN said that this was so.  The proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN suggested appointing a small  drafting committee to put the Programme Com-  mission’s report into final shape and he propo-  sed as members Mr. GRIERSON, Mr. MacLEISH and  M. GILsON. These suggestions were accepted.  The CHAIRMAN added that the reports of the  Sub-Commissions would figure as annexes to the  general report of the Programme Commission.  Report of the Social Sciences  Sub-Commission.  Dr. Jouxsox, Rapporteur of the Social Sciences  Sub-Commission, read the report of that Sub-  Commission (Document Unesco / C / Prog. Com. /  S. C. Soc, Sci./ 0).  The delegate of DENMARK proposed a slight  amendment to the paragraphs on page 6 of the  French text and page 4 of the English text. The  sentence beginning with the words : ‘“ As a result  of its deliberations... ”” was number 4. To this pa-  ragraph the following should be added: “ Mean-  while Unesco must serve as a centre of mutual  information concerning the efforts made in the  different countries to assemble, publish and com-  ment upon documents relating to the history of  the second World War, including the social and  psychological problems of Nazism and Fascism. ””  The delegate of FRANCE proposed a small amend-  ment in the drafting of the paragraph on compar-  ative international law. This could be put in the  following way : ‘“ With the assistance of experts  Unesco will, during 1947, draw up a plan for com-  parative studies of national judicial systems and  of international law, with a view to the advance-  ment of the latter and to acquainting the general  public with studies on that subject. ”  The delegate of GREECE then took the Chair.  The resolution was adopied by thirteen votes.  The delegate of FRANCE submitted a proposal  on a point of detail, namely, on page 7 of the  French text and page 5 of the English text, to  transfer from paragraph 3 to paragraph 2 all that  concerned Group VI.  The RAPPORTEUR of the Sub-Commission ex-  plained why studies on international law were  given Priority 2. All the projects had been thought  important, and oniy those that were discarded  received no priority order.  The delegate of FRANCE accepted the report as  it stood, but asked the drafting committee to  touch up the phraseology. He suggested that, on  page 9 of the French text and page 6 of the Eng-  lish text, Item E and F should be placed after G.  The delegate of DENMARK remarked that pro-  ject G had in fact been dropped.  The delegate of INDIA thought that not enough  emphasis had been placed in Group V on the  question of nationalism.  The delegate of FRANCE withdrew his proposal.  The RAPPORTEUR expressed full agreement with  the .delegate of Ivpra, but explained that they  had had to condense the report.  The delegate of INDIA proposed that the word  ‘‘ minority ” should be omitted from the phrase  ‘‘ minority racial or cultural groups ”.  There was no objection and the item would  therefore be drafted accordingly.  The whole report was adopted.  Report of Natural Sciences  Sub-Commission.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES, Rappor-  teur of the Natural Sciences Sub-Commission, said  that, owing to the importance of the questions,  the Sub-Commission desired to recommend a num-  ber of proposals on projects chosen for their spe-  cial importance, two of which were given priority,  namely : ; :
(1) the study of the effects of different degrees  of malnutrition on large groups of the po-  pulation; | |
(2) the study of living conditions in tropical  areas and of the natural resources of the  tropics.  Details would be found in Document 23.  The RAPPORTEUR then summarised the recom-  mendations of the Natural Sciences Sub-Commis-  sion (Document Unesco / C / Prog. Com. / S. C.  Nat. Sci. / 22).  The INDIAN delegate pointed out that a para-  graph had been omitted on the first page of the  French text :  “ The Sub-Commission considers that a budget  of less than 1,000,000 dollars a year would not  permit the fulfilment of an adequate programme. ”  The RAPPORTEUR (Dr. A. H. Compton) declar-  ed that, if the budget was less than this amount,  the Sciences Section could not survive as one of  the three independent fields of Unesco, but would  have to be incorporated in the Education or Cul-  tural Sections. oo  The CHAIRMAN having stated that the opinion  expressed by the Rapporteur would be noted, the  Commission adopted the whole of the report.  Report of the Mass Communication  Sub-Commission.  After enumerating the amendments to the text  of the report, which were then circulated to the  meeting, the RAPPORTEUR, Mr. Grierson, submit-  “ted the report and indicated the main points to  which his Sub-Commission had devoted its efforts:  I. Freedom of every country to develop and ex-  press itself, which implied assistance by  highly developed countries to those less  developed;
2. Free dissemination of information and immed-  iate technical requirements;  — 130 —  rs mi re
3. Proposals which were practical and economic  despite their number.  The RAPPORTEUR ended by asking that there  should be no reduction of the budget.  The FRENCH delegate called attention to an  omission. He considered that project 3 should men-  tion the plans for a survey of press legislation in  the different countries. In addition, the words ‘’ or  organizations”’ should be inserted after the word  “‘ systems ” in project 4 (a).  he RAPPORTEUR having agreed to these alte-  rations, the whole of the report was adopted by the  Commission.  f  Report of the Creative Arts Sub-Commission.  After recalling that the Creative Arts Sub-Com-  mission had divided into two Sub-Committees, for  the better accomplishment of its work, the Rap-  PORTEUR, Professor Morey, submitted the report  and made two observations: the word ¢ assist ”’  at the top of page 3 did not mean * financial  assistance ‘’; on page 4, after paragraph 4 (c), the  following sentence should beinserted : ‘‘ The Crea-  tive Arts Section takes an interest in everything  concerning the improvement of the present prac-  tice in regard to copyright. ”  The FRENCH delegate pointed out that the word-  ing of the French text was faulty, and asked  in particular that the title “Arts de Création ”  (Creative Arts) should be replaced by “ Arts et  Lettres ”’ (Arts and Letters).  The Commission agreed to this alteration.  The FRENCH delegate asked for the inclusion  of a recommendation in point A (1) : “ To disco-  ver means of defining the relations between au-  thors, translators and publishers, ”  The RAPPORTEUR having agreed to this propo-  sal, the FRENCH delegate asked that out of the  six French proposals, at least two should be in-  cluded in the report, viz. :  I. Establishment of a chronological index of  world literary activities.
2. Creation of an international literary Year-  Book.  The RAPPORTEUR agreed to this proposal.  Referring to the publication of an Anthology  of Suffering and Resistance, the FRENCH delegate  reminded the meeting that he did not support  this project.  After a discussion on this point, the Commission  adopted by 9 votes to 6 a resolution proposed by  the CANADIAN delegate and amended by Dr. Hux.  LEY, as follows :  “ That Unesco should encourage, and if neces-  sary undertake, in 1947 the publication of an  Anthology of Suffering and Resistance. ”’  The report of the Sub-Commission on Arts and  Letters was adopted, with the above amendments.  — 131 --