Lu  staff holding posts specified in paragraph 1 of  Regulation 7 A, was rejected.  Lastly, Regulation 28, subject to an amendment  proposed by the delegate of POLAND, was adopted  in the following form : F  “ The Director-General, with the approval  of the Executive Board, may terminate the  appointment of a member of the staff if the  necessities of the service require the suppression  of the post. ”  The Regulation was referred to the drafting  Committee for final wording. :  Regulation 20.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  suggested that the text should be amended, to  read as follows :  “ If the Director-General terminates an ap-  pointment under Regulation 28 above, he shall  give six months’ notice.  “These provisions of notice shall not apply  to probationers, persons holding short-term  contracts, or persons summarily dismissed. ”  Seconded by the delegate of POLAND, and adop-  ted. :  Regulation 30.  Adopted.  Sir Gecil K1scH made a statement regarding the  scale of contributions from Member States and  on the establishment of a Revolving Fund. Memo-  randa on these subjects were circulated to the  meeting, and Sir C. KiscH explained that the  proposals formulated therein were purely tenta-  tive.  The CHAIRMAN thanked Sir Cecil Kisch on  behalf of the meeting.  Regulation 31.  The delegate of FRANCE proposed the addition,  at the end of the Regulation, of the words * on  the basis of the scales adopted by the United  Nations ’’. :  Amendment seconded by the delegate of the  UNITED KINGDOM, and adopied.  Regulation 32.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA suggested the addi-  tion, at the end of paragraph (c) of the Regula-  tion, of the words * for .return to their home  country ”. |  Amendment seconded by the delegate of the  UNITED STATES and, after some discussion, lost.  The delegate of BELGIUM suggested a new text,  as follows, for sub-paragraph b) : “ (b) when  they are authorized to take home leave ”.  Adopted.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  proposed that the whole regulation should be  referred to the Drafting Committee for clarifica-  tion.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of INDIA,  and adopted.  Regulation 33.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM sugges-  ted the addition, at the end of the Regulation,  of the words : ‘“ Subject to the approval of the  Executive Board. ”  Seconded by the delegates of UNITED STATES,  CzecHosLovakia and FRANCE, and adopicd.  Regulation 33, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 34.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES moved the  deletion of the words “in relation to”, in the  first sentence, and the substitution of the words  ““ as part of 7’,  Seconded by the delegate of INDIA.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  moved that the general principles laid down in  Regulation 34 be approved by the Sub-Commis-  ‘sion, but that the regulation be referred to the  Drafting Committee for clarification, with parti-  cular reference to the part to be played by the  Executive Board in approving any scheme invol-  ving considerable expenditure.  Adopted.  Regulation 35.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  proposed that it should be adopted in principle,  but that the final wording should be referred to  the Drafting Committee.  This proposal was adopted.  Regulation 36.  Regulation 36, with an amendment proposed  by the delegation of the UNITED STATES, was  referred to the Drafting Committee for the final  text.  Regulation 37.  Adopted without discussion.  Regulation 38.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the addition of a second paragraph, to read as  follows :  « The Director-General will make an annual  report to the General Confererice ôn the staff  regulations, including any amendments to these  ‘regulations which he may have introduced in  the implementation of the present regulations.  This regulation was referred to the Drafting  Committee, for the final form of the wording.  The CHAIRMAN requested the Drafting Com-  mittee to meet as soon as possible.  The consideration of the draft regulations being  concluded, he proposed that the questions of  principle raised in Sections 1 and 2 of Chapter IT,  which were not considered at the same time as  the regulations, should be referred to the Drafting  Committee, except for paragraph C of Section 2,  « Organizational Structure of the Secretariat ”,  which would be placed before the Sub-Commission  itself. . ,  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT FINANCIAL REGULATIONS  (Document C/7, page 95)-  Regulation T.  Adopted.  JE 205 —_   Regulation 2.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the deletion of the second sentence.  Amendment adopted.  Regulation 2, as amended, was adopled.  New Regulation 2 A. :  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the insertion of a new Regulation 2 À, as follows :  “In the preparation of the budget the Di-  rector-General shall consult with the Secretary-  General of the United Nations, as provided in  Article XVI, Section 3 (a), of the Draft Agree-  ment between the United Nations and Unesco. ?”  This proposal, supported by the delegate of the  UNITED KINGDOM. was adopted.  Regulation 3.  The delegate of FRANCE proposed a new text,  as follows :  ~ ““ The Director-General shall arrange for the  budget to be examined by a Committee on fin-  ance, to be appointed by the Executive Board,  prior to its submission to the Executive Board  and the General Conference and in sufficient  time for the budget and the Committee's report  on the budget to be transmitted to the Members  of Unesco and to the Secretary-General of the  United Nations. ”  Adopted.  Regulation 4.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES submitted  a new text, which had been agreed with other  delegations wishing to propose amendments to Re-  gulation 4 :  ““ The budget shall be divided into parts, sec-  tions and chapters, and shall be accompanied  by :  (à) a detailed statement of the estimated expen-  diture provided for under each chapter;  (b) a statement showing the amount to be con-  tributed by each Member in accordance  with the approved scale of contributions;  (c) a statement of estimated additional income  under appropriate headings;  (d) a statement of total income;  (e) a statement showing the appropriations in  the preceding financial period compared  with the actual expenditure for that pe-  riod;  (f) a statement showing all income by catego-  ries received during the preceding finan-  cial period and indicating appropriations,  allotments, expenditures and unobligated  balances; and  (g) alist showing the names of the officials of the  Organization and setting out their natio-  nalities, duties, salaries, and allowances if  any; this list shall be confidentially cir-  culated to Members of the Organization  and to the Conference. ”  Seconded by the delegate of the UNITED KING-  DOM and adopted.  Regulation 5.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES -explained  that, as the new text of Regulation 4 provided for  L  a detailed statement of expenditure, Regulation 5  had become superfluous. He therefore moved its  deletion.  Adopted.  New Regulation 5 A.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  the insertion of a new Regulation 5 a, as follows :  “ The General Conference shall determine the  total amount to be deposited in the Revolving  Fund. ”  Adopted.  Regulation 6.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the following addition :  “ And from gifts, bequests and subventions  received in accordance with paragraph 3 of Ar-  ticle IX of the Constitution of Unesco. Pending  the receipt of the foregoing contributions and  funds, the budget may be financed from the Re-  volving Fund. ”  Seconded by the delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH  AFRICA.  The delegate of INDIA raised the question of the  use of gifts offered for special purposes and recei-  ved too late for inclusion in the approved budget.  It was decided that this question would properly  be considered in connection with Regulation 4 (c),  and the delegate of India therefore moved that  Regulation 4 (c) be referred to the Drafting Com-  mittee for clarification on this point.  Agreed.  In reply to enquiries, the SECRETARIAT explai-  ned that the suggested scales for contributions for  Member States had been: proposed for a period of
3 years, i. e. the years 1946, 1947 and 1948.  Regulation 6, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 7.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM suggested  the addition of the following sentence :  “ In considering such gifts, bequests and sub-  ventions, the Executive Board shall have par-  ticular regard to any immediate or ultimate fi-  nancial liability to the Members of the Organ-  ization. ”  Regulation 7, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 8. :  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM propo-  sed to recast Regulation 8 in the form of two sepa-  rate paragraphs :  “ 8, The budget of the Organization shall be  expressed in dollar currency. ””  “ 8 A. The contributions from Member States  to finance the budget shall be assessed against  the Member States in dollar currency. The con-  tributions from Member States shall be paid in  currency or currencies to be determined by the  General Conference. The currency in which Mem-  ber States shall make their contribution to the  first annual budget of the Organization shall be  determined by the Executive Board, ”  The above two amendments to Regulation 8  were considered separately and adopted.  The new Regulation 8 and Regulation 8 A were  adopted, and referred to the Drafting Committee  for re-numbering if necessary.  -— 206 ——   Regulation 0.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES moved that  the meeting be suspended for 1 1/2 hours to enable  further amendments to the Draft Regulations to  be co-ordinated.  Motion seconded by the delegate of the UNION  OF SOUTH AFRICA and agreed.  The delegate of FRANCE enquired whether the  question of the collection by the United Nations  of contributions from those Members of Unesco  which were also Members of the United Nations  was still under discussion and was likely soon to  be settled (Article XVI, paragraph 3, Section (d)  of the Draft Agreement between Unesco and the  United Nations).  The SECRETARIAT said that this matter was still  under consideration. There were many difficulties,  such as differences in currencies, and it thought the  question could be settled during the coming year.  The delegate of FRANCE proposed the following  motion for transmission to the Executive Board :  “ The Sub-Commission invites the General  Conference to request the Director-General or  the Executive Board of Unesco to undertake and  carry out as quickly as possible negotiations  for the conclusion of an agreement in accor-.  dance with section (d) of paragraph 3 of Ar-  ticle XVI of the Draft Agreement with the Uni-  ted Nations. ”  Motion seconded by the delegate of POLAND.  Sir Cecil KrscH said that, if the budgets of the  auxiliary organizations were annexed to the United  Nations budget, this did not necessarily imply that  the United Nations would be the collecting agent  for contributions. It might even prove advanta-  geous for Unesco to collect its own contributions.  Though this question was important, it should not  be hurried.  The Meeting adjourned from 4.30 p. m. until 6  p.m.  Regulation 9 (Continued).  The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of Regu-  lation g.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES suggested  the insertion, after the words ‘‘ Director-General  to incur ” of the words “‘ obligations and ”. He  also suggested, in the last sentence, the substitu-  tion of the word ‘‘ obligations ” for the word ‘““ lia-  © bilities. ”  Adopted.  Regulation 9, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 10.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the following new text :  “ After the General Conference has adopted  the budget, the Director-General shall :  (a) transmit all relevant documents to Members;  (b) inform Member States of their commitments  with respect to the annual budget and of  advances to the Revolving Fund; and  (c) request them to remit their contributions  and any advances to the Revolving Fund  (in amounts and at times as may be deter-  mined). ”  Adopted.  Regulation 11,  The delegate of the UNITED STATES suggested  the substitution, in sub-paragraph (e), of the word  ‘ obligations ” for the word ““ liabilities ”, He also  scie the following changes in sub-paragraph  at the end of the first paragraph, delete the  word ‘‘ ascertain ” and substitute the word ‘“ en-  sure ”’.  in sub-section (iii), delete the words ‘‘ any un-  economic ”’ and substitute the words ‘“ the econo-  mic ry  Regulation 11, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 12.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed the  following new text :  ““ Tenders for equipment, supplies and other  requirements shall be invited except where the  Director-General deems that, in the interest of  the Organization, a departure from the rule is  desirable. ”  The delegate of POLAND asked that it should be  noted, for the record, that tenders for supplies  could be received from all countries.  The new text of Regulation 12 was adopted.  Regulation 13.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM propo-  sed the following new text :  “ The accounts of the Organization shall be  kept in the currency in which contributions will  be payable. This shall not preclude the main-  tenance of subsidiary accounts in other curren-  cies if this should appear desirable.  Adopted.  Regulation 14.  Adopted.  Regulation 15.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES suggested  the deletion of the word “ regulations ”’ and the  substitution of the word “ rules ".  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  suggested that, as it was not always clear which  authority was responsible for the application of  the financial regulations, this question should be  referred to the Drafting Committee for clarifica-  tion.  The amendment proposed by the delegate of the  UNITED STATES was adopted.  Regulation 15, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 10.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES suggested  the insertion, after the word « purchased ”, in sub-  paragraph (ii) of section (d), of the word “ used ”.  He also proposed the addition of a new section  (e), as follows :  “ (e) Separate accounts for the Revolving  Fund, and for gifts, bequests and subventions  received in accordance with Art. IX, para-  graph 3, of the Constitution of Unesco, if the  donor so requires.  Seconded by the delegate of POLAND, and adop-  ted.  Regulation 16, as amended, was adopted.  we 207 —      Regulation 17.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the following new text :  “ The Executive Board shall appoint exter-  nal auditors in the manner, for the terms and  purposes, and under the conditions which it shall  specify, and the .auditors shall prepare a com-  prehensive report for the preceding financial pe-  riod for submission to the General Conference. ”  The delegate of POLAND suggested the addition,  at the end of the regulation, of the words “ for  its approval ”. The delegates of the UNION OF  SOUTH AFRICA and of FRANCE thought this ad-  dition unnecessary, and the proposed amendment  was lost.  The new text of Regulation 17, proposed by  the delegate of the UNITED STATES, was adopted.  The delegate of FRANCE then raised a general  question. Whilst an effective control had been pro-  vided for the material processes, the regulations  did not provide adequate control for the working  of the system. An official should perhaps be appoin-  ted, to act as liaison officer between the Auditor  and the Financial Control Committee, whose duty  it would be to expound the Auditor's comments  to the General Conference, the Financial Control  Committee and the Executive Board.  After some discussion, it was decided to post-  pone the examination of this question.  Regulation 18.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  the deletion of the words “ in consultation with ”  and their substitution by thes words “ with the  agreement of ”. NS  This proposal, supported by the UNITED STATES  . delegate, was adopted.  Regulation 18, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 19.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the following new text : _  " Subject to such conditions as may be pre-  scribed by the General Conference, the Director-  General may invest monies which are not need-  ed for immediate requirements provided that  the investments shall be made in gold or secu-  rities of, or guaranteed by, the government of  a Member Nation or by several Member Na-  tions. ” :  Seconded by the delegate of FRANCE, and adop-  ted.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the addition of the following new regulations :  “19 A. The balance of appropriations remain-  ing unobligated at 31st December of the financial  year to which they relate shall be surrendered by  consecutive adjustment made in the budget next  presented. ” [  ‘“ 19 B. Payments for outstanding obligations as  at 31st December shall be made between 1st Ja-  nuary and the last day of February and charged  to the accounts of the previous financial year. At  Ist March the unliquidated balance of such obli-  gations shall be carried forward to the accounts  of the then current financial year. ””  “ 19 C. Appropriations shall remain available,  to the extent that obligations are incurred under  them, for a period not exceeding three years from  the first day of the financial year to which they  relate. Any part of the appropriation remaining  unexpended shall be surrendered, by adjustment  in the budget next presented. ”  “19 D. Appropriate separate accounts shall be  maintained for Trust or other Funds, for the  purpose of accounting for unclaimed monies, mo-  nies received and held in suspense and for projects  where the transactions involve a cycle of opera-  tions. The purpose and limits of ‘each trust or  other fund established shall be clearly defined  by the appropriate authority. ”  Seconded by the delegate of FRANCE.  New Regulations 19 A, 19 B, 19 C and 19 D  were adopted,  Regulation 20.  Adopted.  Regulation 21.  Adopted.  Regulation 22.  The CzecHOSLOVAR delegate proposed deletion  of the words ‘ and Contingencies ” just before  the last sentence. After discussion between the  POLISH, UNITED States and BELGIAN delegates  this amendment was rejected.  Regulation 22 was adopted without amendment.  Regulation 23.  The delegates of the UNITED STATES, AUSTRA-  LIA and CZECHOSLOVAKIA proposed amendments.  It was decided that the three delegations should  agree on an amendment to be submitted at the  next meeting.  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 3 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT FINANCIAL REGULATIONS (Continuation ).  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on an  amendment to Regulation 23, moved by the dele-  gate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA and seconded by the  delegate of AUSTRALIA.  The Sub-Commission approved the amendment  and Regulation 23 was adopted in this new form :  ‘“ Transfers by the Director-General within -  the budget shall be permitted during the finan-  cial year 1047 after sanction by the Executive  Regulation 17.  Board. ”  The delegate of FRANCE submitted an amend-  ment to Regulation 17 relating to external audi-  tors. The purpose of this amendment was to  give the Financial Commission the means of super-  \ vising the financial management of the Organ-  ization.  The delegate of BELGIUM wished the text to  indicate specifically that the auditor must be a  person from outside. |  In view of the importance of this text, it was  decided that it should be translated and dupli-  cated before being discussed.  New Regulations.  — 208 —