They pave the way for future convoys and, with-  out them, we could not even discuss the general  education of the masses.  We must, therefore, in Unesco always bear in  mind the advance of the masses and favour the  growth of talent, development of thought, scien-  tific discoveries, new research methods in the var-  ious fields of science, which will result in a better  standard of life for mankind and also in a higher  level of general education.  “ Education ” is not enough. The final aim  towards which Unesco must strive, with other  international organizations, the specific responsi-  “bilities it will shoulder in the field of action in  which it is engaged, impel it to demand of peoples,  and of their leaders, that they become more keenly  aware of the meaning of an international spirit.  Mere knowledge must not be confused with an  international spirit. We have a recent example of  peoples of a high level of education becoming the  victims of propaganda which all but led them to  destroy human civilization.  Nor must knowledge and civilization be confus-  ed. Civilization implies, besides added knowledge,  a response from the heart, and what I called just  now an awareness of the common elements which  bind the people of one country to the people of  another.  That is the fundamental aim of Unesco. It is no  denial of the tremendous importance of material  progress to say that material conditions and edu-  cation combined did not ensure peace and the  progress of human civilization, unless there were  above it all a will and a capacity to understand,  and a desire to act in an international spirit in the  highest sensé of the term.  THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 9 December 1046 at 2.45 p. m.  President : Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)
13. CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS OF  THE COMMISSIONS conlinuation )  D. — REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME  COMMISSION (continuation) (Annex 1).  The PRESIDENT : I imagine delegates would  like to know a little of the business we have before  us this afternoon, Three other delegates wish to  ‘speak on the general programme which was. sub-  mitted this morning; then there will be a brief re-  port from the Unesco Month Sub-Committee and  a resolution to be proposed and discussed. After  the discussion of the resolution from the Unesco  Month Sub-Committee, there will be a report and  resolution from the Comittee on Procedure. After  that, of course, there is a very important discus-  sion on the budget, so we have a very full after-  noon.  I now call upon Miss Bose, one of the Delegates  from India, to address the Conference.  The delegate of INDIA : Mr. Chairman, and  fellow-delegates. On behalf of the Indian dele-  gation I should like to express our whole-hearted  approval of the recommendations of the Pro-  gramme Commission, so ably presented to us by  its Chairman. We especially welcome the sentence  which reads as follows :  ‘ The present educational inequality be-  tween nations represents a danger to the peace  of the world which cannot become one if half  of it remains illiterate.  To this word “ illiterate ” 1 should like to add  “hungry and in bondage ‘’. This would meet from  another angle the sentiment expressed by the lead-  er of the British Delegation to the effect that our  spiritual enrichment should be built up on the  basis of economic security.
1 am glad that the Programme Commission has  warned us that we should not bite off more than  we can chew — it is one condition necessary for  our success. There is a second condition which I  should like to emphasize. In this organisation we  should be willing to eschew all political considera-  tions so that we may not only visualize, but-also  realize, our cultural and educational and scientific  programmes as an integral whole.  I should like to express, on behalf of the Indian  Delegation, its sincere desire that the universality  that M. Cassin has emphasized should be speedily  realized by the inclusion of all these nations who  are not yet members of Unesco. I need hardly add  that India would be à willing co-operator in giving  effect to the programme, both within her frontiers  and in the wider field of international effort.
1 therefore gladly support the proposal of the  British delegate.  The PRESIDENT : I call next upon the Dele-  gate of Australia, Dr. Mills.  The delegate of. AUSTRALIA : Mr. President,  I wish first of all to move that the report now  before the Conference be adopted. Next, on behalf  of the Australian Delegation, I wish to associate  myself with the views expressed by the other  speakers on their admiration for the task perform-  ed by the Committee which drew up this report.  I further would like myself to offer. special  thanks for the following reasons : it had been my  intention to point out that the test s had not been  sufficiently applied and to suggest that a small  Committee of three should be appointed as a Draft-  ing Committee, and should be asked to draw u  the total programme to be adopted by the Com-   mission. The document before us is a reply to mv  unspoken speech and it is for this reply that !  wish to thank the Committee and the Secretariat.  The report is admirable, clear and concise in defin-  ing Unesco’s various objectives. My delegation’s  views as to the tests we have agreed upon and to  the plans have been exposed in this document, It  was always clear to us that the test of coherence  should only be applied when the programme as a  whole had been adopted by the Programme Com-  mission. It has now been applied in a way which  certainly deserves all our admiration. The other  tests have been applied with all the goodwill of  this Conference and with constant emphasis plac-  ed on the urgency for action which is necessary if  Unesco wants to succeed,  This report furnishes a basis for our activities  but it does not go as far as Unesco will go. The test  of coherence is of wider application; we must see  that our programme is consistent not only in itself,  but also within the planetary systemof collabora-  tion. We must work in harmony with the United  Nations and with the other Specialized Agencies.  In this report there is a reference to the study of  populations. We hope that Unesco in its demo-  graphic studies will make the fullest use of the  organizations already established for the study of  population problems in the various countries. We  hope it will encourage the organizations to put in  their programme materials for Unesco studies.  These studies should serve to relax those states  of tension which lead to war, and should deal with  the broad, economic and social aspects of demo-  graphy, which the United Nations Demographical  Commission is itself responsible for studying.  With regard to the Director-General’s proposal  that the first part of this report should be circul-  ated along with the Green Book, I should like  him to reconsider the point of view of this delega-  tion, i. e. that the Green Book has served its pur-  pose, as it has helped to produce the document  now before us and I think one would be forced to  say that the document would not be as it is if the  Green Book had not been prepared. The Green  Book is now merely historical; it is headed ‘“ Re-  port on the Programme of Unesco ‘’; if it were  circulated with this Report it might be confusing  to the people who wonder what Unesco will do  in 1947.  Mr. President, I move the adoption of the  report now before us.  The PRESIDENT : I call upon the delegate of  Greece.  The delegate of GREECE (translation) : We  wish to give our full approbation to the work of  the various commissions which have prepared the  programme for 1947.  This programme represents a wonderful effort  on the part of the Preparatory Commission and  also on that of the Secretariat. Both the form and  the substance of this programme are fully approv-  ed by the Greek Delegation.  As for questions relating to the ideas inspiring  all those who respect intellectual values, values  springing from that Mediterranean civilization  which commands the admiration of the great  majority of races, we think we should not dimi-  nish their significance by disputing their impor-  tance.  The idea of liberty rests on an age-long tradit-  ion, and any discussions on this subject could not  alter the conception of civilized peoples that this  idea of liberty should be deep-rooted, not only  in the minds of men, but in their hearts.  The examples cited here by observers regarding  this idea of liberty or democracy, should not en-  courage delegates at this Conference to use this as  a platform for political propaganda or policy.  There are other Sections of the United Nations  dealing with differences of a political character,  ‘and my own country has already thought it wise  to apply to them in various very delicate ques-  tions, and not to appeal to Unesco, which is a cul-  tural organization.  The French Delegation and the Indian Delegat-  ion have clearly expressed that point.  Let us respect the well co-ordinated work of  the United Nations delegations, and let us say  honestly that an agreement has been reached bet-  ween us. The gaps mentioned will be filled if we  adopt the principle of fraternity, broad and eff-  ective fraternity, which will prove that the unity  of all nations has its foundation in the minds and  hearts of men.  The PRESIDENT : That brings us to the end  of the speeches on the Programme. I want to sug-  gest that on page I, paragraph 4 of the English  -text be omitted. I have discussed this with the  Director-General and Mr. MacLeish, and, if the  Conference agrees with us that it is the right thing,  we will delete that paragraph. This report will  be circulated all over the world. It is such an ex-  cellent report that we should, as far as possible,  deal with the most important things, and this pa-  ragraph 4 is only information for the members  attending the Conference. We dgree with the Di-  rector-General and Mr, MacLeish that this para-  graph should be omitted. (Document Unesco/C [23  Page 1, paragraph 4 of the English text.)  The Australian delegate, Dr. Mills, had pro-  posed that the Report should be printed as we  have it here, without the omission of paragraph 4.  I want to ask Dr, Mills if he wants to modify his  proposal and will allow us to omit it; I refer to  page 1, paragraph 4, in the English text, page 1,  paragraph 3 of the French text.  Dr. Mills nods in agreement.  The delegate of FRANCE (translation) : I agree.  I merely want to point out that the next paragraph  does not follow on if only paragraph 4 is deleted.  The PRESIDENT : I suggest that in the para-  graph starting with ‘‘ faced with this situation”,  the word “ nevertheless ” should be put in to fol-  low ‘‘ has ” in the third line. ‘“ Faced with this  situation ” is omitted and it will read as follows :  “’The Drafting Committee, appointed to develop  from the reports of the various Sub-Commissions  a coherent and single programme, has neverthe-  less found itself obliged, etc. ’ Paragraph 4 of  the English text is therefore deleted. .  May I suggest also to the Conference that, as  this report was done in a great hurry and then had  —_ 85 —   to be typewritten, it be left to the Director-Gene-  ral to arrange for these small amendments?  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : And occasio-  nally as regards the form. to bring the Sub-Com-  missions into harmony without altering the sense  at all.  The PRESIDENT : May I now propose that  the report of the Programme Commission be adop-  ted formally by the Conference?  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate : May I  ask in what form exactly the report will be pub-  lished? Will the final text consist of the introduc-  tory report of the Programme Commission with  the reports of all the Sub-Commissions, and not  the Green Book?  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I gather that  nothing has formally been decided. Views have  been expressed, and I find myself in the unenviable  position of being in two places at once. No formal  decision has been made about the Green Book. It.  has been decided that now that Mr. MacLeish’s  introduction has been approved, it should go out  as an integral part of the Programme Report.  It has also been agreed that it be separately  printed to go out to a wider public. In spite of the  criticism there has been, I would still propose that  the Programme Report, when printed, should go  out accompanied by a copy of the Green Book,  with a statement that the book, although dating  back to the Preparatory Commission, contains a  number of passages that can be used as a more  useful background than the Programme Report.  Many of these general introductions to the sepa-  rate subjects have not been reproduced in the  small reports. Immense thought and time went  into the preparation of some of the chapters in  the introductions : I remember the work on edu-  cation, social science and creative art, and an  equal amount of work was done in the other divi-  sions. It would be useful to send this out as col-  lateral readiñg matter, We have a large number  of these green books and I think we should be  depriving the delegates of something useful if we  did not send it to them, but it should be sent as  something which is not binding : the Conference  is not bound by anything in the book.  The ' delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  The order of circulation should be, first, the pre-  amble, next, the preamble plus the report of the  Sub-Commissions and, thirdly, the Green Book  with the reports.  “The PRESIDENT : I think this is a small mat-  ter. I want you to know there is a great deal to do  this afternoon. We have a number of copies, we  can stamp it ‘“ draft copy ” and then it could go  out with the Report. I think you know that it  would be quite ail right, and would be a fair safe-  guard — if it is agreeable to you. Is that agreed?  Any further comments? Now we will pass on to  thereport from the Unesco Month Sub-Committee.  E. — DRAFT RESOLUTION SUBMITTED TO  THE GENERAL CONFERENCE BY THE  UNESCO MONTH SUB-COMMITTEE (Annex 5.)  The PRESIDENT : We now pass on to the Re-  solution submitted by the Unesco Month Sub-  Committee. I call on the Rapporteur.  The RAPPORTEUR (Mr. Kennedy Cook, Uni-  ted Kingdom) : The question of the organization of  the Unesco Month first came up in the Arts and  Letters Sub-Commission. It arose on a point as to  whether Unesco itself, or the host-countries,  should be in charge of the organization of future  Unesco Months. It was decided in general at the  Arts and Letters Sub-Commission, that Unesco,  and not the host-countries, should be the organ-  izer of this ‘“ Month ’’; the matter was then re-  ferred to the Administrative and Legal Commis-  sion. I'm the meantime, the Secretariat paper on  the Unesco Month was circulated, and the Admi- -  nistrative and Legal Commission appointed a Sub-  Committee of nine nations to study the matter,  and to present a resolution to the Plenary Confe-  rence. The Sub-Committee met, but unfortuna-  tely only seven nations, and not nine, were repre-  sented. The decision of the Sub-Committee: was  that (for reasons which I will give presently),  though they appreciated the hard work and mag-  nificent achievement of the Secretariat in organ-  izing the present Unesco Month, it was impos-  sible to accept the paper as a whole, particularly  as there was the danger that one nation after an-  other might increase the scope of Unesco Month in  something of a competitive spirit. The reasons that  led the Sub-Committee to place the.resolution  that you now have before you were mainly three.  First, the Sub-Committee felt that the object of  ‘““ Unesco Month ” had become slightly confused.  One of the main objects was to acquaint the gene-  ral public in every country with the aims of Unesco,  and, in due course, with its achievements. They felt  very strongly about it. The voting was six for, one  absent, none against. The best way to do this was  for each country to organize a ‘“ Month ™ in con-  nection with Unesco and to reduce the ‘“ Unesco  Month ” accompanying the Conference to such  celebrations as the host-country of the Month  considered appropriate. The second reason for this  recommendation was that they felt that, with  the budget which was not in any case going to  exceed 8,000,000 dollars, and might be consider-  ably less, there was no money to be taken away  from the projects and devoted to the type of cele-  bration that we had had this year. Thirdly, the  Sub-Committee was anxious that the activities  of the staff of Unesco should not be diverted from  the vastly important task it has to perform, to  what was, after all, a temporary matter : that has  led to the resolution which is now before the Ple-  nary Conference.  I "do not think I need read that resolution, as it  has been circulated. There is only one point : the  Sub-Committee which met the other day would,  I think, agree with me — that is, if the Conference  sees fit to amend the order of this resolution in  any way — that it would be of advantage if the  point which came up at the original meeting of  — 86 —   PA  the Arts and Letters Sub-Commission were decid-  ed : who is to be responsible for the organization  of any celebrations that will take place?  If they decide it is Unesco, Unesco will consult  the host-country. If it is the host-country, the  host-country will equally consult the Unesco Se-  cretariat.  The DIRECTOR GENERAL : I am sorry to  interfere but I think I may be saving time. First  of all, I would like to say that in a few days a re-  port will be issued to all delegates on the success  or otherwise of the present Unesco Month. I would  mention one particular point which came to my  notice yesterdey. M. Lavalier, who helped to or-  . ganize the Science Exhibition, has asked that the  exhibition should be kept open beyond the origin-  al date because he is getting so many applications  from conducted parties of schools and technicians  from the provinces and all parts of France, that  he feels it would be a waste if it were not open for  three or four weeks more.  I was going to say, we are all agreed that this  year we were too ambitious both as regards the  manifestations to be undertaken by the host-  country (wonderful as they have been, we have  not all been able to keep up with them); secondly,  those we organized ourselves have been too mulfi-  farious. We in the Secretariat realize that, but we  do feel that both the manifestations by the host-  country and some, at any rate, of those organized  by Unesco have been outstanding successes. It  is not for me to say, but the delegates will know  what a wonderful opportunity they have had of  seeing French and other artistic manifestations.  I have mentioned Science and will also mention  the Exhibition on Modern Art which far exceeded  the expectations of the most enthusiastic among  the members of the Secretariat concerned with its  preparation. It has been a most remarkable and  unique manifestation of artistic trends in the  world today. While welcoming this general stat-  ement, I hope that some loophole may be left for  Unesco to collaborate, through its Secretariat, and  with its own funds, in the Unesco Month. I feel  that it would be impossible for many host-count-  ries — I think any host country, however powerful  or important — to organize certain types of exhibi-  tions or manifestations.  I should like to see (and to read in the form of  a minute) the number of projects reduced to one  or two, organized jointly by the host-country and  the Secretariat. I should try always to make those  of a very general character, covering the work of  the sections of Unesco and collating education  exhibitions here and science exhibitions there.  Next year we hope that the Conference may  meet in Mexico. I am going to give a concrete  example on the hypothesis that Mexico City will  be the seat of the next Conference. The Mexican  delegation has suggested, through the Plenary  Commission, that Unesco should deal with the  problem of ‘“ The Conservation of Nature and Na-  tural Resources ’’. This opens the possibility for  an international exhibition on this problem, which  would require the services of the Secretariat. With  alldeference to Mexico, they would have extreme  difficulty in organizing this on a world-wide scale.  Yet it is only by the organization of such an exhi-  bition on a world-wide scale that we can live up:  to one of our principles of work; namely, to com-  pare the results achieved in different countries  so that the good results achieved in some regions  may prove a beneficial stimulant to others. Such  a subject might include the conservation of natur-  al resources, like salt water, forests, national parks.  - and the conservation of wild life and of beautiful  scenery, beautiful buildings, etc., and, what the  Mexican Government has undertaken on a large  scale, the possibility of introducing the conservat-  ion of natural resources into fundamental edu-  cation. I would humbly suggest that the first two  items ‘ Continuation of publicity for Unesco  which might take the form of, etc. ” might be  re-grouped so that (a) and (b) would be grouped  together with the omission of the words ¢ if pos-  sible ’’ at the beginning. I entirely agree (and I  am sure that everybody in the Secretariat does  too) that ‘ the manifestation of cultural trends  and contributions of the- host country and its  neighbours ’’ is the most valuable contribution;  but in the place of (c) I would like to suggest ad-  ding a new (b) along some such lines as :  ‘“ (b) Jointly by the host-country and the  Secretariat, demonstrations of programme pro-  gress and aims in one or two major fields of  Unesco activities. ” : .  This would limit us to, at most, two major activi-  ties and prevent us wasting our energy, as I know  we are doing now, by attempting too much. If  vou want to limit it to one, I should be willing to  do so, but I should be very sorry if the Secretar-  iat were debarred from participating in these  exhibitions, which, if limited in number and care-  fully planned over an adequate’space of time,  could, I think, play a very useful part in their  work,  The PRESIDENT : I think the delegate of  Mexico wishes to speak.  The delegate of MEXICO (franslation) : Mr.  President, if you will permit me, I would like to  make a few comments on behalf of the Mexican  delegation regarding Unesco Month. I agree entire-  ly with the remarks made by Dr. Huxley that the  Unesco Month is very important. Certainly I am  against all over-ambitions projects which would  involve considerable expense, but I would like to  say that Unesco Month would be an extremely  important feature for my country, and I am assur-  ed it will also have great importance for other  countries. It will offer the population of the town  in which the Conference meets an objective and  clear idea of what Unesco is. :  It has been proposed that Unesco Month should  be restricted to activities organized by the host-  country. Now, there may be countries who feel  that they have made important progress on some  particular point of Unesco's programme, and  would like to draw attention to this progress in  Unesco Month. Is this to be refused? I am. sure  that is not the intention. I think that Unesco  should have some share in the organization and  also in the expenses of the Unesco Month, This  matter of expenses is important. When the Con-   ference is held in a poor country the organization  of the Unesco Month will involve the government  in extremely heavy expense, whereas a rich coun-  try, of course, will have greater facilities for much  more elaborate manifestations.  Therefore, people may be inclined to say: ‘ When  the Unesco Month is held in a small country it is  a small kind of affair and not very interesting,  whereas in a large country the exhibitions, etc.  are much more interesting. Therefore, I think it  would be important to consider the possibility of  Unesco itself taking some share in the organization  and the expenses of Unesco Month, it being under-  stood, of course, that the programme would not  be so ambitious or so vast as the one just given  in Paris.  The PRESIDENT : Do other delegates wish to  address the Conference on this report?  Perhaps Mr. Kennedy Cook will tell us the reac-  tions of the Sub-Committee.  : The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  Mr. President, after slightly hasty consultation  with the British delegation -— I am afraid I am  speaking in a dual role, both as rapporteur and  asamember of the British delegation — after dis-  cussion with the British delegation, to meet the  wishes of the Secretariat we suggest the amend-  ments to this paper which follow very largely the  lines of Dr. Huxley’ suggestions.  The first amendment is to cut out the words  “if possible ” at the beginning of 2 (a) and to  run 2 (a) and (b) together into one section. The  wording may have to be altered slightly, that is to  say that it throws on the nations themselves the  entire responsibility for reaching the general  public with their own manifestations and also  throws on to the host country the responsibility  for the sites of any exhibitions or manifestations  it wishes to hold at the time of the Unesco Confe-  rence; but we should then cancel what is now sub-  paragraph (c) and put in place of it a new (b) which  would read as follows :  ‘“ (bj By the Secretariat, under the direction  of its Executive Board and in consultation with  the host country, demonstrations of progress  and aims in one or two fields of Unesco’s act-  ivities. ”’  That would mean that, whereas the basic organ-  ization of the exhibitions, and so on, would be  entirely with the host-country or, in the case of  the individual countries, entirely in their hands,  there would be one or two fields which, under the  direction of the Executive Board, the Secretariat  might organize entirely in connection with the  annual conference.  The delegate of MEXICO (translation) : The  amendment proposed by the United Kingdom  delegation gives every satisfaction to the Mexican  delegation, It therefore thanks the United King-  dom delegation for having proposed this amend-  ment.  The delegate of NORWAY : The Norwegian  delegation supports the amendment moved by  the delegation of the United Kingdom.  The PRESIDENT : May I take it that is the  general view of members of the Conference?  I now ask the Conference to agree to this amend-  ment. :  You will remember we omitted the words ‘‘ if  possible ’’ in paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) and  made it one paragraph, and then added as para-  graph (b) the new amendment, the paragraph as  read out in English and French.  It reads as follows : ‘ By the Secretariat un-  der the special direction of the Executive Board  and in consultation with the host country, demon-  strations of progress and aims in one or two fields  of Unesco’s activities. ”  The delegate of FRANCE : What expenditure  by the Secretariat would be involved?  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  I think the answer to the French delegate’s query  would be that the Executive Board will be dealing  with this matter, and that we authorize the  Secretariat to allocate the necessary, but very  limited, funds.  The PRESIDENT : May I take it then the Con-  ference agrees to these amendments?  Adopted.
3. — REPORT OF THE PROCEDURE  COMMITTEE (conlinuation)  The PRESIDENT : The next item on the  Agenda is a report of the meeting held on g De-  cember 1946 by the Procedure Committee, and  I would ask the Chairman of that Committee now  to propose the amendment to Rule 33.  The RAPPORTEUR OF THE PROCEDURE  COMMITTEE (translation) : 1 should like to rem-  ind you that when I presented the report of the  Procedure Committee we had deferred consider -  ation of Rule 33, in respect of which the Delegate  of Ecuador had submitted an amendment. At a  meeting held at 9.30 a. m. on g December 1946 the  Procedure Committee adopted the following  amendment to Rule 33 : :  ““ When the Conference is held in a country  where the national language is neither of the two  working languages, the Executive Board shall  have the power to make special arrangements as  to the use of the national language of the country  concerned, during the Conference. ”  This amendment would figure as sub-paragraph  (d) to Rule 33, which, when this amendment was  adopted, had 13 votes in favour, 6 against, and  I abstention.  I now move the adoption of the amended text  of Rule 33:  The delegate of ECUADOR (translation) : I  must apologize for again bringing up the question  of languages before this Conference, but the dele-  gates of Latin America are not satisfied with the  Rule of Procedure adopted, that is to say, Rule 33;  the situation arising therefrom is quite unaccept-  able. By the adoption of this rule we have depart-  ed completely from the United Nations practice,  — 88 —   and we cannot understand why here in Unesco  there should be less breadth of mind less generosity,  as regards languages than in the United Nations.  There isa considerable difference between tne Unit-  ed Nations Rule of Procedure and the rule to be  applied to Unesco. At the United Nations meeting  in London approval was given for the use by-speak-  ers of the five official languages, the Secretariat  being responsible for translation into the two work-  ing languages. Rule 33 of our Rules of Procedure  envisages something quite different. Speakers can  use any language they choose, but must supply a  translator from their own delegations.  We can see no reason for this difference. The case  is the same as regards documents. According to  Rule 33 only documents having reference to the  Unesco Constitution must be translated. There is  no obligation to translate any other important  document. We, therefore, ask the Conference to  approve the adoption by Unesco of the same Rule  of Procedure as regards languages as in the United  Nations.  Some days ago we passed a draft Convention  between the United Nations and Unesco, wherein  it was explicitly agreed that we should conform as »  far as possible to the practices favoured by thé  United Nations. Gentlemen, I cannot see why lan-  guages should be the only exception to the general  rule of agreement between the Rules of Procedure  of the United Nations and Unesco.  A more surprising thing still is that Unesco is a  cultural institution, and culture is very closely link-  ed to language. It would probably be true to say  that there was no single cultural element more  essential for any people than its own language. We  fail to understand why Unesco, which is first and  foremost a cultural institution, should see fit to  limit the number of permissible languages, as pro-  posed in Rule 33. We, therefore, ask the Confer-  ence to approve Rules 59 and 64 of the Rules of  Procedure of the United Nations, and to insert  them in our own Rule 33 now under discussion.  To sum up, we ask that approval be given for  the use in these meetings of any of the five official  languages, and that the Secretariat should be res-  ponsible for supplying the translation.  Secondly, we ask that the translation of all im-  portant documents into the five official languages  be made obligatory.  The delegate of PERU (translation) : The Pe-  ruvian delegation echoes the words of the delega-  tion of Ecuador. We wonder why a solution which  has been adopted by all countries, and even by the  ILO, should not be accepted by Unesco. A point  which should not be forgotten is that there are  twenty-four countries in Latin America, all speak-  ing the same language and forming a solid Span-  ish cultural bloc.  We, therefore, support the proposal of the dele-  gate of Ecuador.  The delegate of CHINA : Regarding special  arrangements for languages according to the  place of the Conference, I wish to call attention to  the fact that this problem has two different as-  pects : the internal use of language within the  Organization itself, and the contacts of both cul-  tural and business natures, with the community  in which the Conference is held.  As regards the first, it makes no difference where  the Conference is held, and therefore we should  follow the procedure of the two working languages.  As regards the second, it is obvious that the  national language of the place of the Conference  will have to be used, and since that involves the  introduction of a third language, it would be more  practical to leave that matter to the decision of  the Director-General and the Secretariat rather  than make it a formal part of procedure. This  would mean the danger of having three working  languages instead of two, except when it is in a  country speaking one of the two working langua-  ges, but that is not going to happen for at least  - three years.  The delegate of NEW ZEALAND : Mr,  President, it seems to us that the first point  mentioned by the delegate of China is sufficiently  covered by the very broad terms of the Amend-  ment which is now before us, the meaning of which  was purposely worded to cover the distinction  between the actual working languages of the Con-  ference and the language for contacts with local  , committees. I think that by leaving the matter to  the Executive Board it should be possible to make  such an arrangement as that suggested, as many  of the host-countries may themselves be prepa-  red to, have the third language included, by  making ‘such provision for additional translators  and other facilities as might be necessary. For  these reasons we support the Amendment as it  stands. :  The delegate of VENEZUELA : Mr. Presi-  ‘dent, on behalf of my delegation, I second the  proposal just made by the delegate of Ecuador,  and seconded by the delegate of Peru. I have  nothing to add to the reasons they have given  but on the other hand I believe that there are  two other questions to be considered.  The proposal made by the delegate of Ecuador  is slightly different from the motion presented  by the United Kingdom delegation, supported  by the Sub-Commission, and which I also second-  ed. But there are two quite different questions.  On the one hand : the necessity for the Confe-  rence to meet in a certain town and to be in  contact not only with the population, but also  with the authorities; and a second problem for  the recruiting of staff. These questions were tou-  ched upon by the delegate of the United King-  dom, supported by the Sub-Commission, and I  second that motion, but I also want to second  the proposal made by the delegate of Ecuador.  The delegate of INDIA : A point of order.  Can such a general and important amendment,  bearing on the whole question of Rules of Pro-  cedure, be made without reference to a specia-  lized body or Commission?  The PRESIDENT : I think the answer is that  the question is in order. I shall first put the  amendment as proposed by the delegate of Ecua-  dor.   The delegate of ECUADOR : I request that  the two rules be read in French and English;  Rules 59 and 64.  The INTERPRETER ; Rule 59. “ Speeches  made in any other than the official languages  shall be interpreted into both working languages. ’  Rule 64. “ All resolutions and other important  documents shall be made available in the official  languages. Upon request of any representative,  any other document shall be made available in  any or all of the official languages. ”’  The delegate of the PHILIPPINES : On a  point of order, there seem to be two proposals;  one is to adopt Rule 33 as we now read it, with.  an amendment. The representative of Ecuador  proposes an amendment to strike out Rule 33 and  substitute Rules 59 and 64. Consequently, the  first question to be submitted should be the  amendment by substitution. I wish to place my-  self on record as being in favour of the proposal  submitted by the delegate of Ecuador,  The delegate of ECUADOR (translation) :  Mr. President, in reply to the delegate from  the Philippines, I did not ask for the suppres-  sion of Rule 33. I merely asked that Rules 59  and 64 of the United Nations be incorporated in  Rule 33 — that is to say, Rule 33 should be  amended in such a way as to permit incorporation  of these two Rules.  The PRESIDENT : I will now put the proposal  as an amendment by the delegate of Ecuador  and we shall have a vote on this.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  Could the Secretariat give an indication of the  cost to the Organization if these amendments  were carried?  The PRESIDENT : I can speak from the Chair  that an approximate figure has been given, if  this were passed, of 150,000 dollars a year, That  would be the cost to the finances of Unesco. I  am going to put this amendment to a vote. Those  in favour of the amendment moved by the dele-  gate of Ecuador please raise their hands. Those  against? On that count, seven voted for and  sixteen against. So the amendment from the dele-  gate of Ecuador is rejected. Now we shall take  the amendment as suggested in the report of the  Procedure Committee, Rule 33 on Languages.  I am going to ask the Conference to vote  upon this. Those in favour of the proposed amend-  ment to Rule 33 hold up their hands. Those  against? The original proposition is therefore  carried by 17 votes to 2.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  At the end of Mr. Hardman’s speech this morn-  ing, he moved a certain resolution, in very stir-  ring terms, which was greatly applauded by  the Conference. I suppose, owing to the multi-  plicity of matters which have since engaged us,  that resolution was never put to the Conference  and, on Mr, Hardman’s behalf if he will allow me  to, I would like to put it now.  The resolution is as follows : ‘“ That Unesco  shall make representation to the governments of  “ all member states to request that each, in the  terms of its own goodwill and capacity, shall do  its utmost to implement and fulfil the programme  of Unesco here defined. ”  The PRESIDENT : I think I shall have to  have this resolution seconded.  The delegate of the PHILIPPINES : I se-  cond it.  The PRESIDENT : It has been formally se-  conded by two of the delegates. Is the resolution  then agreed to? (Agreed.) Thank you very much.  I would like to tell the Conference now that  the budget figures will not be available until  later. I therefore propose that the Conference  adjourns today and that, although tomorrow we  have certain matters to discuss (there is not a  great deal of work and this matter of the budget  is extremely important), it would be much better  if, after this tidying-up afternoon, we were able  to start quite fresh after a good sleep and go  into this question. If you agree, we will adjourn  now and meet again at 10.30 tomorrow morning.  FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 10 December 1946 at 10.30 a. mn.  - President : Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (South Africa)
13. CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORTS  OF THE COMMISSIONS (continuation)  C. — REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  - AND FINANCIAL SUB-COMMISSION  SUPPLEMENTARY RULES OF THE GENERAL CONFE-  RENCE RELATING TO THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (Draft  amendment proposed by the Executive Board).  The PRESIDENT : The first item on the  Agenda is the presentation of the Report of the  Administrative and Financial Sub-Commission  (Annex 3).  The RAPPORTEUR (Dr. Beeby, New Zea-  land) : I merely wish to report on a certain rather  unusual procedure adopted in the case of this  particular report. Yesterday morning at its last  marrons apm ee 1 ee