the budget of the Libraries and Museums Section  made provision for scholarships; and that assis-  tance to devastated countries was provided for  in the budget of the Reconstruction and Rehabi-  litation Section. |  -The DANIsH delegate submitted proposals :
1. that Unesco be made responsible for the  disposal of books looted by the Germans and  taken to Germany during the war;
2. that a World Jewish library be set up  under the auspices of Unesco:
3. that a Special Committee be set up to deal  with these matters.  Mr. CARTER supported the Danish delegate’s  proposal concerning Unesco’s role in Germany, but  pointed out that Unesco could not set up an Ad-  visory Committee. on its own authority; he further  considered that experts should be appointed, not  only in connection with the establishment of a  Jewish library, but for all libraries. ‘  \ The NEw ZEALAND delegate took up the pro-  posal contained in the Unesco programme con-  cerning the Herziana Library and the ex-German  Archaeological Institute’s Library in Rome, and  asked if it would not be possible to grant a direct  subsidy enabling the immediate re-opening of these  libraries.  This proposal was supported by M. Julien CAIN  (France), who further suggested :  I. that these questions be examined by the  Rehabilitation Commission, which would con-  sider what could be done in this respect in
2. that the projected Clearing House for Pu-  blications should have a permanent and not  a temporary character.  The BRAZILIAN delegate emphasized the impor-  tance of such a Clearing House, and suggested  that, after having dealt with the urgent task of  rehabilitating libraries destroyed during the war,  the Clearing House should send to impoverished  countries books considered to be basic works in  each discipline.  In reply to the question raised by New Zealand,  the UNITED STATES delegate, speaking more parti-  cularly as Chairman of the International Union -  of Academies in Rome, proposed :
1. that Unesco should be empowered to settle  the question of the ownership of the German  libraries seized by Italy during World War I;
2. that a subsidy be voted for the immediate  re-opening of these valuableinformation centres.  He further suggested that, in view of the issues  raised during the discussion, a report should be  submitted to the Reconstruction and Rehabili-  tation Commission.  The proposal for the establishment of an Inter-  national Clearing House for Publications was adop-  ted with all the suggestions made by delegations.  ITEM 5 : BIBLIOGRAPHICAL SERVICES :  WORLD BIBLIOGRAPHICAL AND LIBRARY CENTRE.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) explained the aims  of this project. :  The Secretariat’s proposal concerning biblio-  graphical services was approved.  ITEM 6 : COMPILATION OF BIBLIOGRAPHIES.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate called the atten-  tion of the meeting to the tasks to be-assigned to  a World Bibliographical centre. LL  The proposal for the compilation of bibliogra-  phies-was approved.  ITEM 7 : ARCHIVES.  Mr, CARTER emphasized that the question of  archives was one of the outstanding features of  Unesco’s work, and explained its main aspects.  The BRAZILIAN delegate proposed : |  I. the establishment of a Unesco ‘‘ Archives  Section ’’ parallel with the Libraries and Mu-  seums Section;
2, the summoning of an international con-  ference of experts, if possible in 1947;
3. a detailed survey by Unesco of all ques-  tions relating to archives. .  Mr. CARTER observed that the establishment of  an Archives Section was the responsibility of the  Director-General, and that the summoning of a  meeting of experts should be left to the initiative  of the parties concerned, rather than to Unesco.  Subject to these reservations, the Brazilian de-  legate’s proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that Item No. 7, con-  cerning the interchange of archivists and libra-  rians, be dealt with at the same time as the inter-  change of Museum officials.  This proposal was approved.  The CHAIRMAN added that the next meeting of  the Sub-Commission would first deal with the ques-  tion of museums, but some proposals relating to  libraries might afterwards be submitted.  THIRD MEETING |  Held on Friday, 29 November 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : M. CIBULKA (Czechoslovakia).  The meeting opened with a discussion on the  Chapter on Museums. (  Dr. MorLEY (Secretariat) began by emphas-  izing the important part played by museums in the  civilized world. He said that the Museums Section  had already received suggestions from many  countries, and would be open to receive any  suggestions which might be given by.the profes-  sional associations which it served. The Museums  Section aimed both at receiving and disseminating  opinions received from professional but not officfal  sources.  Mr. Leigh ASHTON (United Kingdom) submitted  the following proposal. Chapter IV of the Report  on the Programme, which was the outcome of  talks and deliberations in London, was not suff-  ciently definite. Dr. Morley’s additional report  was admirable, and in spite of certain differences  of opinion was acceptable to all parties and could  very well serve as a basis on which to work.  M. Julien CAIN (France) seconded the British  proposal.  Mrs. RUSSELL (United States), Mr. R. A. FALLA  (New Zealand), and M. Mario BARATA (Brazil) fully  agreed with the British proposal, which was adop-  ted.  — 164 —   M, CAIN (France) advocated the recovery of  exhibits removed from national collections, and  asked that Unesco should get into touch with each  of the national organizations concerned with such  recovery for their respective countries. He also  advocated the preservation of architectural monu-  ments in occupied countries, which were threat-  ened with complete destruction through lack of  care and upkeep. While the armies of occupation  might not be prepared to admit a commission of  enquiry with full powers, they might accept colla-  boration of a scientific nature.  Dr. MoRLEY (Secretariat) stressed a question  which also concerned the libraries, that of the re-  lations with the Control Commission in Germany,  who should recognize the pewers of Unesco in  the occupied zones.  M. RoEeLL- (Netherlands) suggested the esta-  blishment of a kind of International Red Cross  for the preservation of historical monuments in  time of war.  M. BARATA (Brazil) proposed that the Inter-  national Museums Office become the Sub-Section  for Museums in Unesco, extending its range to  cover scientific museums in general, and adapting  itself generally to the new basic lines essential to  Unesco.  The proposal was rejected.  M. CAIN (France) asked that the work accom-  plished during twenty years by the International  Museums Office should be continued by Unesco.  The requisite funds must be supplied for this pur-  pose, and it would be necessary to establish an  important documentation centre.  The French proposal was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on certain  projects suggested for immediate study, but only  for later action.  Dr. MorLEY (Secretariat) emphasized the  necessity of simplifying customs formalities in the  case of exhibitions. International agreements were  necessary. Bilateral agreements existed already,  but it would be necessary to prepare an inter-  national Conference. It would be useful to have  information as to which clauses of bilateral agree-  ments had proved satisfactory. It would also be  desirable to arrange for the exchange of surplus  exhibits in museums. Finally, access to districts  or sites which were important for scientific res-  earch should be facilitated.  The first point was approved. :  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY considered that a  special inquiry into the educational functions of  museums would be useful.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Friday, 29 November 1946 a! 2 p. m.  Chairman : M. CIBULKA, (Czechoslovakia).  Mr. Leigh AsHTOoN (United Kingdom) recom-  mended adoption of the principle of the items  examined at the morning meeting, and that the  Secretariat should be left a certain amount of lati-  tude. His proposal was agreed to. He pointed out  that Unesco was required to collaborate with many  international organizations, especially with the In-  ternational Museums Office, the International  Federation of Librarians, and the National Council ©  of Museums, and emphasized the importance of  agreements with these bodies.  M. BARATA (Brazil) submitted two proposals :
1. An international convention might be pro-  posed by Unesco with a view to restoring mis-  sing objects, as they were found, to their original  collections.
2. In the cause of peace, and in order to make .  clear what tremendous responsibility rested  upon those who made war, it was essential to  examine the conditions under which the des-  truction of important monuments and art in-  stitutions might be declared war crimes.  The CHAIRMAN declared the general discussion  on museums and libraries closed.  Mr. CARTER submitted proposals on the rehabi-  litation of libraries and museums that had suf-  fered from the war, freedom of access to libraries,  and copyright.  All these proposals were adopted.  The delegate of CANADA proposed sending re-  presentatives to attend the Mass Communication  Sub-Commission when it discussed questions of  interest to their own sub-commission.  This proposal was adopted.  Mr. CARTER said that, if publications were to  circulate all over the world, it was essential that  there should be adequate cataloguing.  Such material was indispensable to any inform-  ation service on bibliographical sources. It was  desirable to make collective lists, indexes, etc.  Unesco should encourage, through appropriate in-  ternational organizations, the adoption of uni-  form terminology in bibliographies, catalogues, in-  dexes, etc.  This proposal was adopted.  As regards popular libraries, Unesco ought to  encourage the establishment of mobile popular H-  braries for adults and children and, in co-opera-  tion with appropriate international organizations,  promote conferences of librarians, educationalists  etc.  This proposal, too, was adopted.  EpuUcATION.  Unesco should stimulate the increase and growth  of organizations for the education and professional  training of librarians, museum curators, etc. It  should also be a channel for gifts and scholarships,  distribute these, and, if need be itself confer them.  Unesco ought also to encourage exchanges of  students or experts. :  These proposals were accepted.  ARCHIVES.  Unesco should help in the creation of inter-  national organizations of archivists, take part in  the development of archive services and make  them more accessible.  DOCUMENTARY REPRODUCTION.  Unesco should recognize the increasing impor-  tance of the reproduction of documents and of  mechanical accessories for research and should   take practical steps to encourage their develop-  ment. i  This proposal was adopted.  The delegate of BELGIUM stated that he had  that morning submitted a resolution which had  been accepted; it was a recommendation to the  effect that a certain percentage of building mater-  ials should be assigned to the restoration of part-  - ly destroyed monuments. He asked for this reso-  lution to be considered further.  M. CAIN (France) replied that there would be  a report on the matter, as well as on the proposals  of the Brazilian, Belgian and Netherlands deleg-  ates.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate then raised the  question of the priority of resolutions, and the  UNITED STATES delegate pointed out that the  Budget Committee was at present working in the  dark and would be glad of suggestions as to the  approximate size of the budgets of the different  Sub-Commissions.  Mr. CARTER said that the first proposal would  be included in a report. As regards questions of  priority, they had tried to take account of this  without establishing any definite order. It was  obvious, however, that problems of reconstruction  were very urgent and of primary importance. At  the same time the Director-General must be left  free to choose.  Concerning the budget, the Director-General  would be authorized to transfer funds from one  Section to another to meet urgent requirements,  POPULAR LIBRARIES.  It was hoped to obtain help from other bodies  and associations of teachers or librarians. It was  difficult to do more.  PUBLICATIONS.  This question had been omitted the day before,  and Mr, Carter suggested drafting a short para-  graph for inclusion in the summary report, men-  tioning that the Libraries and Museums Section  would concern itself with questions affecting the  practical and'theorctical aspects of publications.  This proposal was accepted,  The AUSTRALIAN delegate raised two points. He  wondered whether Unesco’s budget would allow  of assistance in the form of paper and printing  material, as provided in paragraph 2. Discussion  then turned on the term ‘ popular libraries ”, and  it was decided to adopt the word ‘ Public ”’ in  English, the word ‘“ Populaire ” in French.  Lastly, M. CAIN (France) pointed out that the  Libraries and Museums Section was not particu-  larly favourably treated in the draît budget and  the attention of the Financial Sub-Commission  should be directed to that point.  — 166 —