submit a report to the Sub-Commission at a later  meeting.  _ This suggestion was adopted after a discussion.  The Sub-Committee of nine, cluding (in addition  «to the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur)  the delegates of the United States, the United  . Kingdom, Belgium, Canada, China, Mexico, Cze-  choslovakia, Australia and France, would meet on  Wednesday, 27 November at g. p. m.  The Creative Arts Sub-Commission would hear  its report on Saturday, 30 November at 3. p. ni.  A report by Dr. Alfonso REvEs for the Sub-  Committee on Literature and the Theatre was  adopted without discussion.  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1ÿ40 at 3 p. m.  At the opening of the Meeting, the CHAIRMAN  read a letter from M. Jean Cassou, obliged by  indisposition to resign his duties as rapporteur;  Professor Morey (United States) was appointed  in his stead. The CHAIRMAN himself presented  the report, which was divided into three parts :  I. Resolutions adopted by the Sub-Committe  on Literature and the Theatre.
2. Report by M. Jean Cassou,
3. Proposal by Dr. HuxrEv.  After a short discuss’on, it was decided that  the Sub-Commission, after finishing its study of  the report, would consider certain new proposals,  Stubby oF THE RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE  SUB-COMMITTEE ON LITERATURE AND THEATRE  {Unesco/C/S. C. Creat. Arts 4).  The CANADIAN delegate pointed out that the  English text of the renort contained several mis-  takes of translation. Mr. KUkTZ, secretary of the  Sub-Committee, said that he was aware of this  fact and that the mistakes would be corrected.  The CANADIAN delegate then proposed a series  of minor amendments which were approved by  the Sub-Commission :  (a) Publications Section : Read “ Review  Distributing Centres ” instead of ** Stock of  Reviews 7. :  (b) Page 2 : Read “ projects to be conside-  réd ” instead of “ projects being carried out. ”  (c) Page 3 : Copytight : It should be made  clear that the Sub-Commiission on Creative  Arts shall be consulted on the same footing as  the Mass Media Commission.  (d) Page 4 : Two lines had been omitted on  “ popular book centres and international book-  shops.  Thesc lines were to be restored.  (e) Point 3 : The following wording should  be adopted : “ It was decided that the Secre-  tariat might contemplate the possibility of  material help... ”  (f) Page 5, item C : Instead of “ to create  an International Theatre Bureau in order to  facilitate exchanges” read * to establish a  Theatre Bureau which could facilitate ex-  changes. ”’  The AUSTRALIAN delegate stated, in respect of  Point B. 1., that it was for the Secretariat to  - create a section; further he thought it might  be useful if managerial functions were also dealt  with in the report.  On the proposal of the UNITED STATES delegate,  it was decided to add, after the final sentence of  page TI, the words ‘“ … apart from any consult-  ations with National Commissions, private organ-  izations and experts ”.,  On the proposal of the UNITED KINGDOM dele-  gate, it was decided to include the words “ to  recommend ” after “it was resolved ” in point  B.T.  On Mr. Kurrz's suggestion, it was decided to  replace the phrase “ To examine the possibility  that Unesco might in the future... considered  worthy ” (page 2), bv © Although Unesco 1s not  itseli to publish literary works it is recommended  that Unesco should encourage and, if necessary,  sponsor certain publications which have been  considered worthy. ” Tt was also decided to clarify  the English text as regards the creation of a pool,  and to state : “ The creation within Unesco of  an international pool for literary reviews whose  function is to supply reviews, magazines and  newspapéfs with specially pertinent material for  publication, ”  The examination of the part of the report deal-  ing with literature and the theatre was herewith  terminated. The CHAIRMAN proposed to go on to  the part entitled © Visual Arts and Music ” alter  which the Sub-Commission would take the intro-  duction,  VISUAL Arts AND Music.  Îtem 1 (a), (8), (ce) and (d).  After a discussion, and on the proposal of the  UNITED STATES delegate, it was decided : |  I. To delete from (a) the phrase “ Leaving  on one sicte… field 7.
2. To replace in (a) the word “ stages ” by  “levels ”.
3. To replace in (a) “ Artistic Information  Certre ” by “ Centre of Information in the  ficld of the creative arts. ” This amendment  will also affect paragraph 1 of Chapter E.
4. To Insert the words ‘“ in the near future ”  between “ recommend ” and “ a study 7 in (a).  Dr. HuxLry then stated that, in his opinion,  the enquiry into artists’ conditions should be  undertaken very shortly, Further, he emphasized,  in particular, the necessity of an urgent study  of methods for the preservation of culture and  the arts in non-industrialized countries.  Mr. MacLFISH made a proposal which was  discussed at a later stage.  The Sub-Commission resumed its study of  Item 1.  On the proposal of the delegates of INDIA and  the UNiTED STATES, Item b was amended as fol-  lows: The second sentence was replaced by * Such  activity should be directed towards the inter-  national organization of exhibitions and artistic  productions, ”  The delegate of NICARAGUA made a suggestion  with regard to musical education; the CHAIRMAN  said that this would be taken into consideration  by the Secretariat.  — 182 —  reste 20e   The UNITED STATES delegate asked that it  should be indicated in the record that there was  some difference between the meaning of the ori-  ginal proposals of his delegation and the text of  the report, which was a ©  The CANADIAN delegate asked that the term  artistic education 7 in paragraph (a) should also  imelude fiterature and the theatre.  _ ltem 1 was adopled as a whole by the Sub-  Commission, )         ic  Item 2,  _ On the proposal of the delagate of the UNITED  Kixcnon, it was decided té delete the phrase  ‘the latrer should however continue tp bo regar-  ded as most proent, ”  À discussion tonk place with regard to the  drafting of Item 2 which, in the opinion of the  UNITED States delegate, should merely illustrate  the basic principles stated above, At the end of  the discussion, it was decided to-lcave it to the  Rapporteur to redraft the text.  The Unrren Kixonon delegate then took up  the point raised by Dr, Huxrey with regard to  measures for the protection of arts and culture  in non-industrialized countries. There was a gene-  ral discussion as to the urgency of this question,  On the proposal of the delegates of the UNITED  KINGDOM and the UNITED States, the following  resolution was adoptrd and included after Para-  graph 4 of ltem 2 :  “ Unesco should undertake in due time a  study of the recording of folk-lore and of mea-  sures designed to preserve arts and culture in  countries where there are as yet no national  organizations for the purpose.”  The CANADIAN delegate submitted the lollowing  proposal : | ‘  ‘“ The information and exhibition services of  Uresco should co-operate immediately with  existing organizations for the maintenance and  preservation of arts and culture of countries
1 exfinction and  disappearance. ”  After a long discussion, the Sub-Commission  adopted the Canadian motion bv 7 votes to 5  with one abstertion, and decided to insert it, as  a special statement, after the siatomcot by the  United Kingdom delegation. :  Fhe Uxtren Kivopon delegate then proposed  =
0)  some minor drafting changes in paragraph 6 of  Item 2. The Uxtren Strates delesction asked  what was exactly meant by facilitate” dn this  paragraph. The following wording was adopted :  “Tt should centralize and dissvmimate infor-  mation on international mesic and dance festi-  vals and shall encourage the some. 7 (similar  changes will be made en page 33.  ; On the proposal of the \vsTiartAn delegate,
1t was decided not to include in the report the  recommendation contained in the final paragraph  of Item 2. 0  INTRODUCTION,  The CANADIAN delegate drew attention to a  typing error which would have to be corrected  in Item 3, and also on page 1 of the report, na-  +  mely, the word “ intellectual ” should read ‘“in-  ternational. ” :  On the proposal of the UNITED STATES delegate,  it was decided to replace the word ‘“ promote ”  in the English text by the word “ encourage. ”  New PROPOSALS SUBMITTED BY DELEGATES.  The United STATES delegate again read the  motion submitted by Mr. Maclyrss :  “Whereas Unesco is the United Nations  Organization largelv responsible for safeguard-  ing the independence, integrity and diversity  of the production and culture of Member States;  whereas the position of artists in the creative:  arts in these nations is fre quently seriously  menaced by the action of political or commer-  cial organizations, or by biased or illegitimate  censorship; Unesco should declare that the func-  tion of the creative artist is to perform his task  and fulfil his purpose as an artist in every  nation, and that this question should be studied  by all peoples and nations; that Unesco, acting  for and on behalf of the peoples of all nations,  should take any steps in its power, in virtue  of its Constitution, to protect and defend the  creator or artist whose activ ties are mehaced  by this danger. ”  This motion was adopted unanimously.  The UNITED STATES delegate spoke again, draw-  ing attention to the fact that the cihemata-  graph held an important place in modern art.  But at this Conference the films had not been  regarded as an aspect of art, and had only been  studied by the Mass Media Section. He proposed  a resolution to the effect that the film shotil  play an important part in the study of the various  aspects of art.  The Unrren Kinonom delerate pointed out  that it was too late to make a serious study of  this new proposal. Nor could it be studied in  collaboration with the Mass Media Sub-Commis-  sion, as Mr. Kurtz explained, for material rea-  soris. :  The CANADIAN delegate suggested that Natio-  al Commissions bé asked to study the question:  and report on the results to Unesco, Mr: KURTZ  replied that the Secretariat cou d not assume this  responsibility without the consent of the General  Conference. :  In conclusion, it was decided that the Rappor-  teur should express the Sub-Commission’s recom-  mendations on the subject. ;  The CANADIAN delegate drev- atterition to the  fact that, in the field of music and the dance,  Unesco proposed to assist some fen different  international organizations. He suggested the  adoption of a motion to guide the Secretariat as  to the nature and scone of the assistance it could  give.  On the proposal of the UNITED STATES delegate,  stating that it was too late to take a vote, it was  decided to take note of the proposed motion to  which there had been no objection. The text  was as follows :  “ The Secretariat shall, at the 1947 Confe-  rence, submit to the Sub-Commission on Crea-  tive Arts for cohsideration, concrete applica-    rm mm mg me ee +   tions from authorized international associations  for assistance in respect of the organization of  festivals and of any activities included in the
1948 programme. ” |  A representative of the Secretariat stated that  the International Dance Archives had requested  Unesco to sponsor the International Ballet Com-  petition they were organizing in 1947; and a gene-  ral discussion took place on the subject, at the  end of which it was decided that the Sub-Com-  mission should give general instructions to the  Secretariat, and that the latter should be free  to establish relations with any given organization,  should it deem this necessary.  The CHAIRMAN thanked delegates for their pa-  tience and declared the meeting closed.  SUB-COMMITTEE  ON LITERATURE AND THEATRE  FIRST MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1046 at 3 hp. m.  Chairman : M. CHARLIER (Belgium).  The Sub-Committee appointed as rapporteur  Dr. Alfonso REYES (Mexico).  M. SLONIMSKI (Secretariat) explained the spe-  cial character of the task which the Literature  Section proposed to undertake; namely, to com-  bat, withthe power of the written word the exag-  gerated development of mechanization; to incul-  cate in the masses the knowledge of intellectual  achievements which were not otherwise dissemi-  nated; to renew between peoples those cultural  links which had been sevéred and to create new  ones.  TRANSLATIONS.  M. SLONIMSKI declared that work had already  been started in this field : the compilation of a  list of books which Unesco could suitably recom-  mend for translation in certain countries. :  The FRENCH delegation, supported by the Ca-  NADIAN delegation, suggested that, before embark-  ing on any definite undertaking, the basic organ-  ization — the translation office — which would  alone be qualified to deal with it, should be set up.  This Office would constitute a Translation Cen-  tre at the disposal of all Unesco Sections. It would  draw up, in every field, lists of works to be trans-  lated and lists of potential translators, would  act as a clearing house for authors, translators  and publishers, and would resume work on the  Index Translationum.  The principle of the immediate establishment  of this office was adopted. Tts duties would be :
1. Publication of the Index Translationum.
2. Establishment of a list of translators.
3. Establishment of a list of works for trans-  lation.  A discussion began on point 3 above.  The CANADIAN delegate asked that, in drawing  up this list of works, Unesco should avoid direct  contact with authors or literary organizations,  and confine itself to receiving the lists drawn up  by Member States under their own responsibility  in co-operation with National Commissions.  The delegates of FRANCE and of the Unttep  KINGDOM were opposed to the establishment or  recommendation of such lists by Unesco; they  considered it was not Unesco’s responsibility to  be a judge of taste. Unesco must carefully avoid  putting an official hallmark on a selection of  works that must necessarily be arbitrary, and  must confine itself to recording the National  Commissions’ selections.  It was further considered desirable that the  list of translators should also be drawn up in  agreement with the various governments.  These suggestions were adopted.  PuBLICATIONS.  A) Plan for an International Review Service  (to function as a Dissemination Centre for Lite-  rary Reviews of International interest). This inter-  national pool would, in particular, ensure the  circulation of literary reviews from far-off coun-  tries.  This item was adopted.
13) Anthologies,  M. SLONIMSKI announced that, to begin with,  the publication by Unesco of an ‘“ Anthology of  Resistance Movements ” was under consideration.  The delegates of CANADA, the UNITED KING-  DOM and the UNITED STATES expressed the view  that Unesco must not come into competition with  publishing firms. Unesco’s role was to give infor-  mation and stimulate private initiative in this  sphere, not to replace private initiative. The  above delegates were, however, prepared to make  an exception in the case of an anthology of resis-  tance movements, which Unesco might undertake  to publish, if publishing firms suitable for this  task could not be found in the various countries.  In future, if Unesco were to draw up a publish-  ing programme, it should confine itself to recom-  mending this programme to Member States.  The FRENCH delegate read the programme of  publications shown on page six of the French  delegation’s report, and asked that this pro-  gramme be studied by the Secretariat with a  view to arrangements for its implementation, on  the understanding that Unesco would not enter  into any formal engagement in this respect.  This suggestion was adopted.  Finally, there was a discussion as to whether  — 184 —