bodies in this field, with a view to the creation  of such an International Organization.  RECOMMENDATIONS TO MEMBER STATES.  The CANADIAN delegate recommended the esta-  blishment of two committees, attached to. the  Unesco Executive Board, which would be respon-  sible for proposing to Member States, firstly, a  reduction of postal rates and customs duties on  cultural and artistic material circulating between  the various countries under Unesco’s authority;  and, secondly, reductions in passenger fares for  students, lecturers and artists travelling in these  areas.  After the UNITED STATES and FRENCH delegates  had pointed out that this was an international  question, which equally concerned all sections of  Unesco, the Sub-Commission decided to leave it to  the Secretariat, under the Executive Board's res-  ponsibility, to undertake an enquiry on this mat-  ter, and submit to the Member States any recom-  mendations they considered necessary.  UNESCO PRIZE FOR LITERATURE.  The CANADIAN delegate proposed that, failing  the establishment of a Unesco prize on the same  lines as the Nobe] prize, three Unesco medals for  literary work should be awarded this year.  Supporting the opinion expressed by the FRENCH  delegate, the Sub-Commission decided to post-  pone this matter for further study and to adopt  no resolution of principle for this year.  Enquiry ON THE TEACHING  OF ART AND LITERARY RESEARCH.  , The CANADIAN delegate proposed that a recom-  mendation should be made to the United States  that they enquire into the conditions of the teach-  ing of art and literary research in that country.  The results of such an enquiry would then be sub-  mitted to Unesco, which would co-ordinate them  and ensure their dissemination.  The SECRETARIAT considered that such an en-  quiry would yield better results if Unesco conduct-  ed it itself, particularly through its Secretariat  and in co-operation with the cultural organiza-  tions of the Member States.  The Sub-Commission decided to refer the mat-  ter to the Sub-Committees for further conside-  ration.  SECOND PLENARY MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946 at 3. p. m.  At the opening of the meeting, the CHAIRMAN  submitted for approval the proposal of the BEL-  GIAN delegation, in respect of which no decision  had been taken.  After a prolonged discussion and successive  votes, the following motion was finally adopted :  ‘“ The Arts Sub-Commission (Sub-Committee on  Visual Arts and Music), at its meeting of the  morning of 27 November, recommends that  in 1947 Unesco should concentrate its efforts  mainly on musical education, [caving on one  side for the time any other activity in this field.  It regards also as urgent the organization of a  Musical Information Centre. ”  A proposal by the UNITED KINGDOM delega-  tion was also discussed at length. Several votes  were taken and the proposal was adopted in the  following form : oo  ““ The Sub-Commission also recommends a  study of the manufacture of musical instrum-  ents, of the dissemination of records and musical  publications, and the continuation of the work  of international organizations interested in the  recording of folk music and the encouragement  of recording where there are no national organ-  izations for the purpose.”  After a few minutes’ interval, Dr. HUXLEY  summarized and classified the recommendations  of the Sub-Committee on Visual Arts and Music.  His proposal was as follows :  I. Imniediate organization of travelling exhi-  bitions.
2. Organization of exhibitions, festivals and  concerts, and study of the possibility of exchang-  ing such manifestations, ;
3, Relations between the visual arts and mu-  sic, on the one hand, and education, on the  other, r  (a) Study of conditions and needs of artists.  (b) Study of the technique of polychrome re-  production.  (c) Study of the influence of mass media on  music and the arts. .  (d) Methods for the protection of the arts and  of culture innon-industrialized countries.  (e) Study of the professional training of artists.  (f) Art and music as methods of general edu-  cation (study to be undertaken in colla-  boration with the Education Section).  The report by M. Cassou to the Sub-Committee  of Visual Arts and Music was adopted.  The Sub-Commission agreed with M. CAssou  that the creation of a special organization for en-  quiry and study within the Arts Section was not  necessary.  Dr. HUxLEY's memorandum encountered cer-  tain minor objections : the UNITED KINGDOM  delegate asked that, instead of organizing travel  exhibitions, Unesco should content itself with  encouraging and facilitating them.  He also raised certain general objections :  I. The wording was not definite enough and  did not keep to the text of the recommenda-  tions proposed by the sub-committees.
2. It did not establish the order in which the  different recommendations should be dealt with.  Certain delegations (FRANCE, NEW ZEALAND)  proposed that the Memorandum should be adopt-  ed subject to the observations made by delegates,  and that it be left to the Secretariat to establish  the order in which recommendations should be  dealt with, according to the technical possibilities  and requirements of the various regions.  “ The CANADIAN delegate, on the contrary, pro-  posed that the question should be referred to a  Sub-Committee of nine members, which would  examine and classify the recommendations in the  order in which they were to be taken, and would  — IBI —   submit a report to the Sub-Commission at a later  meeting.  _ This suggestion was adopted after a discussion.  The Sub-Committee of nine, cluding (in addition  «to the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur)  the delegates of the United States, the United  . Kingdom, Belgium, Canada, China, Mexico, Cze-  choslovakia, Australia and France, would meet on  Wednesday, 27 November at g. p. m.  The Creative Arts Sub-Commission would hear  its report on Saturday, 30 November at 3. p. ni.  A report by Dr. Alfonso REvEs for the Sub-  Committee on Literature and the Theatre was  adopted without discussion.  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1ÿ40 at 3 p. m.  At the opening of the Meeting, the CHAIRMAN  read a letter from M. Jean Cassou, obliged by  indisposition to resign his duties as rapporteur;  Professor Morey (United States) was appointed  in his stead. The CHAIRMAN himself presented  the report, which was divided into three parts :  I. Resolutions adopted by the Sub-Committe  on Literature and the Theatre.
2. Report by M. Jean Cassou,
3. Proposal by Dr. HuxrEv.  After a short discuss’on, it was decided that  the Sub-Commission, after finishing its study of  the report, would consider certain new proposals,  Stubby oF THE RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE  SUB-COMMITTEE ON LITERATURE AND THEATRE  {Unesco/C/S. C. Creat. Arts 4).  The CANADIAN delegate pointed out that the  English text of the renort contained several mis-  takes of translation. Mr. KUkTZ, secretary of the  Sub-Committee, said that he was aware of this  fact and that the mistakes would be corrected.  The CANADIAN delegate then proposed a series  of minor amendments which were approved by  the Sub-Commission :  (a) Publications Section : Read “ Review  Distributing Centres ” instead of ** Stock of  Reviews 7. :  (b) Page 2 : Read “ projects to be conside-  réd ” instead of “ projects being carried out. ”  (c) Page 3 : Copytight : It should be made  clear that the Sub-Commiission on Creative  Arts shall be consulted on the same footing as  the Mass Media Commission.  (d) Page 4 : Two lines had been omitted on  “ popular book centres and international book-  shops.  Thesc lines were to be restored.  (e) Point 3 : The following wording should  be adopted : “ It was decided that the Secre-  tariat might contemplate the possibility of  material help... ”  (f) Page 5, item C : Instead of “ to create  an International Theatre Bureau in order to  facilitate exchanges” read * to establish a  Theatre Bureau which could facilitate ex-  changes. ”’  The AUSTRALIAN delegate stated, in respect of  Point B. 1., that it was for the Secretariat to  - create a section; further he thought it might  be useful if managerial functions were also dealt  with in the report.  On the proposal of the UNITED STATES delegate,  it was decided to add, after the final sentence of  page TI, the words ‘“ … apart from any consult-  ations with National Commissions, private organ-  izations and experts ”.,  On the proposal of the UNITED KINGDOM dele-  gate, it was decided to include the words “ to  recommend ” after “it was resolved ” in point  B.T.  On Mr. Kurrz's suggestion, it was decided to  replace the phrase “ To examine the possibility  that Unesco might in the future... considered  worthy ” (page 2), bv © Although Unesco 1s not  itseli to publish literary works it is recommended  that Unesco should encourage and, if necessary,  sponsor certain publications which have been  considered worthy. ” Tt was also decided to clarify  the English text as regards the creation of a pool,  and to state : “ The creation within Unesco of  an international pool for literary reviews whose  function is to supply reviews, magazines and  newspapéfs with specially pertinent material for  publication, ”  The examination of the part of the report deal-  ing with literature and the theatre was herewith  terminated. The CHAIRMAN proposed to go on to  the part entitled © Visual Arts and Music ” alter  which the Sub-Commission would take the intro-  duction,  VISUAL Arts AND Music.  Îtem 1 (a), (8), (ce) and (d).  After a discussion, and on the proposal of the  UNITED STATES delegate, it was decided : |  I. To delete from (a) the phrase “ Leaving  on one sicte… field 7.
2. To replace in (a) the word “ stages ” by  “levels ”.
3. To replace in (a) “ Artistic Information  Certre ” by “ Centre of Information in the  ficld of the creative arts. ” This amendment  will also affect paragraph 1 of Chapter E.
4. To Insert the words ‘“ in the near future ”  between “ recommend ” and “ a study 7 in (a).  Dr. HuxLry then stated that, in his opinion,  the enquiry into artists’ conditions should be  undertaken very shortly, Further, he emphasized,  in particular, the necessity of an urgent study  of methods for the preservation of culture and  the arts in non-industrialized countries.  Mr. MacLFISH made a proposal which was  discussed at a later stage.  The Sub-Commission resumed its study of  Item 1.  On the proposal of the delegates of INDIA and  the UNiTED STATES, Item b was amended as fol-  lows: The second sentence was replaced by * Such  activity should be directed towards the inter-  national organization of exhibitions and artistic  productions, ”  The delegate of NICARAGUA made a suggestion  with regard to musical education; the CHAIRMAN  said that this would be taken into consideration  by the Secretariat.  — 182 —  reste 20e