(to the word “ Organization ’’) should be  added to Staff Regulation 19; the second  part could be deleted.  b) The substance of paragraph 14 should  form the text of a resolution of the Gene-  ral Conference as a directive to the Direc-  tor-General.  .c) Paragraph 48 might be suitable for incor-  poration in the Staff Regulations and  should follow Regulation 30:  d) The substance of paragraph .28 should  form the text of a resolution of the Gene-  ral Conference.  As a result of its review of the Financial Regula-  tions, the Drafting Committee had only drafting  amendments to suggest, and these did not appear  “ to require comment.  After discussion, the Drafting Committee’s re-  port was adoplied.  DRAFT STAFF REGULATIONS, No. 17 À.  The CHAIRMAN opened the debate on Regula-  tion 17 A, proposed by the French delegate (Do-  cument Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur.;/S. C. Ad. &  Fin./11), who explained that the purpose of the  new draft was to enable the Finance Committee  to pass judgment on the financial management  of the Organization by external auditors.  The delegate of POLAND moved that points 1  and 2 be amalgamated in a single paragraph. This  proposal was adopted.  The UNITED STATES delegate pointed out that  it was not, in his opinion, in accordance with the  provisions of the Constitution for the Finance  Committee to submit a report to the General Con-  ference. And it was therefore decided to specify in  the second paragraph : “ The Finance Committee  of the Executive Board .... ’’, and to change the  beginning of the last paragraph to read : “ The  Executive Board shall submit to the approval of  the General Conference... ”  The delegations of INprA, UNITED STATES,  SOUTH AFRICA and the UNITED KINGDOM were  of the opinion that the former Regulation 17 gave  sufficient guarantees with regard to the supervi-  sion of financial management. They considered a  third form of audit unnecessary. They feared that  by going into detail the purpose would be defea-  ted, since to specify the powers of the Financial  Committee would restrict them instead of enlar-  ging them.  Mr. Morrissey (UN expert) was of the same  opinion; and gave certain details of United  Nations procedure in this matter.  At the suggestion of the delegate of FRANCE it  was decided that the proposal be divided into  three parts, the second part being more contre-  versial than the other two.  The CHAIRMAN successively put to the yote the  three parts of the motion; the first and third were  adopted, the second rejected.  Regulation 17 was finally adopted as follows :  “ The Executive Board shall appoint an ex-  ternal auditor and shall determine the condi-  tions under which he shall be nominated and  discharge his duties. Assistant auditors may be  appointed under the same conditions.  ““ The Finance Committee of the Executive  Board, provided for in Regulation 3 above.  shall take cognizance of the auditor's report,  “ The Executive Board shall submit to the  approval of the General Conference, at a regu-  lar-session, a general report on the financial  administration of the Organization. The audi-  tor's report shall be annexed thereto. ”  REVOLVING FUND (Document Ad & Fin./4).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES moved that  a Revolving Fund be established for Unesco as  part of its system of financing expenditure,  Adopted.  It was agreed that the discussion of this ques-  tion should be postponed to the next meeting.  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT  (Document Ad. & Fin.;14).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES made a sta-  tement on document S. C. Ad. & Fin./14, which  he submitted as basis of the discussion of the or-  ganization of the Secretariat.  It was agreed that the discussion on this ques-  tion should be postponed to the next meeting, on  the understanding that the delegate of the United  States would have the right to speak again at that  meeting.  SEVENTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1940 af 10.30 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  REVOLVING FtND (Continuation).  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM moved  that the amount of the Revolving Fund should  be three million dollars and that the deposits of  Member States therein should be in the same pro-  portion as their contributions to the Budget of the  Organization.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA suggested that the  contributions of Member States to the Revolving  l'und should be expressed as 50 %, of their con-  tributions to the Budget. He wished to have a  statement from the representative of the United  Nations as to whether or not the deposit to. be  made immediately by Member States would in  any sense reduce their contributions to the Bud-  get for the first year.  The SECRETARIAT said that it was intended that  the Revolving Fund should consist of deposits  made by Member States; the deposits so made  should remain the property of the Member States  and they should not be offset against contributions  to the budget. Once the Fund was established,  Member States would not be asked to make any  further deposit, unless it were decided to increase  the Revolving Fund.  The delegate of the UNION or SOUTH AFRICA  asked whether the Revolving Fund would in efiect  be a permanent loan without interest. .  The SECRETARIAT replied that the difficulty of  meeting expenditure, which would arise in the  early part of 1947, would probably continue until
1950, and the Revolving Fund would therefore  continue to be essential to the Organization.  — 2I0 —   The delegate of the UNITED STATES enquired  why the amount of three million dollars had been  fixed for the Revolving Fund.  The SECRETARIAT said that, in the expérience  of the United Nations, if the Organization were  not to be embarrassed by a shortage of liquid re-  sources, it should possess the equivalent of the  estimated expenditure for six months. On the  assumption that Uneseo’s expenditure for 1947  might be six million dollars, the equivalent of six  months’ estimated expenditure was three milliori  dollars. With regard to the delegate of Australia’s  suggestion that contributions should be expressed  as à percentage, the Secretariat considered it prefe-  rable for the Fund to bedixed at a definite amount.  The delegate of FRANCE proposed that a special  Sub-Committee should be established to examine  the question of the provision of funds to enable  Unesco to carry out its work in the early part of
1947. The Sub-Committee would report to the Ad-  ministrative and Financial Sub-Commission at  the time of the discussion on the budget.  Agreed.  The Sub-Committee would consist of the repre-  sentatives of United Kingdom, Frauce, United  states of America, Canada, Egypt, Poland and  Uruguay.  The delegate of the Unrrkp Kinopou withdrew  his original motion,  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES moved the  adoption of the new document on this subject  (S. C. Ad. & Fin./14.) as a whole.  A general discussion took place, in the course  of which the delegates of AUSTRALIA, POLAND,  INDIA and Ecuvapor mentioned some amend-  ments which thev would submit when the docu-  ment was discussed in detail.  EIGHTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1946 al 2.30 p. m,  Chairman : Dr, C. FE. BEEBY (New Zealand).  STAFF REGULATIONS. -  The delegate of the UNrrED KrNcpom (Chair-  man of the Drafting Committee) moved the adop-  tion of the revised draft Staff Regulations, with  the exception of Regulation 30.  Adopted.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM read the  proposed new text of Regulation 30 (old Regula-  tion 27), as follows :  “Any dispute arising between the Organiza-  tion and a member of the staff regarding the  fultilment of a contract of a member of the staff  or arising out of disciplinary action may be re-  ferred for final decision to an Administrative  Tribunal to be established by the Executive  Board for such period as may be necessary pen-  ding dehnitive arrangements with the United  Nations. ”  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  suggested the insertion of a phrase which would  make it clear that both the Director-General and  the members of the staff hac the right to refer dis-  putes to the Tribunal.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM said that  — 2TL —  it was the intention of the Drafting Committee  that disputes might be referred by either party to  the Tribunal, and the delegate of the UNION OF  SOUTH AFRICA expressed his satisfaction with this  remark, without any addition to the regulation.  Regulation 30 was adopted.  After some discussion, it was decided to suggest  at the meeting of the full Commission the inser-  tion after the words ‘“ membres du Secrétariat ”  in the French text of revised Regulation 36 the  words ‘‘ et lorsque cela sera justifié ”. =  DrArT REPORTS.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES (Rappor-  teur) read the Sub-Commission’s draft Reports on  the Staff Regulations and the Financial Regula-  tions,  The draft Reports were approved, with the reser-  vation that the Sub-Commission had not yet adop-  ted the Financial Regulations, |  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Staff Regula-  tions should be submitted to the fuii Commission,  and that the latter should be asked to adjourn for  a short time to enable the Sub-Commission to exa-  mine the Financial Regulations, which it would  then submit to the Commission.  Agreed.  NINTH MEETING  Held on Thursday, 5 December 1946 at 6 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT FINANCIAL REGULATIONS (Continuation).  The CHAIRMAN submitted, for the approval of  the Sub-Commission, the Draft Financial Regu-  lations (Document Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C.  Ad. & Fin./16) as amended by the drafting Com-  mittee in order to insert a reference to the Revol-  ving l’und in Regulations 10, Ir and 29.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate drew attention  to the provisional character of these regulations;  and the title of the document in the French text  was accordingly altered, becoming : “ Règlement  financier provisoire, ”  At the suggestion of the FRENCH delegate, para-  graph 2 of Regulation 1g was altered so as to read :  ““ The Finance Committee of the Executive Board, .  as provided for in Regulation 4 above, shail exa-  mine the report of the auditors... The report of the  auditors shall be annexed to the Report. ?  At the suggestion of the SOUTH AFRICAN dele=  gate, the English draft of Regulation 15 was alter-  ed to read : “are paid” instead of “ will be paid ”.  The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the Draft Finan-  cial Regulations as a whole, which were adopted  unammously.  At the CHAIRMAN’S suggestion, the delegate of  Uruguay was appointed Chairman of the Commit-  tee on the Revolving l'und, which would meet on  Friday at 11 a. m.  TENTH MEETING  Held on Fridav, 6 December 1940 at 9 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  ORGANIZATION OF SECRETARIAT (Continuation).  The general discussion of the composition of the  Secretariat was continued.