Regulation 8.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the heading of  the right-hand column should be changed and  that the word “ definition ” in English should be  replaced by ‘ designation ”.  The UNITED STATES delegate proposed the fol-  lowing addition :  “ Permanent appointments shall be made  after probation and for an indefinite period;  these appointments will be subject to revision  every five years, in the light of the reports of  “the senior officials of the Administration. ”  The United STATES delegate said that his  delegation would propose later on an amendment  to Regulation 13 in order to adjust that Article  to the addition proposed for Article 8.  This amendment was seconded by the PHILIP-  PINE delegate. =  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  pointed out that the proposed clause would de-  prive each official of the certainty of retaining  his post for more than six years, and this seemed  to him unnecessarily hard in the case of junior  officials.  The delegate of ECUADOR asked that the Uni-  ted States proposal should be submitted to dele-  gates in writing and discussed at the next meeting.  This was approved. :  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that no other amend-  ment to Article 8 could be considered so long as  the United States proposal had not been discus-  sed at the next meeting.  Regulation o. ,  The FRENCH delegate proposed that the first  sentence should be replaced by the following :  ‘“ A classification system and salary schedule  shall be established and submitted for approval  to the Executive Board or to a competent body  set up by the Secretariat. ”  This amendment was seconded by the NORWE-  GIAN and VENEZUELAN delegates, put to the vote  and adopted.  The UNITED KINcpom delegate proposed that  the following words should be added to Article o :  ‘* The classification system and the list of sa-  laries shall be revised from time to time with-  out prejudice to rights already acquired. "  This amendment was seconded by the NORWE-  GIAN delegation, put to the vote and adopted.  The CHAIRMAN read out Article g in its defini-  tive form, including the French and United King-  dom amendments.  Regulation g was adopted.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Friday, 29 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C, E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  that, on the completion of its examination of  the Draft Staff Regulations, the Sub-Commission  should divide into four, or possibly three, sub-  committees.  Proposal seconded by the UNITED KINGDOM de-  legate.  The general opinion of the meeting was against  the UNITED STATES proposal, particularly as it  ran counter to the General Committee's recom-  mendation requesting a minimum division of Sub-  Commissions.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES withdrew  his proposal.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA proposed the esta-  blishment of a technical Drafting Committee con-  sisting of the representatives of the United King-  dom, United States, France, Egypt and Uruguay.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of CANADA.  Agreed.  At the request of the Executive Board, a Note  was distributed on the functions and powers of  the Board. The meeting noted the contents of the  Executive Board's memorandum.  DRAFT STAFF REGULATIONS (continued).  The meeting considered the three additions to  Regulation 7 proposed by the French delegation.  The CHAIRMAN said that, after consultation with  the Legal Adviser of the Secretariat, he would  rule that the third paragraph of proposed Regu-  lation 7'a, as at present drafted, was in conflict  with the Constitution of Unesco, Article VI, pa-  ragraph 4 of which stated that appointments were  to be made by the Director-General.  The delegate of FRANCE explained that the aim  of the French delegation in submitting the draft  amendments was to avoid, as far as possible, waste  of time and insufficiency of knowledge in the se-  lection of candidates to posts on the Secretariat,  The French delegation was of opinion that the  different categories of the staff should be carefully  distinguished. With regard to the third paragraph  of Regulation 7 a, the French delegation now  wished to delete this text. They thought that all  officials should be appointed by the Director-Gre-  neral on the advice of a Selection Board.  The CHAIRMAN said that the three French  amendments would be moved and voted on sepa-  rately. :  He then opened discussion on Article 7 a pro-  posed by the French delegation.  After an amendment presented by the delegate  of AUSTRALIA and a long discussion, in which the  delegates of EGYPT, GREECE, SOUTH AFRICA and  the UNITED STATES took part, Article 7 a was  adopted as follows :  ““ Appointments to the post of Deputy Direc-  tor-General, Assistant Difectors-General, and  Directors of Services shall be made by the Di-  rector-General, with the approval of the Exe-  cutive Board.  “ Appointments of the other officials shall be  made by the Director-General, having regard  to the opinions expressed by a Selection Board  appointed by the Executive Board and consis-  ting of members of the Board. ”  The CHAIRMAN proposed to refer the final num-  bering of the Sections and Articles of the Regu-  lations to a Drafting Committee. This proposal  was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Article 7 b,  proposed by the French delegation,  accus ana ¢ ad   After a discussion in which the delegates of  BELGIUM, EGYPT and SOUTH AFRICA took part,  and with amendments submitted by the delegates  of Mexico and the UNITED STATES, Article 7 b  was adopled as follows :  “ Members of the staff of the higher grades  must have a thorough knowledge of one of the  two working languages and must hold at least  a university diploma or have had equivalent  experience. À departure from this condition may  be made with the approval of the Selection  Board, based upon the possession of special qua-  lifications or particularly valuable experience or  outstanding work  ““ Members of the lower grades must have a  . perfect knowledge of one of the two working  languages and a satisfactory knowledge of the  other. ”  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Article 7 c,  proposed by the French delegation and seconded  by the GREEK delegation, stipulating that the per-  sonal files submitted to the Selection Board should  be presented by the National Commission of the  countries from which the candidates come.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVARTA, supported by  the delegate of SOUTH AFRICA, proposed to add  a second clause to this Article, stating that no  final appointment should be made to responsible  posts without prior consultation with the govern-  ment concerned.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM disagreed  with both amendments, considering them con-  trary to the spirit of the Constitution.  An exchange of views took place on the ques- .  tion whether it was sufficient to consult the Na-  tional Commission, which, under Article VII of the  Constitution, should contain representatives of the  government, or whether it would be necessary also  to seek the advice of the government.  Further discussion was postponed until the next  meeting of the Sub-Commission.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  It was agreed that, in future, no amendments  to draft regulations should be considered by the  Sub-Commission unless they were submitted in  writing to the Secretary at least twelve hours be-  _ fore the meeting at which.they were to be moved.  DRAFT STAFF REGULATIONS (continued).  Proposed new Regulation 7 C.  The delegate of FRANCE read a new text of this  Regulation, agreed by the French and Czecho--  slovak delegations, as follows : :  ‘The Selection Board shall receive a file  which shall be submitted, whenever possible,  by the National Commission of the country to  which the nominee belongs or by the comipetent  body acting in its place, and this file shall con-  tain all information concerning the nominee's  qualifications and his previous career. ”’  Proposal seconded by the delegate of CZECHO-  SLOVAKIA.  The delegate of MEXICO enquired whether ac-  tual appointments would be in the hands of the  Director-General and whether the Director-Gene-  ral would have authority to appoint candidates  in cases where no file was available.  He was assured that this was so.  Regulation 7 C, in its amended form, was adop-  ted.  Regulation 8.  The addition suggested by the United States  delegation had already been circulated.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES now wished  to delete the first sentence of the amendment and .  add a phrase to the second, so that the proposed  text would read as follows :  ““ Such principal high officers as the Direc-  tor-General, with the approval of the Execu-  tive Board, may determine, shall be appointed  under contracts not to exceed six years, sub-  ject to the possibility of renewal ”.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of the Uni-  TED KINGDOM.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA proposed a  further addition to Regulation 8 as follows :  “ À certain number of posts on the Secreta-  riat will be occupied by officials seconded to  Unesco for a period of two or three years. These  officials will be chosen from amongst the offi-  cials who are working in similar services in their  own countries and who possess the necessary  qualifications for working in the Secretariat.  In exercising these functions at Unesco these  officials will be paid only by Unesco. These can-  didates will be subjected to the same exami-  nations as other candidates ”.  Proposal not seconded and therefore lapsed.  The additional paragraph suggested by the Uni-  TED STATES delegation was approved.  On the substantive motion that the whole Re-  gulation be approved, the delegate of INDIA sug-  gested that the third paragraph of the original  text (regarding experts and part-time consultants)  should be referred to the Drafting Committee,  which should try to find a more logical place for  it@lsewhere in the Regulations.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of the UNI-  TED STATES and agreed.  Regulations 10, II and 12.  Adopted.  Regulation 13.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  an alteration of the second sentence, which should  read as follows :  “ The probationary period shall not be ter-  minated without full knowledge and careful  estimate of the employee's work and conduct,  and may be prolonged for a further period not  exceeding twelve months where such informa-  tion is inconclusive, ”  Amendment seconded by the delegates of the -  UNITED STATES and GREECE and adopted:  Regulation 14.  Adopied,  ado 203 it