TENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 7 December 1946 at 10.30 a. m.  President : M. Lion Brum (France)  INSTALLATION  OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  “ The PRESIDENT (translation): The first item  .on our agenda is the installation of our Director-  ‘General. .  The Vice-Presidents of the Conference have  - been invited to take their places on the Tribune.  I shall now ask Dr. Wilson and M. Jean Thomas  to present Dr. Julian Huxley, Director-General of  Unesco.  - Dr. Huxley enters the hall amid applause from  the delegates.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : At yesterday's  meeting, the General Conference approved the  "proposals of the Executive Board, appointing  Dr. Julian Huxley as Director-General of Unesco  until the termination of the 3rd General Confer-  ence. Therefore I now have pleasure in introduc-  ing to this Assembly, Dr. Julian Huxley as Direc-  tor-Greneral of the Institution of which you are  the supreme representatives.  Turning now to you, Mr. Director-General, I  congratulate you and thank vou on behalf of the  Assembly for having accepted this high office. Al-  though you have accepted it only for two years,  there is nothing provisional about it.  It is during these two vears that Unesco will  have to prove itself. It will have to prepare and  put ‘into operation a very complicated adminis-  trative system. It will need to show coherence as  well as a convergence of many varied activities,  which will each almost inevitably tend to become  specialised or even to be subdivided.” Above all,  it will need to convince world opinion that, whilst  seeking positive results and securing tangible bene-  fits for the peoples, it still remains true to the  great ideas and ideals which inspired its creation  and to-day have become ‘high hopes : mutual  knowledge and understanding, intellectual co-ope-  ration and spiritual solidarity between nations  and between men and the preservation and deve-  lopment of the spirit of world peace.  Your outstanding intellectual qualities, your  strength of character and personality, the fame  which your work has added to vour distinguished  name and, above all, your faith in the common  task made you particularly worthy to be chosen.  I am fully convinced that you will have every  assistance you may need in your work. In any case  I can assure you in the name of all present at this  assembly, that without exception they will make  every effort to see that Member States collaborate  with the Executive Board and yourself fully and  enthusiastically.  I too have faith in our Unesco, because I have  faith in peace and faith in humanity.  Dr. Julian HUXLEY ; May.I first of all thank  you personally for what you have said about me  and also for the devotion and faith which you have  shown in Unesco for such a long time, from long  before the meeting last November at which the  Preparatory Commission was born. -  Then, Member Delegates, may I say that I am  deeply moved at the honour which you have done  me, and still more by the confidence which you  are reposing in me. I do feel it most deéply. This  is the moment at which the Preparatory Commis-  sion dies, and Unesco itself is formally born.  Just before this Conference, we gave a little  dinner for the Preparatory Commission, and at  that I said we should on this occasion look forward  as the Preparatory Commission to suffering: the  fate of the phoenix and that we would in the next  few days be re-born as Unesco. That event has  happened, though it has not been so much by the  fire of eloquence : it has been by the fire of hard  work. The young fledgling which fluttered its wings  in Dr. Kotschnig’s hands has grown into a fine  fowl. This is the more surprising as I think that  during the last three weeks all the humans in the  transformation have probably lost rather than  | gained weight in the process.  But if I may be serious, Unesco is now born. We  must not look back at the Preparatory Commis-  sion, we must look forward, as this Organisation  is of the greatest importance and although it is  very complex, it is, I am sure, realizable. Thanks  ‘tothe co-operative spirit, and the hard work which  has been shown by all nations, their represent-  atives and their delegates, and the international  secretariat, we have got together, with represent-  atives of all the private organisations which have  been here, and who have corresponded with, us in  the past, and by private persons who have helped  . generously in our work with their advice. Endless  co-operation has been shown, and this, I think,  has been the more striking because it has been  independent of political or economic, religious or  philosophical creeds, whatever the colour of the  skin, or whatever the region of the world from  which the delegate or person has come. I am sure  that it is realizable, this ideal, this task, provid-  ed we are given adequate means to realize it.  This gathering symbolizes both the complexity  and also the hope which we feel, and also I would  like to stress, the uniqueness of the occasion. I am  sure I am right in saying that never before in the  history of the world have there been brought to-  gether in one place so many representatives of the  arts, science, philosophy and education, of radio,  of government, of relief societies and youth organ-  isations, town-planning, and of all the higher   activities of the human mind. And not only that  but also from eve y region of the world, not me-  rely, — as Johnson said in his poem, from China to  Peru, — but from the Arctic Circle to the Equator  and from the cradle of our Western Civilisation  to the Eastern Mediterranean and the Antipodes.  It is an unique occasion and marks, I hope, a real  milestone in the unification of the spirit of man,  to use the phrase which our great poet, Mr. Ro-  bert Bridges, chose for the title of his work. Let  me re-emphasize here my strong conviction that  this multifariousness of our task, though it does  make it in some ways more difficult and complex,  is essential and valuable, becausp it emphasizes  the need and the desirability of keeping the unity  of the human mind and spirit before us all the  time.  The factor for the success of this Conference is  the factor of hope. People want to work together  and manage to work together in a practical way.  If I may conclude on a personal note, the ex-  perience that I have had in these last nine monfhs  has been most moving and inspiring, in spite ot  various inevitable difficulties and troubles that  have cropped up and would crop up in any such  organisation; in general, it has been so moving  and inspiring that it effected in me what I might  call a conversion. It made me believe in the work  facing Unesco in a way I never did before. I took  over the Executive Secretaryship because, owing  to an accident, a stop-gap was needed, and no  other stop-gap was readily available. I gradually  became imbued with a real devotion to the cause  we have at heart, and the desire to give some of  my life to working for Unesco and for that cause.  You have given me the privilege of being ‘able to  realize this desire and I want again to thank you  and to say that vou can count, at any rate, on  this devotion which this task has inspired in me.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : T call upon  M. Moniz de Aragao of the Brazilian Delegation,  who has an announcement to make to the As-  sembly.  DEATH or Dr. Rows.  M. MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Brazil) (transla-  tion) : Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is  with great emotion that I have to announce to  you the tragic death yesterday in Washington of  Dr. Rowe, Director of the Pan-American Bureau.  It is not necessary for me to tell this Assembly  who Dr, Rowe was, or what work he did. His fame  ‘and reputation were world-wide, and he was espec-  ially well-known in America for his loyalty and  .principles. He was a great worker in the cause of  good relations between the countries of the Ame-  ricas,  I am quite sure that 1 am interpreting the feel-  ings of all who are present here today, and in par-  ticulat of Americans, when I ask the Assembly to  record in the minutes the statement which I have  just made, and to send a telegram of condolence  to his Bureau. :  The PRESIDENT (translation): I am sure that  the whole Assembly will accept this proposal put  before us by the Brazilian Delegate, and will take  this opportunity of expressing to the Pan-Ame-  rican Bureau our sympathy in its loss.  It is understood then that this statement will  be recorded in the minutes of this morning’s meet-  ing and the telegram of sympathy will be sent to  the Pan-American Bureau. oo  Before resuming our Agenda there will be a  short recess.
13. CONSIDERATION OF REPORT OF  THE COMMISSIONS (continuation)  A. — REPORT OF ADMINISTRATIVE  AND LEGAL COMMISSION (continuation)  The Meeting re-opened at 11.30 with M. Blum  in the chair.  The PRESIDENT translation) : We shall now  continue discussion of the report of the Adminis-  trative and Legal Commission, Yesterday our  discussion stopped just when we were about to  reach the Draft Financial Regulations (Annex 2,  part C). You have before you the report which  was distributed. We have then the first chapter  of these regulations, THE FINANCIAL YEAR. Has  anyone any comments to make on this section?  As there are no observations, I assume that this  chapter is adopted.  We then have the second chapter which has  six Regulations in it. Has anyone any comments?  This chapter is adopted.  The next is CHAPTER III. — EXPENDITURES  UNDER THE BUDGET, which contains two Regu-  lations. Are there any comments on this chapter?  Adopted.  The next chapter is MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS  and consists of a single Regulation. Any com-  ments?  Adopted. Co  The following chapter 5 is the CURRENCY OF  THE CONTRIBUTIONS. We have two articles here.  Are there any comments?  Adopted.  The next chapter contains one Regulation only.  “It is APPROPRIATION OF Funbs. Are there any  comments here?  Adopted.  The next chapter contains two Regulations and  is headed INTERNAL CONTROL. Any comments?  Adopted.  The following chapter has four Regulations and  ‘the heading is THE ACCOUNTS. Any comments?  Adopted.  The next one is headed APPOINTMENT OF EX-  TERNAL AUDITORS and contains a single Regulat-  don. The French delegate would like to speak on  that.  The delegate of FRANCE (translation): In this  Regulation there is twice mentioned in the French  text ‘“ Auditor ” in the singular. This should be  “‘ Auditors ” in the plural.  ‘The PRESIDENT (translation) : The correc  tion will be made in the final text.
75   The following Chapter is CusTopy or FUNDS.  Any comments?  Adopted.  The next has three Regulations and concerns  LAPSING OF CREDITS. Are there any comments?  Adopted.  The following chapter has four Regulations, the  heading is TRANSITORY Provisions, No com-  ments?  Adopted.  The following has three Regulations and ap-  pears under the heading of GENERAL PROVISIONS.  Any comments?  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH  AFRICA : I prefer that Regulation 32 be deleted.  It is not necessary.  , The PRESIDENT (translation) : The Regula-  tion to which the delegate of South Africd refers  reads as follows : * The present Regulation will  come into force... ” What is the opinion of the  Commission?  The delegate of BELGIUM (translation) :  We have a similar provision in the draft Staff Re-  gulations, in which a Rule provides for a date for  the entry into force of these regulations; this ques-  tion was taken up. The Belgian delegate had  said that in any case, a date of entry into force  could not be fixed before the General Conference  approved these Regulations. He thought that for  legal reasons, it would be wise to state a date of  entry into force : the day the General Conference  adopted them, in the case of the Staff Regulations,  and today’s date for the Financial Regulations, if  ‘approved. It would be a good thing to indicate  the effective dates of these documents.  The PRESIDENT (translation): The President  would be glad if the South African delegate would  clarify the statement he made. Does he wish to  see Regulation 32 deleted? Or would he like to see  it completed by a definite date?  The delegate of SOUTH AFRICA : Mr. Pre.  sident, I understand that there will be a re-  solution submitted to this General Conference  from the Financial Committee, which will deal  with the matter. If the resolution is submitted,  this Regulation would come into effectfwhen it
1s promulgated. However since I am told a spe-  cific resolution is now being prepared, I would sug-  gest that the Conference do not pass this until a  later date.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 think it  would be better, instead of deleting this Regula-  tion, to leave it until such time as the Sub-Com-  mission has a report to submit to us. Does every-  body agree to this procedure? Then, it is decided  that it will be done thus.  The Administrative and Financial Sub-Com-  mission will meet now in Room 8. These draft regu-  lations have now been adopted and that settles  this item on the Agenda.  B. — REPORT OF RECONSTRUCTION  AND REHABILITATION COMMISSION  (Annex 6.)  I call now on the Rapporteur of the Recon-  struction and Rehabilitation Commission.  Mr. BRUMBAUGH (United States) : Mr. Pre-  sident and Fellow Delegates : I have the honour  of presenting to you the report of the Commis-  sion on Reconstruction and Rehabilitation. The  Commission held six sessions in which it consi-  dered the statement of policy and the recom-  mendations that had been prepared by the  Technical Sub-Committee on Reconstruction and  Rehabilitation of the Preparatory Commission.  The work of our Commission was greatly faci-  litated by the excellent statement prepared by  the Technical Sub-Committee. The Report now  before you embodies in general the proposed  policy, and the programme contained in the state-  ment put forward by the Preparatory Commission.  Our Commission has amended this report in  three main particulars; (1) placing on Unesco the  duty of stimulation to the maximum extent;
(2) using the national co-operating bodies as agents  in carrying out its work; (3) not attempting work  in any country except at the express request of  the government concerned. The report was form-  ally approved by thie Commission on Recon-  struction and Rehabilitation at its final session,  held on Wednesday, 4 December.  It will be noted that the first section of the  report presents a statement of policy affecting the  reconstruction and rehabilitation activities of  Unesco. Especially important is Paragraph 2, in  which is stressed the role of Unesco ds a stimulat-  ing agency, both for the purpose of securing aid  from governmental and non-governmental organ-  isations in donor areas and for the purposes of  promoting the production of educational materials  and equipment of which there is aworldwide short-  age. It was the point of view of the Commission  that Unesco should be primarily a clearing-house  for information and propaganda. Paragraph 3,  under the statement of policy suggests, however,  that certain projects having a direct bearing on  the ultimate success of Unesco should be under-  taken immediately and should be financed by  Unesco.  The second section is devoted to the Pro-  gramme of Activities consistent with the state-  ment of policy. This section presents specific re-  commendations as to reconstruction activities in  which Unesco should engage. Items 1 and 2 in this  Programme suggest that, as a stimulating agent,  Unescoshould take the initiative in forming relief  proposals, in securing contributions, in distfibut-  ing supplies, and in enlisting the co-operation of  National Commissions and Voluntary Organ-  isations. It is proposed further that Unesco should  prepare various types of publicity materials which  are essential to the effective discharge of this func-  tion. It will be necessary to strengthen and expand  the appropriate staff of Unesco so that it may  discharge effectively this responsibility.  The report also proposes that Unesco should  publish certain materials having direct value to  — 76 —   the teachers in the schools and institutions of  needy areas, and that it should encourage the re-  printing and translation of especially valuable  leaflets, pictorial materials, maps and other such  teaching aids.  The third proposal in the Programme is that  the Unesco staff.should encourage institutions and  organisations in the more fortunate countries to  grant fellowships for qualified teachers, In the  matter of fellowships, Unesco should serve in the  main as the administrative agent, but should only  make fellowship grants to a very limited extent.  The fourth item in the Programme provides  that Unesco should seek ways and means of (1) aid-  ing selected leaders in the devastated areas to go  abroad to study; (2) arranging for specialists from  the more fortunate countries, at the expressed  invitation of governments, to visit the war-torn  areas, for the purpose of conducting brief practical  seminars or workshops. Here againit is emphasiz-  ed that Unesco’s function should be primarily  that of arranging for and administering these pro-  jects. While Unesco should not be expected to  underwrite such projects in any large amounts, it  is regarded as desirable that it be in a position at  once to undertake the cost of pilot projects.  The fifth item in the Programme relates to  Youth Service Camps. Here it is proposed that  Unesco take the initiative in promoting and secur-  ing the equitable distribution of youth service  camps in the devastated areas for the summer of
1047. While Unesco should be in a position to faci-  litate the travel of participants, and to take a part  in advising on the educational aspects of youth  service camps, it should not bear the major part  of the expenses involved in the operation of such  camps.  The final recommendation in this programme  provides for the establishment of a limited reserve  fund which in certain respects can be used as a  revolving fund in case of emergency. It is anticip-  ated that economies may be effected and that  materials may be secured when they become avail-  able if Unesco is in a position to make purchases  promptly, with the expectation of reimbursement  from gifts. The Emergency Fund will also be a  means of enabling Unesco to provide facilities for  shipments of supplies to countries in need which  are unable to pay transportation costs.  The final section of the report consists of resolut-  ions adopted by the Commission. These resolut-  ions, with the exception of No. IX, relate to the  co-operation of Unesco with governmental and  voluntary organisations, the exchange of informa-  tion between donor countries and recipient coun-  tries, and the provisions for making available to  teachers, students and children in the war-devast-  ated countries, such educational facilities as the  more fortunately situated countries may be able  to provide.  Resolution IX formally approves the agree-  ment negotiated between Unesco and UNRRA  and the termination of this agreement when  UNRRA ceases to operate.  There is also appended to the report a state-  ment which indicates that certain resolutions have  been referred to the Sub-Commission on Educa-  tion, and to the Executive Board. Several resolut-  ions received from Sub-Commissions were approv-  ed. These resolutions are not re-stated here be-  cause, in the opinion of the Commission, they are  covered in the terms of this report and will appear  in their full form in the reports of the Sub-Com-  missions.  The PRESIDENT (translation): Does any de-  legate wish to comment on the report ?  May I add, your special attention is called to a  resolution that Unesco should take over and con-  tinue the UNRRA fellowship programme.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  The United Kingdom delegation wishes to sup-  port fully the proposals for reconstruction and  rehabilitation and to ask the Conference to ap-  prove the report as it stands. The United King-  dom delegation regards the work of reconstruction  and rehabilitation as the most important task  that lies before Unesco in 1947. We feel that this  task will appeal to the ordinary man, woman and  child in the countries of the world. And if by this  work we can win their support, Unesco will be  founded on a firm basis in future years. I should  like again to stress the urgency of the work, which  brooks no delay. Not only must the campaign  mentioned under Item No. 1 be started at once,  but much information from recipient countries  and donor countries, which is set out in the reso-  lutions, must be collected very early, and the gen-  erosity of Voluntary Organisations, which is now  ready to play its part, can be brought into action  at the earliest possible moment. So urgent do we  consider this work, that I hope it will not be out  of order to say that the Chairman of our Commis-  sion would like to meet the Secretariat and Dele-  gates before we disperse, in order that, as soon as  this is passed, some plans may be made for carry-  ing out the work immediately, and he asked me  to say he would like to meet them at 10.30 on  Tuesday morning, if that was possible. The United  Kingdom delegation would like to finish by thank-  ing the Chairman and the Rapporteur for their  admirable work in getting the report through so  uickly.  I should like to move now that the report be  adopted as it stands.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Does anybody  wish to speak?  The delegate of FRANCE (translation) : I  wish to draw your attention to a point of detail.  The French text contains several errors which  make it rather obscure. The French delegation  have prepared a text, and we feel it would be  better to use this text as a basis for our discus-  sion.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 think that  the simplest solution would be to ask the French  delegation to hand their text in to the Secreta-  riat. Does anybody wish to speak in the general  discussion on the Report which has just been  made to you?  I will put the document to the vote. I propose  we take it by Resolutions.  Resolution 1 : No observations? Adopted.  Resolution 2: No observations? Adopted.   Resolution 3 : No observations? Adopted.  - Resolution 4 : No observations? Adopted.  Resolution 5 : No observations? Adopted.  Resolution 6 : No observations? Adopted.  Resolution 7 : No observations? Adopted.  Resolution 8 : No observations? Adopted.  Resolution g : No observations? Adopted.  Resolution 10 : No observations? Adopted.  Resolution 10 being the last, the report as a  whole is adopted.  The Conference will meet again at 4.30 p. m.  The document for discussion will be that of the  Administrative and Financial Commission (Unesco  C/22) which will be distributed as early as possible  this afternoon.  ~  The speed with which our Report has been  approved does not mean that our Conference is  indifferent to the reports submitted to it. It is  a tribute to the good work done by the Commis-  sions in the preparation of these reports.  ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 7 December 1940 at 5.30 p. m.  President : Mr. A. A. RoBERTs (South Africa)  The PRESIDENT : The meeting is open. Be-  fore continuing with the Agenda, I have two  announcements to make. -  I. This morning the Commission on Procedure  met ta discuss Rule 33 which deals with the  official and working languages of the Conference.  Since there was no quorum, heads of delegations  entitled to vote are asked to send their represent-  atives on Monday morning at g.30 a. m., to  Room g-10, when the matter will be raised again.
2. The next Plenary Meeting of the General  Conference will be held on Monday at 10.30 a. m.,  in this room. Agenda : Report of the Programme  Commission.
13. CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS OF  THE COMMISSIONS (continuation)  C. — REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  AND FINANCIAL SUB - COMMISSION  ON THE ORGANISATION OF THE  SECRETARIAT (Annex 3)  The PRESIDENT : The next item on the  Agenda of this meeting is the examination of the  report of the Administrative and Financial Sub-  Commission on the organisation of the Secretar-  iat.
1 call upon the Rapporteur of the Sub-Com-  mission.  . The Rapporteur read his report.  The PRESIDENT : The report has been circu-  lated in French and in English; therefore I move  that no translation will be given unless a delegate  expressly requests it.  Does anyone second this motion?  The NORWEGIAN delegate :  motion.  I second the  The BELGIAN delegate: I also second it on  behalf of the Belgian Delegation.  The PRESIDENT: In view of the importance  of the report, I propose to put it to the vote  article by article.  Preamble : Adopted.  Point A 1: Adopied.  Point A 2 : Adopted.  Point B Principles, 1st paragraph : Adopted.  Point B 2 : Adopted.  Point B 3 : Adopted.  Point B 4 : Adopted.  Point C Directives : Adopted.  Point C 2 : Adopted.  Point C 3 : Adopted.  Point C 4 : Adopted.  Point C 5 : Adopted.  I put the document as a whole to the vote.  The document as a whole is adopted.  Does anyone wish to speak?  ecrire mg dns +7