PROGRAMME COMMISSION  ting education; indeed, nearly half the total budget  FIRST MEETING was devoted to education.  ; Regarding mass information, the quality of that  Held on Monday, 25 November 1946 at 10.30 a. m. information was of greater importance than the  Chairman : Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico). quantity.  Âs regards the speed with which projects should  be set on foot, a point raised by the United Sta-  tes delegate, the first year had certainly had to  be spent on preliminary study and it was desi-  rable that concrete results should be recorded dur-  ing 1947. To avoid budgetary competition be-  tween the different sections, each project would  be the subject of a discussion at which represen-  tatives of all sections, without exception, would  be present. An effort would also be made to re-  group all the projects. As the United States dele-  gate had said, unification must be based on the  principles of peace and security, which indeed was  the mission of Unesco, as set out in Article I of  the Constitution.  Dr. Martinez-Baez, who had been elected as  Chairman by the Nominations Committees, ex-  pressed his thanks and proposed as Vice-Chair-  men of the Programme Commission Sir Sarvepalli  RADHAKRISHNAN, delegate of India, and Professor  PHOTIADES, delegate of Greece. These two appoint-  ments were approved. .  At the proposal of the CHAIRMAN, the Commis-  sion next adopted the Provisional Agenda.  The CHAIRMAN then called upon the Execu-  tive Secretary of the Preparatory Commission,  Dr. HUx1EY, who presented the Draft Programme  prepared by the Preparatory Commission and  made the following observations :  The programme had been determined by the The Belgian delegate had feared that the budget  budget, the two questions being closely connected. provided too much for administration and not  The Budget Committee had suggested that the enough for concrete schemes. It should be observ-  Director-General should regard the first year's ed in this connection that such things as the  budget as provisional, in which case it would be granting of travelling and study scholarships were  possible to transfer funds, if necessary, from one not among the functions of the Organization, which  item to another; this would give the budget more in this matter should only co-ordinate such initia-  elasticity. Also unexpended credits could be car- tives on an international scale; it could only sup-  ried over to the following year. plement deficiencies or restore these enterprises  In order to co-ordinate the work of the Commis- where they were lacking. The delegates of the  sions, their Chairmen and Rapporteurs would meet United States and Brazil had referred to the  every day. useful part played by the National Commissions  Criticism passed on parts of the programme in this connection. Lo  showed the eed of a fo explanations, and Dr. It had been said that the projects should be  Huxley began by saying that it was a personal examined as a practical and urgent matter. A list  report and must not be included in the general of priorities had already been prepared and the  report on the programme. schemes could be classified in chapters, number-  The Yugoslav delegate had complained of a ing not more than a dozen,  tendency in the report to repudiate materialistic Certain parts of the programme, especially relief  philosophy. On the contrary, the programme con- and reconstruction, which were particularly urgent,  "templated the adoption of a general philosophy, were temporary; this section would later be con-  which would incorporate all systems and apply to verted into a ‘ construction ” chapter.  all domains. The aims of the programme would be The main function of the Organization, Dr. Hux-  as much practical as theoretical. As Sir Sarve- ley said, was to help, encourage and co-ordinate  palli Radhakrishnan had said, it was desirable governmental and intergovernmental effort (ex-  to reach a general agreement on spiritual values, change and training of staff, cultural and artistic  which was possible in the domains of truth and exchanges, establishment of libraries and informa-  love. tion centres. The scientific section of the programme  The programme had also to consider the needs provided, in regard to the regional, decentralizat-  of humanity in the fields of education, science and jon of work, for the creation of scientific institutes  culture. There was no question of creating a uni- in certain of the most backward parts of the globe.  form culture, as the YucosLAv delegate had feared, This should extend to some eight or ten areas.  a single culture for all the world. On the contrary, As regards study and research, they must advo-  they would defend cultures in danger of extinct- cate the adoption of identical methods by govern-  ion and would encourage new ones, preserving ~~ mental andinter-governmental bodies. At present,  the maximum diversity among them. Only in the plans for research work and for the study of re-  scientific sphere must uniformity be aimed at, sources were proposed for the tropical zone of  for in this field they had to obtain the approval the Amazon Basin: other plans covered work for  of the whole world. the development of the human mind, town plan-  In reply to a remark by the Australian dele- ning, artistic questions, establishment of inter-  gate concerning the place given to education in national laboratories, training of international  the budget, Dr. Huxley pointed out that all the staff, campaign against illiteracy in various coun-  chapters in the programme contained items affec- tries, the edition of translations which would allow   for an exchange between the intellectual output of  countries, etc. Finally, studies would be under-  taken in association with hygiene and health or-  ganizations, the Atomic Commission, the United  Nations Information Department, etc.  These were general suggestions submitted,for  the attention of the Commission and Sub-Com-  missions.  The UNITED STATES delegate thought that in  face of the many proposals before the Commission,  some criterion was needed to place them in the  order of their importance.  This criterion was logically to be sought in  the Constitution, according to Article I of which  Unesco proposed to establish peace and security  through international co-operation in education,  science and culture. ,  Peace was not merely the absence of war, but  the existence between peoples of concrete bonds  of confidence and co-operation.  It was by their capacity to forge such links that  they must judge the relative importance of the  proposals submitted to the Programme Commis-  sion.  Unesco, besides stimulating and aiding existing  - organizations, had a field of action of its own,  in which it must apply its own methods to remedy  the spiritual disintegration of the world and found  an International Republic of Letters, the symbol  of a sane world.  As a world organization, Unesco must appeal to  the experts of all countries specializing in a given  field, so as to draw up a precise plan of action in  that field; it must mobilize all the world resources  at its command, in order that this programme  might work out in the interests of peace.  As examples, the United States delegate sub-  mitted a number of concrete proposals :
1) a world enquiry into the education of youth,  with suggestions for improvements;
2) a similar enquiry concerning mass informa-  tion;
3) an attempt to arrive at a common doctrine  for all the different creeds and ideologies;
4) to combat nationalism, although encourag-  ing the development of each country in confor-  mity with its characteristics;
5) to remedy men’s incapacity to interpret re-  cent scientific discoveries in terms of peace and  progress.  He proposed that a Co-ordinating Committee  should classify Unesco’s tasks in accordance with  the above criterion.  Lastly, he called upon the Commission to draw  up a short list of plans which were of crucial  importance, with a general bearing and of ob-  vious advantage for all. But these plans must cons-  titute a frank and bold answer by Unesco to ques-  tions asked of it, which were questions confron-  ting the whole world.  The delegate for INDIA apologized for not being  able to accept the Vice-Chairmanship as hehad to  leave Paris on 5 December.  He regretted the subordinate and reduced place  given to philosophy in the Preparatory Commis-  sion’s programme. Present-day education did not  teach how to distinguish the true from the false.  The world knew how to read, like Don Quixote,  and, like Don Quixote, it was mad, Only philo-  sophy could furnish nations with a common con-  ception of*the world and life.  Philosophy was not a science and it was wrong  to classify it among the humanistic sciences. It  was a form of creative thought, individual and  isolated, and it alone could give wings to culture  and to co-operation between minds,  Accordingly he proposed that the Co-ordination  Committee should adopt the following classifica-  tion : education, sciences, culture, the last inclu-  ding philosophy on the one hand, and the arts  on the other.  The delegate for CHINA hoped that the Com-  mission would be content with a few immedia-  tely practicable projects and would execute them  on a regional scale and with due regard for thé  separate needs of each region. In the realisation  of these schemes appeal should be made to educ-  ationists in every country.  He therefore proposed :
1) the setting-up of Unesco regional centres;
2) the framing of an international charter for  teachers;
3) the strengthening of the scientific and cultur-  al links between the Far East and the West and,  concretely, the establishment of a Centre of Ma-  thematics in China and the translation of Far  Eastern classics little known in the West.  Lastly, he would like to see Unesco concern  itself with the development of music and singing,  as one of the most effective means of bringing  people together. '  SECOND MEETING  Held on Monday, 25 November, 1946 at 3. p.m.  Chairman : Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico).  The CHAIRMAN called upon Dr. R. C. MiLis,  head of the Australian delegation.  Dr. MiL1s began by emphasizing the basic im-  portance of. the work of the Commission and its  Sub-Commissions. Upon the work of the coming  year and its success, depended not only the amount -  of help that Unesco would receive from its Mem-  ber States, but also the attitude of those United  Nations which had not yet joined Unesco.  He thought that the Preparatory Commission’s  report was an excellent basis of work, but it was  only a basis and he hoped that the report which  the Commission would submit to the Conference  would be in many respects a very different docu-  ment from the first one and that in particular  it would only run to some fifteen pages. This re-  port must consist of a definite list of urgent and  important projects and activities, accompanied  now and then by a short description, but on no  account by a philosophic justification. The Aus-  tralian delegation urged the exclusion from the  programme of all theoretical discussions and phil-  osophical generalizations likely to lead to ideolo-  gical dispute.  Dr. Mills thought that the reports to be pre-  pared by the Commission would also decide the  general lines of the organisation of the Secreta-  riat and the establishment of the budget. That  — 126 —