SUB-COMMISSION  ON LIBRARIES AND MUSEUMS  FIRST MEETING  Held on Thursday, 28 November 1046 at 10.15 a. m.  Professor CIBULKA (Czechoslovakia), proposed  by M. Svend DAHL (Denmark), and supported by  the United Kingdom delegation, was unanimously  elected Chairman.  Mr. Carl H. MiLAM (United States), proposed by  the Netherlands delegation, was unanimously elec-  ted Vice-Chairman.  M. Julien CAIN (France) was appointed Rap-  porteur. -  The Agenda was adopted.  On the Chairman's proposal, the following pro-  gramme was adopted :  Meeting of 28 November — morning; Ge-  neral discussion.  — afternoon; Libraries, archives.  ‘Meeting of 29 November — morning; Mu-  seums.  — afternoon; General Report.  Owing to the extent and variety of business  which the Sub-Commission would have to handle,  it was decided that, although official sub-com-  mittees would not be set up within the Sub-Com-  mission, members would have the opportunity of  holding separate talks during the discussions on  special items (such as archives or museums), in  order to speed up the Sub-Commission’s work,  Dr. Wirson (Deputy Executive Secretary) sub-  mitted the programme.  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat) gave details of the  preparatory work undertaken by the Secretariat  and introduced his collaborators,  Mr. À. A. RorrrTs (Union of South Africa)  stressed the necessity of developing a spirit of  collaboration and mutual assistance among libra-  ries in different countries. He put forward the  following points :  I. The possibility of making a world cata-  logue of out-of-print books:
2. The collection of information about dealers  in out-of-print second-hand books;
3- À special campaign in order to induce in-  dividuals as well as organizations to collect such  material as is unused and unwanted.  M. M. BARATA (Brazil) emphasized the neces-  sity of studying plans according to their urgency  and also according to what was feasible.  Mr. Svend DaHL (Denmark) thought that the  section on archives deserved more space than had  been given to it in the report. He stressed the  importance of keeping in close touch with all inter-  national library and documentation associations,  Further, the questions on the programme should  be classified according to what was most urgent  and practicable. It seemed particularly desirable  to envisage the creation of a clearing house and  of an international bank for publications in order  to facilitate purchases of books and periodicals  in all parts of the world. Such an organization  could also be used for museum purchases.  Another important question was that of the re-  printing of out-of-print works. The international  clearing house might encourage the reproduc-  tion, by photographic or other processes, of rare  works lacking in collections. He asked for the ex-  planation of certain details in the budget.  Mr. CARTER observed, in respect of points raised  by the preceding speakers, that Unesco’s relations  with international organizations were provided for  in its Constitution: Round Table Conferences were  contemplated for the purpose.  With regard to budgetary matters, the Meeting  examined a proposal empowering the Director-Ge-  neral to modify subsidiary items in the budget, if  necessary.  Mr. Hu TIENSHE (China) pointed out the desir-  ability of taking an inventory of the losses suffered  by libraries and museums all over the world since  the outbreak of war. Unesco could base the assist-  ance it granted to the various countries on such  an inventory. The creation of an International  Library, on the same lines as that established at  Geneva in 1933, would be particularly useful to  China and to several other countries in the Far  East.  Mr. Carl H. MiLAM (United States) said that  the International Libraries Federation was most  anxious to give its support to the plans under  consideration by Unesco, He considered that li-  braries should not become static institutions; they  sliould be an effective medium for training and  educating the masses. The Secretariat should not  be bound by unduly restrictive rules, and should  merely receive general recommendations giving it  a free hand to deal with questions of detail.  M. Julien CAIN (France) was satisfied that the  work of the Sub-Commission revealed certain guid-  ing principles. These principles could be sum-  marized as follows :
1) To come to the assistance of war-stricken  libraries in various countries.  To reconstitute collections by resuming the  interchange of books — to establish an In-  ternational Clearing-House for, Publications.
2) To create an International Bibliographical  Centre.
3) To disseminate, through libraries, the ideals  and principles of Unesco.  This task should be accomplished in close co-  operation with existing international associations  (F. I. À. B. and F. I. D.). It was also necessary  to collect documentation concerning museums and  the arts; this process would continue the work  done in the past by the International Museums  Office.  — 162 —   Mr. R. H. Hin (United Kingdom) supported  the United States delegation’s proposal that the  Secretariat should be given some latitude.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Thursday, 28 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : M, CIBULKA (Czechoslovakia).  The Sub-Commission resumed the discussion of  ITEM I : POPULAR LIBRARIES (Green Book, En-  glish text, pages 72 and 73; French text, pages 80,
81 and 82).  It also examined the proposal contained in do-  cument Unesco/Prep. Com./L & M/12 :  II a. — ORGANIZATION OF CONFERENCE  ON POPULAR LIBRARIES.  M. CAIN (France) stated that this Conference  could be organized by the Secretariat, and that  it would be advisable to send to every country  a questionnaire which should constitute the ne-  cessary documentation for the Conference.  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat) assured him that  Unesco would take an active part in calling this  Conference, and that a questionnaire would be  drawn up as rapidly as possible, with the assis-  tance of experts.  The UNITED STATES delegate emphasized the  necessity of inviting educationists and social scien-  tists to this Conference.  The organization of the Conference was appro-  ved, subject to the suggestions made above.  Item 2 : BARRIERS TO THE FREE CIRCULATION OF  PUBLICATIONS (Green book, English text, page 74;  French text, pages 82 and 83).  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat), in submitting this  ‘question for discussion, pointed out that currency  restrictions came under item 4 : International  Clearing House, and that the question of copy-  right would be discussed by the Mass Communi-  cation Sub-Commission. »  The proposal contained in the Green book was  accepted.  A number of proposals were made by various  delegates.  The BRAZILIAN delegate proposed the following  recommendation : that it would be advisable to  exfimine the question of lowering customs duties  and postage and railway rates.  The UNITED STATES delegate stated that he was  in favour of the recommendation, which he in-  terpreted in a very wide sense.  M. CAIN (France) said that the French delega-  tion associated itself with the recommendation,  and wished to know if it was proposed to set up  a special body to examine the question.  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat) replied that this pos-  sibility had been taken into consideration, as well  as the holding of mixed Conference of Experts,  Dr. ZUCKERMAN (Secretariat) suggested that the  discussion should be resumed when the Committee  was examining the question of the Bank for pu-  blications.  Item 2 was approved, subject to the suggest-  ions made above. -  ITEM 3 : DOCUMENTARY REPRODUCTION (Green  book, English text, pages 74 and 75; French text,  pages 83 and 84).  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat), after stressing the im-  portance of the question, first proposed that the  services of an expert in methods of reproduction  should be secured; and, secondly, that a small com-  mittee of experts should be convened, as soon as  possible, for the purpose of laying down certain  standards to which machines for reproduction  should be required to conform.  These proposals were accepted.  The following suggestions were made by dele-  gates :  M. CAIN (France), after referring to the destruc-  tion of precious books during the war, proposed,  on behalf of the French delegation, that lists of  unique works and manuscripts, which it was essen-  tial to safeguard, should be prepared; and that  appropriate measures should be taken for this  purpose. He also proposed to consult legal experts  on the questions of copyright in connection with  microfilms.  M. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded M. Cain’s pro-  posal.  The NETHERLANDS delegate suggested that not  only unique works, but also library catalogues  should be reproduced by means of microfilm.  Mr. CARTER (Secretariat) was entirely in agree-  ment with M. Cain, and said that the question  would be examined by the Secretariat.  Item 3 was adopted, subject to the above sug-  gestions.  ITEM 4 : INTERNATIONAL CLEARING HOUSE FOR  PUBLICATIONS : REHABILITATION (Green book, En-  glish text, pages 75-77; French text, pages 84-86.)  Dr. ZUCKERMAN (Secretariat) submitted these  documents and emphasized that the Libraries and  Museums Section was working in close contact  with the Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Sec-  tion on this subject. He also drew delegates’  attention to item 5 (d) of document Unesco/Prep.  Com./L. & M./13, and asked them to do all in  their power to ensure that the lists in question  should reach the Secretariat before 1 April, 1047.  He also stressed the question of the assignment  of books looted by the Nazis; and that of an Inter-  national Bank for publications.  Various suggestions were then made by dele-  gates :  The UNITED STATES delegate proposed :  (a) That Unesco should invite all devastated  countries to submit reports describing their  needs.  (b) That the Executive Board should pre-  pare a supplementary budget, providing for  direct aid to devastated countries, on the under-  standing that Governments would not be com-  pelled to contribute to this budget.  (c) That Unesco should encourage the grant-  ing of travelling scholarships to librarians.  Dr. ZUCKERMAN (Secretariat) pointed out that  — 163 —