SUMMARY REPORTS OF THE  GENERAL COMMITTEE  , FIRST MEETING  Thursday, 21 November, 1946  The meeting opened at 9.45 a. m. with M. Léon  BLUM (France) as Chairman. :  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : Brazil, China, France, Mexico, Norway, Phi-  lippines, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Union of South  Africa, United Kingdom, United States of Ame-  rica.  I. INTERPRETATIONS.  The General Committee decided that, 1n order  to shorten discussion of Item 8, the communicat-  ions submitted by the various delegations on the  activities of the Preparatory Commission should  not be interpreted orally during the meeting except  at the express wish of a delegate.  The communications will be published in the  Journal of. the Conference in the two official lan-  guages of Unesco. To save time, it would be desir-  able for delegates to hand the translation of their  communications to the Secretariat in advance.  The suggestion by the delegate of SOUTH AFRICA  that the interpreters should give a very brief sum-  mary of the communications was rejected, because  it was feared that the argument of the speakers  might be distorted.
2. OBSERVERS  M. THOMAS (Secretariat) stated that the ques-  tion was concerned with the invitations to be sent  to certain governments who wished to send observ-  ers to the Conference.  (a) Sweden and Iceland having been accepted  the previous day as members of the United Na-  tions, were automatically admitted to Unesco.  (Adopted.)  (b) Switzerland had expressed a wish to join  Unesco. Pending her official admission, she  could be invited to send an observer. { Adopted.)  (c) As far as Republican Spain was concerned,  the General Committee decided to send a mes-  sage to the Spanish Republican Government in  Paris to the effect that the Conference regretted  that for legal reasons it could not invite the  Spanish Republican Government to nominate  an official observer; it was further cordially sug-  gested that representatives might be present at  the meetings of the Conference, which were in  fact public. (Adopted. )  The delegates of FRANCE, MEXICO and POLAND  emphasized that, if the question came up for gene-  ral discussion in plenary session, they would vote  for the admission of observers from the Spanish  Republic.
3. ALTERATION TO THE AGENDA,  It was decided that Item 9 would be considered  by the Conference before Item 8,  The meeting rose at 10.25 a. m.  SECOND MEETING  Friday, 22 November, 1946.  The meeting opened at 9.35 a. m., under the  chairmanship of M. Léon BLUM (France).  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : Brazil, China, Norway, Philippines, Poland,  Saudi Arabia, Union of South Africa, United King-  dom, United States of America.
1. COMPOSITION OF SUB-COMMISSIONS.  After a discussion whether the Chairmen of the  Sub-Commissions should be appointed by the No-  minations Committee or by the Commissions, it  was decided that the two commissions to be sub-  divided into sub-commissions (the Programme  Commission and the Administrative and Legal  Commission) should elect the Chairmen of their  sub-commissions, who should be techniçians.
2, PROCEDURE OF THE CONFERENCE,  The Committee on Procedure had not finished  its work. It would meet again that day and pre-  sent its report to the plenary meeting the next  morning.
3. ELECTION OF THE MEMBERS  OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD.  The method of electing members to the Execu-  tive Board was discussed. The Executive Secre-  tary proposed that each country should appoint a  deputy delegate, chosen for his technical qualifi-  cations, to sit on the Executive Board. He sugges-  ted that Article V, A, 1 of the Constitution should  be interpreted in such a way as to extend the term  ‘‘ delegates ’’ to cover deputy delegates.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES observed  that this suggestion should be referred to the Com-  mittee on Procedure, which would decide whether  _ this interpretation was legally admissible.  This proposal was adopted.  Once the form of procedure had been established  by the Committee on Procedure, it would be sub-  mitted to the General Conference for approval and  only then would the Nominations Committee be  able to meet for the nomination of members to the  Executive Board under the terms of the procedure  finally adopted.
4. INTERPRETATIONS.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM suggested  that speakers scheduled to take part in the discus-  sion of Ftem 8 should give a summary of their  speeches to the interpreters so that a brief trans-  lation might be given after each speech.  The CHAIRMAN agreed tp make the experiment,  remarking, however, that the proposal came rather  late, as discussion on Item 8 was almost finished.  The meeting rose at 10.25 a. m.