\  — Study of the question of the establishment of  International laboratories and observatories, This  would involve obtaining supplementary funds from  the Economic and Social Council of the United  Nations, which would be administered by Unesco,  the direction of the scientific work being left to  the International Scientific Union;  — Travelling scholarships for scientists;  — The establishment of International Advisory  Councils for mechanical, medical and agricultural  science, :  In his statement, Dr. Needham did not refer to  a number of other matters, which would be consid-  ered in detail by the Sub-Commission during the  general discussion. Finally, he recalled the part  taken by his colleagues in developing international  scientific co-operation and stressed the importance  of this work.  On the proposal of the CHAIRMAN, the Sub-Com-  mission adopted unanimously and without discus-  sion a draft resolution by Dr. Needham to the  following effect :  ‘ The Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences  approves the formal draft agreement between  Unesco and the International Council of Scien-  tific Unions and recommends that the Legal and  External Relations Sub-Commission do like-  wise, ”  The Sub-Commission then considered Items V  and VI of the Agenda, namely : General Discus-  sion on the Reports Submitted, and Presentation  of New Proposals by Delegates. ’  The CHINESE delegate approved the division of  the projects into three categories : A, B and C,  but did not understand why reparations in the  form of scientific material should come under  Group C. In his opinion, the recovery of scienti-  fic material-was inseparable from the scientific re-  construction of war-devastated countries and was  consequently particularly urgent. He asked that  the reparations question be transferred from Ca-  tegory C to Category A.  Moreover, he strongly recommended the esta-  blishment of regional offices for international scien-  tific co-operation, of clearing houses for scientific  publications on the principle of decentralization,  and of centres for applied mathematics, and urged  the importance of facilitating travel for scientists.  The UNITED STATES delegate made a statement  on the great contribution science could make to  world peace. The following should be considered  specially : :
1. The great influence exerted in their own  countries by scientists who, thanks to many  years of co-operation, had achieved great mut-  ual understanding and respect and a strong  idea of international co-operation.
2. The general importance of science in the  development of a prosperous world community  through the ever-increasing part played by com-  munications, radio, etc.  Referring to the budget, the UNITED STATES  delegate considered that, after 1947, the Science  Section would require a larger budget and one  more in keeping with the essential work of this  branch of Unesco,  He remarked finally that the proposals and ob-  servations of his delegation had been distributed  to delegates in the form of a memorandum.  The representative of the Food and Agricultu-  re Organization of the United Nations assured  the Sub-Commission of the close co-operation of  his organization with Unesco by means of perman-  ent committees or committees meeting periodic-  ally.  The CHAIRMAN emphasized the importance of  this matter, which in any case was on the Agenda  of the Sub-Commission.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1046 at 10.45. a. m.  Chairman : Professor BHABHA (India).  Items V and VI of the Agenda (projects sub-  mitted by the Secretariat and proposals from de-  legates) (continuation).  Speaking on behalf of the INDIAN delegation,  the CHAIRMAN commented on the Indian propo-  sal, which was to be roneoed and distributed dur-  ing the morning; it consisted of two parts:  (a) as far as they were research problems, ques-  tions of nutrition and disease were within Unesco’s  competence. India was unfortunately still a fer-  tile field for research : malnutrition and various  diseases, which today were unknown or almost  unknown in other countries, were widespread. It  was therefore to be hoped that team's of research-  workers would be sent to India, where they would  find laboratories and research institutes at their  disposal. But the Government of India could not  grant them any financial assistance, and Unesco  should therefore undertake the responsibility.  (b) Fish, which was much used in India as an  article of diet, provided enough proteins to feed  the enormous riparian populations of the Indian  Ocean. The Indian delegation therefore proposed  the creation of an Institute of Oceanography and  Fisheries for the Indian Ocean.  The delegate of MEXICO approved in principle  the document submitted by the Preparatory Com-  mission, but considered that one project was di-  rectly opposed to the spirit of Unesco : namely,  that scientific apparatus should be included among -  reparations (WB/E, p. 12, À, 1). This was likely  ‘ to disorganize existing laboratories. This project  was contrary to the aims of Unesco outlined else-  where (GB/E, p. 100, last paragraph; id. page 02,  lines 15-21, and third paragraph : WB/E, p. 17,  lines 18-26; id. page 7 last seven lines).  He therefore moved a resolution to extend the  terms of lines 11-14 of WB/E, p. 17 as follows :  “Unesco should invite all countries needing equip-  ment to participate in some sort of rationing  scheme which would include the former Axis coun-  tries and which would secure an equitable dis trib-  ution of apparatus according to the needs and  possibilities of each country.  The CHAIRMAN specified that reparations did  not in the least imply the dismantling of existing  laboratories, but only furnishing articles from  existing stocks or surplus production. He proposed  that, to avoid ambiguity, the Secretariat should  redraft the proposals.  — 168 —  Le  A R E   T H E Y   ad   te  na   Se   À   The delegate of BRAZIL, commenting on the re-  solution submitted by his delegation (Unesco/  Prep. Com./Nat. Sci. Com./19) stated that Unesco  could do far more in the scientific field thanin any  other. In order to take effective action in favour  of peace, projects of a.concrete nature must have  priority over others.  The Hylean Amazon project, for instance, was  not of regional, but of international importance;  it might lead to the creation of a centre of active  production in the near future. The Brazilian dele-  gate supported the proposals recommending  research groups working on the spot; offices to sup-  ply information to backward countries; and labo-  ratories for the preparation of chemically pure  substances and artificial radio-active elements.  The delegate of GREECE signified his full approv-  al of Dr. Needham’s speech on the programme  of the Natural Sciences Section. He thought that  the different proposals in Chapter V gave a very  clear idea of the tasks devolving upon Unesco,  and he approved their principle.  He added that he was entirely in agreement  with the delegate of China on the question of repa-  rations and the rehabilitation of scientific labora-  tories. In the devastated countries, there was a  great dearth of material in laboratories and schools  _   of medicine. He hoped that the Sub-Commission  would give immediate priority to the question of  reparations in the form of scientific equipment.  The CzZECHOSLOVAK delegate drew attention to  rationalization in the field of scientific publications  and made the follow ing proposal :  “ That Unesco, in collaboration with the In-  ternational Council of Scientific Unions, should  take up the question of reviving scientific jour-  nals whose publication had been suspended, as  well as the establishment of new journals, and  that this question should be examined from the  viewpoint of the rationalization of publications  and distribution in different countries. ”’  The CZECHOSLOVAK delegate pointed out that  this question had been included in Document 13,  but he thought that, at least in part, it should be  studied as a matter of urgency.  The delegate of BRAZIL observed that the ques-  tion of the Amazon basin should interest not only  Brazil and South American, but also all countries  with geographical conditions similar to those of  America, the countries to which these territories  belonged and the United States.  Turning to the question of the limited scientific  development of the so-called ‘“ dark " zones, the  Brazilian delegate argued at length on the need  for ascertaining the reasons for this defective deve-  lopment and for trying to find the remedy. For  this, recourse must be had to scientists in those  areas, from whom the necessary information must  be obtained by means of questionnaires. He  thought the question was of some urgency.  The delegate of FRANCE agreed with the gener-  al directives in the Secretariat's document, but  formulated the following observations :  (a) He thought there was a contradiction in  placing the question of rehabilitation in Cate-  gory A, and the question of reparations in Ca-  tegory C. |  (b) He stressed the importance of sécuring  universal application of the metric system.  (c) It was necessary to build up stocks of pure  chemical products to be made available to all  countries,  (d) He disagreed with the idea of an auxi-  liary international language for sciences.  The French delegate concluded by declaring  that the effectiveness of Unesco depended upon  how it would utilize and influence existing inter-  national organizations.  The Sub-Commission then examined the direc-  tives proposed by the Secretariat, item by item.  Item I.  Dr. NEEDHAM re-read the statement by the Chi-  nese delegation, which concluded with a proposed  amendment of Item 1. He also mentioned that  the term ‘‘ reparations ”’ did not mean the “ dis-  mantling of existing laboratories’, but only “ com-  pensation in the form of deliveries of manufactur-  ed products ‘’.  A general discussion arose on this matter,  at the end of which the Sub-Commission agreed  to transfer the question of reparations from Cate-  gory C to Category A. The Sub-Commission unan-  imously adopted the addition of a paragraph 2 to  [tem 1 :  ‘‘ And to recommend to the United Nations the  adoption of a policy of reparations in the form  of recently manufactured scientific materials or  in the form of commercial or government stocks  accumulated by the former Axis countries, for  the scientific rehabilitation of war-devastated  countries ”’.  “ On the proposal of the UNITED KrINopom dele-  gate, it was decided to add to the document, in  the'form of an instruction, the following words :  ‘“ that the Secretariat inform the Executive Board  of the adoption of this resolution ”.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Professor BHABHA (India).  [lem I.  The discussion was resumed on Item I, page 3  of Document 13.  The Sub-Commission adopied in the form of an  Annex, a resolution proposed by the UNITED  STATES delegate, stipulating that, in the transfer  of scientific equipment for the rehabilitation of  devastated areas, all precautions should be taken  not to impair normal scientific activity in the  country whence this equipment came.  The Sub-Commission adopted an amendment by  the delegate of GREECE providing that use should  be made not only of stocks in shops and factories,  but also, in some cases, of government stocks.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA having asked for  particulars concerning the appropriation in the  supplementary budget of 100,000 dollars for scien-  tific reconstruction, Dr. NEEDHAM explained that  nothing had yet been decided on this matter, and  that in any case the supplementary budget had  not been voted. The CHAIRMAN thought that exa-  mination of this question could be deferred.  — 169 —