~  present : Brazil, China, Mexico; Norway, Philip-  pines, Poland, Union of South Africa, United  Kingdom. E  I. ADMITTANCE OF HAITI.  The CHAIRMAN announced that the Republic  of Haiti had deposited its instruments of accep-  tance. It was therefore a member of Unesco, and  had the right to vote.
2. GIFTS.  »  The CHAIRMAN announced that the Americ-  an Society of Chemistry had offered a gift of
25,000 dollars to Unesco to enable foreign chem-  ical engineers to come and study in the United  States for a period of two years. This offer was  made under certain conditions which would have  to be studied by the Board.  Dr. HUXxLEY announced that the Oxford Uni-  versity Institute of Education and an American  AssociationjofjTeachers hadfalso made gifts to  Unesco. ff
3. COMPOSITION OF THE CO-ORDINATING  COMMITTEE,  The provisional composition of the Co-ordinat-  ing Committee was as follows :  I. The Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the six  sub-commissions of the Programme Commission :  Sub- :  Commission Chairmen Rapporteurs  Education . H. E. SHAFIK Miss Margaret  GHORBALBEY READ (United  (Egypt). Kingdom).  Natural Scien-  ces. . . . . Prof. H.J.Bua- M. Pierre Au-  BHA (India). GER (France).  Social Sciences. Mme ALZONA Mr. Charles  (Philippines). | JoHNsoN(Uni-  ted States).  Libraries and  Museums . Prof. CrBULKA Mr. Carl H. Mr-  (Czechoslova- ram (United  kia). States).  Creative Arts . M. REININK M. Jean Cas-  (Netherlands). sou (France).  Mass Communi-  cation. . M. J. Kuyrers - Mr. J. GRIER-  (Belgium). SON (United  Kingdom).  In the case of sub-commissions which had not  yet elected their officers, the names of the Chair-  men and Rapporteurs given above were for  information only. The General Committee propo-  sed them provisionally, but each sub-commission  had, of course, the right to choose its Chairman  and Rapporteur as it wished.
2. The Chairman and the Rapporteur of the  Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Commission;  M. DRZEWIESKI (Poland) and Mr. BRUMBAUGH  (United States).
3. The Chairman of the Budget Sub-Committee :  Dr. C. E. BEeBY (New Zealand).
4. To ensure a better geographical representa-  merci  tion on the Co-ordinating Committee, the dele-  gates of Brazil (M. MONIZ DE ARAGAO), China  (Mr. CHEN YUAN), and Norway (M. SOMMER-  FELT).
5. Dr. HUxLEY and a representative of the  Secretariat of Unesco : in other words a total of  twenty people, who would meet that day at  I p. m. for lunch in Room No 8.  The General Committee reserved the right to  add new members to the Co-ordinating Com-  mittee, in order to ensure a better geographical  representation or for some other reason.
4. REPRESENTATION OF FRANCE  ON THE COMMITTEE.  On the Mexican delegate’s proposal, it was  decided that, if M. Léon Blum were absent, he  would be replaced on the Committee (but not  as Chairman) by a French representative,  The meeting rose at 10.45 a. m.  SIXTH MEETING  Wednesday, 27 November, 1946.  The Meeting opened at 9. 40 a. m. with M.  SEBASTIAN (Philippines ) in the Chair.  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : Brazil, China, France, Mexico, Norway,  Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United  States.  I. NOMINATIONS TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE  AND LEGAL COMMISSION.  M. SoMMERFELT was Chairman of the Commis-  sion.  M. THOMAS (Secretariat) made the following  proposals :  Vice-Chairman : Mr. ExseNHOWER (United States).  Chairman of the Administrative and Financial  Sub-Commission : Mr. BEEBY (New: Zealand).  Chairman of the Legal and External Relations  Sub-Commission : M. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela).  Adopted.  It was decided that M. MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Bra-  zil) would open the meeting of the Administrative  and Legal Commission.
2. QUESTION OF COPYRIGHT.  As the Creative Arts Sub-Commission had ex-  pressed its wish to take part in the discussion on  copyright when it came before the Mass Commu-  nications Commission, it was decided to forward  this wish to the Co-ordinating Committee, which  would decide how to give effect to it.
3. SUB-DIVISION OF SUB-COMMISSIONS.  The General Committee strongly recommended  that sub-divisions of Sub-Commissions be avoided,  since they were prejudicial to the general interest  and tended to exclude representation of countries  with small delegations  It decided that each Sub-Commission would  II7 --   make a single report to the Commission it belonged  to, and that in turn the Commission would make  one report to the General Conference. The Confe-  rence would not examine the Sub-Commissions’ re-  ports.
4. CO-ORDINATING COMMITTEE.  As M. AUGER (France) and M. CAssou (France)  could not attend the meetings of the Co-ordinat-  ing Committee, M. Auger asked if they could be  replaced by another representative of France. Per-  mission was granted.  Further, M. Moniz DE ARAGAO as authorized  to be replaced if necessary by M. CARNEIRO.
5. GIFT.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES read a letter  from the Chairman of the Board of the Encyclo-  paedia Britannica offering to make Unesco a gift  of 300 copies of the Encyclopaedia for distribution  to libraries in devastated countries.  It was decided to inform the Reconstruction  and Rehabilitation Commission of this offer, which  would then forward it to the Executive Board for  the necessary action. On the proposal of the dele-  gate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA, Dr. WiLsoN  was requested to get in touch with the press  in order to publicize gifts made to Unesco.  The meeting vose al 10.15 a. wm.  SEVENTH MEETING  Thursday, 28 November, 1946.  The Meeting opened at 9.40 a. m. with Sir John  MAUD (United Kingdom) in the Chair,  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent :  Brazil, China, France, Mexico, Norway, Phi-  lippines, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Union of South  Africa, United States of America.  I. CO-ORDINATING COMMITTEE.  The MEXICAN delegate reported briefly on the  work of the Co-ordinating Committee. The Com-  mittee was very pleased with the work of the Com-  missions and Sub-Commissions. It transmitted to  them the General Committee’s wish that Sub-Com-  missions should not sub-divide and that there  should be only one report made by each Sub-  Commissions to the Commission it belonged to,  and only one report by the Commission to the  General Conference. :  The delegate of MEXICO said that the Co-ordi-  nating Committee had emphasized the importance  of co-ordination between the work of the Direc-  tor-General of Unesco and that of the Direc-  tors-General of other Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations. He thought that the General Com-  mittee might submit a resolution to this effect to  the General Conference.  The UNITED STATES delegate thought that part  of the Co-ordinating Committee's role was to make  sure that there was no overlapping of Commissions,  and the delegate of CHINA thought that the best  way cf avoiding this was for Commissions to send  their reports direct to the Co-ordinating Committee  The CHAIRMAN said that the General Committee  quite agreed. He thought it might be well for re-  presentatives of the Commissions to meet among  themselves to study questions of common interest,  but that large meetings, which would be difficult  to handle, should be avoided.  The NorwEGIAN delegate stressed the import-  ance of liaison between the Programme Commis-  sion and the Administrative and Financial Sub-  Commission, the latter being unable to frame the  budget until it knew what projects the Programme  Commission had finally decided upon.
2. BROADCASTS.  The delegate of POLAND asked the General Com-  mittee for permission to make two broadcasts, one  on the pamphlet entitled ” The Teacher and the  Post-War Child in War-devastated Countries ”, the  other on the work of the Reconstruction and Re-  habilitation Commission.  The CHAIRMAN thought there was every advan-  tage in this, provided it was pointed out that the  reports examined by the Commissions had not yet  been approved by the General Conference.
3. THE CONFERENCE JOURNAL.  The UNITED STATES, MEXICAN and POLISH de-  legates having referred to frequent mistakes in the  Journal, the General Committee recommended the  editors, while continuing to publish the records  of meetings speedily, to see that they were draft-  ed with more care. It would also be a good thing  to emphasize the provisional nature of these re-  cards, in order that foreign journalists might not  attach undue importance to them.  The General Committee suggested that the Se-  cretariat, in revising the records, should consult  the Chairmen of Commissions.  The meeting rose at 10,15 a. m.  EIGHTH MEETING  Friday, 29 November, 1940.  The Meeting opened at 9.40 a.m. with Mr.  ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) in the Chair.  The delegates of the following countries were  present : Brazil, China, France, Mexico, Norway,  Philippines, Poland, Saudi Arabia, United King-  dom.  The CHAIRMAN drew the Committee's attention  to Sections 2 and 4 of the Journal, which contain-  ed the decisions taken by the Committee the day  before and the action taken thereon by the Secre-  tariat.  He announced that, according to information  received from the Foreign Office, the Instrument  of Acceptance of Ecuador had been sent to Lon-  don to be deposited with the Foreign Office. He  proposed therefore that the delegation of Ecua-  dor should be granted the right to vote, even be-  fore the arrival of these documents, as had been  decided in the cases of Peru and Venezuela.  The motion was carried.  The meeting rose at 9.45 a. m.  — TIR —