SECOND PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday, 20 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  President : Mr, D: R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Later ; M. Léon Brum, President of the Conference  The PRESIDENT : I am'sure that I am ex-  pressing the wish of all delegates present in sug-  gesting that in future we should assemble in this  hall a few minutes before 3 o’clock. That will  enable us to start at 3 promptly.
6. ELECTION OF PRESIDENT  I have the honour to ask the French delegate  to put forward a name for the Presidency,  M. René CASSIN (France) (translation) : The  French delegation proposes the name df M. Léon  Blum, first delegate of France, for the Presidency.  The PRESIDENT : The Conference then pro-  poses the selection of M. Léon Blum as President.  Do all delegates agree?  The proposal was unanimously approved.  The PRESIDENT : Fellow-delegates, I have  great pleasure in handing over this important  office to a man who has endeared himself to artists,  scientists and thinkers all over the world, For me,  the greatest personal honour I enjoyed as a mem-  ber of the British Parliament was to greet M. Blum  this ‘year in London and.now a greater honour  is to shake him by the hand as my successor.  M. Blum then took the Chaïr.  M. Léon BLUM (President) (translation J  I should like in the first place as a member of the  French delegation to thank you for the honour  you have done to that delegation in electing me  your President. I am very appreciative of that  honour and grateful for it. I should like to express  to my predecessor in this Chair my thanks for  the very cordial welcome that I have received  from the Head of the United Kingdom delegation.  I have no need to assure you that I shall do every-  thing that lies in my power to discharge scrupu-  lously the mandate which you have done me the  honour to confer upon me, in order that this  first General Conference of Unesco may fulfil -  the high hopes placed in it.  Unesco made a modest debut, but already it  -occupies a large place in world opinion, and that  place becomes of increasing importance each  day. Two kinds of achievement are expected  from Unesco; achievements by no means incom-  patible. On the one hand, precise, methodical  and progressive enterprises in a number of essen-  tial technical spheres; on the other hand, ageneral  combined action affecting what I may call the  spiritual condition of peoples and individuals.  You remain above all political conflicts, between  nation and nation. Nevertheless, you are a polit-  ical institution, but an international political  institution, You are the instrument of a policy  which is common to all the associated nations and  which can but unite them more closely, or divide  them only in a fruitful and friendly spirit of  emulation. The United Nations Organization and  the Institutions gathered around it constitute a  whole, which is devised for the achievement of  one specific purpose, namely, the realisation of  peace between peoples and the achievement of  human progress; and in this whole task the part  to be played by Unesco is not the least important.  Nor is it the least noble, since it consistsin creat-  ing the intellectual, moral and emotional atmo-  sphere upon which the operation of the whole  system rests. Your very presence here shows  that you, like myself, realise the magnitude of  this task, We shall all, I am sure, put forward  our best efforts, the same efforts, in order to  show ourselves worthy of that task,
7. ADOPTION OF THE PROVISION  AGENDA PREPARED :  BY THE PREPARATORY COMMISSION  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The next  item on our Agenda is the adoption of the Pro-  visional Agenda of the First Session of the Con-  ference. Are there any observations? Then we  agree that this provisional Agenda becomes the  Agenda of the Conference.
8. AUTHORISATION OF THE EXECU-  TIVE SECRETARY AND HIS STAFF TO  PERFORM THE FUNCTION OF THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL, ACTING AS SE-  CRETARY GENERAL OF THE CONFE-  RENCE, AND OF THE SECRETARIAT,  PENDING THE APPOINTMENT OF THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL  The PRESIDENT (translation) : This is one  of the features of the general organisation of the  Conference, pending the appointment of the Di-  rector-General and the permanent organisation.  Are there any observations or objections on this  point? (Adopted. )  I have here a message that has been received  from the United Nations in the name of Mr. Trygve  Lie, Secretary-General. It will be read to you :  ““ Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,  I greet with confidence and with hope the  opening of the work of your Conference. While  other organs of the United Nations set to the  task of repairing material disaster, to build up  the ruins, to restore the economic conditions  — IS —  JPOP PE   in a devastated world, your Specialised Agency  is entrusted with the noble and grave mission  of helping to re-construct the educational in-  stitutions, the destroyed libraries, to organise  swift, intellectual exchanges between nations,  to re-establish favourable conditions for the  spiritual life of the world. The freedom of  thought, the free circulation of ideas, their  free flow to all parts of the world, the distribut-  ion of the varied riches of human knowledge  across the frontiers, among all the nations of  our orbit, are probably the indispensable con-  ditions for mutual understanding between men;  and this mutual understanding, we know, is  the basis of peace.  “I am sure you will devote yourselves to this  mission with all your faith in international  co-operation and all your fervour for the cause  of Education, of Science and of Culture. Gen-  tlemen, I want you to be assured that in the  accomplishment of your great mission, the full  support of the United Nations will not fail  you.  Signed : TRYGVE Lig.”  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 think that  the Conference will unanimously desire that a  telegram should be sent to the Secretary-General  of the United Nations, expressing thanks for this  message and assuring the United Nations how  much we appreciate their good wishes and also  their promise of unreserved support. We appre-  clate the confidence expressed in the successful  achievement of the ideals of this Organisation.  I hope there will be no objection to the sending  of a telegram on behalf of this Conference.
9. REPORT AND GENERAL DISCUSSION  ON THE WORK OF THE PREPARATORY  COMMISSION  The PRESIDENT (translation) : We now  come to item 9 of the Agenda : Report and General  Discussion on the work of the Preparatory Com-  mission,  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY : I feel it a  great privilege to be in the position of reporting  today, on behalf of the Preparatory Commission,  to. this first Conference of Unesco: it is one of  which I am very sensible. It is also a great re-  sponsibility. Our problem, let me remind you, has  been no less than this : How can an international  organisation best envisage the ways in which  it can influence or aid all the higher creative  activities of man, and all their applications, so  as to promote the welfare of the entire human  species most effectively and most enduringly?  Obviously no single individual or group could  tackle the problem alone. It has been attacked  in the most co-operative and energetic way by  the delegates and experts of Member States, by  their National Commissions, by many private  individuals and non-governmental organisations,  and by our Secretariat. We have certainly not  solved the problem, but, as I hope you will agree,  we have made a real beginning, and have dis-  charged our responsibility as fully as was possible  in the all too short time at our disposal.  Let me remind you very briefly of the history  of our organisation. The initial decision to create  a United Nations agency to deal with cultural  problems was taken at the San Francisco Confer-  ence in June 1945. Behind this decision there  lay the fifteen years of activity of the Inter-  national Institute of Intellectual Cooperation in  Paris; the deliberations of the Council of Allied  Ministers of Education in London during four  years of war, in its latter period with backing  from the United States of America; and a strong  initiative from the French Government.  Unesco. was actually constituted at the Confe-  rence held in London in 1945. Here its Constitu-  tion was written, adopted, and afterwards signed  by 44 Member States, and its scope enlarged  by the inclusion of Science in its title, and of the  media of mass communications among the ins-  truments with which it is charged to work. At  the same time, a Preparatory Commission was  set up to prepare for the birth of Unesco as a  definitive organisation, that glorious birth at  which we here present are now assisting.  Although the Russian Government was at  that time not prepared to participate in the organ-  isation, a place was left for them on the Execu-  tive Committee. However, they did not occupy  this vacant seat, nor have they sent an observer  to the present Conference. This we all regret,  since it will clearly be impossible to establish  Unesco as a truly global agency if one of the most  powerful and most culturally advanced states,  controlling about one-sixth of the world’s land  surface and one-twelfth of the world’s human  population, is not a member. But if assuredly  Russia would be capable of conferring great ad-  vantages on Unesco, many of us also feel that  Unesco could be of advantage to Russia, in re-  spect of providing information on the best and  the newest methods employed elsewhere, and of  specific points such as educational and scientific  relief and reconstruction, scientific collaboration,  and much else. And the participation of Russia  in Unesco would be of mutual benefit in facili-  tating the reconciliation of the conflicting ideo-  logies which now threaten to divide the world —  their reconciliation in some common philosophy,  not too ambitious in its ideology, but more hum-  bly, though perhaps more securely, grounded in  ‘a practical programme of common action.  But I must return to the main thread of my  subject. Sir Alfred Zimmmern, who had played a  notable part, both in paving the way for the cons-  titutional conference in London, and in the deli-  berations of the conference itself, for which he  had acted as secretary, was appointed Executive  Secretary of the Preparatory Commission. Howe-  ver, on his falling ill, I was asked to take his  place, which I did as from the first of March. By  April, Sir Alfred had recovered his health and  was appointed Adviser to the Preparatory Com-  mission. He is at the moment in England, finishing  a special study which the Executive Committee  requested him to undertake, but will be with  us next week to prestnt this to the relevant Com-  mission.   I would also like to pay tribute to the work  of Dr. Walter Kotschnig, who is with us here today  with the United States delegation. He was Sir  Alfred’s deputy, and not only uncomplainingly  stepped into the breach during the early part  of his illness, but also stayed on for some time  to give me, in my inexperience, invaluable aid  during my first weeks in office.  Finally I must mention our great good fortune  in having secured Professor Jean Thomas and  Dr. Howard Wilson as Deputy Executive Secre-  taries. Without their experience, their hard work,  and their tact and humour, we should never  have achieved the results which I am about to  present to you.  The chief task of the Preparatory Commission  has been the preparation of a draft programme  for submission to this Conference. However,  before it could even make a beginning with this,  it had to build up a Secretariat and to find suitable  quarters. During the Conference you will see for  yourselves the spaciousness and convenience of  the fine premises which the French Government  ‘has so generously put at the disposal of Unesco.  You will also, 1 hope, take the opportunity of  making the acquaintance of some of the Secre-  tariat. That body, including special consultants,  now numbers no less than 376 persons, drawn  from 28 states. Among these, the higher staff of  Senior Counsellors, Counsellors, Consultants, and  First Assistants accounts for 81. When I tell  you that less than nine months ago, when I  agreed to take over the duties of Executive Secre-  tary, the senior staff numbered ten and the  remainder only twenty-four more, and the entire  organisation was housed in a single flat (not even  an entire floor) of a London apartment house,  you will realise the almost bewildering rate of  our growth.  It is not easy to select an international staff,  paying due regard both to competence and to  geographical distribution, and especially diffi-  cult to do so against time. But I was very for-  tunate in the amount of help and the quality  of advice which I received, and I can report with  sincerity that our Secretariat is one to be proud  of. Its competence and general quality are high,  its diligence and uncomplaining willingness to  work long hours of overtime have been remark-  able, its capacity for developing a unified team-  spirit has been exemplary. Our Education and  Natural Sciences Sections provide instances of  - its international character (though any other sec-  tion could have afforded examples almost or  quite as striking).  + Thus my American deputy is specially quali-  fied in education. The Education Section itself  is headed by a Chinese, and among its senior  staff it counts a Brazilian, a Dane, an Englishman,  a Frenchman, a Haitian, and a Mexican woman.  The Natural Sciences Section is headed by an  Englishman, and its seniors taff includes a Chin-  ese, a Frenchman, a Russian woman, and an  Indian. In both cases, the team-work and unity  of purpose displayed have been remarkable, and  their chapters in the Programme Report are  among the most unified andclosely reasoned.  The rapid growth of the Secretariat is by no  means excessive : it has been largely due to the  vast scope of the programme, and to the number  of projects which the Preparatory Commission  in June requested should be actually begun, or  even completed, before this Conference. I do not  want you, however, to think that our staff is  concerned solely with programme work. We also  have had to provide for day-to-day administ-  ration, including such necessities as transport and  travel facilities, for budget and personnel, for  accountancy, for the production of documents,  for a registry, for typing and translation, for  interpreting, for messenger and chauffeur serv-  ices, for external relations, for legal advice, for  the preparation of this Conference and of Unesco  Month, for representation at the seat of the Uni-  ted Nations. Since coming to Paris, our staff has  grown so large that we have had to provide a  welfare officer, medical and recreational facili-  ties, special banking arrangements, and much  else, and have set up a canteen, a bar and a rest-  aurant, of whose excellent catering I hope you  will avail yourselves freely during the Confe-  rence.  The programme, however, has been our central  and main pre-occupation. The draft programme  that we are laying before you, we hope for your  approval and acceptance, is not merely a set of  projects; it is also a policy. Perhaps we should  rather say that the projects imply a policy. In  any case they are the outcome of a certain ap-  proach and attitude of mind, which have devel-  oped in the Preparatory Commission as a result  of its work. This attitude of mind is still, I think,  to a large extent implicit. It will be for this  Conference, in its discussions, to render it more  explicit,  Meanwhile some things can already be said.  At first sight, the programme may appear hetero-  geneous, a mass of separate projects, often un-  related to each other; and it has been publicly  criticized on this account. The criticism arises  naturally from the immense coverage which Unesco  is called upon to undertake. We have to cope  with problems in four major fields — education,  science, culture, and mass communications; and,  in all these fields, we are precluded from taking  a narrowly academic view, or indeed any but  the broadest. Thus in education, we must con-  sider not only formal education, in primary or  secondary or technical school, in college, univer-  sity, polytechnic, but also pre-school education at  one end of the scale; and post-graduate training  and research at the other; adult education, liter-  acy campaigns, discussion groups, health and  agricultural education, education for citizenship  and for international affairs.  In the scientific field we have to consider the  whole range of pure science, both natural and  social, from physics to prehistoric archaeology,  from evolution to economics, from geology and  anatomy and biochemistry to anthropology and  demography and political science, not forgetting  mathematics at the one end of the scale and  psychology at the other. In addition, we cannot  - neglect the applications of science — for instance,  in engineering, town planning, chemical tech-  nology, agriculture, social engineering, medical   science, population policy, education, fisheries, and  a hundred other fields.  In what may broadly be called culture, the  range is equally formidable. We have to think  about miusic and painting, about history and clas-  sical studies, about language and architecture,  about theatre and ballet, about libraries and mu-  seums and art galleries and zoos, about the his-  tory of art and the world’s different cultures,  about creative writing, and about philosophy.  Once more, we have also to think about the appli-  cations of these various studies — all the appli-  cations of art in everyday life, the application  of philosophy (in conjunction with all other bran-  ches of learning) towards the building up of a  common outlook throughout the peoples of the  world, the social and educational functions of  every kind of library and every kind of museum,  the uses of art in general education and in psy-  chological rehabilitation, the use of literature and  drama in making people think and understand  the basic questions of the day.  Finally there is the enormous subject of mass  communications, with its three main fields of  Press, Film and Radio, together with minor ones  such as sound-records or television. The press is  not merely the daily and weekly press; it comprises  the serious and the specialized reviews, and the  press addressed to special groups; and of course  the whole question of book publication. Then in  films there are educational and scientific films,  documentary films, films designed for specialists  and for non-commercial showing, besides the fea-  ture film, with its immense social and educat-  ional implications. Radio comprises such diverse  questions as news, propaganda, public relations,  advertising, entertainment, education, science,  art, drama; it has its international as well as its  domestic aspects, and also may be directed to  specialized groups or particular classes.  With this range of activities, it is no wonder  if Unesco’s programme appears at first sight a  patchwork of separate projects. In reality, how-  ever, it will be found that the Preparatory Com-  mission has been guided by certain general prin-  ciples.  Let us first recall that Unesco’s aims, as laid  down in its Constitution, are twofold — to con-  tribute to peace and security, and to promote  the general welfare of mankind. This twofold pur-  pose must of course be carried out in relation to  the three fields of activity — Education, Science  and Culture — embodied in its title, as well as  to the fourth field of Mass Communications, ex-  pressly mentioned in its Constitution. The Cons-  titution further lays down that we must operate  without distinction of race, sex, language or reli-  gion, and on the democratic principles of the  equality and mutual respect of men; that any  philosophy of racialism, involving the idea of the  superiority of any particular nation or ethnic  group, must be combated; that we must aim at  full and equal opportunities of education for all,  at the unrestricted pursuit of knowledge, and the  free exchange of ideas and knowledge; and that  we must think in terms of influencing the great  masses of humanity, the peoples of the world —  which immediately implies that we must not con-  -  —-  fine our efforts to academic fields or to the intel-  ligentsia.  As regards methods of work, we have adopted  certain principles, partly as prescriptions arising  out of our Constitution, partly as practical rules  arising out of the necessities of the situation.  Under its Constitution, Unesco is debarred, like  all other United Nations agencies, from any direct  interference with matters of essentially domestic  concern. In such matters, we must operate in  one of the following ways. First, by communicat-  ing our ideas to the National Commissions or  co-operating bodies which we hope will be set up  in every Member Nation. to represent its educa-  tional, scientific and cultural interests, and trus-  ting to them to see that they will be carried out.  Secondly, by preparing comparative studies of  how particular problems are being attacked or  solved in different parts of the world, and'trust-  ing to a healthy cultural rivalry between the  nations to see that the best solutions are gener-  ally adopted : and thirdly by exerting an in-  fluence, direct or indirect, on general public opin-  ion — through the books and pamphlets, the  articles and broadcasts and films of which we  ourselves undertake or stimulate the production.  Next we have considered the obvious necessity  of co-operation with all. existing agencies with  similar aims. We could never hope to undertake  everything ourselves; duplication of effort would  be grave, partly because it would give rise to  wasteful and dangerous competition, partly be-  cause there are not enough good people to carry  out this difficult and exacting type of work, and  perhaps most of all because we feel it right in  principle that people should help themselves,  rather than transfer all their responsibilities to  some remote overgrown organisation.  Thus, wherever responsible voluntary agencies  exist, capable of carrying out the work for which  we exist, we shall endeavour to assist them to  do so. For instance, one of-the items before this  Conference will be the proposed agreement be-  tween Unesco and the International Council of  Scientific Unions, Numerous other agreements,  of varying scope, will undoubtedly have to be  made with other bodies in other. fields. And when  such bodies do not exist — for instance, there is  no organization corresponding to the International  Council of Scientific Unions in the fields of Engi-  neering, or of the Social or the Medical Sciences,  — it should, we believe, be Unesco’s policy to  encourage their formation.  Many other bodies exist which it will be most  important to bring into a close relationship with  Unesco, even though their primary purpose is not  included within ours. I am thinking of such organ-  izations as the World Federation of Trades  Unions, the YMCA, the International Union of  Students. We can help such bodies to attain more  fully the educational, scientific and cultural aims  which they have already envisaged; and we shall  need their co-operation to help give us that sup-  port among the masses of the people which is so  essential for our own success.  Another type of co-operation we must envisage  is that with other United Nations (intergovern-  mental) organizations. Sometimes this will take   place by exchange of information on the basis of  a delimitation of functions — as with the F, A. O,  and the World Health Organization, where we  shall endeavour to be responsible for the purely  scientific aspects of their fields, while they will  be concerned more with practical applications.  Sometimes, on the other hand, it will operate by  means of joint participation in a specially created  new agency, as will occur for the making, stimu-  lation, and distribution of films by or for all the  United Nations bodies concerned; our draft agree-  ment with the U, N. Department of Public Inform-  ation envisages the setting up of a joint U. N.  Film Board, in which they, we, and other spe-  cialized agencies can all share. We hope to con-  clude a similar type of arrangement concerning  radio.  Finally there is the problem — which I must  admit is a sertous one — of our relations with those  national bodies concerned with disseminating in-  formation about their own nation and its culture  to other nations — bodies like the British Council,  the French Bureau des Relations Culturelles Exté-  rieures, the Cultural Relations Department of the  U. S. State Department, not forgetting the lat-  ter’s proposed short-wave radio network or the  foreign services of the B. B. C. and other national  broadcasting systems.  Such agencies are rapidly increasing in num-  ber — and are doing so just at the moment when  Unesco has been set up as an international agency  in the same fields. Here again there is the danger  of competition, even of conflict, if national and  international points of view come into opposition,  and of waste and inadequacy of staff. I personally  do not think that this difficult situation can be  dealt with by formal agreements, but rather that  it must be solved ambulando — by means of the:  experience of actually co-operating. Once the na-  ‘tions realize that Unesco believes firmly in main-  taining the fullest diversity and variety of cult-  ures, and once Unesco discovers that the pro-  jection of national achievements in science or the  arts, if carried on within a broad international  framework, is not merely not hostile to our aims  and purposes, but can be of the greatest service  to them, then we can expect co-operation. It is  my belief that that co-operation will prove to be  most fruitful, becaûse most concrete and practic-  al, in relation to any regional centres which we  may establish.  This brings me to my next working principle  — that of decentralization, We shall never be  able to operate satisfactorily as a single head-  quarters organization. We must go out into the  field and adapt our ideas and our practices tothe  different cultural regions of the world. ’  I have prepared a memorandum on regional  centres which raises these and other issues, such  as the closest co-operation with any regional cent-  res set up by other U. N. organizations, and I  understand that the subject is to be discussed  during 1947 at a conference of all the agencies  concerned. Meanwhile let me point out that our  project for setting up ‘“ science co-operation stat-  ions for work in the field in two or three sample  regions is an experiment along these lines, and  one which, on the basis of the success of the simi-  lar enterprise conducted during the war in China  by the head of our Natural Sciences Section,  Dr. Needham, we are quite sure will be fruitful  (and indeed necessary for our future development).  Much of our work in Reconstruction will also have  to be in the field.  Othér working principles which we have inevi-  tably been driven to adopt by the nature of our  task include the following. For one thing we must  endeavour to secure standardization wherever  standardization is desirable — that is to say in  all scientific fields, and in such matters as ter-  minology, legal conventions, practical measure-  ments, and the like. For another, we shall have  to devote a great deal of our energy to the un-  spectacular but essential tasks of co-ordination and  exchange, in every field. That includes, of course,  the exchange of information. Unesco must endea-  vour to facilitate the exchange of information  across national boundaries, which implies taking  action to break down barriers of censorship, cus-  toms duties, exchange, travel formalities, differ-  ential treatment and the like, It must also endea-  vour to make information available in new and  convenient forms, as in the projects for Yearbooks  in various fields, or for a comprehensive Direct-  ory for Science and Learning.  While at the outset the Secretariat was incli-  ned to envisage the task of Unesco as confined to  the modest functions of co-ordination, exchange,  facilitation, and co-operation,it speedily became  apparent that the delegates on the Preparatory  Commission wished for something more -— some-  thing in the shape of concrete action which would  both advance the aims of Unesco and bring its  achievements prominently before the world.  On the other hand, it was evident that Unesco  could not possibly envisage the creation and oper-  ation of such concrete projects on any large or  general scale. Accordingly, we have decided in  this field to limit ourselves, first to central inter-  national organizations which seem to be urgently  called for and, secondly, to what may be called  sample or pilot projects, which would embody  some new and desirable scheme in a practical  way, with a view to encouraging nations or other  organizations to do likewise. As examples of the  first I will mention the proposals to set up an  international organization to study the problems  of Home and Community Planning on a world  scale, a World Bibliographical Centreand a Thea-  tre Institute to deal with all the international  aspects of drama and the theatre. As an exam-  ple of the second I will draw your attention to  the proposal to establish a Unesco Centre of Ap-  plied Mathematics, to be equipped with the lat-  est types of calculating machine. Modern cal-  culating machines are veritable miracles enabling  us not merely to save a great deal of time and  energy, but to attack and solve problems — such  as the adequate analysis of health statistics —  which would be quite beyond our powers if we  had to employ the brains of mathematicians.  Sometimes it may be best to proceed step by  step. Thus the Brazilian delegate drew our atten-  tion to the fact that a great deal of research was  in progress on the resources and problems of the  great Amazonian forest, but was being done by   many separate institutions in à number of sepa-  rate nations. We are, therefore, proposing to  undertake the study and co-ordination of this  research, but with the possibility in view of later  establishing a Unesco Institute for problems of  life in the Tropical Forest Zone.  ~ This question of international research projects  has been given additional importance by the re-  solutiorr recently passed by the Economic and So-  cial Council, asking for a report, primarily from  ‘Unesco, but also from other specialized agencies,  on the desirability of setting up United Nations  Research Laboratories. Among the possibilities  mentioned in the debate were a U. N. Obser-  vatory and a U. N. Meteorological Station in the  southern hemisphere, a U, N. Tuberculosis Labo-  ratory, a U. N. Nutrition Laboratory, and a U. N.  Institute for Research on Soil Erosion. As soon  as this Conference is over, it will be for the Nat-  ural Sciences Division of Unesco to prepare a  report on this important subject.  Meanwhile one principle of work was forced .  upon us by the grim urgencies of the moment  — the principle that Unesco should undertake  relief and reconstruction in the war-devastated  countries. Such relief and reconstruction had of  course to be confined to education, science and  culture, — spheres from which Unrra was ‘debar-  red, as Unesco was debarred from dealing with  material relief such as food or clothing. This tem-  porary task was assigned to the Preparatory Com-  mission by last year’s constituent Conference.  Owing partly to the rather narrow scope of the  assignment then made, partly to the lack of funds  available, and for various other reasons, Unesco  can as yet point to few concrete achievements in  this field. It did, however, come to a working  arrangement with Unrra; it has concluded a part-  nership with the various voluntary organizations  involved; it has gone a long way towards esti-  mating the extent of the educational, scientific  and cultural needs resulting from war damage; and  it is in touch with the organizations in the U. S. A.  and elsewhere through whose activities we may  hope to satisfy these needs. Finally, it is putting  forward a much more active policy and much  fuller programme for next year. It will be for  this Conference to take a decision upon this policy  and programme. Here I would only like to say  two words. First, that the needs are almost incon-  ceivably great, and can scarcely be realized by  inhabitants of more fortunate countries. Here are  a few random illustrations : — In Greece, there  were until recently no blackboards, no pencils,  no exercise books, let alone textbooks. In Yugo-  slavia, the central library now comprises only a  few hundred books, and the Germans deliberately  burned the new University and its contents. In  Poland, there is a terrible shortage of school-  houses and of school-teachers and, what is worse,  an appalling degree of sickness and high mort-  ality among schoolchildren. In Denmark, in  Czechoslovakia, in China, in France, in the Philip-  pines, in Holland, in Russia, in Belgium, in Nor-  way, we could find — alas, without any difficulty!  — similar examples; and I would remind you  that, as soon as the Peace Treaties have been  concluded, it will be imperative for Unesco to  extend its activities in educational reconstruct-  ion to ex-enemy countries, in some of which con-  ditions are every whit as bad. I would remind  you that fewer European countries have signed  our Constitution than are still wholly outside it!  In the second place, I should like to say that  in many countries Unesco will be judged during  the next few years on the basis of its success in  tackling this problem of rehabilitation, in bring-  ing back the level of educational and scientific  and cultural opportunity at least. to something  comparable with the level in similar countries  which were spared by the war.  This brings me to my next point. There are  other nations, in the more recently settled or  more recently industrialized parts of the world,  where the educational and scientific level is also  low, fiot through their own fault or as a result  of war, but through the accidents of history and  geography. In Asia, in South America, in Africa,  there are huge regions where the majority are  still illiterate, where educational facilities are open  only to a small minority of children, where uni-  versities are few or non-existent, where science —  medical, agricultural, chemical, mechanical, elec-  ~ trical — has scarcely begun to be applied, where  the indigenous arts and crafts are in danger of  dying and of being replaced by a shoddy and  debased brand of western culture.  The peoples of such regions will judge Unesco  by its success, not in rehabilitation, but in what  we may call habilitation — the raising of educa-  tional and scientific and cultural opportunity at  least to a level which enables these countries to  participate with more developed nations as part-  ners in the general advance of a world-wide cult-  ure,  But neither rehabilitation nor habilitation can  be considered by us merely in the light of how  they look to particular nations. Both are parts  ‘of one of the most fundamental principles of  Unesco’s work — equalization.  How can Unesco hope to operate satisfactorily  in a world more than half of whose inhabitants  cannot even read or write, and are without the  basis of ideas upon which there can be built  healthy living or prosperous agriculture, and in  general any rational applications of science? How  can we expect the most rapid advance of science  when an adequate concentration of scientists exists  only in a quarter or less of the nations of the  world? How can people lead the good life, and  how can we expect them to bother about educat-  ion, if they are undernourished and diseased?  And how can they escape from undernourishment  and disease without more science and more under-  standing?  That is why we are suggesting that Unesco’s  relief and reconstruction programme should be  integrated with and eventually absorbed by its  programme for equalization — an equalization  ‘upwards, to enable the nations that have been  less favoured, either in war or peace, to take  their places as equals in a single world advance.  That is why the Preparatory Commission has  laid stress on all relief and reconstruction activi-  ties of the Programme Sections as well as of the  Relief Section itself; that is why it has under-   taken the comparative study of methods of funda-  -mental education and of combating illiteracy  which is in your hands; that is one of the reasons  why it proposes the establishment ofthe” Science  Co-operation Stations’ I have already mentioned,  in areas where scientific'activity is not up to the  level it has attained in Russia or the western  world; that is one of the reasons why it is recom-  mending a careful study of the art and culture  of non-industrialized peoples, to ensure that they  shall not be lost or destroyed in the process of  industrialization.  With these considerations we have reached a  point at which we can pass from the ideas gover-  ning our methods of work to a consideration of  the more general principles governing our work  itself, and our choice of projects. Rehabilitation  and equalization, which I have just discussed,  can be regarded either as a method or a general  principle. In addition, it illustrates a further point  that 1 should like to bring before you — namely  that our principles and our programme must not  be too general, but must be closely related to  the particular conditions of our present-day world,  in which Unesco must operate.  The chief characteristics of that world which  have particular relevance to Unesco’s work would  seem to be the following. First, the world has  shrunk, so that it is for the first time in history  possible to think globally, in terms of the possi-  bility of an efficient world-wide international or-  ganization. But meanwhile, the world is de facto  organized into nations; the spirit of nationalism
1s more active and the efficiency and the totali-  tarian possibilities of national organizations are  greater even than before the war. In addition,  there is a tendency towards the erection of super-  nationalisms, whether through the consolidation  of immense federations like the Soviet Union or  the United States of America, the formation of  looser aggregates like the British Commonwealth,  whose ties are still powerful in spite of being  intangible, or the creation of cultural or regional  blocs pledged to a certain degree of unity.  _ Next, science has now reached a point at which  its applications, if rationally and sincerely made,  could provide an adequate minimum standard of  living for every human being in the world. This  was perhaps so even before-the war; it is cer-  tainly true today, now that the secret of atomic  fission is in our hands. The obverse of this fact
1s that, again for the first time in human history,  the applications of science, within the framework  of total war, are capable of making civilized life  impossible!  Then there is the fact that laissez faire individ-  ualism alone is today demonstrably inadequate  to deal with the problems that now confront hu-  manity, and that some degree of planning is  necessary; but whether that planning shall be  directed towards war or peace, towards totali-  tarian efficiency or to the satisfaction of human  needs and aspirations, the world has not yet  made up its mind. Unesco should help it to do so.  We have also the fact I have already mentioned,  ~ that the peoples of the world are at very diffe-  rent levels or stages in their social, economic, and  cultural development; and the further fact that  in the modern media of mass communication we  have at our disposal what are really new organs  of society in regard to the functions of diffusing  "information and influencing men’s attitudes.  And finally we have the existence in the world  of two powerful opposing ideologies, which we  may call the eastern and the western, or the com-  munist and the individualist; and — let us face  it — the fact that these ideologies*are to a con-  siderable extent crystallized round the organiza-  tional core of the two most powerful nations or  supernations — the Soviet Union and the United  States of America.  These hard facts of the present phase of his-  tory dictate a great deal of Unesco’s immediate  policy and programme in trying to realize its ’  general and long-term ends. In regard to peace  and security, for instance, they show the desir-  ability of such projects as the following : The  revision of text-books, with a view to reducing  international friction and promoting better under-  standing between peoples; the setting up of an  international summer school for workers in  educational and cultural relief; asurvey of barriers  to the dissemination of information across nation-  al frontiers with a view to later action; the call-  ing, jointly with the Belgian Government, of a  Conference to secure an improved and universal  Convention on Copyright; the creation of World  Citizenship Clubs in schools all over the world;  and every kind of exchange which will help to  promote understanding between nations and peo-  ples.  In some ways most basic of all is the project  envisaged by the Sub-Section of Philosophy for  ‘a survey of the possibilities of reaching some com-  mon general set of ideas and principles on which  the majority of the world’s peoples could agree.  However, although the reconciliation of the  main conflicting ideologies in such acommon world  philosophy must obviously occupy an import-  ant place among the long-range aims of Unesco,  I personally believe that it will be difficult to  make much immediate progress in, this direction  by a frontal attack; and that more will be achieved  by securing the co-operation of peoples and  nations and individuals representing different ideo-  logies, on specific common tasks. If we can get  Americans and Russians, individualist workers and  business men and members of the Communist  party, Roman Catholics and Moslems, to get down  to joint work on concrete projects such as educa-  tional relief, or anti-illiteracy campaigns, or an  international laboratory, or a Unesco Institute  for Home and Community Planning, not only  would they learn that co-operation was possible,  in spite of ideological differences, but I am sure  that in a comparatively short time the rudiments  of a common ideology would begin to emerge —  an ideology with the most universal basis possible,  namely, the existence of common human needs  and the necessity for satisfying them.  The fact that humanity is organized into sep-  arate nation-states obviously constitutes the major  pre-condition of war. Thus to promote peace and  security Unesco must all the time seek to pre-  vent the separateness of nations from increasing  — as was the case with the Fascist and Nazi   states and as will always be a danger with any  totalitarian or semi-totalitarian regimes — and  we must do our utmost to lower the barriers that  now exist. It is for that reason that we are al-  ready undertaking a survey of such barriers, and  propose to take steps to help the movement of  science and culture — both their bearers and their  fruits — across national boundaries. These consi-  derations too, together with our realization of the  novel qualities of the mass media, have prompted  our projected studies of the radio as an agency  which may jump across national barriers in a  way impossible to any material medium.  The fact that the mass media constitute new  social organs is also prompting us to study the  implications of the cinema. We believe that the  exploitation of the feature film as mere commer-  cial entertainment has blinded the world at large  to the possibilities of the film as a new art-form  and as a new and essential agency of education,  public relations, and persuasion. The same, mutatis  mutandis, is true of radio. Unesco Ropes to aid  the film to realize these possibilities more fully.  Again, the new techniques of mass communi-  cation may directly aid science and art. Thus  ‘both the radio and the technique of sound-record-  ing have greatly fostered a knowledge and love  of good music. Our project for the study of new  methods of colour reproduction is to see whether  these may be able to do something similar for  the knowledge and love of good painting.  Human welfare is not merely material welfare.  It is also spiritual, and the enjoyment of art  and beauty forms an essential part of it. That is  why Unesco lays stress on the need for good  architecture and for the beauty of buildings and  landscape in its projects concerned with planning;  and why we propose a thorough survey of the  place of the artist in the modern world. This  latter is not intended merely as an academic  study, but as providing indispensable data, not  at the moment available, to serve as a basis for  specific recommendations and eventual action la-  ter.  Again, it is because the arts are positive ele-  ments of welfare, and because without them men  are likely to be more frustrated and discontent-  ed, that we are proposing projects designed to  give a wider diffusion of art. And it is because  art and culture are always unique and because  pride in national culture is the only aspect of  nationalism that is worthy to endure, that we  aim at preserving the widest variety of art, while  at the same time helping its international ex-  change, so that nation can speak to nation through  its music, its literature and its painting.  When we come to natural science, we accept  the fact that only through new scientific know-  ledge and its applications can we raise the gene-  ral standard of life and change the general way  of living. To get rid of malnutrition, disease,  poverty and inequality will not of itself abolish  war; but it will make war much less likely. Thus  any schemes which, like many of Unesco’s scien-  tific projects tend in this direction, will be di-  rectly promoting human welfare, and indirectly  promoting peace and security.  In social science, we want to see this great  branch of human knowledge organized and pur-  sued to a pitch at which its practical application  will become as important as those of physics or  chemistry; and in regard to education, we aim at  co-ordination of all the new knowledge and tech-  niques which are rapidly making education itself  a science as well as an art, so as to use it to the  ‘ full as the necessary implement of progress.  I have of course bezn unable to mention more  than a fraction of our particular programme pro-  jects, but I have, I hope, said enough to show  that they are all related to a general set of prin-  ciples and overriding aims.  We cannot expect to achieve much in the way  of peace and security by direct propaganda, by  merely preaching them, any more than we can  hope to achieve much in the way of improved  human welfare by merely preaching human wel-  fare, If we are to build solidly, we must be con-  tent to build slowly; and we must attack many of  our problems indirectly.  Perhaps-the most over-all principle governing  our activities is that they should be directed  towards the creation of One World in the things  of the mind and spirit. This at once implies that  we must combat mental and spiritual poverty  wherever they exist, in order to reach a minimum  level everywhere as a foundation on which that  common mental world can be built. It implies -  also that we must aim at raising the upper as  well as the lower level of attainment in the sciences  and the arts, because they are the ultimate in-  struments of human advance. It implies that we  must try to overcome or to break down all bar-  riers in the way of that unity. And it implies  that while preserving the individual and region-  al variety, which is one of the pre-requisites of  further human advance, we shall endeavour to  secure mutual understanding between the sepa-  rate elements, so that the variety may eventually  be orchestrated into a higher unity.  I believe that, in the light of these general  principles, our separate programme projects will  fall into place as elements of a concerted policy.  I will not keep you much longer; but I must  say a word about our budget and a word about  our future organization. The draft budget pro-  posal, which has been approved by the Prepara-  tory Commission for transmission to you as a  general basis for discussion, is for about 7 1/2 mil-  lion dollars. This sum may seem large. at first  sight. It is not really so when you reflect that,  while all other specialised agencies deal with one  or at most two main subjects, we have to deal  with no less than four — Education, Science, Cul-  ture and Mass Communications — or five if you  include our work in Relief and Reconstruction.  It may also seem large for our first year of de-  finitive existence : here again, we should remember  that, owing to the urgency of our tasks, the Pre-  paratory Commission has been asked to under-  take various pieces of work — such as relief, the  surveys on textbooks, on Fundamental Educat-  ion, on barriers to freedom of information, on copy-  right, and several others — which would normally  be left to the definitive organization; and conse-  quently the growth of pre-Unesco has been almost  preternaturally rapid.  — 25 —   If we further reflect that many purely nation-  al organizations (like the Cultural Relations Div-  ision of the U. S. State Department) spend more  on diffusing national culture, and many purely  departmental organizations (like the Building Re-  search section of the British Ministry of Worksand  Buildings) spend more on promoting particular  aspects of scientific research, than Unesco pro-  poses for its whole programme, and still more  when we remember the astronomical sums spent,  not on armaments but merely on armament re-  search, we need not, I think feel guilty of any  extravagance in our claims.  Âs regards the future organization of the Se-  cretariat, tHis under our Constitution must be  left largely to the Director-General when appoin-  ted. But he will naturally welcome any guidance  or recommendations from this Conference. Our  experience shows, I think, that the general plan  we have adepted in the Preparatory Commission  affords a good basis — the plan of having a cer:  tain number of subject sections dealing with the  various higher activities of man — the Sciences,  the Humanities, and the Arts — and a further  number concerned with special functions, methods  and techniques — Education, Cultural Institu-  tions such as libraries and museums, Media of  Mass Communications, and Relief and Reconstruc-  tion.  The Preparatory Commission has already sug-  gested that our present section of Humanistic  Studies is unwieldy and unnatural and should  be divided into two, one dealing with the Social  Sciences, the other with Philosophy and Huma-  nistic Studies. I am sure this is correct, and would  also suggest that at some future date the Section  on Reconstruction should be enlarged to cover  Equalization also.  I further feel sure that it will be desirable to  set up special Sections or Departments to deal  with functions rather than subjects, whether for  common services like Statistics, or for problems  common to several sections, such as Labour Re-  lations, Dependent Peoples, Planning, and so on.  In some cases, such as Home and Community Plan-  ning, we envisage that the separate section may  eventually grow into a semi-autonomous Insti-  tute, as would also presumably be the case with  the important World Bibliographical and Library  Centre suggested by the sub-section of Libraries.  Liaison between related sections may be effected  by special staff, such as we envisage for the  future Section of Mass Communications, and as  we already have in the Natural Sciences Section for  liaison with the Social Sciences; or it may be  effected by creating special departments for sub-  jects which overlap one or more Sections, as may  well be desirable for Architecture, for instance,  and perhaps for the History of Art.  In any case, when we get down to actual work,  it is evident that a large proportion of the pro-  jects cannot be undertaken by any particular  section, but must be entrusted to working part-  ies from several sections. As examples I may give  the study of art as a method of General Educa-  tion; the project on textbook revision; any films  to be sponsored by Unesco, and the project on  Home and Community Planning — unless we go  further and create a special department to deal  with this.  The administrative organization by subjects will  ‘thus in the course of operations be largely brok-  en down and resynthesized into a working organ-  ization by problems. Far from being a handicap,  as some critics have suggested, the many-sided-  ness of Unesco is a pasitive benefit, if we only  know how to take advantage of it. It should  prevent us from falling into the pitfalls of over-  specialization, and from undertaking ambitious  projects in a limited field, without considering  their implications in other fields. It constantly  reminds us that the higher activities of man form  a single whole, which we cut up into separate  compartments at our peril, and also that academ-  ic studies are doomed to sterility unless related  to the mass of the people through education and  mass information. And last but not least, it pro-  vides us within our own walls with the oppor-  tunity of building up many-sided teams to attack  particular problems — a method which the war  showed to be extremely efficacious, and one of  the best safeguards against specialization into  thought-tight compartments.  I must end this already over-long address. In  concluding, I know that I am speaking for the  Preparatory Commission as a whole, secretariat  as well as delegates, in affirming that our prac-  tical experience and operations, brief and limited  though they be, have fully confirmed the faith  and belief of those who founded Unesco, and that  our organization is capable of playing an impor-  tant and in the long run an indispensable part  in the unification of the world. For that, we  obviously need devotion and faith and hard work.  Let me remind you that we also need those highest  of intellectual virtues — the will and the effort  needed to comprehend a new or alien point of  view, and intellectual humility. If we can but  remember that man is still in his infancy, that  his greatest intellectual triumphs and national  achievements are but beginnings, inevitably des-  tined to be transcended or superseded, and that  no present belief or point of view of any indivi-  dual or nation, any organization or group, can  possibly be final or complete or anything but a  partial approximation to the truth, then we ma  be able to help the world to advance towards  more and fuller truth and that more comprehens-  ive unity in which man’s miraculous and desir-  able diversity, instead of. provoking conflict, can  be reconciled in shared activity.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I am sure I  am expressing the wishes of the whole Conference  in thanking the Executive Secretary and the Pre-  paratory Commission for this long and exceptio-  nally valuable report.  Before passing to other matters, I have to  make a communication to the Conference. This  .morning the Nominations Committee elected seven  vice-presidents : the representatives of Brazil,  China, United States, Philippines, United King-  dom, South African and Saudi Arabia. The deleg-  ations of these seven countries are asked to  give us the names of the delegates who will re-  present them.  — 26 —  PE   Lb  I now open the discussion on the Secretariat's  report and the general activities of the Prepar-  atory Commission.  Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) :  We have listened to an important, interesting '  and comprehensive report by the Executive Sec-  retary. It is inspired by a noble, and if I may  say so, a prophetic vision of one world united,  not merely politically and economically, but in  mind and spirit. We in India believe that, if  peace is to be achieved, it should be achieved  not negatively by the imposition of disciplinary  measures or the use of sanctions, but by the fos-  tering of goodwill and understanding among the  peoples of the world. The political organs of the  United Nations are engaged in the negative task of  preventing acts of aggression. We are assigned the  positive function of building peace in the minds  of men through science, education. and culture.  The Executive Secretary’s report gives us the  blue-prints for the development of what one may  call a world brain, a world mind, or a world cul-  ture, which alone can be the basis of a world  authority or a world government.  During the war we called upon millions to  suffer and lay down their lives in order that the  inheritance of civilization might be preserved, that  a Commonwealth of free nations be built. Mil-  lions died and more millions bore suffering of an  inconceivable character that humanity might live  in peace. They have bequeathed to us a legacy,  and we are the trustees for them. How are we  carrying on the trust? The world is scared, ter-  ribly scared. We are afraid of ourselves, we are  afraid of the atom bomb, we are afraid of we  know not what. When we look at the way in  which the embittered politicians talk to each  other, talk at each other, we sometimes feel that  we are in 1939, and not 1946. The play goes on,  only the actors change. -  The one ray of light in all this darkness, the  one feature of hope in this world of gloom is the  United Nations, the great idea born of this blood-  stained earth. We must see to it that the newborn  babe is not strangled by the cynicism of politic-
1ans. We regret to find that the present member-  ship of our organisation is not yet universal. I  listened with pleasure to the statement made  by the Secretary that, as soon as the Peace Trea-  ties are concluded, the defeated nations will be  welcomed into Unesco. The Secretary referred to  the conflicting ideologies of east and west, be-  twen Communism and individualism, which are  competing for the mastery of the world today.  I do not know whether the conflict is really an  irreconcilable conflict of rival faiths. The two coun-  tries mentioned by him, the United States and  Soviet Russia, are both signatories to the Charter  of the United Nations. The Charter lays down  that all the signatories believe in the fundamental  rights of human beings, in the equality of races  and nations, large and small. But both the Uni-  ted States and Soviet Russia have to travel a  long distance before they can approximate to the  ideals they have supported. Fundamental rights  of human beings include equality of educational,  economic and political opportunities, These great  privileges, which till now were limited to certain  classes, require to be extended to the whole com-  munity. Such a democratic extension will mean  regulation by State and economic planning. Again,  racial dogmas were beaten on the battlefield, but  they are still undefeated in our hearts. If we turn  to Soviet Russia, she has worked for economic  justice and racial equality in a very effective  manner. All that is necessary to bring the two  groups nearer each other is a more loyal discharge  of the obligations and ideas which the United Nat-  ions Charter imposes on the signatory nations. The  Western democracies will have to work for eco-  nomic justice and abolition of race inequalities,  and Soviet Russia will have to place greater em-  phasis on the dignity and freedom of the human  spirit than she has been accustomed to do. Econ-  omic justice makes freedom possible, but does  not create freedom. I hope that the conflict will  be resolved and the nations will get nearer each  other.  Unesco stands not merely for a new set of  adjustments but for a new way of life, a new  outlook, a new philosophy which will inspire huma-  nity. We, in our country, believe that such a  philosophy must be one devoted to spiritual  values. The example of the axis powers is a warn-  ing to us. Germany and Japan were great in  intellectual achievements, scientific development,  industrial efficiency and military strength, but they  failed in the last war. They failed because they  were lacking in wisdom and understanding.  On the last day of August 1946, when the pri-  soners of Nuremberg were called upon to make  ‘any statements before judgment was pronoun-  ced, one of them, Franck, said : Adolf Hitler,  the chief accused, is not here to give the German  people his final summing up. It is not technical  shortages or hitches that lost us the war. God  pronounced his judgment on Hitler and on us  who, our hearts away from God, served Hitler. ”  When a nation ostentatiously turns away from  God and concentrates on worldly success and pros-  perity, it meets with its doom. What is essential  today is not so much the rehabilitation of schools  and libraries, or shops and factories, as the re-  habilitation of man. We must re-create man if we  are to re-create a new world community. Nowa-  days we find many who do not believe in God,  who do not believe in metaphysics; yet should  any one accuse us of being untruthful or un-  -loving, we would feel offended. Truth and love are  the teachings of every religion. Truth asks us  to respect the individual who is the bearer and  carrier of values, and love asks us to respect  humanity. The individual and humanity are the  two poles of the world and other groupings are  but mtermediate stages.  The present perilous condition of the world is  due to its positivist attitude to life, to its avers-  ion from metaphysics, to its flight from spiritual  values. To improve the world we have to return  to an idealist view, to philosophic thought, to  spiritual values.  We have listened to the budget figures. If the  programme is accepted, we may have to spend  about 7 1/2 million dollars. Compared with ‘the  magnitude of the work, this sum is not excessive,  — 27 —   at any rate not for the wealthy countries; for  poor nations such as ourselves we wish to make  sure that the different proposals are all essential  to the work of Unesco. We shall be glad to par-  ticipate in the great work and pay our share if  we are satisfied that it will further the work of  the nations.  We should not repeat the mistake of assuming  that the world consists only of Western Europe -  and North America. In making appointments to  the Secretariat, we should realise that there are  large parts of the world with immense man-  power, and abundant naturalresources. India and  China for example have their great traditions,  and these countries must be encouraged to take  à larger part in the activities of the organisa-  tions of Unesco than has been done hitherto.  Salaries to the staff must be based on needs and  should not be such as to encourage careerists.  Loyalty to the ideals of Unesco, personal fitness,  technical efficiency and geographical distribution  must be taken into account.  Regarding the relief and rehabilitation pro-  gramme, I hope that areas in the East which have  been affected by the war will also be kept in  view.  The Secretary in his report referred to coun-  tries which are educationally backward on ac-  count of the accidents of history. Our country is  one such. in India 16 per cent of men and 4 per  cent of women are literate. We are therefore  immensely interested in the anti-illiteracy camp-  aign of Unesco. Again, even in normal condit-  ions, millions of Indians live at starvation level,  and many more have perhaps enough to eat,  but not enough to keep away disease. We shall  therefore welcome the establishment of an inter-  national institute for nutrition in India.  My greatest concern; however, is that we, the  intellectuals, should not betray our vocation. We  must have not only humility, but also integrity.  We have been responsible for giving a false twist  to young minds, for poisoning the very springs  of knowledge. We take hold of docile, impressio-  nable youth and twist it out of shape and make  people innocent of any warlike intentions into  men prepared to deal death and destruction. We  blast the charities of the human heart, and strip  the spirit of its ardour. The great intellectual,  the typical intellectual for the western world, is  Socrates. He controlled his life by the principle  of self-determination. When he came to a clash  with the society of which he was a member, he,  to use the word of our great Leader, “ civilly  disobeyed "’ the mandate of the State. How many  of us are prepared to resist the encroachment  of the State on our intellectual integrity? How  many of us are prepared to incur political mar-  tyrdom and refuse to carry out the behests of  the State when they are inimical to our inward  integrity?  We are a priesthood of the spirit. We cannot  compromise, though politicians may. No false word  should escape our lips, no wrong thought should  enter the mind. I am concerned that we in this  body should stand above politics and for univers-  al values. A German thinker said “ not round  the inventors of new noises, but round the inven-  tors of new values does the world revolve. Inau-  dibly it revolveth, ”  The PRESIDENT (translation): I now call upon  the Minister of Education for Czechoslovakia  Prof. Stransky.  ?  Prof. Jaroslav STRANSKY (Czechoslovakia) :  When Carlyle wrote of the French Revolution,  he prophesied that real democracy would appear  only after two centuries of charlatanism.  Two centuries have not yet passed and the  reign of democracy is still as problematical to this  world of ours as the very idea, and even the  very meaning, of democracy.  And what of culture? — have we any clearer  notion of that either? We all use the word with  the same respect. We are proud of our culture  just as we are proud of our humanitarian nobil-  ity.  "There still exists in the world a social and eco-  nomic order of things, in whose name the exploit-  ation, thé bartering even, the degradation and  contempt of man are hidden by old, by modern,  and even by revolutionary expressions, — but  culture? That is, of course, something different!  The whole world has trodden the bloody path  of war, which has not yet been followed by the  peace, but culture? Vast territories are devasta-  ted — people are dying of hunger — but culture?...  The atomic bomb... but culture?  When the second world war was at hand, a  French politician wrote to Hitler, warning him  that war, should it break out, would this time  wipe out the whole of world culture.  What logical topsy-turvydom. What a confusion  of prognosis and diagnosis! How could cultural  disintegration be the result, since it was the cause  of the war?  If our culture, or what we called our culture,  had been more than a pretence, or empty froth,  the second war would have been no more neces-  sary than the first. If, even so, by the fault of  a mad aggressor at the head of a war-mad nation,  a war had taken place, it could not have lasted  longer than the Nuremberg trial.  Internal conflicts, in the bosom of one and the  same nation, between towns or castles, could not  be considered as barbarian manifestations as long  as no common legal state existed to actasalegal  order of summary justice.  In the same way, wars between states could  not be considered as barbarian manifestations  until there arose the idea and conscience of the  international Commonwealth, in the eyes of which  every unprovoked aggression is mere mass-murder.  In two years’ time, we Czechoslovaks are going  to commemorate the three-hundredth 'anniver-  sary of our first Munich. Nevertheless in those  days it was permissible to see the Peace of West-  phalia in the light of a national catastrophe of  our own, and not that of world civilization as a  whole.  But Munich — like Manchukuo, China, Abyss-  inia, Spain — was, and could not be otherwise  than, a world-wide catastrophe, because it gavea  clear indication of the disaster which had befallen  our civilization and our culture as a whole.  — 28 _   The idea of culture does not exist side by side  with politics — the latter is subordinate to the  former. Politics are nothing more than the culture  of the human commonwealth within and between  \ the nations, corresponding to a given degree of  human evolution. Law is but a part of culture  and according to whether here — ““ Pacta sunt  servanda ’’ or there, on the contrary — ‘‘ Pacta  sunt neghgenda ”, we not only recognize today  the political level, but also the cultural standards  of the sphere in question; and since I am here  speaking of the whole international sphere, I am  speaking also for culture as a whole.  For in reality, an international community has  today become a fact and not simply a formula.  It is no longer a protocol of Geneva or a Kellogg  Pact, it is the reality of an indestructible solid-  arity of world interests inseparably united and  dependent on one another.  The notorious fifth column has become a great  universal symbol; every nation knows it in one  way or another, For finally the fifth column  everywhere will include all the others; we who  believe in an ennobling of the human race, be-  cause we believe that, in spite of everything, it  is created in the image of God (although it is  behaving as if created in the other image), we  who believe — quia absurdim est — would in real-  ity wish to see this fifth column develop, until  it becomes the only one, absorbing all others in  a common effort towards a more harmonious and  happier world.  Unesco represents a great and fine ideal of cult-  ural unity, — but how few we are, ladies and  gentlemen, up to now! This is no accusation,  either of ourselves or others; nor is it a recrimin-  ation. We must just have the courage to indulge  in a little self-criticism and not to over-estimate  our position. Whole nations are not yet among  us because they cannot be; whole nations are not  yet among us because they do not wish to be  here. Our task is not to recriminate, but rather  to act in such a way that those who cannot join  us at present become, all the same sooner or  later, better, more civilized, more fitted to be  members of our community; that those who for  the present do not desire to join us, may come,  even so, to swell and enrich our ranks, when we  have overcome their present hesitations, or (let  us admit it) their mistrust of us, a mistrust which  I firmly believe, as it is natural, will diminish  as these countries develop greater confidence in  themselves.  To all those who consider it sufficient to take  part in our meetings as observers only, we extend  a hearty welcome; but they must not forget that  in the world of today mere observers no longer  exist. Nothing in this world, my friends, can be  considered as a simple spectacle. The world is  sick and suffering; at each spot we touch, the  life-blood spurts out; no one has the right to say :  “ Am I my brother’s keeper?”  While we realise that we are few — while we  have considered why we are few — this does not  mean that we bear the full responsibility; never-  theless our first duty ought to be to measure the  extent -of our responsibility. Only thus can our  responsibility be established, and it is only by  a clear knowledge of our aims and an exact  idea of the path we follow that our ranks can  be increased. The nations represented in Unesco  will of course not bear alone the responsibility  for the cultural evolution, and with it the polit-  ical evolution, of the world, But everyone mist  be conscious of his own responsibility and each  must examine his own conduct.  There is a great danger forinternational organ-  isations such as Unesco : they tend to discuss  unimportant rather than urgent questions, If they  have a choice between dealing with important  yet highly controversial problems or dealing with  significant but less important problems which are  not controversial, the danger is that they prefer  the latter. The Organisation may also record acti-  vities, which may be important activities, but it  risks missing its principal aim.  In conclusion, allow me to offer a few concrete  suggestions :  The programme of Unesco includes the fight  against illiteracy. Quite right. But it is not only  the problem of teaching how to read. A literate  people may certainly be transformed more quickly,  but also in the most various ways. The behaviour  of the illiterate Russian Moujik towards war pri-  soners in the first World War was certainly more  civilized than the behaviour of the Germans in  the concentration camps, and the latter were not  illiterate. Literacy itself does not save anybody  from barbarism; literacy may be a weapon against  barbarism, but it may also be a weapon that  serves barbarism. We have to distinguish between  the material foundations and conditions of human  happiness and its spiritual conditions.  Further the mere spreading of knowledge about  peoples and about their different ways of living  may not be sufficient to secure the peace; in  fact, it may lead to hatred, envy and disparage-  ment. Knowledge must be enlightened by feel-  ing; we must guide people to love and esteem  each other. That is, at least, my modest belief.  People are divided by different ways of life and  living conditions, but they are divided much more  by different opinions as to what they consider  desirable, by ‘different standards of values and,  if you like, by different creeds. It was Hitler’s  Germany that made us recognize the dynamic  quality of belief. I therefore welcome the study  of the methods of Nazism which Unesco wants  to undertake. There is probably no need to stress  the fact that psychological methods cannot be  transplanted from one nation to another; that  a successful psychological approach to one na-  tion may fail if applied to another nation of dif-  ferent traditions, natures and intelligence. An  investigation into the different methods of ap-  proach to the different nations and the various  classes of society must be made. I would almost  say that every nation needs its own methods,  but not the methods of its own inclinations; such  methods might mislead it; a nation requires ra-  ther the methods which would correct its incli-  nations and lay bare its shortcomings — methods  which would be, if I might say so, the best pos-  sible antidote. But mankind as a whole needs  today a common philosophy of lite. That is why  I welcome the first approaches to this question   in the outline for the social sciences in the pro-  gramme of Unesco. |  Yesterday, at the Sorbonne, at the solemn open-  ing of this Assembly, frequent mention was made  of the traditions of the great revolution, born  in this city, and which influenced the whole world. -  The idea of a political and cultural vanguard,  sacrificing itself for the common good, is not  foreign to the Czech people — their history is  there to proveit. And it is perhaps because of that,  that our people expect more fromindustrious and  pacific effort than from the violence of revolut-  ions. ;  Revolutions educate humanity by spectacular,  but also by rather frightening, examples. Our  writer and national leader, Karel Havlicek, has  taught us to believe rather in revolutions in brains  and hearts than in revolutions by force of arms.  Such revolutions need not, at all events, break the  law — they even help to foster it, They boldly  create new values, but at the same time give a  new lease of life, a new flow of blood, to ancient  and forgotten values. If somebody succeeded in  persuading the world that the multiplication table  and the Decalogue are valid for all and not only  for a few — would that not be a'splendid revolu-  tion! In order to achieve this, do we need the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-  tural Organisation? Yes, we need it for that, and  for more than that — because one must attempt  a good thing again and again, as often as is  necessary, until it succeeds.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : We would  remind the General Conference that the Confe-  rence will meet tomorrow morning at 10.30. Be-  fore the plenary meeting, we shall have a general  meeting at 0.30, of the President, seven Vice-  Presidents, and the Chairman of the three main  Commissions.  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 21 November 1946, at 10.30 a. m.  President : M. LEon BLuM, President of the Conference  The PRESIDENT (translation) : Before con-  tinuing with the general discussion, I would like  to make two announcements on behalf of the  General Committee which has just met.  The first one concerns translations : there is  already a large number of speakers in the general  discussion and the number will probably increase  still further; the number of plenary meetings may  grow in proportion. The Committee therefore won-  dered if it would not be possible to revert to the  system adopted in London at last year’s confe-  rence, that is to say, abolish translations in the  case of the general discussion, It would save a  lot of time, because it sometimes happens that  the translation lasts longer than the actual speech.  Obviously, if a member of the Conference want-  ed a translation, it would be given at once, and  the interpreters would always be able to meet  such a request, should it be made.  On the other hand, and this is an improvement  on London, translations which have not been made  on the spot will appear the following day in the  Journal of the Conference, which will be distri-  buted to all.  If delegations prefer to make their own trans-  lations of the speeches by their representatives,  the Secretariat of the Conference will of course  be most grateful.
10. CONSIDERATION OF REQUESTS  FROM GOVERNMENTS NOT MEMBERS  OF UNESCO TO SEND OBSERVERS TO  THE CONFERENCE  We now come to the second point : the Com-  mittee has examined the proposals made by cer-  tain governments in reply to the invitation sen  under the Constitution of Unesco asking all govern-  ments not members of Unesco to send observers.  Four governments have made such requests :  the Swedish Government, the Icelandic Govern-  ment, the Swiss Federal Government and the Spa-  nish Republican Government,  In so far as Sweden and Iceland are concer-  ned, our Committee thinks that the question has  been automatically solved by the decision of  UNO to admit these two governments to the  United Nations Organisation.  With regard to the Swiss Government the Com-  mittee proposes to accept its request to send ob-  servers to the Conference.  With regard to the Spanish Republican Govern-  ment, the Committee regrets that on legal grounds  it cannot ask the Spanish Republican Govern-  ment to send observers to this session, but con-  siders the Conference should ask the Spanish Re-  publican Government to appoint representatives  to attend these meetings, which are in any case  public. ;  These are the proposals the Committee puts to  the Conference and upon which the Conference .  is asked to take a decision. :  Has anyone any comments?  M. DIWANY (Egypt) (translation) : I would  like to ask the President on what. basis represen-  tatives of Republican Spain could be invited, as  this invitation might lead us on to grounds other  than intellectual, and might place other states in  a difficult position.  Consequently, we must consider this aspect and  study the question if we are not to depart from