The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY : I will now  read the names once more of the four states which  are absent — Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Peru, the  Dominican Republic. :  The meeting was suspended at 5.25 p. m. and re-  sumed at 6 fp. m.  The PRESIDENT : We will now announce the  result of the election. I shall read off the names,  the number of votes and whether each name is  elected. After I finish the announcement, it still  remains for the members of the Executive Board  elected to draw lots as to which of them shall serve  for the three different terms of office. The number  of countries with the right to vote is 28 and  the number of countries which voted is 24.  : Votes  Dr. E. R. WALKER (Australia). 24 Elected  M. P. VERNIERS (Belgium). . . 24 ”  Prof. P. CARNEIRO (Brazil) . . 24 vs  H. E. Dr. Dore (Canada). . . 24 »  Prof. M. CHEN YUAN (China) . 24 »  Dr. J. OpocENsKkY (Czecho-  slovakia). . . . . . . . 24 »  H. FE. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  (Egypt). . . . + 1 + + 1 + 24 2  - M. P. AUGER (France). . . . 24 A  Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece). . 24 A  Prof. H. R. KruyT »(Nether-  ands). . . . . . +... . + 24 ,»  Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India). 24 >  Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) . . 24 »  Dr. A. SOMMERFELT (Norway). 24 A  M. FALSKI (Poland) . . . . . 24 ”  M. GUNTERKIN (Turkey). « 24  Sir John Maup (United King-  dom). . 12e 22 24 ’  Hon. A. MacLE1sH (United  States . . . 2244 +. 24 >  H. E. M. PARRA PEREZ (Vene-  zuela). ee a eee aa. 24 27  The PRESIDENT : Now we shall draw lots for  ‘the terms of service of the members elected. The  names are being put in the ballot box and will be  drawn. The first six names drawn are to serve for  one year.  Here are their names :  Dr. H. R. KRUYT  Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ  Sir John MAUD  Mr. CHEN YUAN  Dr. E. R. WALKER  M. FALSKI  Here are the six names to serve for two years :  H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  H. E. Dr. Dore  Dr. J. OPOCENSKY  Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN  M. P. VERNIERS  Prof. PHOTIADES  . /  And here are the next six, who will serve for  three years :  H. E. M. PARRA PEREZ  Hon. A. MACLEISH  Prof. P. CARNEIRO"  M. P. AUGER  Dr. A. SOMMERFELT  M. GUNTEKIN  The PRESIDENT : This concludes the first set  of the Plenary Meetings of this Conference.  NINTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 6 December 1946 at 11 a. m.  President : M. SEBASTIAN (Philippines)  Later M. Léon Brum (France)  The PRESIDENT : Before proceeding with the  items on the Agenda, the Chair wishes to announce  that the Meeting will be adjourned at about
12 o'clock and that a private meeting of the  Conference will then be held.
13. CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS  OF THE COMMISSIONS AND SUB-  COMMISSIONS  I. — REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  AND LEGAL COMMISSION.  The first item on the agenda is the Report of  the Administrative and Legal Commission. I call  ‘upon M. Claude Gruson, Rapporteur of the Com-  mission, to report to the Conference.  M. GRUSON (France) (translation) : The Ad-  ministrative and Legal Commission has elected  M. Sommerfelt (Norway) Chairman, and Mr.  Eisenhower (United States of America) Vice-  Chairman.  The Commission has completed part of its work  and submits the present. Report to the General  Conference. Before reading the report I should  like to make a short comment on the material  aspects of the document which you have before  you. This document contains the proposals of  the Commission on various Legal and External  Relations matters, the Revised Staff Regulations,  and finally the report on the Provisional Finan-  cial Regulations.  I will now deal with the proposals of the Com-  mission concerning the various Legal and Exter-  nal Relations questions,  — 68 —   (The Rapporteur then read the report concerning  the proposals of the Commission concerning Legal  and External Relations questions.) (Annex 2.)  I will not read the Annexes which appear at  the end of this Report, and will carry straight  on with the second part of the Report dealing  with the Revised Staff Regulations, (Annex 2.)  “ The Commission has been actuated by the  desire to constitute a staff offering serious gua-  rantees of efficiency and to recruit it on a  broad and truly international basis. It has  endeavoured to reconcile the necessity of re-  cruiting on the widest possible basis with the  legitimate interests of the staff of the Secre-  tariat of the Preparatory Commission. Finally,  it desires to provide stable careers for the staff,  while bearing in mind the necessity of relieving  the Organisation of obligations towards mem-  bers of the staff, who, in the course of their  work, may not prove entirely satisfactory.”  After this, you will find the text of the Revised  Staff Regulations.  I now come to the third part of my report  which concerns Provisional Financial Regulations.  (Annex 2.)  “In the course of a detailed study of the  question, the Commission has endeavoured to  clarify the accountancy and financial regula-  tions already outlined by the Secretariat of the  Preparatory Commission, to which the Organ-  ization will have to conform. It has considered  at length the problems raised by the control of  financial administration. It has framed regulat-  ions reconciling the necessity of efficient intern-  al control and of basing the budgetary control  exercised by the General Conference on detail-  ed information of the past year’s accounts with  the desire not to hamper the Director-General  by too onerous methods of control. It hopes  that these regulations will provide a guarantee  of efficiency and economy. ””  After the Preamble which I have just read you  will find the Provisional Financial Regulations  submitted to the approval of the General Confer-  ence.  The PRESIDENT : I would like to,know if  any delegate wishes to make any observations on  the Report. I am willing to grant reasonable time  to any delegate who wishes to speak on this mat-  ter. If there are none, then we may proceed  with the discussion of the Report section by sec-  tion. It seems that everybody has already dis-  cussed at length some of these points in the  Commissions and Sub-Commissions; we will not,  therefore, consider the Report page by page.  A. — EXTERNAL RELATIONS  I. — DRAFT AGREEMENT WITH  THE UNITED NATIONS.  If there are no objections to the Report of the  Sub-Commission, we will take it as approved.  It is approved:  t  JI. — DRAFT CONVENTIONS CONCERNING  PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES.  We now come to two draft conventions be-  tween members of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization concerning  privileges and immunities. The Commission re-  commends that the discussion should be referred  to another sitting of the General Conference; but  approves the text of the following recommenda-  tion :  ‘“ Pending the conclusion of a General Con-  vention regarding the privileges and immuni-  ties of the Specialized Agencies, the officials  and the representatives of their States Members,  the General Conference requests the Govern-  ments of all States Members to grant suitable  facilities to officials and representatives of the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organisation, travelling through, or  staying in, their territory in the course of an  official mission. ””  I wish to call your attention to the last page,  which contains some corrections. The paragraph  which I have read should read as follows: ‘‘“ while  awaiting the drafting of a General Convention  defining the privileges and immunities of Speciali-  sed Agencies, of their officials and of represen-  tatives of States Members, the General Conference  requests the Government of each State Member  to grant the appropriate facilities to officials and  representatives of Unesco who pass through their  country or stay there while on an official visit. ”  That is the text recommended for approval. Are  there any objections to the approval of this re-  commendation? Then it is approved.  ITI. — DRAFT AGREEMENT WITH THE GOVERN-  MENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC CONCERNING  PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES.  The Sub-Commission also recommends to defer  the discussion of this draft until such time as  the General Convention on privileges and immu-  nities may be adopted. Are there any objections  to this recommendation from the Sub-Commis-  sion? If not, the recommendation is approved.  IV. — PROVISIONAL DIRECTIVES CONCERNING THE  ESTABLISHMENT OF RELATIONS BETWEEN THE UNI-  TED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CUL-  TURAL ORGANISATION AND INTERNATIONAL NON-  GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS.  You will find the Provisional Directives on  page 5 of the report, which contains the full text.  Is there any objection to the approval of this  provisional directive as recommended by the Sub-  Commission. As there are no objections it is  approved.  V. — DRAFT AGREEMENT WITH THE INTERNA-~  TIONAL INSTITUTE OF INTELLECTUAL CO-OPER~  ATION.  The full text appears in the annexes to the  Report. As there are no objections it is approved.   VI, — DRAFT AGREEMENT WITH THE  INTERNATIONAL BUREAU OF ÉDUCATION.  The full text also appears in the Report  (Annex 2). Are there any objections to the ap-  proval of this recommendation that the General  Conference adopt the text? If not the Agree-  ment is approved.  VII. — DRAFT AGREEMENT WITH THE INTER-  NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SCIENTIFIC UNIONS.  The Sub-Commission recommends that the Gen-  eral Conference should adopt the amended text  as it appears in the Annex! Are there any objec-  tions to this? As there are none the project is  approved.  -  VIII. — RELATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED NA-  TIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL  ORGANISATION AND THE MEMBER STATES.  I would like to call the attention of Delegates  to the fact that there is a correction on the last  page. It should read as follows: that the Gene-  ral Conference shall invite those Member States  which have not yet established National Com-  missions or National organs of co-operation to  take the required measures for putting into force  the provisions of Article VII of the Constitution  of Unesco ”’. Are there any objections to the  approval of this part of the Report? Then it is  approved. :  IX. — RELATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED Na-  TIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL  ORGANISATION AND OTHER SPECIALISED AGENCIES.  Are there any objections to this part of the  Report? If not it is approved.  This first part of the Report is therefore appro-  ved from Part I to Part IX.  B. — REVISED STAFF REGULATIONS  , We shall now turn to the Revised Staff Regula-  tions (Annex 2, part B). It begins with a Pre-  amble. Are there any objections, or any amend-  ment you would like to introduce to the Preamble  as drafted by the Sub-Commission? If there are  no objections to the Preamble as it is recom-  mended, then it is adopted.  We will take Chapter 1, DUTIES AND OBLI-  GATIONS OF THE SECRETARIAT, Are there any  objections to the approval of this Chapter or to  any of the regulations contained in this Chapter?  As there are no objections it is approved. Chap-  ter 2 provides for APPOINTMENT, PROBATION AND  PROMOTION. I wish to call the attention of the  meeting to a correction. Regulation 10 should be  ‘deleted. Are there any objections?  The delegate for FRANCE : The French Dele-  gation asks that Regulation 10 be maintained.  The clausés of Regulation 10 were introduced at  the request of the French delegation. They were  discussed at length and adopted by the Sub-  Commission responsible for the study of Staff  Regulations, They were then referred to the full  Commission, but the document contained some  mistakes, some very important sentences being  omitted in the French text. The Commission was  very pressed for time and, after a rapid survey of  the rules, decided to delete Regulation zo.  The French Delegation urges that this Regu-  lation should be re-inserted for the following reas-  ons. Candidates’ records should contain informa-  tion provided by the National Commission of the  country to which the candidate belongs. Through-  out the drafting of the Staff Regulations, the  French Delegation has attempted to introduce  adequate safeguards for the staff, and even to  avoid that they should be dismissed without  compensation when a post is abolished, but the  French Delegation considers that such safeguards  should be reciprocal, and that the Organisation  should be protected against the staff, just as the  staff is protected against the Organisation.  The French Delegation holds the view that it  is essential to have candidates’ qualifications veri-  fied by an organisation on the spot, capable of  providing considered recommendations. As an  example, I will quote the following case. The  French Delegation is aware that among the can-  didates for appointments in the Secretariat there  is a candidate whose record contains several im-  portant diplomas, but the French Delegation  knows that they are forgeries. Now it is a mater-  ial impossibility for Unesco to verify the authen-  ticity of these diplomas, but it would be most  unfortunate if such a person were engaged, when  consultation with the competent organisations in  the country concerned — in this case it happens  to be France and that is why we were informed  of it — would have easily shown that these degrees  were not genuine.  This is why the French Delegation asks that  this Regulation should be re-inserted with the  following wording :  “A record containing all the information  concerning the qualifications of the candidate  and his previous career shall be drawn up and  submitted to the Director-General. This record  shall also contain any further information on  the candidate, which shall be provided when-  ever possible by the National Commission of  the country to which he belongs, or failing this,  by any qualified organisation which replaces  the National Commission. ”  The reintroduction of the wording ‘ … shall be  provided whenever possible ’’ corresponds to the  United Kingdom draft, thus in cases where con-  sultation with the organisation is impossible the  Secretariat will be entitled to dispense with it.  The French Delegation strongly urges the re-  introduction of this clause, which 1t considers essen-  tial to the efficient working of the Organisation.  The PRESIDENT : Will anyone second the  proposal by the French Delegation that Article 10  .be maintained? (The Delegates of Peru and Bel-  gium raised their hands.) In view of the fact  that it is seconded, we will put it for discussion.   The Delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM :  On behalf of the United Kingdom Delegation, I  would like to say that we recognise that the  decision to delete Regulation 10 was taken at a late  hour in the Sub-Commission. There was a great  deal of business, and it was necessarily hurried.  But we are of the opinion that further consider-  ation would have led to exactly the same result,  and we wish the deletion of this regulation to  stand. The Director-General and the Executive  Committee will have the possibility of obtaining  full information with regard to the qualifications  of any candidate fron the scientific and cultural  point of view. There is no difficulty whatever in  obtaining satisfactory information about a can-  didate’s qualifications by reference to appropriate  bodies in the countries concerned, and by obtain-  ing personal opinion wherever necessary. What  we take particular objection to is that the Direc-  tor-General should be provided with a file contain-  ing all information concerning the candidate’s  previous career, and that this should come from  a national body. The whole thing savours too  much of a political record, not to say police  record. The United Kingdom Delegation consi-  ders-that it is contrary to the normal practice in  our own country. We therefore oppose the re-  insertion of this Regulation. :  The delegate of DENMARK : I only wish  to associate myself with the views put forward  by the United Kingdom Delegate. I think that  in the wording of the Regulations, as drafted,  there is nothing to prevent the Director-General  from collecting all information in whatever way  he may wish to do so; but we do not know at  present the way in which the National Commis-  sions will be established in the various countries.  We do not know to what extent they will express  the views of their governments and to what extent  these views will be taken. I think it would be  better to leave the findings of the Director-General  to his own discretion, and I think there can be no  difficulty in ascertaining whether a diploma is  genuine or not. This can of course be done by  direct communication with the authorities con-  cerned.  We must also look at the complementary side  of the question. This Regulation might have the  danger of conferring political influence on some  Government or another, which might try to get  such an influence by this means; we should avoid  putting into the Regulations any rule which gives  an advantage to one side or another. I think  the question should be left as it now stands, name-  ly at the discretion of the Director-General. I  _ think that the Regulations, as they are now  drafted, give him every necessary facility.  The PRESIDENT : Are there any other dele-  gates who wish to speak on this same subject?  The delegate of the UNITED STATES: Speak-  ing on behalf of the United States Delegation,  I am firmly opposed to the re-insertion of Rule
10, for the reasons already stated by other dele-  gates.  The delegate of MEXICO (translation) : 1  simply. wish to support the views expressed by  the delegates of the United States and of Den-  mark.  The PRESIDENT : If there is no other dele-  gate who wishes to speak on this proposition,  then let us take the vote. :  The delegate of BELGIUM (translation) :  While perfectly understanding the opinions ex-  pressed and the difficulties of dealing with Nation-  al Commissions not yet created, their role and  importance must not be exaggerated. It is quite  different {rom direct collaboration in our work.  , 1 should like to propose a solution. Arguments  have been presented here regarding counterfeit  diplomas, candidates coming from anywhere,  perhaps adventurers; could not the chief of  each national delegation be consulted on each  nomination? This would remove the objections to  referring to the National Commissions and give  all the necessary guarantees concerning qualifica-  tions,  The delegate of FRANCE (franslation) : I  should simply like to add that if we delete  Rule ro there is nothing to prevent the Organi-  sation from making appropriate enquiries as to  the qualifications of a candidate, but, on the other  hand, there is nothing which compels it to do  so. I should like to state that in the case I have  just quoted, the French delegation believes that  the candidate in question was favourably recom-  mended, obtaining nine marks out of a possible  ten.  The PRESIDENT : The proposal before the  meeting is whether Regulation 10 should be re-  inserted. The proposal is submitted by France. We  will take a vote. All those who are in favour of  this proposal, that is to re-insert this deleted  paragraph, please raise their hands. One vote  from each voting nation. Those against? By nine  votes in favour and fourteen against, the motion
1s rejected.  This vote applied to Regulation 10 only. Are  there any objections to the adoption of the whole  of Chapter 2? Chapter 2 is approved.  We will now take CHAPTER 3. — SALARIES.  Are there any objections to this part of the re-  port? Chapter 3 is approved.  CHAPTER 4. — Hours or Work. Hours of work  shall be determined by the Director-General. Are  there any objections? It is approved.  CHAPTER 5. — LEAVE. Are there anv objections  to this part of the report? It is approved.  CHAPTER 6. — MEDICAL BENEFITS SCHEME.  Are there any objections? Chapter 6 is approved.  CHAPTER 7. — DISCIPLINARY MEASURES. Are  there any objections to Chapter 7? It is approved.  CHAPTER 8. — ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL. The  Regulation which appears in your text does not  have the full text of Regulation 30. I will read  Regulation 30: :  ‘“ Any dispute arising between the Organi-  sation and a member of the staff regarding the  fulfilment of the contract of a member of the  staff or arising out of disciplinary action, may  be referred for final decision to an Administra-  ‘ tive Tribunal to be established by the Execu-  tive Board for such period as may be necessary  — 71 —   pending definitive arrangements with the Uni-  ted Nations. ”  If there is no objection Chapter 8 is approved.  CHAPTER 9. — TERMINATION AND RESIGNATION  OF APPOINTMENT. The Delegate of Australia wishes  to speak.  , The delegate of AUSTRALIA : Regulation
3I now reads :  ‘“ With the concurrence of the Executive  Board, the Director-General may terminate the  appointment of a member of the staff if the  necessities of the service require the abolition  of the post. ” :  This Regulation has been the subject of much  contention in both the Administrative and Finan-  cial Sub-Commissions, and in the main Adminis-  trative and Legal Commission. The Australian  delegation originally supported the Polish pro-  posal to insert the key words ‘“ With the concur-  rence of the Executive Board ”.  These words were included by a vote of eight  to six in the Sub-Commission, and by a vote of  seven to six in the main Commission. On the one  hand, the Australian delegation, while regatding  . the principle of obtaining the consent of the Exe-  cutive Board to any major change in the directive  of the Secretariat as very important, is not alto-  gether satisfied with the words as they now  stand, They tend to hamper the Director-Gene-  ral somewhat unduly as requiring him to obtain  the consent of the Board, even for the abolition  of a trivial minor post in the Secretariat.  Further, it is desirable that in the case of a  Regulation of such importance, the maximum  unanimity be obtained. With that objection in  view, informal consultations were held yesterday  with most of the delegates who spoke on both  sides of this issue, on the Sub-Commission itself  and on the main Commission; and a general infor-  mal agreement was given to the formula which  I am about to propose.  I formally move, that the following wording  be substituted for the present wording of Regu-  lation 31 :  ““ The Director-General may terminate the  appointment of a member of the staff if the  necessities of the service require the abolition  of the post. Any such projected abolition shall  be reported to the Executive Board whose  approval shall be required if in its opinion the  abolition would effect an important change in  the structure of the Secretariat. ”  The Australian delegation puts forward this  formula in the hope that it may secure the una-  nimous approval of this Conference.  The PRESIDENT : Does anyone wish to second  ‘the proposal submitted by the delegate of Aus-  tralia? The delegate of Belgium seconds the pro-  posal. Therefore I put this question before the  Conference for discussion. Does anyone wish to  speak against this proposition? I will repeat the  proposal for the information of the Conference.  The proposal is: take out the words with the  concurrence of the Executive Board ” at the beg-  inning of the Resolution, and at the end of the  paragraph add ‘ any such projected abolition shall  be referred to the Executive Board, whose appro-  val shall be required if in its opinion it would  affect the structure of the Secretariat *. Does any .  delegate wish to speak on this suggestion?  The delegate of INDIA : I presume that the  intention of this amendment is to see that the  Director-General is not hindered in his work by  the Executive Board even in abolishing an im-  portant post. But the Australian proposal says  ‘‘ any such- suppression... if in its opinion it will  affect the structure of the Secretariat’. That  might introduce many difficulties. First, they will  have to wait for the Executive Board to meet,  and second, the Executive Board may or may not  agree on that matter, I think it would be wiser  phraseology if we said : ‘“ The Director-General  will have at his disposal the possibility of crea-  ting certain posts if they are necessary, but he  shall also be entitled to suppress those posts. ’ If  the Australian delegation will agree, I will pro-  pose the addition of these words at the end of  the Regulation and with the proposed deletion  of the first few words ‘“ with the concurrence of  the Executive Board ’’. I should prefer the Direc-  tor-General to be able to suppress less important  posts, but not the more important posts, for  which he would be obliged to obtain the approval  of the Executive Board.  The PRESIDENT : The delegate of India pro-  poses an amendment to the Australian proposi-  tion. Does anyone second the Indian proposition?  The delegate of the Netherlands seconds the  proposal.  Does the Australian delegate accept the amend-  ment as proposed by the Indian delegation?  The delegate of AUSTRALIA : While ap-  preciating the suggestion of the delegate of  India, I do not think it quite covers what we  had in mind. The key word in our proposal is  rr ‘““ any important change ". * Important has a  twofold connotation. Firstly, any wide-sweeping  change in the structure of the Secretariat such  as, to take an extreme example, the abolition of  a complete Section; secondly, the abolition of  one individual important post. Now the second  point is covered by the form of words suggested  by my Indian friend, but I am afraid the first  point is not. I think his point is covered by the  wording as I have suggested. So I would ask the  honourable delegate of India to consider whether  what he has in mind is not already covered by  the form of words I have proposed, and I hope  that the Executive Board will, in defining its  relationships with the Director-General, indicate  which posts it regards as important, so that it  will be quite clear when its consent will be re-  quired.  The PRESIDENT : The question before us  is a discussion of the amendment to the Australian  proposal. Does anyone wish to speak on this  amendment, or on the Indian amendment?  The delegate of FRANCE (translation) : The  French delegation would like to make an obser-  vation on the wording of this amendment. In  the French text, with or without the amendment,   the distinction is so subtle that it ceases to have  any real meaning. In the French text the use of  the expression ‘ son ”’ makes it difficult to realise  to what the possessive pronoun refers. Does this  mean the Director-General or the Executive  Board? If it means the Executive Board, then  there is no difference; if, on the other hand, it  means the Director-General, I must point out  that there is an extraordinary contradiction in  the meaning implied by the word ‘shall ” and  the element of doubt suggested by the word  “if ”. Finally, with regard to the amendment  proposed by the Indian Delegate, this Article is  intended to provide the staff with certain safe-  guards, and I consider that it is essential to pro-  vide the junior staff with the same guarantees  as the senior staff, if not more.  The French delegation, therefore, will not only  oppose the Indian delegation’s amendment, but  also the Australian amendment; and asks that  the Regulations should be adopted in the form  originally proposed by the Commission.  The PRESIDENT : The question before us is  the amendment of the Indian delegation to the  Australian amendment. The Indian amendment  consists of the insertion of these words...  ‘The Director-General will have at his dis-  posal the possibility of creating certain posts
1f they are necessary, but he shall also be  entitled to suppress those posts. ‘’  I shall now put this amendment to the vote.  Those who are in favour of the amendment intro-  duced by the Indian delegation to the amendment  of the Australian proposition, please raise their  hands.  By eight votes in favour to ten against the In-  dian amendment is rejected.  Now we shall take up the principal proposal as  submitted by the Australian delegation. I shall  read the text again. The proposal is to delete the  words : ‘“ with the concurrence of the Executive  Board ” at the beginning, so that the full text will  read as;follows :  ‘’The Director-General may terminate the  appointment of a member of the staff if the  necessities of the service require the abolition  of the post. j  ‘“ Any such projected abolition shall be repor-  ted to the Executive Board whose approval  shall be required if in its opinion the abolition’  would effect an important change in the struc-  ture of the Secretariat. ”  Will all those who are in favour of the Austra-  lian proposition please raise the right hand?  The proposition is adopled by fifteen votes in  favour to two against. Regulation 31 will there-  fore be drafted in conformity with the Australian  amendment. :  Is there any objection to Chapter IX as amend-  ed? None? Then Chapter IX is approved, with  the amendment we have just passed.  CHAPTER X. — EXPENSES AND ALLOWANCES,  Are there any objections to this chapter? If not  it is approved.  CHAPTER XI. — PENSION SCHEME. Are there  any objections to this chapter? It is approved.  CHAPTER XII. — PROVIDENT FUND. Are there  any objections? It is approved.  CHAPTER XIII. — SPECIAL INDEMNITIES. Are  there any objections to this chapter? It is approved.  CHAPTER XIV. — GENERAL Provisions. Is  there any objection to this chapter? Then it is  approved.  There are still the “ Provisional Financial Re-  gulations ’’. As I have already announced, the Con-  ference will now hold a private meeting. I will ad-  journ for a few minutes, then I will request all the  delegates to come back for the private meeting.  Persons who are not delegates or members of  the Secretariat will not be admitted to this private  meeting.  The meeting was adjourned at 12.5 and resumed  at 1.10 p. M.
14. ELECTION OF THE DIRECTOR-  GENERAL  Result of vote :  Delegates with the right to vote. . 30  "Voting . . . 2444440621 27  The result of the vote on the proposals of the  Executive Board was as follows :  Yes... . . . . . 22 votes  No. ....... 37  Invalid Votes. . . . z 7  In accordance with the proposals of the Execu-  tive Board, Dr. Julian Huxley was elected Direc-  tor-General of Unesco.