Is  With this alteration, Item VIII was approved.  Item 1X (Relations between Unesco and the  other Specialized Agencies) was adopted without  discussion.  The CHAIRMAN then submitted for discus-  sion the Draft Staff Regulations (Doc, Unesco/C/  Admin. & Jur./S. C. Adm. & Fin./17).  Mg. Walter LavEs (United States), Rapporteur  of the Administrative and Financial Sub-Commis-  sion, presented this document.  The preamble was adopted without discussion.  Section I (Regulations I to 5) was adopied  with out discussion,  In Section IT (Regulations 6 to 21) two amend-  ments were made to Regulation 8 by M. Doré  (Canada) Chairman of the Executive Board, na-  mely, to add to the first paragraph the words ‘or  such Committee as the Executive Board may  nominate '’’ and, in the second paragraph, to de-  lete the last part of the sentence : ‘ having regard  to the opinions expressed by the Nominations  Committee appointed by the Executive Board,  from amongst its own members ’. These amend-  ments were rejected. The same fate attended an  amendment by the delegate of Chile, who, in Re-  gulation 9, suggested that the words ‘“ one of the  two working languages ” should be replaced by  the words ‘‘ one of the three..., etc. ”’, in case the  General Conference should admit Spanish as a  third working language of Unesco.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM propo-  sed the deletion of Regulation 10 concerning can-  didates’files and information to be supplied about  them by the National Commissions,  This proposal was voted on and adopied, but  the FRENCH delegate protested against this vote  and said that he would ask the General Confe-  rence to revert to this point.  With this deletion, the whole of Section II was  adopted.  Sections III, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII were  adopted. |  In Section IX an amendment submitted by the  CHAIRMAN of the EXECUTIVE BOARD to omit the  words ‘‘ with the concurrence of the Executive  Board ”’ was rejected. After correction of a mis--  take in Regulation 32 (Regulation 28 should read  Regulation 31), Section IX (Regulations 31 to 34)  was adopted. :  In Section X the French text of Regulation 36  was rather different from the English text and it  was decided that the Secretariat should bring  them into agreement on the basis of the English  text. Section X was adopted.  Sections XI, XII, XIII and XIV were adopted.  The whole of the Draft Stafl Regulations were  thus adopted.  Mr. BeEBy (New Zealand) took the chair  and submitted for examination the draft Finan-  cial Regulations prepared by the Administrative  and Financial Sub-Commission (Doc. Unesco/C/  Admin, & Jur./S. C, Adm. & Fin./16). This docu-.  ment was presented by Mr. Walter Laves (United  States), Rapporteur of the Sub-Commission.  ‘Regulations 1 to 14 were adopted without dis-  cussion,  At the proposal of the SOUTH AFRICAN delegate,  a small correction was made to the English text  of Regulation 15 where «are payable ” should be  read instead of “ will be payable ”’. With this  amendment Regulation 15 was adopted.  Regulations 16 to 31 were adopted without dis-  cussion.  With regard to Regulation 32, discussion arose  on when the Financial Regulations should come  into force. In the opinion of the LEGAL ADVISOR  this should be on the day of the appointment of  the Director-General, since the Preparatory Com-  mission of Unesco would be dissolved on that day.  However, at the proposal of the delegate of BEL-  GIUM, the Commission decided that it would not  itself fix this date. :  The whole of the Draft Financial Regulations  were adopied.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1046 at 4 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. SOMMERFELT (Norway).  The CHAIRMAN explained that the purpose of  the meeting was to examine a proposal by the  Fxecutive Board to replace the provision adopted  by the Administrative and Financial Sub-Com-  mission concerning the Deputy Director-General.  (Document Unesco/C/22 Section C 1).  . M. Doré (Canada), Chairman of the Executive  Board, suggested the following amendment :  ‘‘ A Deputy Director-General shall be appoin-  ted.  ‘“ This Deputy Director-General shall be the  second official of the Organization and shall sub-  ject to the authority of the Director-General,  be responsible for administration, staff and  finance. ,  ‘‘ Since the Director-General will necessarily  be away from Headquarters at frequent inter-  vals, the Deputy Director-General must be fa-  miliar with all aspects of the Organisation’s ac-  tivities, and his duties and responsibilities shall  consist in the execution of programmes and all  matters relating to administration and finance. ,,  Mr. BeeBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the  Administrative and Financial Sub-Commission,  expressed surprise that the Executive Board, paral-  lel with the Sub-Commission, had examined a ques-  tion that had been entrusted to the Sub-Commis-  sion by the General Conference and had adopted a  different text without informing it.  The delegates of the UNITED KrINGDOM and of  the UNITED STATES said there was no fundamental  difference between the two texts and that it would  be easy to agree on this point.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate was of the same opi-  nion. He said that the procedure seemed perfect-  ly correct.  Dr. BEEBY associated himself with the view ex-  pressed by the AUSTRALIAN delegate as regards  procedure, but maintained that, if these questions  of administration, staff and finance were entrus-  ted to the Assistant Director-General, he would be
134 —   unable to deal with them satisfactorily, as he  would often have to deputise for the Director-  General, when the latter was absent.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the amendment  proposed by the Executive Board.  The amendment was adopted.  The GREEK delegate drew the Commission’s at-  tention to the vote on the budget total, which  had taken place at the last meeting of the Admin-  istrative and Financial Sub-Commission. He did  not think that this vote was in order, since the  list for the roll call was not complete.  Dr. BEEBY, Chairman of the Administrative and  Financial Sub-Commission, observed that this  question was a matter for the Sub-Commission,  and not for the full Commission.  The CHAIRMAN accepted this view and referred  the point of order made by the Greek delegate  to the Administrative and Financial Sub-Commis-  sion.  - 135 —