J  should be altered so as to imply ability to under-  stand lectures or talks in English or French. He  also asked that the persons appointed to take part  in these scminars should be chosen on the widest  possible representative basis, and that teachers  who had attended such courses should be given  the possibility of utilizing the specialized know-  ledge they had thus acquired.  This proposal was considered as approved, sub-  ject to the above alteration.  The meeting then dealt with the proposal con-  cerning the COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATIONAL STA-  TISTICS (Proposal M, page 151 of the Report on  the Unesco Programme).  The INDIAN delegate emphasized the importance  of this question; the establishment of statistics  would enable the stimulation of backward coun-  tries and help every country to solve problems  relating to education.  - The CHAIRMAN pointed out that this project  was linked with that concerning the publication  of an international year-book, and suggested that  it might be useful to consider both proposals simul-  tanecusly.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate pointed out that  the publication of the year-book would have to  be considered in any case, Such a year-book would  permit the standardization of terminology and  would facilitate the interpretation of statistics.  The CHAIRMAN thought the two proposals were  therefore inseparable and that the Sub-Commis-  sion could recommend their adoption to the Con-  ference.  The two proposals were adopted.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  : (Egypt).  The discussion began on Item 4 of the Agenda  ‘ Revision of School Textbooks ”’.  Mme Natalie GASIOROWSKA (Poland) mentio-  ned the importance of the teaching of history and . -  its influence on world peace. Some form of inter-  national control should be exercised on general his-  tory and national history text-books, so as to pre-  vent the distortion of events for war-like purposes;  such control should particularly apply to those  countries where harmful doctrines had taken root  and where the desire for power dominated. The  teaching of history must be scientific and impar-  tial, and the treatment of social evolution and  human progress must also be considered in its so-  cial, economic and diplomatic, as well as in its  political aspects.  Mr. G. D. STODDARD (United States) read the  text of the Unesco programme (Unesco/C. /o,  page 19, paragraphs I-7 and pages 22-23, para-  graph 7). He observed that there were no govern-  ment educational text-books in America and that  there was absolute freedom in the publication of  school-books. Unesco must not take on the role  of censor, and alter or revise books which appeared  in America, but should confine itself to the draft-  ing of reports and recommendations, which would  be submitted to American educationalinstitutions.  M. Hans Moxr (Norway) proposed the creat-  ion of a Committee in every country for the col-  lection of exhaustive historical documentation, in  co-operation with the governmental authorities of  that country, and the communication of this docu-  mentation to Unesco.  Mr. K. G. SAIYIDAIN (India) observed that text-  books were capable of giving a distorted view of  facts. It was essential that regional conferences  ‘should be held to verify history text-books and  fhus contribute to better international relations.  M. P. VERNIERS (Belgium) thought that an en-  quiry should be made regarding the most appro-  priate age for beginning the teaching of history  in schools, and the proportion of the curriculum  to be devoted to this subject.  M. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) pointed out that  the essential factor in the problem of education  was really the teacher, rather than the text-book.  It was the teachers who must be imbued with a  truly international outlook.  M. WALLON (France) recommended the esta-  blishment of national enquiry and documentation  committees, which would form the basis of a sound  organization. He emphasized the necessity of re-  vising all school-books without exception, and not  only history and geography text-books. Finally,  he hoped for the development of a truly interna-  tional education.  Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) considered that  the Member States of Unesco should be asked to  send the Secretariat copies of all the school-books  used in their schools and colleges. The Secretariat  could then study these books.  The delegate of NICARAGUA and CosTA Rica said  that the revision of text-books should also apply  to books on religious history.  Mer, Jean MarouN (Lebanon) considered it  would be useful to encourage authors of new school  text-books by the award of generous scholarships.  Dr. Gabriel R. MANALAC (Philippines) favoured  the drafting of a Charter defining the essential  principles to be followed by the various countries  in regard to school text-books. Unesco would be  responsible for drafting and publishing this charter  M. Osman HoRASANLI (Turkey) said he would  like to see the establishment of a revision com-  mittee for school text-books, possessing effective  censorship powers.  M, P. CARNEIRO (Brazil) recommended that  scientific and technical treatises should be imbued  with a sounder historical sense and should reflect  the collective thoughts of men and women through  the ages. :  The CHAIRMAN then took a vote, first on the  various amendments proposed, as follows :
1. Amendment proposed by NEW ZEALAND  (addition to paragraph I, page 19 in English  text of Document C./9) :  «“ ...each Member State is requested to send  Unesco the widest possible representative col-  lection of text-books used in the educational  institutions of their country which might have  an influence on the intellectual and moral trai-  ning of Youth. ”  Seconded by AUSTRALIA.  Adopted by 11 votes to 2.  — 152 —
2. and Section of the amendment proposed  by NEw ZEALAND.  “The Secretariat is requested to study the  text-books sent by the various countries, in  collaboration with the National Commissions  and Organizations and to make areport on the  subject at the following General Conference. ”  Seconded by the UNITED Kinpow.  Adopted by g votes to 3.
3. Amendment proposed by the INDIAN dele-  gation.  “ The Secretariat shall study the text-books  sent by the various countries, in the light of  their international outlook and understanding,  and send a report on this subject to each coun-  try concerned. ”  + Seconded by Norway.  Adopted by ¢ votes to o.
4. Amendment proposed by the delegation of  the PHILIPPINES (making a new paragraph 8).  “ In collaboration with the Committee,  Unesco shall prepare a Charter in the light of  which the various countries will revise and  modify their school text-books.”  Seconded by EcyrT. /  Adopted by 12 votes to 3.
5. Amendment proposed by M. WALLON  (France) (Addition to paragraph 5).  “To get in touch with the various govern-  ments and with the associations of teachers,  scholars and historians in order to discover  the facts on questions of universal historical  importance and to avoid presenting them in  a different form for each nation. ”  Seconded by BELGIUM.  Adopted by 17 votes to o.
6. Amendment proposed by Dr. Cru SH  Yuin (China).  “ That the Secretariat publish a periodical list  of documentation available to authors, in order  to facilitate the alteration or production of school-  books. ”  Seconded by FRANCE.  Adopted by II votes to 5.  Following points raised by the UNITED KiN6-  DOM and SOUTH AFRICAN Delegates, a vote was  taken on whether the draft should be voted upon  as a whole, with the inclusion of the amendments  just adopted, or whether a separate vote should  be taken on each paragraph. The proposal by the  UNITED KINGDOM, seconded by NEw ZEALAND,  that a separate vote should be taken on each  paragraph, was rejected by II votes to 6.  A vote was therefore taken on the draft as a  whole, with the inclasion of the amendments al-  ready adopted. :  The motion that the whole draft with the amend-  ments should be recommended to the General  Conference was adopted by 14 votes to 4.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 27 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  (Egypt).  The Sub-Commission resumed the discussion of  item 4 of the Agenda ‘“ General Discussion of the  Draft Programme”, and proceeded to consider the  note concerning the order of priority to be given  to proposals.  Group I. No. 5 : LrAISON COMMITTEE  ON ‘‘ EDUCATION FOR HEALTH. ”  The CHAIRMAN called upon Mme Thibert, re--  presentative of the International Labour Office.  Mme THIBERT stated that the International La-  bour Office was expecting much assistance from  Unesco in the promotion of social progress. She  mentioned the community of interest between  Unesco and the I. L. O., and also the necessity  for close co-operation between these two Organ-  izations, particularly in regard to the educational  aspects of vocational training. Such collaboration  could either be bi-lateral or multi-lateral, when.  the problems under consideration concerned other  specialized organizations. Mme Thibert then quot-  ed several typical examples of co-operation, for  instance, Proposal No. 1 ‘‘ Creation of a Committee  of Experts on Education for Health ”. She em-  phasized that it would be desirable forthe I. L. O.  to be represented on this Committee. Problems of  orientation and selection, in which educational  and professional issues were closely associated,  were of interest to both Unesco and the I. L. O.  In conclusion, Mme Thibert assured the meeting  of the I. L. O’ s readiness to co-operate willingly  in all circumstances and with all its resources in  any form of co-operation with Unesco.  Dr. WILsoN (Deputy Executive Secretary) point-  ed out that there were international organizations  dealing with health with which Unesco hoped to  work other than those mentioned in the document.  The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of the  following Rgsolution derived from Document C /2 :  ‘ That Unesco and the World Health Organ-  ization, in co-operation with the United Na-  tions Food and Agricultural Organization,  should set up a Committee of experts on Edu-  cation for Health. ”  Adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then proposed that, in order to  clear up doubts regarding Point 3 of Group I in  the Note on the Order of Priority, this point  should be taken up again.  Group I. POINT 3 :  INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL SEMINARS.  Mr. STODDARD (United States) considered that  it would be advisable to organize not only one,  but three or four international seminars, in order  to enable teachers to attend more easily. He as-  sured Mr. K. G. Saiyidain (India) that this would  not entail the suppression of the Centre organized  at Unesco Headquarters.  The meeting adopted this interpretation of the  text approved at the morning meeting.  Group IT. POINT I :  INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUBS,  In reply to a question by the UNITED KINGDOM  delegate, the CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Sec-  tion intended to pursue this project in 1947, if  time, staff and available resources permitted.