THIRD MEETING  Saturday, 23 November, 1946  The meeting opened at 9.40 a. m, under the  chairmanship of M. MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Bra-  z1).  Delegates. of the following countries were pre-  sent : Saudi Arabia, China, United States of Ame-  rica, France, Norway, Poland, Philippines, United  Kingdom and the Union of South Africa.
1. M. THomas (Secretariat) stated that the Pro-  cedure Committee had finished its study of the  draft rules of procedure for the Conference, with  the exception of Rule 33 dealing with the use of  the official languages of Unesco. This article had  been reserved at the request of the delegates of  FCUADOR, CHILE and COLOMBIA for further con-  sideration.  , The MEXICAN delegate said that he was not in  favour of admitting Spanish as a working language,  but that he agreed that Arabic should be added  to the official languages.  The Executive Secretary thought that this ques-  tion should be referred for further study to a spe-  cial committee. The Chairman agreed and this  decision was carried.
2. With reference to Rule 13, the SOUTH AFRIC-  AN delegate insisted that government consulta-  tions with a national commission or with cultural  institutions should be optional and not compul-  sory. This amendment raised a very delicate pro-  blem and a decision was made to postpone its con-  sideration for study at a subsequent meeting of  the General Committee.
3. With regard to the choice of alternate dele-  gates appointed as members of the Executive  Board (Rule 15), the UNITED STATES delegate re-  quested that a recommendation be sent to the  Nominations Committee to make it clear that the  choice should be made according to personal abi-  lity and not on a geographical basis. It was deci-  ded that these views should be presented to the  Nominations Committee.
4. With regard to the request of the Democratic  Republic of Viet-Nam, it was decided that the  Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam should be au-  thorized to send a guest who would be present at  the meetings of the Conference.  The Venezuelan instruments of acceptance had  - not yet reached London, but'a telegram had an-  nounced that they were on the way. It was there-  fore decided that Venezuela was entitled to take  part in the work of the Conference.
5. The Programme Commission and the Com-  mission on Reconstruction and Rehabilitation  would meet on Monday at 10.30 a. m.
6. At the request of the MEXxICAN delegate it  was decided to add to the agenda of the Pro-  gramme Commission, after the election of the  Chairman, the election of two Vice-Chairmen.  The meeting rose at 10.35 a.m.  FOURTH MEETING  Monday, 23 November, 1946.  The meeting opened at 9.40 with M. Léon‘  BLUM (France) in the Chair.  Delegates of the following countries were pre-  sent : Brazil, China, Mexico, Norway, Poland,  Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United  States of America.  I, MEETINGS OF COMMISSIONS.  M. THOMAS (Secretariat) announced that the  Programme and Rehabilitation Commissions would  meet at 10.30. The Secretariat would be repre-  sented on the Programme Commission by Dr. Hux-  ley, and on the Rehabilitation Commission by  Dr. Wilson. He suggested that the meetings should  be opened by the Vice-Presidents of the Confe-  "rence and reminded the Commissions that the  General Committee was proposing M. Martinez-  Baez (Mexico) as Chairman of the Programme  Commission and M. Drzewieski (Poland) as Chair-  man of the Rehabilitation Commission.  It was decided that Mr. MacLeish (United  States) would attend the Programme Commission  and Sir John Maud (United Kingdom) the Reha-  bilitation Commission.
2. APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS  OF SUB-COMMISSIONS. '  It was decided that the Programme Commis-  sion would make praposals to its Sub-Commis-  sions for the election of a Chairman and a Rap-  porteur to each Sub-Commission, taking due  account of qualifications and geographical distri-  bution.  This was not in contradiction with Rule 61,  which said that the Sub-Commissions should ap-  point their own officers. These were only ‘“ pro-  posals ’’ and the Sub-Commissions remained free  to choose whom they pleased.
3. CO-ORDINATION COMMITTEE.  It was decided that the Chairman of the Pro-  gramme Commission, the Chairmen and Rappor-  teurs of the six Programme Sub-Commissions,  and the Chairman of the Rehabilitation Commis-  sion would meet every day to ensure the necessary  co-ordination of their work. This meeting would  consist in lunching together in Room 7 of Unesco  House.
4. CONVENING OF EXECUTIVE BOARD.  The Chairman would convene the Executive  Board for Tuesday, 26 November at 3 p. m.  The Secretariat would distribute to members  of the Board draft Rules of Procedure it had pre-  pared, so that members may study them before  the meeting.  The meeting rose at 10,15 a. m, .  FIFTH MEETING  Tuesday, 26 November, 1946.  The Meeting opened at 9.45 a.m. with Mr. Mac  LEISH (United States) in the Chair.  The delegates of the following countries were  —- 110 —