The NEw ZEALAND delegate stated that he sup-  ported the amendments put forward by the Uni-  ted States, but emphasized the danger which might  arise from any dispersion of the Director-Gencral’s  authority.  The SOUTH AFRICAN delegate suggested that a  small drafting Committee should be set up to re-  vise Document 14, since the question whether the  General Conference was empowered to delegate its  authority to the Executive Board was of primary  importance. [t was not to be forgotten that the  General Conference was the supreme authority  competent to amend the Constitution. He sugges-  ted that two questions should be submitted to  the proposed Drafting Committee :
(1) Is it desirable to have a Deputy Director-  General?
(2) Is paragraph 3 (on page 2) merely intended  to offer guidance, or does it constitute a binding  instruction?  The FRENCH delegate stated that, with refe-  rence to the co-ordination and planning of the exe-  cution of the programme, it was good that the di-  rector in charge of cach section of the programme  should be in direct contact with the Director-Ge-  neral or his Deputy. The Director-General needed  a deputy and two personal assistants to carry out  his own work. But these officials should not be  allowed to become a barrier between the pro-  gramme directors and the Director-General him-  self.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate supported the  suggestion to set up a drafting committee, but  emphasized that there must be no attempt to res-  trict the powers of the Director-General. Many  delegates had been struck by the fact that all the  plans submitted by the Preparatory Commission  referred to several Assistant Directors. He propo-  sed that only one appointment of this kind should  be made in 1047. Provision should also be made  immediately for the appointment of a Chief of Per-  sonnel.  The UNITED STATES delegate submitted the  following proposal : in redrafting the statement,  the Drafting Committee must indicate explicitly  that the appointment of a Deputy Director-Gene-  ral is compulsory.  + This proposal was adopted.  The SOUTH AFRICAN delegate proposed that the  matter should be referred to a Drafting Committee,  composed of the delegates of the following coun-  tries : Australia, France, India, United Kingdom,  United States, Union of South Africa, which would  submit its report to the Sub-Commission during  the afternoon.  ELEVENTH MEETING  Held on Friday, 6 December 1946 at 3 p.m.  Chairman ; Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  The CHAIRMAN explained that, since the Com-  mittee which was to deal with the Revolving Fund  could not meet owing to the private meeting of  the General Conference, he could not present his  report before the next morning.  Furthermore, the Drafting Committee was pre-  paring draft resolutions on the following points :  currency in which contributions would be paid;  scale of contributions and Revolving Fund; va-  rious financial regulations; auditors; auditing of  the Preparatory Commission’s accounts. These  various drafts would be submitted to the Sub-  Commission for approval at next morning’s mee-  ting.  He proposed that the Sub-Commission should  study Document Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C.  Adm. & Fin./15.  - The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM, Chair-  man of the Drafting Committee, presented the  three draft resolutions concerning the equaliza-  tion of taxes, the employment of the staff of the  Preparatory Commission until 28 [February
1947, and the methods to be adopted to facilitate  communications between Unesco and the Member  States.  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion of the first  resolution (taxes).  The delegate of France asked that the nature  of the contributions required from the staff and  the fiscal system adopted be explained.  The SECRETARIAT answeréd that the question  was being studied between the United Nations and  the specialised agencies.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES explained  that the purpose of this motion was only to autho-  rize the Director-General to study this question.  The resolution was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the sccond reso-  lution (Staff of the Preparatory Commission),  which was adopted without discussion.  As to the third resolution (Communications with  Member States), the question was debated whe-  ther it did not overlap with the resolution adopted  by the Plenary Commission (point VIII of Docu-  ment Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C, Leg. & Ext.  Rel./5) concerning relations between Unesco and  Member States.  À vote was taken on the maintenance of the  resolution, which was adopted.  BuUDGET.  The CHAIRMAN then opened the discussion of the  “ Budget. He said he had only just received the re-  ports of the Sub-Commissions of the Programme  Commission; two Sub-Commissions had adopted  resolutions with regard to finance, but only the  Sciences Section had submitted budget estimates  proportional to its programme.  The delegate of INDIA asked on what basis the  budget on page 74 of the Grey Book had been esta-  blished.  The SECRETARIAT answered that the budget in  the Grey Book corresponded to the programme in  the Green booklet. He asked the delegate of INDIA  to refer to the Grey Book, where he would find,  on pages 67 to 73, all the necessary information  about the basis of estimates and comment on the  budget.  The SECRETARIAT then gave an outline of the  amendments made by the Sub-Commissions to  the draft budget. These were few. Only the Edu-  cation and Mass Media Sub-Commissions had re-  quested that the amount provided should be in-  creased, the former to meet the cost of creating  -— 212 —   three Summer Study Centres (instead of two); the  latter because it wished to create a working centre  for journalists. The total thus attained exceeded  the original budget by 46,373 dollars, Further-  more, the Reconstruction Commission had not  altered the figure provided for it. Consequently,  the Secretariat considered that the budget in the  Grey Book could be taken as a working basis.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES suggested  that, since the Sub-Commission was not going to  study the budget chapter by chapter, it should  first of all examine the scale of contributions by  states and the 1947 draft budget as a whole.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA agreed, but reques-  ted that the order be reversed. :  The delegate of the SOUTH AFRICAN UNION asked  if in the 1947 draft budget due account had been  taken of the fact that Unesco would not have de-  veloped its full activity in the first year. The SE-  CRETARIAT answered that the budget had been  established according to estimates of work actually  to be done in 1947, but that in 1948 none of the  programme chapters would involve larger sums  than in 1047. . :  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the motion of  the United States delegate, amended by the  Australian delegate.  This resolution was adopted and would form  the agenda of the next meeting of the Sub-Com-  mission,  TWELFTH MEETING  Held on Friday, 6 December 1946 at 7 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT (Document  Unesco /C/Admin. & Jur. /S. C. Ad. & Fin. /18).  The CHAIRMAN invited the delegate of the Uni-  ted States to present the report which was submit-  ted to the Sub-Commission for approval.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES pointed out  that the document, which was the fifth revision of  a previous document, was now ready to be adopted  by the Sub-Commission. He drew the attention  of the meeting to the three sections (Facts, Di-  rectives and Principles) into which the document  was divided and remarked that minor alterations  in wording might still be made by the drafting  committee. In conclusion, the United States del-  egate proposed that the meeting adopt the docu-  ment in its present form.  An amendment submitted by the delegation of  CzECHOSLOVAKIA to lay down the percentage of  posts to be filled on a permanent basis was reject-  ed.  The delegate of FRANCE drew attention to the  fact that Item B (2) was not consonant with the  decisions of the Executive Board, which had deci-  ded that the duties of the Deputy Director-Gene-  ral should be specialized. He proposed that Item  B (2) should be separated from the remainder of  the. report and should be submitted to the Gene-  ral Conference for decision the following day.  This led to a general discussion of the question,  as a result of which the French proposal was re-  jected. :  The delegate of FRANCE pointed out that, owing  to the confusion existing on this subject and the  absence of exact data, it was, in his opinion, inad-  visable to continue the discussion of the document.  For his part, he would abstain from expressing  his opinion on the matter.  The delegate of POLAND believed that the ques-  tion of the recruitment of staff should be re-exa-  mined; in his opinion, the system of competitions  in all member countries was undesirable. However,  he did not introduce any formal motion.  The: Sub-Commission adopted the document as  a whole in its present form.  THIRTEENTH MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1946 at 11.45 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT BUDGET FOR 1047.  The CHAIRMAN announced that their agenda  was the budget, and proposed for immediate dis-  cussion either the total sum of 8 1/2 million dol-  lars contemplated by the Preparatory Commission  or this amount increased by the figure contem-  plated for the supplementary budget of the Re-  construction Section.  The delegate of Uruauay, Chairman of the Re-  volving Fund Committee, announced that at the  last meeting of the Committee, the delegate of the  UNITED STATES had announced that for constitu-  tional reasons his government could not make any  contribution before next July. The Sub-Commit-  tee had asked its Chairman to inform the General  Committee of the Conference of the situation ari-  sing out of this statement. However, the delegate  of UrUGuAy wanted to know if he was qualified  to do so.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES said he  would like to consult his government once again  on this matter, and asked that the discussion be  postponed.  The SECRETARIAT informed the meeting that,  as no progress had been made regarding the loan  of 1 1/2 million dollars by the United Nations, a  telegram had been sent to the United Nations  pointing out the urgency of this question.  The delegate of FRANCE propésed that the Ame-  rican delegation consult its government and that  the question be then brought before the Revolving  Fund Committee.  The Sub-Commission adopied this proposal and  later resumed the discussion of the total amount  of the budget.  The CHAIRMAN stated that, according to Dr. Wil-  son’s estimates, the total budget, including the re-  construction budget, amounted to 8,993,839 doi-  lars. 4  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  that the total budget, including the figure for re-  construction, but not including the expenses of  the Preparatory Commission, should amount to
7,611,139 dollars. The delegate of NORWAY se-  conded this motion.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA proposed a to-  — 2I3 —