: SUB-COMMISSION  ON SOCIAL SCIENCES, PHILOSOPHY  AND HUMANISTIC STUDIES  FIRST MEETING  Held on Thursday, 28 November 1946 at 10 a. m.  The Sub-Commission proceeded to elect its of-  _ficers. The following were elected :  Chairman : Dr. E. ALZONA (Philippines).  Vaice-Chaïrmen : Dr. Leon KRUCZKOWSKI (Po-  and).  Dr. Y, R. CHAO (China).  Rapporteurs : Dr. Charles JOHNSON (United  States).  Prof. Carsten HOEG (Denmark).  The provisional agenda was unanimously adop-  ted.  After having thanked the meeting and stressed  the importance of Unesco’s work, the CHAIRMAN  asked the Secretariat to present the report of the  Preparatory Commission.  Drawing the attention of the meeting to the va-  riety of disciplines which were the subject of the  réport, and also to the fact that they all dealt  with humanity, the Head of the Section gave a  general outline of the report and its annexes. He  drew particular notice to Annex I, which was an  integral part of the report.  Following a declaration by the delegate of INDIA  on the position of philosophy, which in his opi-  nion should be classed with culture and not with  the sciences, a general discussion took place on  a possible division into two Sections,  Dr. HUXLEY proposed that a motion be drafted  for submission to the Programme Commission as a  recommendation. It would suggest separating the  Social Sciences, on the one hand, Philosophy and  Humanistic Studies on the other.  The delegate of INDIA stated that the Social  Sciences would come under Science, and Philoso-  phy and Humanistic Studies under Culture. His  motion was seconded by the French and Chinese  delegations. .  The UNITED STATES delegation considered that  the Social Sciences, Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies were closely linked and dealt with the  various aspects of the same question. It was there-  fore opposed to their separation.  The delegation of the UNITED KINGDOM reques-  ted that the question be forwarded to the Secre-  tariat for study in 1947.  After a short discussion, the motion proposed  by Dr. Huxley to divide the present Section into  two (one for Social Sciences, the other for Philo-  sophy and Humanistic Studies) was adopted by  the Sub-Commission.  DISCUSSION OF SOCIAL SCIENCES PROGRAMME.  Dr. AwaD (Secretariat) recalled President Roose-  velt’s words : ‘“ To cultivate the science of hu-  man relations that civilization may survive. ” The  development of the social sciences was, he said,  in itself a contribution to the cause of peace. In  this sphere, Unesco had reserved a particularly  important place in its programme for surveys and  studies. The programme fell under three headings.  A. Development of the social sciences.  B. Applications of the social sciences to hu-  man relations.  C. Possibility of achieving a truly internation-  al outlook in this respect.  The UNITED STATES delegate emphasized the  necessity of enlisting the social sciencesin further-  ing the great aims of Unesco, in particular by a  study and analysis of the main obstacles to inter-  national understanding, which it was proposed to  remove. )  In this field, Unesco should undertake :
1. To stimulate the work of existing study  groups.
2. To promote the creation of international  institutes or centres.
3. To give technical assistance to these organ-  izations.
4. To study the obstacles previously defined,  such as nationalism, antagonisms of a techno-  logical character, insufficiency of government  action, problems relating to movements of po-  pulation, or relations of dependency between  two peoples.  The delegate of FRANCE expressed regret that,  before passing to practical action, it had not been  seen fit to organize a comprehensive debate, for  example, by calling a meeting of the most promi-  nent thinkers of all countries for free and inform-  al conversations. It was necessary to institute  a far-reaching enquiry into the various civiliza-  tions, in order that no country’s contribution  might be neglected when preparing a world civi-  lization.  The SECRETARIAT explained that such an en-  quiry was provided for in the programme of the  Sub-Section on Philosophy.  STUDY OF PROPOSALS OF THE SECRETARIAT.  A. — ENCOURAGEMENT OF PRIVATE ASSOCIATIONS.  This item was adopted subject to the following  explanations :  The list of such associations should not be li-  mitative.  It was desirable to include the creation of an  — 174 —   International Union of Town and Community  Planning.  Agreements to be concluded with such associat-  ions would be studied by the proper Sections of  Unesco, with special reference to their bearing on  the budget.  B. — List or Social RESEARCH INSTITUTES.  This fundamental point was adopted, subject  to the following explanations on the part of the  Secretariat : what was meant was a list of import-  ant and specialized institutes, not a complete list.  As far as possible, it would be drawn up through  national agencies. It might lead to the publica-  tion of a yearbook.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Thursday, 28 November 1946 al 3 p. =.  Chairman : Dr. E. ALZONA’ (Philippines).  The Sub-Commission continued examining the  different items in the programme drawn up by  - the Preparatory Commission, which were present-  ed by the Head of the Section of the Secretariat.  C. — YEARBOOK OF THE SOCIAL SCIENCES.  Dr. AwAD (Secretariat) proposed that work  should be begun with an experimental publica-  tion. Its reception would decide whether it  should be continued or not.  After a short discussion, the project wasadopted.  D. — ABSTRACTS.  In presenting the question of abstracts,  Dr. AWAD stressed the fact that only preliminary  work was contemplated and nothing would be  published this year.  The AusTRALIAN delegation proposed an amend-  ment to replace the words ‘‘ preliminary survey ”  by ‘ exploration of the problem, ”’ after which  there was a general discussion of this question,  The SOUTH AFRICAN delegation emphasized the  importance of the question and the need for col-  lecting and disseminating existing information.  A motion by the CHINESE delegation, seconded  by the delegation of the UNITED STATES, propos-  ing the suppression of Section D of the pro-  gramme until the next General Conference, was  rejected.  After discussion, the following resolution pro-  posed by the AUSTRALIAN delegation was adopted :  ‘ That the project should be drafted as fol-  lows: —  “ Exploration of the problem of abstracts  and bibliographies covering all social science  activities for which there is no organization. ”  E. — ECONOMIC AND Social History  OF THE SECOND Worip WAR.  In the course of the discussion, the NETHER  LANDS delegation stressed the urgency of assem  bling existing material, while the Frencn”dele-  gation favoured the establishment of contacts  between the different national bodies. After the  DANISH delegation had expressed its opinion that  the budget and limited staff of Unesco forbade  inclusion of this project in the programme, the  following motion by the UNITED KINGDOM dele-  gation was adopted :  ‘‘ That the project be postponed until later. ”  F. — STUDY oF HOME AND COMMUNITY  PLANNING.  Professor W. G. Horrorp, British expert on  town planning, made a general statement on the  question and on the tasks for Unesco in this field,  urging assistance to existing technical organiza-  tions and the collection of results.  The UNITED STATES delegation wanted the  question referred to the Economic and Social  Council of the United Nations.  After a long discussion, in which the NETHER-  LANDS delegation recommended the establishment  of contacts between existing organizations, and  the delegation of POLAND asked for the adoption  of the scheme as it stood, the following motion  by the UNITED KINGDOM delegate was adopted :  ‘That Unesco should consult the Economic  and Social Council to see whether Unesco can  be usefully employed; That it should engage  advisers, undertake research and make a report  to the General Conference of 1947; Invite the  different national organizations engaged in the  work, through the National Commissions; Refer  the decision of the principle of establishing a  new Centre to the next Conference. ”  G. — PSYCHO-POLITICAL TECHNIQUES.  Dr. AWAD emphasized the need to collate and  study existing documentation. After rejection of  a motion by the DANISH delegation, and despite  the insistence of the PoLisH delegation, a motion  by the UNITED KINGDOM delegation was adopted  as follows :  ““ That the project should not be undertaken  during 1947. ””-  H. — INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS STUDY  CENTRE.  Sir Alfred ZIMMERN presented a report embody-  ing the results of a mission with which the  Executive Committee had entrusted him, and  asked the meeting to agree to the principle of  the organization of short courses and the conven-  ing of a Conference to study the question in  detail. He recommended three short courses for  three different groups.  After a discussion, two motions (delegations of  FRANCE and the UNITED STATES) were filed with |  the Secretary. It was decided, however, to con-  tinue the discussion of this point at a meeting  the next morning.