The delegate of BRAZIL, commenting on the re-  solution submitted by his delegation (Unesco/  Prep. Com./Nat. Sci. Com./19) stated that Unesco  could do far more in the scientific field thanin any  other. In order to take effective action in favour  of peace, projects of a.concrete nature must have  priority over others.  The Hylean Amazon project, for instance, was  not of regional, but of international importance;  it might lead to the creation of a centre of active  production in the near future. The Brazilian dele-  gate supported the proposals recommending  research groups working on the spot; offices to sup-  ply information to backward countries; and labo-  ratories for the preparation of chemically pure  substances and artificial radio-active elements.  The delegate of GREECE signified his full approv-  al of Dr. Needham’s speech on the programme  of the Natural Sciences Section. He thought that  the different proposals in Chapter V gave a very  clear idea of the tasks devolving upon Unesco,  and he approved their principle.  He added that he was entirely in agreement  with the delegate of China on the question of repa-  rations and the rehabilitation of scientific labora-  tories. In the devastated countries, there was a  great dearth of material in laboratories and schools  _   of medicine. He hoped that the Sub-Commission  would give immediate priority to the question of  reparations in the form of scientific equipment.  The CzZECHOSLOVAK delegate drew attention to  rationalization in the field of scientific publications  and made the follow ing proposal :  “ That Unesco, in collaboration with the In-  ternational Council of Scientific Unions, should  take up the question of reviving scientific jour-  nals whose publication had been suspended, as  well as the establishment of new journals, and  that this question should be examined from the  viewpoint of the rationalization of publications  and distribution in different countries. ”’  The CZECHOSLOVAK delegate pointed out that  this question had been included in Document 13,  but he thought that, at least in part, it should be  studied as a matter of urgency.  The delegate of BRAZIL observed that the ques-  tion of the Amazon basin should interest not only  Brazil and South American, but also all countries  with geographical conditions similar to those of  America, the countries to which these territories  belonged and the United States.  Turning to the question of the limited scientific  development of the so-called ‘“ dark " zones, the  Brazilian delegate argued at length on the need  for ascertaining the reasons for this defective deve-  lopment and for trying to find the remedy. For  this, recourse must be had to scientists in those  areas, from whom the necessary information must  be obtained by means of questionnaires. He  thought the question was of some urgency.  The delegate of FRANCE agreed with the gener-  al directives in the Secretariat's document, but  formulated the following observations :  (a) He thought there was a contradiction in  placing the question of rehabilitation in Cate-  gory A, and the question of reparations in Ca-  tegory C. |  (b) He stressed the importance of sécuring  universal application of the metric system.  (c) It was necessary to build up stocks of pure  chemical products to be made available to all  countries,  (d) He disagreed with the idea of an auxi-  liary international language for sciences.  The French delegate concluded by declaring  that the effectiveness of Unesco depended upon  how it would utilize and influence existing inter-  national organizations.  The Sub-Commission then examined the direc-  tives proposed by the Secretariat, item by item.  Item I.  Dr. NEEDHAM re-read the statement by the Chi-  nese delegation, which concluded with a proposed  amendment of Item 1. He also mentioned that  the term ‘‘ reparations ”’ did not mean the “ dis-  mantling of existing laboratories’, but only “ com-  pensation in the form of deliveries of manufactur-  ed products ‘’.  A general discussion arose on this matter,  at the end of which the Sub-Commission agreed  to transfer the question of reparations from Cate-  gory C to Category A. The Sub-Commission unan-  imously adopted the addition of a paragraph 2 to  [tem 1 :  ‘‘ And to recommend to the United Nations the  adoption of a policy of reparations in the form  of recently manufactured scientific materials or  in the form of commercial or government stocks  accumulated by the former Axis countries, for  the scientific rehabilitation of war-devastated  countries ”’.  “ On the proposal of the UNITED KrINopom dele-  gate, it was decided to add to the document, in  the'form of an instruction, the following words :  ‘“ that the Secretariat inform the Executive Board  of the adoption of this resolution ”.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Professor BHABHA (India).  [lem I.  The discussion was resumed on Item I, page 3  of Document 13.  The Sub-Commission adopied in the form of an  Annex, a resolution proposed by the UNITED  STATES delegate, stipulating that, in the transfer  of scientific equipment for the rehabilitation of  devastated areas, all precautions should be taken  not to impair normal scientific activity in the  country whence this equipment came.  The Sub-Commission adopted an amendment by  the delegate of GREECE providing that use should  be made not only of stocks in shops and factories,  but also, in some cases, of government stocks.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA having asked for  particulars concerning the appropriation in the  supplementary budget of 100,000 dollars for scien-  tific reconstruction, Dr. NEEDHAM explained that  nothing had yet been decided on this matter, and  that in any case the supplementary budget had  not been voted. The CHAIRMAN thought that exa-  mination of this question could be deferred.  — 169 —   Item 2)  The following amendments to the text were pro-  posed and adopted :  I. “ To establish a series of field science co-  operation offices beginning in those regions... ”’
2. ‘“ Beginning, in 1947, with four offices :  two in the Far East, one in the Middle East,  and one in Latin America. ” a
3. To omit the words “ three to four ” in re-  ference to the number of scientific men to staff  these offices. .  Professor BHABHA proposed that one of the  offices in the Far East should be in India.  This proposal was adopted.  lem 3.  Adopted without discussion.  Item 4.  The BELGIAN delegate pointed out that the  French text of this Item made no mention of the  applied sciences, and that it would all the same  be desirable to encourage meetings of engineers as  well as meetings of scientists pure and simple. The  CHAIRMAN explained that Unesco's work should  rather lie in stimulating scientific research than  in encouraging the application of existing tech-  niques. Nevertheless, the suggestion by the Bel-  gian delegate, who proposed to substitute the  French word “ techniques ” for “ mécaniques ”,  was adopied.  At the request of the UNITED STATES delegate,  Dr. NEEDHAM explained the relation which would  exist between International Advisory Councils and  the International Council of Scientific Unions.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate proposed that  the words ““ to set up ”’ at the beginning of Article
4 should be replaced by “ to stimulate the setting  up of.  Amendment adopted.  Item 5.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate asked for the  replacement of the words ‘ by calling ” in para-  graph (b) by “ by preparing ”.  Amendment adopted.  The delegate of CANADA asked that in paragraph  (a) the word “ circulation ” should be replaced by  “ movement ”,  Discussion then began on a remark by the Aus-  TRALIAN delegate opposing the organization of re-  print stockpiles. The Sub-Commission decided to  omit paragraph (d) of Item 5 referring to this ques-  tion.  The delegate of MExtCo proposed the following  amendment :  ““ That measures should be taken to standardize  scientific terminology in all countries which speak  identical or kindred languages. ”  Amendment adopted.  Item 6.  The INDIAN delegation filed an amendment for  the insertion of the words “ directly or ” between  the words ‘“ grants-in-aid ‘’ and “through the rele-  vant... This amendment was unanimously adop-  ed.  The following amendment by the BRAZILIAN de-  legation was also adopted unanimously :  — 170  After the word ‘union ” insert the following :  ‘and by sending technical and scientific assis-  tance by means of missions, in agreement with  the national institutions, ‘’ ;  An amendment by the BELGIAN delegation to  add the name of ‘ Roskoff ”’ to the list of exis-  ting international laboratories was adopted unani-  mously.  After a long discussion as to whether the diffe-  rent examples (a) (b) (c) etc. should be included  in the text or in an annex, it was decided to adopt  an amendment proposed by the UNITED KINGDOM  as follows :  Omit the letters “e. g. ” and say instead  ‘‘ among the different forms of assistance con-  templated would be : ”  It was decided to mention in an annex that the  list implied no priority.  Ilem 7.  Item 7 was adopted with the addition of the  following words at the end of the paragraph :  ‘“ and taking steps to facilitate the exchange  of foreign currency. ”  Item 8.  An amendment by the BELGIAN delegation for  the insertion of the words “ and circulation ’ after  the word ‘“‘ development ” was adopied unani-  mously. ;  It was decided to explain in an annex that the  Sub-Commisston understood that the cost of this  project would be borne by the Mass Communica-  tion Section, which would be studying the ques-  tion in conjunction with the Natural Sciences Sec-  tion.  Item 9.  Item 9 was adopted unanimously with the ad-  dition of the following words at the end of the  paragraph : ‘“ (d) by facilitating the transport of  instruments and documentation by travelling  scientists. ”  Item 10.  Dr. NEEDHAM read out a letter he had received  on this subject from the Economic and Social  council of the United Nations.  The CHINESE delegation asked that priority  should be given to China in the establishment of  centres of applied mathematics. The CHAIRMAN  said that this question would be studied along  with the general question of priorities.  An amendment by the BELGIAN delegation ad-  ding at the end of the Item : “‘ (d) animals of  genetically-known stock ” was unanimously adop-  ted.  An amendment by the INDIAN delegation adding  a point (g) ‘ Oceanic and fishery institutions for  the Indian Ocean, situated in Southern India and  Ceylon ‘’ was unanimously adopted.  At the proposal of the GREEK delegation, th  British amendment was included in this para-  graph in the following form : the words “‘ notably  in” were replaced by : ‘“ among the activities  contemplated, there might figure. ”  The following amendment by the FRENCH dele-  gation was also adopted unanimously : In (a), near  the end of the Article, the words ‘‘ pure and che-  ——        mical ’ would be omitted; and after the word  ‘“ plastics ”’ in (b) add the words ‘“ and other ma-  terials used in laboratories ’.  The NORWEGIAN delegation drew attention to  a mistake in the English text : ¢ radio ” should  read ‘‘ radio-active ”.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 3 December 1946 at 10 a. m.  Chairman : Professor BHABHA (India).  The discussion opened on Item 10, on page 5  of the English text.  The NEw ZEALAND delegate regretted that the  plan for organizing collections of plants did not  appear in any of the plans enumerated under  Item 10. It would be desirable that Unesco-should  take up this project again; and that the following  important considerations should be taken into ac-  count :  I. Collections should be as complete as pos-  sible;
2. They should be situated in localities where  it was possible to cultivate the largest possible  number of varieties of any given plant;
3. They should be classified as thoroughly as  possible;
4. They should be organized by a central au-  thority. :  He suggested that this project for plant collect-  ions should be included in Item 10, in the form  of a paragraph (h).  The AUSTRALIAN delegate thought it would be  quite feasible to insert the amendment submitted  by the New Zealand delegate at the conclusion  of Item ro.  The amendment was adopted in principle. It  would be decided subsequently where it could best  be inserted.  The NEw ZEALAND delegate submitted a second  proposal, which he thought could also quite well  be included in Item ro. This plan, moreover, was  included in the original list of plans and figures in  Section F. 4 of the Green booklet : Establishment  of Bird Observatories on the island of Heligoland  (proposed to be internationalized as United Na-  tions territory).  He suggested that this question should be added  to the list, since the problem of bird migrations  arose all over the world and was of interest to  everyone. There was also great popular interest  in the question; he therefore proposed that it  should be included in the plan, as paragraph (h)  of Item r0.  The UNITED STATES delegate thought that there  were more important international problems,  which should be dealt with before this question.  The CHAIRMAN said he saw no objection to in-  cluding the plan, but without assigning any kind  of priority to it. He proposed a recommendation  to the effect that the island of Heligoland should  not be transformed into an area where experi-  ments in explosives, which might be harmful to  birds, would be carried out; and that the plan  for establishing a bird observatory on the island  should be adopted. This recommendation was  accepted.  A further amendment, to add to Item 10, a  . paragraph (h) * Ornithology ”, was unanimously  adopted.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate suggested another ad-  dition to Item 10, which aimed at establishing  research stations for the study of tropical di-  seases. This proposal was accepted.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate proposed to add  an annex to Item 10 as follows :  “ In drawing up plans concerning each of  these projects, international scientific unions -  which are competent for the purpose, or simi-  lar international bodies, shall previously be as-  ked to give their advice. ”  This proposal was adopted. :  The BRAZILIAN delegate recalled that he had  submitted a resolution concerning the establish-  ment at Belem of an International Hylean Ins-  titute for the Amazon. He asked that the part  of this resolution which dealt with the action con-  templated by the Secretariat should be put to a  vote in the Sub-Commission, and transmitted to  the Secretariat in the form of an instruction. This  proposal was adopted.  Item 11 was unanimously adopted, without dis-  cussion.  In connection with Item 12, the BRAZILIAN de-  legate submitted an amendment referring to a  sentence, which does not occur in the French text,  with reference to the selection of holders of fel-  lowships. The amendment aimed at deleting the  last part of Item 12 after the word “ Fellowship *.  This amendment was adopted unanimously.  The UNITED STATES delegate stressed his great  interest in Item 12; he wished that a special prio-  rity should be assigned to this question.  The CHAIRMAN postponed this question to the  end of the discussion.  Item 12 was adopted as contained in the docu-  ment.  Item 13 was adopted unanimously, without dis-  cussion.  Item 14 was then discussed.  The representative of the Secretariat stated that  it was impossible to accept the proposals made  by the External Relations Sub-Commission, which  aimed at refusing any financial assistance in  connection with the administrative expenses of  governmental or non-governmental organizat-  ions. À resolution was proposed for transmission  to the Chairman of the External Relations Sub-  Commission and to the Chairman of the Pro-  gramme Commission, with a view to improving  the state of the question under certain conditions.  The UNITED STATES and the UNITED KINGDOM  delegates seconded ‘the resolution submitted by  the Secretariat.  Item 14 was adopted unanimously.  Item 15.  After a statement by the AUSTRALIAN delegate,  “who thought that Unesco should not itself under-  take publications on the social repercussions of  scientific discoveries, a general discussion ensued  on the participation of Unesco in these publica-  tions. At the CHAIRMAN’S proposal it was decided  to replace the first part of the paragraph by the  following sentence :