#  gations of all the countries represented at the pre-  sent meeting.  The Sub-Commission decided to postpone to  the next meeting the vote on a resolution, submit-  ted jointly by the delegates of the UNITED KrNG-  DOM, UNITED STATES, FRANCE and AUSTRALIA,  concerning approval by the Executive Board of  certain complementary agreements.  SECOND MEETING  Friday, 20 November 1946 at 10.45 a. m.  Chairman : M. Luis Alberto SANCHEZ (Peru).  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the following  draft resolution presented by the delegates of  Australia, United Kingdom, United States and  France :  ‘‘ Taking note of Article XX of the Draft  Agreement between Unesco and the United Na-  tions, which states that the Secretary-General  and the Director-General may enter into such  supplementary arrangements for the implement-  ation of this agreement as may be found desir-  able in the light of the operating experience of  the two Organizations;  ‘“ It is resolved that the approval of the Exe-  cutive Board shall be required for the following  Agreements :  ‘ (a) The subsidiary agreement regarding infor-  mation services referred to in Article VII  ofthe Draft Agreement UNO/Unesco.  ‘“ (b) Any agreement regarding the division of  responsibilities in the promotion of free-  dom of information between Unesco and  the United Nations. ”  The Resolution was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the draft  Convention of the Member States concerning pri-  vileges and immunities,  M. WARENDORF (Secretariat) stated that the  text submitted to the Sub-Commission for appro-  val was identical with that used by UNO. One  addition only had been made, at the request of  the Executive Board, to Section 16 bis, to allow  Members of the Executive Board to enjoy the  advantages accorded to the representatives of  Member States. As, moreover, Article XVIII of  the UNO Convention was inapplicable to Unesco,  the total number of Articles of both Conventions  would be 36. .  The delegate of AUSTRALIA raised a point in  connection with the sentence in the Preamble to  the effect that States Members of Unesco would  have to sign the Convention before having it ap-  proved by their Governments.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM observed  that, since the functions of Unesco were very diffe-  rent from those of UNO, the two Conventions  could not be identical. He made four observations  on the proposed text : :
1) He proposed in Article V, Section 19, the  deletion of the words ‘“ and all'Deputy and As-  sociate Directors-General ”.
2) Referring to Sections 22 and 23, he consi-  dered it unnecessary to grant to experts on mis-  sions for Unesco the same privileges as were  granted to the experts of UNO and therefore he  proposed the deletion of these two Sections.
3) Referring to Article VII, he thought that,  to avoid a multiplicity of documents, Unesco  should have the same laissez-passer as UNO  officials.
4) Finally, referring to Section 16 bis relating  to the privileges of Members of the Executive  Board, he considered that these should be treat-  ed either as Unesco officials under Article V or  as the representatives of Members under Ar-  ticle IV; Section 16 bis would then be unneces-  sary.  He stated that, if the Articles he mentioned  were not altered, the Government of the United  Kingdom would be unable to sign the Convention.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES expressed  the opinion that it would be premature to approve  the Convention, as the General Convention of the  United Nations concerning privileges and immu-  nities had as yet been ratified by only one country,  Great Britain. He proposed that the Draft Conven-  tion be referred to the Executive Board, which  would initiate fresh negotiations with UNO and  the Specialized Agencies with the aim of drawing  up a Convention applicable to all the Specialized  Agencies.  The delegates of FRANCE and BELGIUM support-  ed this proposal.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA proposed that  the draft be submitted to the different Govern-  ments for consideration; the Secretariat could then  co-ordinate the observations sent in, prepare a  final draft and submit it to the next General Con-  ference.  The delegate of IRAN made three observations :
1. Referring to Sections 22 and 23, he consid-  ered that the experts of Unesco should be giv-  en similar treatment to that accorded to ex-  perts of the United Nations, since they would  be entrusted with important missions requiring  complete independence; ,
2. He could not agree to the distinction made  in Section 26 between experts and officials, by  which the former had a mere certificate while  the latter had the right to a laissez-passer;
3. He feared that Unesco’s work might be  - paralyzed if the matter were postponed till next  year. :  Finally, he suggested that the competent autho-  - tities of Unesco should contact UNO and the other  Specialized Agencies in order to agree on a single  laissez-passer.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA asked whether the  draft agreement would be submitted to the mem-  bers for approval and whether it should bear their  signatures.  M. WARENDORF (Secretariat) replied that the  draft would merely be submitted for the approval  of delegates.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA stated that his dele-  gation would be obliged to abstain for the moment,  and to make certain reservations. Two questions  were involved :
1. Of a special character : the privileges and  immunities of specialized agencies, limited to  the functions and responsibilities of the Orga-  nization;  — 192 — .
2. More general : the agreement must be dealt  with as part of Unesco’s activities, on the one  hand, and of those of the other specialized agen-  cies on the other hand. If the draft were adopt-  ed, pending a general solution of the question,  nothing would have been settled definitely. He  proposed a resolution, according to which the  General Conference’ would invite the govern-  ments of States Members to make arrangements  for granting privileges and immunities to the  representatives of Unesco proceeding abroad on  official duty.  M. WARENDORF (Secretariat) emphazised that  the privileges and immunities granted to Unesco  aimed at facilitating execution of the aims and  objects of the Organization. As to journeys abroad  by representatives and experts of the Organiza-  tion, the facilities granted should be not merely  political, but also economic.  Replying to a point raised previously by the  delegate of the UNITED STATES, M. Warendorf said  that, for technical reasons, it would be more diffi-  cult to conclude an agreement between Unesco  and the French Government, if the Convention  were not adopted as laid down.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM asked  for a vote on the proposal of the United States.  The delegate of GREECE stated that, if the  French Government was prepared to renew the -  statute of immunities during the transition period,  a vote must be taken immediately, and the  General Conference must be asked to pass a  resolution recommending other States to take  similar measures without delay in order to est-  ablish a uniform system of rights and privileges.  The CHAIRMAN then read the motion presented  by the United States.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA proposed the follow-  ing amendment :  “ Pending the conclusion of a General Con-  vention defining the privileges and immunities  of specialized agencies, their officials and repre-  sentatives of Member States, the General Con-  ference requests the Government of each Mem-  ber State to grant appropriate facilities to such  representatives and officials of Unesco as may  visit or pass through that State in the course  of their official duties. ”  The motion was adopted as amended.  The draft agreement with the International In-  stitute of Intellectual Co-operation was then dis-  cussed.  M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) stated that the In-  stitute, which had been founded in 1924 by the  French Government, would close down on 31st  December, 1946. Its assets had been transferred  to the League of Nations, which at the Twenty-  First Assembly in Geneva in April 1946 ‘transfer-  red its rights to the United Nations. The Econo-  mic and Social Council recommended that the Ge-  neral Assembly of the United Nations should assign  to Unesco certain of the rights to the property of  the Institute.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM observ-  ed that the Instrument specifying the functions  of the Institute was ratified in 1938 by fifteen or  sixteen countries, and he asked the Secretariat  whether this Instrument was still in force, in which  case the transfer might give rise to certain difficul-  ties. +  The delegate of the UNITED STATES replied that  under the terms of the Instrument, eight ratifi-  cations were sufficient to ensure its validity. As  this condition was still fulfilled, the Instrument  had remained in force to this day. Referring to  the transfer of activities, he proposed the following  two alterations to the text:  I. Article 2, relating to the Programme of the  Institute, provided that Unesco should continue  the work and, in particular, complete certain  tasks undertaken by the Institute, which force  of circumstances had compelled it to suspend.  He proposed to add at the end of the sentence  .the words : ‘‘ to the extent to which they are con-  sistent with the aims and purposes of Unesco. ”
2. Article 4, relating to the staff : he proposed  to substitute for it the text proposed by the  Commissions engaged in drafting the staff regu-  lations.  M. SEYDOUX asked that this question be defer-  red to a later meeting.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1946 at 10.40 a.m.  Chairman : M. Luis Alberto SANCHEZ (Peru).  The discussion was resumed on the draft agree-  ment between Unesco and the International In-  stitute of Intellectual Co-operation.  The CHAIRMAN submitted to the Sub-Commis-  sion the amendments of the United States dele-  gate to Articles 2 and 4 of the Agreement. These  Articles were adopted in the following form :  Article 2. — PROGRAMME OF THE INTERNATIONAL  INSTITUTE OF INTELLECTUAL CO-OPERATION.  Within the framework of the programme to  be adopted by the General Conference in the  course of its first Session, Unesco shall endea-  vour to ensure the continuity of the work done  by the International Institute of Intellectual  Co-operation since 1924 and in particular to  complete certain tasks undertaken by the Insti-  tute, in so far as the Conference may see fit.  Article 4. — STAFF OF THE INTERNATIONAL INSTI-  » TUTE OF INTELLECTUAL CO-OPERATION.  Allowing for equal conditions of capacity  and merit, and for the principles laid down by:  Unesco for the recruiting of staff, special consi-  deration shall be given to applications from  the former members of the Institute who, by  the experience they have acquired in the Insti-  tute’s service, are able to make an effective  contribution to the work of Unesco.  M. de BroNAy (Secretariat) suggested two mi-  nor amendments : page 4, last paragraph of the  English, to read : ‘“ In view of the resolution ap-  proved by the General Assembly of the United  Nations granting to Unesco... ”’; Page 5, Art. 3 (b)  Utilization of these assets : the first phrase would  read: ‘ In view of the decision of the United Na-  tions... ”’  The first of these proposals was adopted.  As regards the transfer of the assets of the Inter-  national Institute of Intellectual Co-operation to