had contributed to -the relief of war-devastated  countries, since 1939, 40,000,000 dollars. It might  be expected that aid from these sources would  amount to 10 to 15 million dollars annually.  Unesco’s collaboration with the organizations  should take the following forms: (1) disseminat-  ion of information about the needs of the devastat-  ed countries; (2) dissemination of continuous and  accurate information regarding the relief activities  undertaken by ‘different countries; {3) collection  and distribution of gifts either in cash or in kind.  The UNITED STATES delegate pointed out that  the disappearance of Unrra necessitated the creat-  fon of a body responsible for administering and  distributing donations. The United States were  ready to give substantial aid to the devastated  countries. . Ç  The delegate for POLAND agreed with those de-  legations which advocated systematic and official  reconstruction. She said that there was close con-  nection between problems of reconstruction and  reparations; the aid given should correspond to  losses sustained. Unesco’s task was to assess these  losses and then draw up a plan for allocating re-  lief. She proposed that the problems should be  submitted to the United Nations through the  Economic and Social Council, for it lay with the  United Nations to find the means by which Unesco  could achieve its work.  The delegate for CZECHOSLOVAKIA thanked  Unesco for its programme of reconstruction and  rehabilitation. He asked that aid should be the  same for all countries that needed it, whether they  had been devastated by the war or for any other  reason. Czechoslovakia had sustained enormous  losses; her universities had been closed for six years -  but since the liberation she had proved her wish  to recover by her own resources, He thought that  international aid should be combined with a con-  structive programme within each country. The pro-  gramme of reconstruction and rehabilitation must  be put in hand quickly and it was to Unesco’s  interest. to make use of international organs such  as Unrra. The Czechoslovak delegation took this  occasion to express its country’s thanks to Unrra,  whose distribution of foodstuffs had saved the lib-  erated countries from starvation. Czechoslovakia  fully realized the need of a speedy solution to these  problems and would gladly fulfil her obligation to-  @ wards Unesco.  The delegate for the UNITED KINGDOM congrat-  ulated the Secretariat on its report and approved  the recommendations on page 5. He agreed with  the Norwegian delegate in favouring the use of  private co-ordinating bodies,  The SWEDISH observer emphasized the role of  the Unesco Nationa! Commissions in the collec-  tion of information and distribution of relief. She  stated that the Swedish Government had just gran-  ted two million crowns for cultural institutions in  countries most afflicted by the war. This grant  could be used for the publication of books for  foreign countries, the organization of internation-  al meetings and for exchanges between teachers,  The first duty of Unesco must be to collect in-  formation and io co-ordinate the work of the Na-  tional Commissions.  ‘According to the FrENCH delegate, the discus-  sion showed that they were all agreed in recog-  nising that Unesco must be an information centre  concerning the devastated countries and a propa-  ganda organ for their assistance. Two views how-  ever seemed likely to conflict : some delegations  were asking for Unesco to become a centre for  the receipt of gifts in cash and in kind, and for  their distribution. The French delegation on the  other hand thought that Unesco ought rather to  be a liaison organ between countries undamaged  by the war and devastated countries. The best  way of developing international solidarity and  obtaining effective relief was to establish direct  contacts between one school and another, one  university and another. For example, if an Ameri-  can university wanted to help a university in a  country affected by the war, it would apply to  Unesco fora list of universities, from which the  university inAmerica would make its choice.  To organize this assistance systematically, the  French delegate suggested the following methods :  I. Agents in the devastated countries would in-  form Unesco of the situation in those coun-  tries;
2. An information office would centralize these  particulars;
4. Propagandists in countries undamaged by the  war;
5. A liaison office which would put countries in  in touch with one another.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1946  at 10.30 a. m.  Chairman : M. B. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).  The CHAIRMAN said that, as Sections (a) and (c)  of Item 4 of the Agenda had already been discus-  sed, the Report could now be examined chapter  by chapter. The delegate of China had, however,  some general remarks to make.  The delegate of CHINA congratulated Dr. Wilson  and the Technical Sub-Committee on their work  during the past year.  The Chinese delegation approved the suggest-  ed programme and noted with satisfaction that  rehabilitation would be integrated in the general  programme of Unesco. oo  Owing to the war, China had suffered consider-  able losses both in material and in personnel. She  had received help from several quarters—notably  from the American Government and the British  Council — for which she was very grateful.  One of Unesco’s main tasks in the domain of  rehabilitation would be to collect and disseminate  information on the needs of the various countries  and to draw the attention of donors to the most  urgent problems. The Unrra assets to be taken  over by Unesco would include staff for relief work.  Mobile field units should be gent into the devast-  ated areas, and there should also be a small nu-  cleus of Unesco staff well acquainted with local  conditions.
138 —   The CHAIRMAN read a list of the countries which  had been invaded and devastated during the war.  These were : Belgium, Burma, China, Czechoslova-  kia, Denmark, Ethiopia, France, Greece, Iran,  Luxemburg, Netherlands, Norway, Philippines,  Poland, United Kingdom and Colonies, Yugosla-  via, White Russia, Ukraine.  Dr. WiLsox (Deputy Executive Secretary) made  a commentary on the general discussion of the pro-  posed rehabilitation programme.  Wherever feasible, Unesco would work in close  collaboration with the National Commissions.  The proposed appeal would be addressed largely  to teachers and schoolchildren, but the appeal cam-  paign should reach all other sections of the popula-  tion.  Propaganda should be directed towards making  all sections of the populatien aware of the need  for educational relief and towards keeping organ--  izations engaged in relief work informed of one  another’s activities.  It was expected that most relief organizations  would undertake on their own account the pur-  chase and distribution of materials. Unesco’s role  would probably be confined to co-ordinating the  activities of existing relief organizations and to  securing funds. :  With regard to work in the field, Unesco pro-  posed a small resident staff and certain mobile  field units.  As regards the problem of the world-wide lack  of supplies, Unesco would be able to profit by  Unrra’s experience. Many of the voluntary agen-  cies would also receive direct gifts in kind for re-  lief purposes.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that as pages 1, 2 and
3 (English text) of the Report were a history of  past work, they might be adopted without com-  ment. The discussion would therefore start from  the chapter on page 4 entitled ‘“ A Recommended  Policy for Unesco ”..  The UniTED KINGDOM delegate proposed that  the first three paragraphs of page 4 (English text)  and the first two paragraphs of page 5 should be  accepted.  The motion was seconded by the NEW ZEALAND  delegate, and approved.  The delegate of FRANCE said that, though  Unesco’s chief responsibility lay in the domain of  education and culture, it could not entirely dis-  sociate itself from problems of material relief. He  therefore suggested, as an addition to the third  recommendation on page 5 of the English text of  the Report, that the United Nations should be  requested to consider the transformation of Unrra,  on its dissolution, into a permanent relief organ-  ization for children of war devastated countries.  As the programmes of all the Programme Sub-  Commissions included relief projects, the Recon-  struction and Rehabilitation Commission could  only adopt provisionally any recommendations  made to it. At the end of the Conference, a final  meeting of the Reconstruction Commission should  be held, to review all the recommendations and  take final decisions.  In reply to the French delegate, the CHAIRMAN  explained that Unesco’s role was confined to edu-  cational relief. The second point made by the  French delegate was closely bound up with the  budget, which would have to be submitted first  to the Finance Committee and then to the Gene-  ral Conference.  The important thing now was to reach agree-  ment on general principles.  The delegate of IRAN said that three important  factors had emerged from the discussion : the role  of the voluntary organizations, the role of Govern-  ments, and Unesco funds.  The Iranian delegation had no comments to  make on the first point. On the second, they  thought that the governments of countries re-  ceiving relief should be encouraged to allocate a  certain proportion of their national resources to  relief work; only those states who fulfilled this  condition should be qualified to benefit from  Unesco funds. On the third point, Iran hoped that,  besides the funds freely distributed to needy coun-  tries, an international central loan fund might be  established. :  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate submitted the  following amendments to recommendations 2  and 3 on page 5 of the Report.  For No. 2, an additional recommendation was  suggested, to the effect that it was most desirable  that the National Commissions should take an ac-  tive and practical part in Unesco’s work, and that  they might therefore be charged with the duty  of raising funds and materials. It was also sugges-  ted that a Unesco liaison officier should be avail-  able in receiving countries to give advice and as-  sistance with regard to distribution.  For No. 3, an addition- was suggested to the  effect that the precise amount of expenditure under  the various headings would be for decision by the  Budget Committee. All gifts in cash received by  Unesco for reconstruction purposes should be plac-  ed in a separate fund to be administered by the  Special Committee mentioned in recommenda-  tion 1. The Special Committee would have very  full powers for administering such funds.  The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the impor-  tance of the amendment by the United Kingdom  . delegation, which he thought fully satisfy the dele-  gate of France. The amendment and resolutions  would be distributed to delegates that afternoon  for discussion.  He took a vote on Article I, which was adopted  with only one adverse vote.  Articles 2 and 3 would be voted on that after-  noon after discussion of the amendment.  The UNITED STATES delegate proposed to add  to the production of scientific material, produc-  tion of educational material.  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion of docu-  ment Unesco/C/IT.  There were no observations on the Introduction,  which was adopted.  I. INTENSIFIED CAMPAIGN.  The CANADIAN delegate emphasized that the  proposed committee should furnish information to  private organizations, to tell them how they might  aid the devastated countries. The cost of raising  funds should be reduced to a minimum. He thought  it might be useful to use such publicizing means  — 136 —   as wireless, films and publications to raise the ne-  cessary money. Paragraph 1 was adopted.
2. PUBLICATIONS.  Subject to a remark by the Canadian delegate  that five or six (instead of twenty) good and wide-  ly circulated pamphlets would be enough, pa-  ragraph 2 was adopted.
3. FELLOWSHIPS.  Paragraph 3 was adopted without discussion.
4. FIELD CONSULTANT GROUPS.  The FRENCH delégate pointed out that experts  sent to the devastated countries should exercise  ‘great tact and he suggested that they should not  be parties, but individuals — psychologists, so-  ciologists — who would get into direct touch with  the schools.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate agreed, and sug-  gested that the second sentence in paragraph 4  should be amended as follows : ‘ Unesco, at the  invitation of governments and in co-operation with  voluntary agencies, could organize the despatch  of qualified experts to visit war-torn areas. ”  Dr. WILSON proposed that the first sentence  should be amended to read : ““ It is equally  desirable to send to damaged areas individual per-  sons or groups of qualified specialists from more  fortunate lands. ”  Sieh these amendments paragraph 4 was adop-  led. :
5. YOUTH SERVICE CAMPS.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate asked whether  the question of Youth Service Camps was also  being studied by the Programme Commission and  the Education Sub-Commission.  Dr. WILSON replied that the question had two  aspects, an educational aspect, which was the con- |  cern of the Education Sub-Commission, and the  relief aspect, which was on the agenda of the Re-  habilitation and Reconstruction Commission. He  explained that six international organizations were  engaged in organizing youth camps, but that there  was no liaison between them, and that Unesco’s  task should consist in co-ordinating and encoura-  ging their work.  The CANADIAN and CHINESE delegates thought  it would be better if fellowship funds were used to  send students from devastated countries to more  fortunate countries rather than organize Youth  Service Camps.  Dr. WILSON, supported by the delegate of CzE-  CHOSLOVAKIA, was of opinion that Youth Service  Camps, by bringing young men and girls from  different countries into contact with one another  in their daily lives, and by helping to establish  friendly links between them, were an important  factor in creating better understanding between  nations. He thought that government collaborat-  ion was necessary in the maintaining and organ-  om  ising of these camps, It was a special form of  student collaboration. The expenses were often  paid by the families or national bodies concerned.  As in the awarding of fellowships, the selection  would be made through Unesco.  The DANISH delegate stated that his country had  invited three hundred Polish and Czech students  to come to Denmark to pursue their studies. They  had been able to meet during vacations and follow  courses under their own professors. On that basis  - he proposed to add to Unesco’s programme the  possibility that countries undamaged by the war  might invite groups of students, teachers'and even  children from the devastated countries. He sug-  gested that the Commission take the advice of  experts in these matters, who had been author-  ized by the London Conference to assist the pre-  sent Conference in the capacity of observers,  On behalf of Poland and Czechoslovakia, the  CHAIRMAN warmly thanked Denmark for her very  generous reception of students from those two  countries.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA associated him-  self with the Polish delegate’s thanks to Denmark.  He hoped that one day Czechoslovakia might come  similarly to the aid of children from other coun-  tries, and thought that the bonds of friendship  between young people created by these visits were  a pledge of future peace.  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 26 November 1946 at 2.45 p. m.  Chairman : Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom).  later M. DRZEWIESKI (Poland).
5. YOUTH SERVICE CAMPS (continuation).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES underlined  the importance of youth service groups in the  formation of mutual international understanding.  He considered that the sums necessary for these  camps should not come from fellowships, but  that donations on the part of charitable organ-  izations should be encouraged.  He proposed two amendments to Item 5. The  first sentence of the first paragraph would read :  “In co-operation with students’ organizations and  all other interested agencies, Unesco should seek  to encourage the establishment of youth service  camps and to provide for the equitable distribut-  ion of such camps in the devastated regions in  the course of the summer of 1947. ”  The first sentence of the second paragraph  would read : ““ If Unesco were to take the ini-  tiative in organizing such camps, this is not to  say that Unesco would bear the main costs of  such establishments... ”  This proposal was presented in English and, from  the rest of the discussion, it emerged that there  was considerable difference between the French and  the English texts of Item 5. It was therefore de-  cided to redraft both these texts in order to bring  them into line; the discussion would be resumed  when the new texts had been circulated to dele-  gates.