Regulation 17.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the following new text :  “ The Executive Board shall appoint exter-  nal auditors in the manner, for the terms and  purposes, and under the conditions which it shall  specify, and the .auditors shall prepare a com-  prehensive report for the preceding financial pe-  riod for submission to the General Conference. ”  The delegate of POLAND suggested the addition,  at the end of the regulation, of the words “ for  its approval ”. The delegates of the UNION OF  SOUTH AFRICA and of FRANCE thought this ad-  dition unnecessary, and the proposed amendment  was lost.  The new text of Regulation 17, proposed by  the delegate of the UNITED STATES, was adopted.  The delegate of FRANCE then raised a general  question. Whilst an effective control had been pro-  vided for the material processes, the regulations  did not provide adequate control for the working  of the system. An official should perhaps be appoin-  ted, to act as liaison officer between the Auditor  and the Financial Control Committee, whose duty  it would be to expound the Auditor's comments  to the General Conference, the Financial Control  Committee and the Executive Board.  After some discussion, it was decided to post-  pone the examination of this question.  Regulation 18.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  the deletion of the words “ in consultation with ”  and their substitution by thes words “ with the  agreement of ”. NS  This proposal, supported by the UNITED STATES  . delegate, was adopted.  Regulation 18, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 19.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the following new text : _  " Subject to such conditions as may be pre-  scribed by the General Conference, the Director-  General may invest monies which are not need-  ed for immediate requirements provided that  the investments shall be made in gold or secu-  rities of, or guaranteed by, the government of  a Member Nation or by several Member Na-  tions. ” :  Seconded by the delegate of FRANCE, and adop-  ted.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the addition of the following new regulations :  “19 A. The balance of appropriations remain-  ing unobligated at 31st December of the financial  year to which they relate shall be surrendered by  consecutive adjustment made in the budget next  presented. ” [  ‘“ 19 B. Payments for outstanding obligations as  at 31st December shall be made between 1st Ja-  nuary and the last day of February and charged  to the accounts of the previous financial year. At  Ist March the unliquidated balance of such obli-  gations shall be carried forward to the accounts  of the then current financial year. ””  “ 19 C. Appropriations shall remain available,  to the extent that obligations are incurred under  them, for a period not exceeding three years from  the first day of the financial year to which they  relate. Any part of the appropriation remaining  unexpended shall be surrendered, by adjustment  in the budget next presented. ”  “19 D. Appropriate separate accounts shall be  maintained for Trust or other Funds, for the  purpose of accounting for unclaimed monies, mo-  nies received and held in suspense and for projects  where the transactions involve a cycle of opera-  tions. The purpose and limits of ‘each trust or  other fund established shall be clearly defined  by the appropriate authority. ”  Seconded by the delegate of FRANCE.  New Regulations 19 A, 19 B, 19 C and 19 D  were adopted,  Regulation 20.  Adopted.  Regulation 21.  Adopted.  Regulation 22.  The CzecHOSLOVAR delegate proposed deletion  of the words ‘ and Contingencies ” just before  the last sentence. After discussion between the  POLISH, UNITED States and BELGIAN delegates  this amendment was rejected.  Regulation 22 was adopted without amendment.  Regulation 23.  The delegates of the UNITED STATES, AUSTRA-  LIA and CZECHOSLOVAKIA proposed amendments.  It was decided that the three delegations should  agree on an amendment to be submitted at the  next meeting.  FIFTH MEETING  Held on Tuesday, 3 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT FINANCIAL REGULATIONS (Continuation ).  The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on an  amendment to Regulation 23, moved by the dele-  gate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA and seconded by the  delegate of AUSTRALIA.  The Sub-Commission approved the amendment  and Regulation 23 was adopted in this new form :  ‘“ Transfers by the Director-General within -  the budget shall be permitted during the finan-  cial year 1047 after sanction by the Executive  Regulation 17.  Board. ”  The delegate of FRANCE submitted an amend-  ment to Regulation 17 relating to external audi-  tors. The purpose of this amendment was to  give the Financial Commission the means of super-  \ vising the financial management of the Organ-  ization.  The delegate of BELGIUM wished the text to  indicate specifically that the auditor must be a  person from outside. |  In view of the importance of this text, it was  decided that it should be translated and dupli-  cated before being discussed.  New Regulations.  — 208 —   The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  that Regulations 24, 25 and 26 be added to the  draft financial regulations. (Document No. 6 of  the Sub-Commission, page 5.) The proposal was  seconded by the delegates of the UNITED STATES  and FRANCE.  They were worded as follows :  ‘“ Regulation 24 : Rules made by the Director-  General to carry out the provisions of these  regulations shall be communicated to the Exe-  cutive Board for approval. ”  “ Regulation 25. These regulations cannot be  amended except by the General Conference, but  where it is proved to the Executive Board that  some alteration or addition is urgently requi-  red, the Executive Board is authorized to ap-  prove and put into temporary operation such  alteration or addition, but shall report thereon  to the Conference as soon as possible for final  decision by the latter. ”  “ Regulation 26. The present regulations shall  come into force on...”  In reply to a question from the delegate of  AUSTRALIA, the SECRETARIAT specified that the  date on which the Regulations would come into  force would be the date upon which the new Or-  ganization came into being.  Regulations 24, 25 and 26 were adopted.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA presented an amend-  ment, recommmending that the General Confe-  rence should approve the budget, chapter by chap-  ter (Document No. 9 of the Sub- Commission,  Article 5 À).  At the suggestion of the UNITED STATES dele-  gate, it was decided to defer the examination of  this amendment to a later date, when the Sub-  Commission was examining the budget itself.  The UNITED STATES delegate, seconded by the  delegate of BELGIUM, moved that the Draft Finan-  cial Regulations be deferred to the Drafting Com-  mittee, for their opinion whether they were logic-  ally presented and in conformity with the other  documents prepared by the Sub-Commission; and  this proposal was adopted. It was understood that  the Drafting Committee would also draft a text  regarding the constitution of a Revolving Fund.  ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT.  : The CHAIRMAN also put to discussion Chapter ZI,  Section 2, paragraph C: “ Organization of the  Secretariat ” (Page 38 of Doc. C. 7).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES submitted  a text intended to take the place of the paragraph  under discussion, a text which had been prepared  ‘by the delegates of six different countries, with  the assistance of the Secretariat. He asked the  Sub-Commission to take it as a working basis,  instead of the printed text. This proposal was  adopted.  In view of the importance of this text, which  involved the very structure of the Organization,  the delegate of FRANCE asked that the discussion  be postponed until the next meeting of the Sub-  Commission; the various delegations would then  have the opportunity of studying it at their leisure,  and exchanging views before discussing it in the  Sub-Commission. This suggestion was adopled.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES then read  out a plan of structure for the Secretariat which  he had worked out. It would be duplicated and  distributed to delegates, and would be discussed  after the preamble mentioned above.  At the proposal of the delegate of the UNITED  STATES, it was decided that Sections 3 and 4 of  Chapter ZZZ be forwarded to the Drafting Com-  mittee for examination.  SIXTH MEETING  Held on Wednesday, 4 December 1046, at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  The CHAIRMAN read a communication from the  Chairman of the Reconstruction and Rehabilita-  tion Commission, enclosing copies of the resolutions  submitted to his Commission and copy of a resolu-  tion relating to the budget on which the Recon-  struction Commission had not yet taken formal  action. .  It was agreed that Dr. Drzewieskl's communi-  cation should be referred to the Secretariat with  the request that the portions of it relevant to the  budget should be roneoed and distributed to the  members of the Administrative and Financial  Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN then read a communication from  the Legal Adviser with regard to Draft Staff Re-  gulation 27 (establishment of an Administrative  Tribunal), which had been amended by the repre-  sentative of France. The Legal Adviser suggested  a modification of the French amendment.  It was agreed that the Legal Adviser's commu-  nication should be referred to the Drafting Com-  mittee, with instructions to confer with the Legal  Adviser and then report to the Administrative and  Financial Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN also announced that the Chair-  man of the Administrative and Legal Commission  wished the Administrative and Financial Sub-  Commission to submit, at the meeting of the full  Commission on Thursday, 5th December, its re-  port on the Draft Staff Regulations and Draft  Financial Regulations.  REPORT OF THE DRAFTING COMMITTEE.  Mr. RicHARDSON (United Kingdom), Chairman  of the Drafting Committee, submitted the Draft-  ing Committee’s report.  On the Staff Regulations, the following propo-  sals were made :
1. Paragraph 23 of Chapter M of the Prepara-  tory Commission’s report should be inserted  in the Staff Regulations as an addition to  Regulation 8.
2. In Regulation 29, the indemnity should be at  least the equivalent. of three months’ salary  and should not exceed nine months’ salary,  according to the length of service.
3. Those parts of Chapter II of the Preparatory  Commission’s report on which either a reso-  lution of the Conference or a Staff Regulation  was required, were the followin  a) Paragraphs 16 a) and b), which should be  embodied in a resolution of the Conference.  Paragraphs 1g a) and b) had still to be  dealt with. The first part of paragraph 20  J 209 ——