and solidarity between minds, an objective to-  wards which the International Institute of Intel-  lectual Co-operation had already made the first  move.  “ Mexico hopes that, while we do not lose sight  of the ideal, we shall also take account of facts.  Big Utopian schemes are threatened with failure,  and to ask all countries for more than they can  give would prove a sterile business, courting di-  saster. The world 1s made up of rich and poor,  strong and weak, and it is essential that each  should be equal to the task imposed upon him.  Only in this way can we succeed in levelling up  human communities situated in very different  conditions: only in this way can we efface the  chiaroscuros that mask the true face of humanity.  We were extremely interested in the Executive  Secretary's report. It is a fascinating document,  for all its mixture of prudence with enthusiasm.  In the course of the Conference we shall be review-  ing our programme and shall end, I hope, by  establishing the limits of our possibilities.  The report may be open to criticism in detail,  but we believe that all delegations will approve it  as a whole. This general approval, which I recom-  mend to vou, would not exclude the insertion of  individual view-points on any item in the pro-  gramme. .  This Conference in Paris brings back to us what  our civilization owes to French leaders of thought.  I catch a distant view of all the great nations who  have helped us, and who are now helping us to  ‘accomplish our educational and cultural mission.  I forget none of them, though I regret the absence  of some who, for fortuitous reasons, unfortunate  and temporary, are not among us now. It is im-  portant that, when these absent ones are able  or willing to join us, they shall find their place  waiting for tem. :  The eyes of all men of goodwill are upon us.  We must not disappoint them. My country hopes  that we shall live up to our ambitions. Mexico, the  heir of many cultures, is, at this moment, making  visible efforts to absorb within her melting-pot  that substance, the product of all the molten met-  als, like that which flowed from the burning of  Corinth, and which is fashioned by slow degrees  in the furnace of history.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The delegate  of Mexico concluded his speech with a concrete  proposal. He asked the Conference generally to  approve the Report of the Executive Secretary on  the understanding that delegates have, of course,  the right to discuss any item they wish in the  course of our forthcoming meetings. 1 think that  the Conference will wish to pay unanimous trib-  ute to the value and importance of the work  done. Is that agreed? I see that the Conference  is unanimous.  At 4.30 this afternoon we shall meet again to  elect the Executive Board. :
11. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COM-  MISSIONS AND ASSIGNMENT TO THEM  OF CERTAIN QUESTIONS  Our vote is necessary lin order that the three  main Commissions, the Programme Commission,  the Administrative and Legal Commission and the  Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Commission  may be able to start their work.  I ask the Conference to approve the setting up  of three Commissions, of which the Programme  Commission and the Commission on Reconstruc-  tion and Rehabilitation will meet on Monday at
10.30 a..m. .  Is this agreed? In the absence of any objections  this is decided. ;  EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 23 November 1946 at 4.30 p. m.  President : Dr. Y. R. CHAo (China)
12. ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD  Thé PRESIDENT : This morning the Confe-  rence was asked to adopt the Rules of Procedure  so that it became possible to set up the Nomina-  tions Committee. Now we are ready to proceed to  the election of the Executive Board members in  accordance withthe Rules of Procedure, after the  report from the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee.  This election, 1 would remind vou, according  to the Constitution, will be by secret ballot.  The following are the relevant paragraphs in  the Rules of Procedure :  “ Rure 68 bis (amended): The General Con-  ference shall elect at one and the same time the  eighteen members of the Executive Board in ac-  cordance with the provisions of Rules 55, 50,
57 and 58B.  «“ In accordance with Article V A, 3, of the  Constitution, it shall determine, by the drawing  of lots, the six members whose term of office ex-  pires at the end of the first year, and the six mem-  bers whose term expires at the end of the second  year.  “ RULE 55 : To be elected each candidate must  obtain in the first ballot a clear majority of the  votes cast. In the second ballot a plurality is suffi-  cient. If in the second ballot the votes are equally  divided, the President shall decide between them  by drawing lots.  — 66 —   “ RULE 56 : When a certain number of elective  places are to be filled at one time under the same  conditions, those persons obtaining in the first  ballot a majority of the votes cast shall be elected.  A second vote shall be taken to fill the remaining  places and the candidates who obtain pluralities  shall be elected.  “ RULE 57 : If a vote is equally divided in bal-  lots other than those provided for in Rules 55  and 56, a second vote shall be taken in the course  of the next meeting. This meeting shall be held  within 48 hours after the first vote, and the taking  of the second vote shall appear on its agenda. Un-  less at this meeting there 1s a majority in favour  of the proposal, it shall be considered as lost.  “ RULE 70: The term of office of each member  shall begin immediately on his election and shall  end on the day of the election of a member for the  subsequent term.  “ RULE 70 bis : The term of office of the mem-  bers of the Executive Board elected for one, two  or three years shall end on the date on which the  election takes place during the second, third and  fourth regular sessions of the General Conference  respectively. ”  I now call on Dr. Beeby, Chairman of the No-  minations Committee, for his report.  The Chairman of The NOMINATIONS COM-  MITTEE : I have the honour to report that, as  instructed by the General Conference, the Nomin-  ations Committee met informally yesterday aft-  ernoon and this morning, and again this afternoon  they held a formal meeting. After full discussion  it was decided to nominate to the General Con-  ference the following individuals for election to  the Executive Board of Unesco. -
1 give the names in the alphabetical order of  their countries in English :  Dr. E. R. WALKER . . Australia  ‘M. P. VERNIERS . Belgium  Prof. P. CARNEIRO . Brazil  H. E. Dr. Doré . Canada  Mr. CHEN YUAN . .. China  Dr. Jan OPOCENSKY. . . . Czechoslovakia  H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL Bry. Egypt *  M. Pierre AUGER . . . . . France  Prof. Alex PHOTIADES. . Greece  Sir S. RHADAKRISHNAN . . . India  Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ . Mexico  Dr. H. R. KruyT. . Netherlands  Dr. A. SOMMERFELT. Norway  M. FALSKI . . Poland  M. GUNTEKIN. . . Turkey  Sir John Mavup. . United Kingdom  The Hon. Archibald  Mac LEISH. . Coe United States  H. E. M. Parra PErrz . . Venezuela  The PRESIDENT : I should like to remind you  that you have before you one of these sheets of  paper on which to write the names of the indivi-  duals who will take part in the votes. Does any-  body wish to have any further discussion?  The Hon. Archibald Mac-LEISH (United Sta-  tes) : We of the United States delegation have  heard with the greatest interest the report of the  Committee and we congratulate them upon the  work they have done in a difficult matter. We are  much impressed by at least seventeen names on  the list, but we do feel it necessary to express  our deep concern as regards one aspect of the  selection. This is a selection of persons and. for  that reason the Committee must be congratulated.  But under the Constitution not only persons are  to be considered but also the geographical posit-  ion. The situation is as follows, that, of the nine  European Nations, eight are represented; of the  eight American Nations five are represented; from  the Middle East and Africa three are represented:  from the Far East two are represented. It is, of  course, impossible to arrive at a perfect mathe-  matical balance, but it seems to us that what we  have here 1s quite unbalanced in view of the fact  that a great part of Unesco’s work — my col-  leagues from the American delegations will for-  give me when I say this — must lie in the Far  Kast, where there are tremendous problems of  literary value and problems of education to which  we must devote our attention. It seems to us  Americans that, without interfering with the  question of the representation of America, Unesco  must fix its attention on the Far Fast.  We do, however, wish to present not a protest,  but to put this as firmly as we can, because our  sense of geographical distribution is not in accord-  ance with the one submitted, and we do hope  that this one will not serve as a precedent for the  future.  In addition to geographical distribution, there  is a suggestion in the Constitution that this selec-  tion should cover every field of interest and con-  cern. We are struck by the fact that there are no  women on this list. We do most earnestly wish to  emphasize that Unesco is not to be only a Euro-  pean organisation with representatives elsewhere,  nor a purely masculine organisation.  The PRESIDENT : Is there any further dis-  cussion? Then we shall proceed with the election.  May I suggest that a delegate from Denmark and  a delegate of the Philippines act as tellers. If any  member of any delegation wishes to make further  remarks, let him do so now.  The delegate of BRAZIL (translation) : I should  like to ask a question : after the names on the list  we have to fill in, should we indicate the country,  or not mention it?  The PRESIDENT : In principle, the members  of the Executive Board are individuals, so it is  not necessary to write the names of the count-  ries if the names of the individuals are written  correctly.  The delegate of INDIA : Should the voting pa-  per be signed by the Head of the Delegation?  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY :  should sign, Sir, this is a secret vote.  Nobody  I will now ask the delegates to deposit their  votes in the French alphabetical order.  The vote was taken by roll call.  — 67 —      The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY : I will now  read the names once more of the four states which  are absent — Saudi Arabia, Bolivia, Peru, the  Dominican Republic. :  The meeting was suspended at 5.25 p. m. and re-  sumed at 6 fp. m.  The PRESIDENT : We will now announce the  result of the election. I shall read off the names,  the number of votes and whether each name is  elected. After I finish the announcement, it still  remains for the members of the Executive Board  elected to draw lots as to which of them shall serve  for the three different terms of office. The number  of countries with the right to vote is 28 and  the number of countries which voted is 24.  : Votes  Dr. E. R. WALKER (Australia). 24 Elected  M. P. VERNIERS (Belgium). . . 24 ”  Prof. P. CARNEIRO (Brazil) . . 24 vs  H. E. Dr. Dore (Canada). . . 24 »  Prof. M. CHEN YUAN (China) . 24 »  Dr. J. OpocENsKkY (Czecho-  slovakia). . . . . . . . 24 »  H. FE. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  (Egypt). . . . + 1 + + 1 + 24 2  - M. P. AUGER (France). . . . 24 A  Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece). . 24 A  Prof. H. R. KruyT »(Nether-  ands). . . . . . +... . + 24 ,»  Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India). 24 >  Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) . . 24 »  Dr. A. SOMMERFELT (Norway). 24 A  M. FALSKI (Poland) . . . . . 24 ”  M. GUNTERKIN (Turkey). « 24  Sir John Maup (United King-  dom). . 12e 22 24 ’  Hon. A. MacLE1sH (United  States . . . 2244 +. 24 >  H. E. M. PARRA PEREZ (Vene-  zuela). ee a eee aa. 24 27  The PRESIDENT : Now we shall draw lots for  ‘the terms of service of the members elected. The  names are being put in the ballot box and will be  drawn. The first six names drawn are to serve for  one year.  Here are their names :  Dr. H. R. KRUYT  Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ  Sir John MAUD  Mr. CHEN YUAN  Dr. E. R. WALKER  M. FALSKI  Here are the six names to serve for two years :  H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL BEY  H. E. Dr. Dore  Dr. J. OPOCENSKY  Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN  M. P. VERNIERS  Prof. PHOTIADES  . /  And here are the next six, who will serve for  three years :  H. E. M. PARRA PEREZ  Hon. A. MACLEISH  Prof. P. CARNEIRO"  M. P. AUGER  Dr. A. SOMMERFELT  M. GUNTEKIN  The PRESIDENT : This concludes the first set  of the Plenary Meetings of this Conference.  NINTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 6 December 1946 at 11 a. m.  President : M. SEBASTIAN (Philippines)  Later M. Léon Brum (France)  The PRESIDENT : Before proceeding with the  items on the Agenda, the Chair wishes to announce  that the Meeting will be adjourned at about
12 o'clock and that a private meeting of the  Conference will then be held.
13. CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS  OF THE COMMISSIONS AND SUB-  COMMISSIONS  I. — REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  AND LEGAL COMMISSION.  The first item on the agenda is the Report of  the Administrative and Legal Commission. I call  ‘upon M. Claude Gruson, Rapporteur of the Com-  mission, to report to the Conference.  M. GRUSON (France) (translation) : The Ad-  ministrative and Legal Commission has elected  M. Sommerfelt (Norway) Chairman, and Mr.  Eisenhower (United States of America) Vice-  Chairman.  The Commission has completed part of its work  and submits the present. Report to the General  Conference. Before reading the report I should  like to make a short comment on the material  aspects of the document which you have before  you. This document contains the proposals of  the Commission on various Legal and External  Relations matters, the Revised Staff Regulations,  and finally the report on the Provisional Finan-  cial Regulations.  I will now deal with the proposals of the Com-  mission concerning the various Legal and Exter-  nal Relations questions,  — 68 —