blish in their minds attitudes antagonistic to peace  and the brotherhood of man.  We favour also the development of a system of  exchanges of scholarships and professorships be-  tween countries and the calling of international  conferences not only among educators, scientists  and policy-makers but among youth.  We reiterate as a matter of emphasis what has  been partly dwelt upon by other delegations —  that we should guard against too much diffusion  of effort and energy. We should guard against du-  plication of work that is already being done effec-  tively and well in several countries and should  concentrate for some time at least on the basic  idea in which Unesco was conceived.  We believe that Unesco can advantageously  exert efforts toward eliminating hazards to peace.  Race prejudice, religious bigotry and intolerance,  economic maladjustment and the constant exhi-  bition of the trappings of war in our everyday life  should all be removed if the minds of men, parti-  cularly of the youth of our countries, are to be  attracted toward unselfish ends, toward peace and  love for all men.  Fortunately there are certain factors already at  work which tend to promote better understanding  among peoples of different creeds and races. The  cinema, the radio, the abundance of printed mat-  ter and the rapidity of communication and travel  that we have today have made this world a small,  world indeed.  We therefore favour the publication of truly in-  ternational newspapers and journals for interna-  tional use and reference. This could be undertaken  as a Unesco project by experts in the fields of  international affairs, education, and journalism.  Such papers may be published in any of the widely  used languages, but the points of view should  be international.  We likewise favour the establishment of inter-  national radio broadcasting stations for world edu-  cation, which could supplement if not replace in-  dependent national stations devoted primarily to  selfish propaganda and the defence of selfish na-  tional aims and interests.  One last suggestion we wish to make, based on  our own experiences in the field of character trai-  ning. We should be on our guard and not be sa-  tisfied with mere preaching and lecturing and  teaching in the classroom of the great and noble  ideas of peace and justice, of human happiness  and human dignity. It would be well if we took  advantage of existing situations, and even create  situations if necessary, that will implement the  objectives of Unesco. It would be fortunate if  through the wise use of natural situations youth  could be led to perform acts that will create and  raise in their minds attitudes and desires imbued  with justice and kindness and which will most  surely bring about at some future date peace and  good will among men.  I have expounded briefly and in simple language  the stand of our delegation on some of the points  covered by the report of the Preparatory Commis-  sion. I have discussed them frankly in the spirit  - of full co-operation a d in the hope that the views  I have expressed this morning would, in the same  spirit, be given due consideration,  Should the assembly, however, for strong rea-  sons take an attitude contrary to or different from  the views I have briefly dwelt upon, the Philippine  delegation wishes to assure this assembly that it  not only would abide by the decisions of the majo-  rity but would do all in its power to carry out these  decisions. This is because it is our firm belief that  unless there exist among us who are gathered here  an earnest desire to co-operate, Unesco is bound  to fail. .  We of the Philippines fefvently hope that Unesco  will succeed. We realize that it faces a tremendous  challenge, the challenge to improve the lot of  mankind in the future, but we are hoping that the  nations great and small that are represented here  will find a way out of the hazards and difficulties  that have spelled failure for other international  enterprises. We can only say that we shall do our  part.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : We shall meet  again at 3.15 this afternoon.  SIXTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 22 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  President : M. MoN1Z DE ARAGAO (Brazil)  The EXECUTIVE SECRETARY : The first  announcement I wish to make is to suggest that  we send a telegram to M. Trygve Lie, Secretary-  General of the United Nations, who cabled to  me regretting he was unable to be present here.  We suggest that we send a telegram in your name :  “ The delegations of 44 nations, assembled for  the first General Conference of Unesco, greatly  regret your absence, very gratefully received your  message conveyed by M. Benoit-Lévy and much  appreciate your promise of support in our endea-  vours. Unesco places full confidence in close con-  x, structive co-operation with the United Nations  Signed by the President and myself.  Agreed. .
9. GENERAL DISCUSSION ON THE  WORK OF THE PREPARATORY  COMMISSION (conlinuation)  The PRESIDENT (translation) : The list of  speakers is now practically exhausted and, as we  wish to close the general discussion this afternoon,   I shall be glad if those delegates who wish to  speak will send in their names as soon as pos-  sible.  I call upon Dr. G. À. Raadi, delegate of Iran,  Dr, G. A. RAADI (Iran) (translation) : First of  all I wish-to say how much my country appre-  ciates the privilege of being allowed to take part  in this assembly. We are fully conscious of the  great responsibility which this participation in-  volves in the dual task ahead, which Professor  Huxley described so remarkably in his report —  namely, to preserve and consolidate peace and  security, and to work for the welfare of mankind.  Our delegation is particularly glad that Unesco  has chosen Paris as the centre of its activity, and  we wish to thank France for her very cordial  hospitality.  Our tribute to France is all the greater because  of the strong cultural ties, which bind our two  countries and which never weakened at the most  tragic moments of the war, when the élite of  our country, always guided by the noble ideals  of which the French people has been the prot-  agonist, followed with acute anxiety the course of  her destiny. .  We listened with close interest to the speeches  of M. Bidault, the French Minister for Education  and other speakers in this Hall on the absence  of our heroic ally, the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics. Iran, from her place at the crossroads  of civilizations, is perhaps in a better position  than any other people to realise that nothing  enduring can be achiéved on an international  level without the active and unreserved co-oper-  ation of the Soviet Union. The absence of one  of the greatest of world powers is not merely  a handicap to the smooth running of this in-  ternational organisation, it has, alas, more im-  portant consequences. We have a long common  frontier with this great power, and we know that  Russia’s absence, if definite and permanent, would  constitute a serious danger for us as well as for  the future of the world. Some countries may look  upon Soviet Russian collaboration in all its forms  and aspects of the new international order as  merely desirable or useful; for us and for certain  other people this collaboration has vital signif-  icance. We consider it absolutely necessary that  the co-operation of this great power should be  assured, wherever an attempt is made to further  the cause of peace and better understanding  among peoples.  At the present stage one of the primary objécts  of Unesco, perhaps the most pressing, is to secure  this co-operation. Iran is ready to devote all its  efforts to this same end.  This affirmation may seem presumptuous on  our part, when one considers that our country has  had the sad honour for the last year of being a  sore point in the relations between certain great  powers. We do not seek this limelight and we de-  cline this honour. On the contrary, proud of the  tradition we inherit from a three thousand year  old civilization, we wish with all our heart and  soul to act as the uniting link within this new ins-  titution. |  What hopes do we place on Unesco?  First of all we look wpon it as the embodi-  ment of true disinterested greatness of thought  and culture. |  In the second place, we hope that it will enable  powers which in political jargon are classed as  ““ small” to find compensation in the cultural and  spiritual spheres for their material weakness.  Can not a nation like Iran, without false mo-  desty, play again the part she played in the  past? In the course of history has she not been  a meeting ground for the east and the west —  for Indian wisdom and Greek culture? Did we  not play the same role in the formation of Isl-  amic civilization? Did we not even serve as an  educative force for the destructive Mongol hor-  des, in inspiring them with ideals of culture and  art which they later propagated when they went  to establish a realm in India?  We still possess to-day most of the elements  that were the basis of our historical action. This  is why we wish to place our experience and our  spiritual force at the service of Unesco. We hope  to bring to you here our power of synthesis,  which has been the salient feature of our civil-  ization, and which is to-day the basis for co-oper-  ation between all peoples, and an essential con-  dition for understanding and peace.  Dr. Huxley's report refers to the fight against  illiteracy as one of the primary purposes of  Unesco. We also attach very great importance  to this problem. If there are nations favoured  by nature, history or economic factors, for whom  illiteracy is no more a problem of first impor-  tance, let us admit frankly that this is not the  case for certain’ other countries like our own,  where geographical, social and political condi-  tions have so far not permitted the means of  education and expression of thought to be put  at the disposal of every individual. We know  that accidents of history and geography have  contributed largely to this fact, but cannot ent-  irely explain it. History shows us convincingly  that people in different countries have been kept  systematically in ignorance by tyrannical govern-  ments, by foreign conquerors, or even by the  action of certain forces, invisible but none the  less active, making of the people a clay more eas-  . ily moulded in the hands of their masters and so  more easily enslaved. ‘These factors of tyranny  and of imperialism cannot properly be called  ‘‘ accidents ’’. Whatever the cause of illiteracy,  a vigorous fight against it is a primary condition  for the success of Unesco.  In the past, numerous attempts have been made  to obtain intellectual co-operation between peo-  ples, but two world wars within a generation bear  eloquent "witness to their failure. Surely one of  the chief reasons for this failure lies in the fact  that this co-operation so far has been limited to  the élite, and that no serious effort has been made  to extend its benefit to the people as a whole?  If Unesco is to achieve something enduring, she  must go deep and establish her roots among the .  masses of the people. She must set out to realize  her ideal from the bottom.  Illiteracy is neither a natural fact nor an acci-  dent. But if for argument’s sake we do not ex-  clude these terms, then Unesco must fight against   |  all the factors, including political ones, that are  the real causes of ignorance amongst vast masses  of people.  It is too much to expect men brought up in  an atmosphere of extreme nationalism to work  for universal peace and understanding. Unesco  must forg a new generation, instil in it from child-  hood the ideals that are its cornerstones. À gener-  ation educated in this way will know no other  ideals than those of international collaboration.  As regards the work of reconstruction, we find  a very reassuring allusion in the report of Dr. Hux-  ley. It is undeniable that countries devastated by  Nazi invaders must have first priority. But it  should not be forgotten that other countries which  did not suffer the dismal privilege of occupation,  but which nevertheless did not stint their con-  tribution to the cause of democracy, should also  receive special consideration,  May I be allowed to make afstatement on the  somewhat ambiguous juridical position ~of my  country in this organisation? We deeply regret  that Iran cannot participate more actively in the  work of this conference. In the absence of an  elected Parliament — the elections having been  delayed by the political situation — we have  not been able to deposit our instrument of rati-  fication. The Council of Ministers has, however,  expressed their agreement with the Constitution  of Unesco by a spécial decree, which will be sub-  mitted to the new Parliament as soon a it meets.  Thus Iran, who is a member of the United Na-  tions Organization, is in a position not unlike  that of countries which have declared their defi-  nite acceptance.  The difficult conditions that still prevail in the  world will not make our task an easy one. Not-  withstanding this our country is very confident  in the success of this Organization.  Unesco will be like the forum of ancient Rome,  where the citizens of a great empire would come  to exchange their ideas and their experiences.  The East does not come here empty-handed.  We have our scientists, philosophers, poets : men  like Avicenna, Ghazali, Omar Khayam, Ferdussi,  Saadi and Hafiz are known in Europe to a re-  grettably small number of specialists only. Take  Khayam for example, certainly one of the found-  ers of modern mathematics, who in Europe is only  known as a poet through Fitzgerald's great trans-  lation.  What conclusions can we draw from this? That  human genius is not the monopoly of any nation  or any race. It belongs to all nations. You are  here to prove by your actions that equality among  men is not an empty dream.  We proclaim our faith in this Organization,  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 now call  on M. Ibarra, delegate of Nicaragua.  M. IBARRA (Nicaragua and Costa-Rica) (trans-  lation) : One of the supreme aims of Unesco is  to ensure peace between the peoples of the world  through education, science and culture.  I do not wish to make a long speech. I want  to express briefly my ideas on the tremendous  work which Unesco proposes to undertake.  In order to make a successful start, we must  have the full co-operation of Soviet Russia, given  with goodwill and without suspicion, in the ideal  .of Unesco, which is the establishment later on of  a solid peace, a peace which is the natural and  normal evolution of the mind. Moreover, if the  ideal of a solid peace is to be total and not totali-  tarian, all nations of the world without exception  must have full voting rights in this Organization,  wish to make a suggestion which concerns  both Nicaragua and Costa Rica, whose represen-  tative I am, on the question of finance. Compared  with the larger and more developed countries of  South America, both these countries have small  budgets. It is essential, therefore, that contribut-  ions to Unesco’s budget shall be allocated in  accordance with the economic means of each  state.  The peoples of all races must be able to take  part in the work of Unesco. |  Since 1919 there has been an international  peace movement which, like the League of Na-  tions, has failed. It may be that man is not yet  sufficiently enlightened. In any case, we have seen  representatives of a great culture and an advanc-  ed civilization belonging to the white and yellow  races unleash a second world war which was the  complete negation of human dignity and culture.  This may be due to the gradual distortion of man  from childhood to maturity through the process  of his education. It has been said that occasion-  ally man gives up one culture for another more  corresponding to his state of evolution.  I am sure that education is closely bound up  with this problem. A bad education not only  _ distorts succeeding generations of children, but  also affects the mental state and, consequently,  the material riches of a country. This is true for  the people of all nations. Since Prussia became  a military camp, German education has sunk to  the goose-step of Hitler's regime, with the results  we know so well; this hard-working people with  its exceptional aptitude for science plunged man-  kind into chaos and misery from which it will  take years to recover.  This terrible relapse in human dignity was the  fault of the teachers, the governing classes and  all men responsible for the fate of their country.  I will give you one example of the deplorable  result of this education; in a concentration camp  in Poland where wholesale cremation was prac-  tised, a little Jewish girl danced, full of confidence  and joy, in front of the door of the crematorium.  She did not know her fate, but her torturer did.  He was a civilised man of the twentieth century,  disciplined and educated to burn innocent child-  ren to death in a crematorium. His blind -obed-  ience to inhuman tyranny is a striking result of  the education he had received.  Unesco is starting its work at a time which  is still full of uncertainty, when peace is still in  -doubt. It seems that we are on the brink of a  new era, the era of the atomic bomb with the  spirit of Hitler still alive in the world.  It may be that Unesco’s creation at this mom-  ent arises from some secret forces in human  nature which are trying to defend the existence  and the rights of our species. Is not this need   for unity in international co-operation a token  of these hidden forces of nature? Unesco must  co-operate with the work of all cultural and inter-  national associations concerned with education,  science and culture; but it must at once enlist  the co-operation of private international bodies  concerned with education.  Unprecedented progress has been made in the  system of education during the last fifty years.  The aim now is to achieve the full natural develop-  ment of the child and not to impose upon him  rigid standards from outside, whether these come  from the State, from adults or from religious or  political creeds. I have a justified distrust of the  direct intervention of politics in education.  It is the cultural contribution of a people which  matters, whatever the politics of the country. It  is thanks to its culture that France had the  whole-hearted sympathy of the Latin American  peoples during the first and second world wars.  The simple people of Nicaragua and Costa Rica  made their small contribution to the liberation  of a people who had contributed down the ages  to universal culture.  Nicaragua is the country of Ruben Dario, the  greatest poet of our century in the Spanish lang-  uage. Out of admiration for France he has trans-  lated into the Spanish language some of the glory  and spirit of the French literature. He and many  other great men of Latin America have made a  spontaneous contribution to international relat-  ions by spreading the spirit of French culture  from one end of our continent to the other, from  Mexico to the Argentine.  In conclusion may I draw attention to the work  of education and culture in the small country of -  Central America which I have the honour to re-  present here, Costa Rica, one of the most peace-  ful countries of the world.  Culture in all its aspects has always been of  the greatest interest to the Government. It can  be said that illiteracy does not exist in this count-  ry; her greatest army is the army of ‘school  teachers. In 1926 the strength of the regular  army was between 800 and 1,000 men, in other  words, a police force.  + The peasant and the workman have quiet well-  balanced minds. For them politics provide a dis-  traction at the time of elections, but once these  are over the successful candidate shakes the hand  of his opponent and they both return to their  work as happily as if they were coming from a  football match.  There has never been a tyrant in the Govern-  ment of Costa Rica. Almost all modern institut-  ions of education exist, and the country is just-  ly proud of its schools, which are installed in  the most beautiful buildings of the capital and  other towns.  I should like to quote a tribute paid to this  country by President Hoover during a visit in
192g : “ Costa Rica’s achievements ”, he said,  “ In the fields of culture and civilization are  exemplary. It has maintained the integrity and  dignity of the nation with an army which con-  tains less than a quarter of the number of school  teachers. All these qualities testify to the noble  character of the people and government of Costa  Rica. ”  I wish to thank Dr. Huxley for having under-  taken a work started by the Ministers for Edu-  cation exiled in London in 1942. The work to be  done will be difficult and hard, but with the help  of enthusiastic and efficient young men it will  be crowned with success, and Unesco will be the  cradle of a new civilisation.  Finally I would congratulate the delegates on  their suggestions. Among the documents of Unesco  I can, however, find no plan for raising the social,  moral and economic position of the primary school-  teacher. Some countries, particularly the U. S. À,  have done a great deal to recognise the school-  master, but in others he is looked upon as a  member of the proletariat. Unesco must make  every effort to solve this problem, which is vital  to its own success. The school teacher is a worker  of the spirit : he must be recognised as such if  the work accomplished here is to be worthy of  the United Nations.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I have an  announcement to make. The report of the Pro-  cedure Committee will be ready tomorrow morn-  ing and I hope that, in view of the long dis-  cussion already held in the Committee, it will be  adopted without much ado.  I now call upon Dr. El Diwany, delegate of  Egypt.  Dr. H. F. El DIWANY (Egypt) : On behalf  of the Egyptian delegation I have the honour  to extend the greetings and the hopes that my  country sends to Unesco. I think the offers of  collaboration and support on behalf of Egypt are  of particular significance; in the first place my  country has been for centuries past the happy  meeting ground and sometimes the unhappy meet-  ing ground of influences coming from the east  and the west. In many cases these influences  formed fruitful and interesting combinations and  hopes; sometimes they have led to conflicts and  misery. In thé second place, Egypt, especially  within the last roo years, has witnessed many  instances of collaboration of scholars, scientists,  savants, industrialists, technicians drawn from  France, England, America, Switzerland and Bel-  gium. There are many instances of European and  American scientists giving up their whole life,  their whole career, to the instruction and benefit  of their adopted country. European and American  universities welcome our students and are very  generous in sending us some of their best talents.  For all this we are all very grateful. In the third  place, Egypt.is, as some of you may be aware,  a member of the Arab League. In common with  her sister members of the Arab League, she is.  building at present a regional organisation which  in its cultural activities and aspirations is a Unesco  on a small scale, and I am sure that Unesco and  the Arab League will find in the future many  possibilities and many opportunities for happy  co-operation. In the fourth place, some of the  problems which Unesco is tackling and going to  tackle are exactly the problems which the Egypt-  ian people and their Government are trying their  — 60 —   hardest to solve: the raising of intellectual stand-  ards, infusion of culture, elimination of illiteracy.  I think that Egypt will find in its collaboration  with Unesco many suggestions and many encour-  agements which will help her to overcome her  difficulties.  Coming now to the reports of the Preparatory  Commission and the masterly report of the Exec-  utive Secretary, although previous speakers have  covered all the ground, I should like to add one  point, which as far as I am aware has not been  raised by previous speakers. 1 venture to think  that the boundaries between the Sub-Commis-  sions for the Programme Commission have not  been clearly defined. I do not raise this point in  a spirit of criticism, but I think a review of the  ground would prevent repetition and would make  the ground clearer for action. Lastly, in a Confer-  ence meeting in Paris, I as an Egyptian would  like to take this opportunity to present to France  my sincere affection and tribute of regard.  The PRESIDENT (translation): 1 now call  upon M. Julian Nogueira, delegate of Uruguay.  M. Julian NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (transla-  tion) : I would not like this general discussion  to end without allowing the voice of Uruguay to  be heard, I would like to associate myself with  the congratulations from this rostrum to the Exec-  utive Secretary for his remarkable report. I infin-  itely regret that Mediterranean culture is not  sufficiently represented among.us. Other orators  have manifested their regret concerning Spain.  It is deplorable that, for reasons extraneous to  the aims of our institution, we should not be able  to have among us representatives of this noble  and high culture, which has provided, to quote  only the aspect in which we are most interested,  the intellectual contribution to civilisation of  Vittoria, Suarez and Menchaca, the real founders  of international law, without whom we would  not be meeting here. I regret also, and for sim-  ilar reasons, the absence of the representatives  of Italian culture. To mention it is to mention  the cradle of Latin culture and agriculture, of  learning, and the centre of jurisprudence, which  go back hundreds of years.  I hope the obstacles, which 1 consider of a  secondary and procedural nature and which have  prevented the presence among us of these highly  qualified representatives of Mediterranean culture,  will disappear as quickly as possible and allow  us to work in that universal framework for the  creation of which the great Russians and such  Germans as Thomas Mann and Einstein would be  of help to us. |  Thirdly, I would like to emphasise the fact that  I am particularly interested in the media for the  information of the masses, All activities of edu-  cation are linked with this question of primary  importance, particularly education and commu-  cation through the press. It is almost a quarter  of a century ago that I raised, in the League  of Nations, the whole problem of the teaching  of the constitution and aims of this institution,  not only in the universities and the higher-grade  schools, but in the primary schools which, through  the habits formed and the modern methods em-  ployed, exercise an influence as great as, if not  greater than, that of the home. It was in these  schools that the totalitarian doctrine wishing to  supplant the existing civilisation instilled fanatic-  ism into youth. This example is clear to us and  we must take account of it in directing our efforts  to the opposite aim. As the delegate for Great Brit-  ain said this morning, the dilemma is education  or catastrophe.  Fourthly, among the questions bearing on mass  communications and the problem of general edu-  cation, those of communication through the press  are of capital importance. I would like to recom-  mend the setting up of a special Committee to  co-ordinate the very numerous and varied techn-  ical elements which form the basis of the orga-  nisation of the press, the international character  of which is constantly increasing from day to day.  Bi-lateral agreements and exchanges between  nations are no longer sufficient. In the case of  the press these should become universal in con-  formity with the spirit of our Constitution,  which renounces all particularism and all ten-  dency to the creation of blocks within itself.  . Fifthly, I would like to associate myself with the  words expressed by the representative of Nicara-  gua and Costa Rica on the subject of primary  schools.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 call upon  Dr. Gleditsch, delegate of Norway.  Dr. Ellen GLEDITSCH (Norway) (translation) :  The Norwegian delegation has laid on me the task  of addressing you on its behalf.  The delegates of Norway wish to place on record  their gratitude to the Preparatory Commission of  Unesco, and to the Executive Secretary, Dr. Hux-  ley, for their work during the year which has elaps-  ed since the Conference in London. The first .steps  taken are the most important and the most diffic-  ult. The results of the year’s work are full of pro-  mise and Dr. Huxley's report shows us clearly the  way we should take. We note with the greatest  satisfaction the overriding importance given in  this programme to the question of education, which  seems to us, not necessarily the most important,  but certainly the most urgent of our tasks.  We must above all fight against illiteracy and  ignorance, Really, ignorance 1s at the root of all  our difficulties, and from it springs the ill-will  which makes of one’s neighbour, whether indivi-  dual or nation, an enemy. For that reason we must  abolish it, cost what it may, so that later we may  embark on constructive work, mould the citizen  and set his feet in the paths of international life,  ~ Norway was occupied for five years. During one  and a half years of that time the universities were  closed, the means of teaching did not exist and  it was difficult to give higher education to boys  and girls who needed it for their future careers,  but 15 per cent are now studying in countries  abroad and the Norwegian delegation thanks these  countries for their help, which is in the true spirit  of Unesco and will later come within the sphere of  its activities. Norway regrets that she cannot at  present help other countries in need, but is glad to  — 6x —   think that, when her people ‘return, they will  return as ambassadors of the’ culture of other  countries, and that they will teach and inform  us in Norway about these countries which have  been so generous in these difficult times. That  will be a new link between the nations.  Another relatively easy thing is the reform of  school textbooks, particularly history books. The  northern countries have started on this: have  improved textbooks, and omitted from them what  might be harmful to neighbouring countries. We  are now discussing the possibility of getting out a  series of short documents on geography, history  and civics as taught in Norway. These documents  will be sent to other countries as a basis for the  dissemination of reliable information about Nor-  way, and Norway hopes for improvement along  these lines. We hope to spread the knowledge  of Unesco so that every one will know of its  work. We have formed a national group to con-  nect the principal organisations interested in  problems of education and scientific research with  the work of Unesco, and to act as counsellor.  The delegates for Norway wish to express their  faith in Unesco and their conviction that the pro-  gramme Unesco has set up will make for a better  world, where children can become responsible  citizens, where human life will have regained its  true value, and where the useless sacrifice of  human life will arouse lively indignation.  Norway believes in Unesco and its ideals be-  cause, as a Danish poet once said, ““ A noble  thought never dies without producing another  noble thought ”.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : I now call  upon the delegate of Colombia.  Sr. Xavier ARANGO (Colombia) (translation) :  I did not know that the final speeches were to be  made to-day. I find myself in a grave dilemma, as  I do not know French well enough to speak extem-  pore. I should therefore have been glad of time for  thought so as to express my exact impression of  Unesco.  Unesco has one essential object : to rediscover  the path of sanity, which the world seems to have  lost, so that Man can regain the optimistic title of  Homo Sapiens. In these dark days we have quite  ceased to associate the word ‘‘civilization ” with  the word ‘“‘ culture’. I believe that Unesco’s lab-  ours will forge the weapons of a humane and hum-  anistic procedure, and that through thus raising  Man himself to life, it will be shown that culture  is only the application of civilization. A civil-  ization without a metaphysical philosophy is too  limited. Man has sought to doaway with mystery  and express everything in terms of physical fact,  but in Man's subconsciousness there remains a  terror, not physical in origin, of desintegration,  quite apart from the superstition he has rightly  sought to suppress.  It is a great satisfaction to me that France is  supplying the President for this Conference, for  France has ever been the intellectual capital of  the Latin World. We South Americans are Spain's  children in the flesh, but France’s in the spirit. As  long ago as 1794 the Rights of Man were translated  by one of the great precursors of American inde-  pendence, Antonio Marino.  If the time should come when Europe loses all  understanding of Democracy, I am sure that in  Colombia she will find the fairest example of it.  All too often democracy serves but as the cloak for  political sophistries.  It seems to me that it is Unesco’s task to give  the world a new concept of culture; in other words,  to give civilization a metaphysical philosophy so  that Man, under the heel of the vast powers whose  symbolis the Golden Calf, and a victim of the prim-  aeval terror of those elements whose counter-  part is to-day the atom bomb, may turn his steps  into new paths, the humane and humanistic paths  of a civilization founded, as India’s delegate has  said, on charity and true brotherly love,  The PRESIDENT (translation) : 1 have just  heard that the two last speakers, the head of the  United States delegation and the head of the  Mexican delegation, are unfortunately held up by  reasons beyond their control, and I hope the Con-  ference will agree that these speakers should ad-  dress the Conference tomorrow morning at the  opening of the Plenary Session, at 10.30 a. m.  SEVENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 23 November 1946 at 10.30 a. m.  President : M. Leon Brum, President of the Conference.  The PRESIDENT (translation) : T have a com-  munication to make. The General Committee has  received a request from the Republic of Viet-Nam  to be allowed to send an observer to the Confer-  ence. The Committee proposes to take the same  decision as was taken in the case of Republican  Spain : namely, since the legal status of Viet-Nam  is not yet finally defined, they will be cordially  invited to send a representative to attend meet-  ings of the Conference but without the title of  official observer.
3. REPORT OF PROCEDURE  : COMMITTEE (conlinuation)  "I now call on Dr, Martinez-Baez, Chairman of  the Procedure Committee.  The Chairman of the PROCEDURE COMMIT-  TEE (translation) : After a long debate my com-  mittee adopted certain new texts, taking into  consideration all the amendments put forward by  — 62 —