NINTH MEETING  Saturday, 30 November, 1946.  The Meeting opened at 9.40 a. m. with M. Léon  BLUM in the Chair.  The delegates of the following countries were  present : Brazil, China, France, Mexico, Norway,  the Philippines, Poland, Saudi Arabia, United  Kingdom.  M. THOMAS (Secretariat) asked the Administra- °  tive and Financial Sub-Commission and the Legal  and External Relations Sub-Commission to meet  in the small hall, in order to allow the Sub-Com-  mission for Mass Information to meet in the larger  Room 8.  This proposal was adopted.  After a statement by M. Thomas on the trans-  mission of a text on the powers of the Executive  Board from the Executive Board to the Adminis-  trative Sub-Commission, the General Committee,  at the suggestion of the delegate of the United  Kingdom, took note of the fact that the Executive  Board had issued a statement to the Administra-  tive Sub-Commission, and it expressed the hope  that the various Commissions and Sub-Commis-  sions of the Conference would take such commu-  nications emanating from the Executive Board  into account.  The Executive Secretary informed the General  Committee that the Government of Albania had  asked to take part in the present session of the  General Conference by sending an observer with  the right to speak. Dr. Huxley regretted that the  request of the Government of Albania wasreceiv-  ed too late to allow of taking any practical action,  and proposed that a letter should be sent inviting  that government to send a representative, who  would be present, unofficially, at the deliberations  of the Conference.  The question of the subsequent participation of  Albania in the future work of Unesco would have  to be referred to the Executive Board.  This proposal was adopied.  The delegate of BRAZIL stated that, as head of  his delegation, he had received a letter from the  Chairman of the Executive Board to the President  of the General Conference concerning the appoint-  ment of the Director-General. At his suggestion,  the General Committee decided to endorse the re-  quest by the Chairman of the Executive Board  to all heads of delegations, in the hope that effect-  ive collaboration would thus be achieved in the  general interests of the Conference and of the  Organization.  This proposal was adopted.  The Executive Secretary then stated that the  Sub-Commission for Creative Arts would meet  again during the afternoon to examine M. Cassou’s  report. Dr. Wilson said that the Reconstruction  Commission would hold another meeting, pro-  bably on Wednesday, and that the Sub-Commis-  sion for Social Sciences, Philosophy and Huma-  nistic Studies would meet again on Monday  afternoon.  The meeting rose at 10.40 a. m.  TENTH MEETING  Monday, 2 December, 1946  The Meeting opened at 9.40 a. m. under the  Chairmanship of M. MONIZ DE ARAGAO (Bra-  zil).  The delegates of the following countries were  present : China, France, Mexico, Norway, the  Philippines, Poland, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom, United States.  I. POWERS OF THE CO-ORDINATING  COMMITTEE.  The MEXICAN delegate, after asking that the  powers of this Committee should be defined more  closely, and after the United States delegate had  stressed the importance of its functions; which  were intended not only to assure proper liaison  between the different Commissions but also to  submit suggestions to them, the Committee adop-  ted the following resolution :  ““ The General Committee empowers the Co-  ‘ ordinating Committee to carry out the purposes  for which it was established. ”
2. FORM IN WHICH REPORTS SHOULD  BE SUBMITTED. ps  The UNITED Kinanom delegate thought that  reports to be submitted to the General Conference  should be both coherent and complete; in other  words, they should take due account of the con-  clusions of Commissions and Sub-Commissions,  while at the same time avoiding repetitions and  overlapping as much as possible. He asked what  ‘procedure 1t was intended to follow in drafting  reports in their final form.  The Secretariat explained that the six reports  of the Sub-Commissions would first be submitted  to the Co-ordinating Committee; that Commit-  tee would examine them quickly with a view to  deleting possible reduplications and clearing up  contradictory points. It would be entitled to mod-  ify the form, but not the substance of reports.  These would then be referred to the Programme  Commission, whose duty it would be to make a  synthesis of their contents and prepare a general  report. This genéral report would be submitted by  the Chairman of the Programme Commission to  the General Conference.  The proposed procedure was agreed to by the  Committee; and the Secretariat was requested to  prepare a time-table which would give the Co-  ordination Committee and the Programme Com-  mission sufficient time for revising the draft reports  and presenting a final report during the period  between the termination of the Commissions'work  and the opening of the plenary meetings of the  Conference. It was desirable that this report  should be duplicated and distributed in time for  delegates to become acquainted with its contents  before the resumption of the plenary meetings.  A proposal from the delegate of the UNION OF  SOUTH AFRICA that the Conference should be  prolonged for two days was not adopted.