SUB-COMMISSION  ON NATURAL SCIENCES  FIRST MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1946 at 10. 30. a. m.  Dr. HUXLEY opened the meeting, and the Sub-  Commission approved the nominations of Pro-  fessor BHABHA (India) as Chairman, Professor  Osorio DE ALMEIDA (Brazil) as Vice-Chairman,  Professor AUGER (France) as Rapporteur and Pro-  fessor M. FLORKIN (Belgium) as Deputy Rappor-  teur.  Professor BHABHA thanked the Sub-Commission  for having appointed him Chairman. He pointed  out that documents Unesco/Prep. Com./Nat. Sci.  Com./13 to 16, were a summary of the information  contained in the report on the Unesco Programme  (green booklet) and the pamphlet ‘ Unesco and  Science ’’ (white booklet). He therefore suggested  that the Sub-Commission should take documents
13 to 16 as a basis of discussion.  The Agenda was adopted, and the Chairman call-  ed upon Dr. NEEDHAM, Head of the Sciences Sec-  tion.. :  Dr. NEEDHAM reminded the meeting that the  aim of the Sub-Commission was to encourage inter-  national scientific co-operation. He was convinced  that such co-operation could not fail to exist in  the future.  He then gave some information concerning do-  cuments Unesco/Prep. Com./ Nat. Sci. Com./ 13  to 10.  Document 13, he said, was a summary of the  directives contained in the green and the white  booklets. On page 3, the various proposals of the  Secretariat were presented in a way that recalled  the resolutions; opposite each were indications re-  ferring to the various pages of the green and white  booklets. In the last column there were figures re-  ferring to the various points of the budget of the  Sciences Section (see document Unesco/Prep.  Com./Nat. Sci. Com./14).  The Programme Commission contemplated three  sub-divisions of projects : :  A) projects to be undertaken in 1947,  B) projects to be studied in 1947.  C) projects to be postponed.  It was often difficult to differentiate between  projects that came within category A and those  in category B. This was why the projects of cate-  gory A and B had been listed together in docu-  ment 13. Those of category Ç were grouped in  document 13 a.  Document 14 gave an analysis of the budget  for this Section, the presentation adopted being  that of the Science Section of the Secretariat and  not that of the United Nations, as in ¢ the Report  on Administrative and Financial Provisions  (grey booklet).  Document 15 contained a draft report which  the Sub-Commission proposed to forward to the  Programme Commission.  Lastly Document 16 was a list of international  scientific organizations with which the Secretar-  iat was already in touch.  On page 77, French version of the grey booklet,  it would be noticed that the general budget  allocates 14.5 % to the Sciences Section, corres-  ponding to I million U. S. dollars. The Sub-Com-  mission would have to examine the recommen-  dations it wished to forward to the Programme  Commission on this point, particularly if the gene-  ral budget was reduced.  Dr. Needham then pointed out that during  the war he had worked in Asia in close touch  with Asiatic scientists. He referred to the isolat-  ion of certain scientists in various parts of the  world. From a scientific point of view, it was ne-  cessary to differentiate between enlightened zones »  which included Western Europe and North Ame-  rica, and less enlightened ones, such as Asia, Africa,  and South America. In the latter, which were  usually non-industrialized areas, it was necessary  that Unesco shouid endeavour to develop science  and at the same time raise the standard of liv-  ing.  Unesco would therefore pursue a two-fold aim :  in the more backward areas, it would endeavour,  as stated in Section 2 of document I3, to create  regional offices for scientific co-operation on the  lines of liaison machinery during the war. In more  developed areas, Unesco would try to assist in-  ternational scientific unions, as indicated in Sec-  tion 3 of document 13.  Document 16 contained a list of internatio-  nal scientific organizations already in existence.  Unesco’s business would be to revive those which  were working at reduced pressure and to establish  new ones.  The speaker emphasized the importance of in-  ternational scientific unions everywhere, and of the  International Council of Scientific Unions esta-  blished in 1919. As a rule, scientific unions had  very limited funds; and it was the duty of Unesco  to help them by grants, as mentioned in document
14. Lastly Dr. Needham said that to regulate the  legal relations between Unesco and the scientific  unions, a draft agreement had been concluded be-  tween Unesco and the International Council of  Scientific Unions. ;  The second part of Dr. Needham’s speech was  concerned with the practical tasks which Unesco  proposed to undertake, among which were the  following : -  — Unesco’s participation in the work of rehabi-  litation in war-devastated areas by the purchase  and transport of scientific apparatus :  — The improvement of the present deplorable  position as regards free circulation of scientific  works and journals;  — 167 —      \  — Study of the question of the establishment of  International laboratories and observatories, This  would involve obtaining supplementary funds from  the Economic and Social Council of the United  Nations, which would be administered by Unesco,  the direction of the scientific work being left to  the International Scientific Union;  — Travelling scholarships for scientists;  — The establishment of International Advisory  Councils for mechanical, medical and agricultural  science, :  In his statement, Dr. Needham did not refer to  a number of other matters, which would be consid-  ered in detail by the Sub-Commission during the  general discussion. Finally, he recalled the part  taken by his colleagues in developing international  scientific co-operation and stressed the importance  of this work.  On the proposal of the CHAIRMAN, the Sub-Com-  mission adopted unanimously and without discus-  sion a draft resolution by Dr. Needham to the  following effect :  ‘ The Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences  approves the formal draft agreement between  Unesco and the International Council of Scien-  tific Unions and recommends that the Legal and  External Relations Sub-Commission do like-  wise, ”  The Sub-Commission then considered Items V  and VI of the Agenda, namely : General Discus-  sion on the Reports Submitted, and Presentation  of New Proposals by Delegates. ’  The CHINESE delegate approved the division of  the projects into three categories : A, B and C,  but did not understand why reparations in the  form of scientific material should come under  Group C. In his opinion, the recovery of scienti-  fic material-was inseparable from the scientific re-  construction of war-devastated countries and was  consequently particularly urgent. He asked that  the reparations question be transferred from Ca-  tegory C to Category A.  Moreover, he strongly recommended the esta-  blishment of regional offices for international scien-  tific co-operation, of clearing houses for scientific  publications on the principle of decentralization,  and of centres for applied mathematics, and urged  the importance of facilitating travel for scientists.  The UNITED STATES delegate made a statement  on the great contribution science could make to  world peace. The following should be considered  specially : :
1. The great influence exerted in their own  countries by scientists who, thanks to many  years of co-operation, had achieved great mut-  ual understanding and respect and a strong  idea of international co-operation.
2. The general importance of science in the  development of a prosperous world community  through the ever-increasing part played by com-  munications, radio, etc.  Referring to the budget, the UNITED STATES  delegate considered that, after 1947, the Science  Section would require a larger budget and one  more in keeping with the essential work of this  branch of Unesco,  He remarked finally that the proposals and ob-  servations of his delegation had been distributed  to delegates in the form of a memorandum.  The representative of the Food and Agricultu-  re Organization of the United Nations assured  the Sub-Commission of the close co-operation of  his organization with Unesco by means of perman-  ent committees or committees meeting periodic-  ally.  The CHAIRMAN emphasized the importance of  this matter, which in any case was on the Agenda  of the Sub-Commission.  SECOND MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1046 at 10.45. a. m.  Chairman : Professor BHABHA (India).  Items V and VI of the Agenda (projects sub-  mitted by the Secretariat and proposals from de-  legates) (continuation).  Speaking on behalf of the INDIAN delegation,  the CHAIRMAN commented on the Indian propo-  sal, which was to be roneoed and distributed dur-  ing the morning; it consisted of two parts:  (a) as far as they were research problems, ques-  tions of nutrition and disease were within Unesco’s  competence. India was unfortunately still a fer-  tile field for research : malnutrition and various  diseases, which today were unknown or almost  unknown in other countries, were widespread. It  was therefore to be hoped that team's of research-  workers would be sent to India, where they would  find laboratories and research institutes at their  disposal. But the Government of India could not  grant them any financial assistance, and Unesco  should therefore undertake the responsibility.  (b) Fish, which was much used in India as an  article of diet, provided enough proteins to feed  the enormous riparian populations of the Indian  Ocean. The Indian delegation therefore proposed  the creation of an Institute of Oceanography and  Fisheries for the Indian Ocean.  The delegate of MEXICO approved in principle  the document submitted by the Preparatory Com-  mission, but considered that one project was di-  rectly opposed to the spirit of Unesco : namely,  that scientific apparatus should be included among -  reparations (WB/E, p. 12, À, 1). This was likely  ‘ to disorganize existing laboratories. This project  was contrary to the aims of Unesco outlined else-  where (GB/E, p. 100, last paragraph; id. page 02,  lines 15-21, and third paragraph : WB/E, p. 17,  lines 18-26; id. page 7 last seven lines).  He therefore moved a resolution to extend the  terms of lines 11-14 of WB/E, p. 17 as follows :  “Unesco should invite all countries needing equip-  ment to participate in some sort of rationing  scheme which would include the former Axis coun-  tries and which would secure an equitable dis trib-  ution of apparatus according to the needs and  possibilities of each country.  The CHAIRMAN specified that reparations did  not in the least imply the dismantling of existing  laboratories, but only furnishing articles from  existing stocks or surplus production. He proposed  that, to avoid ambiguity, the Secretariat should  redraft the proposals.  — 168 —  Le  A R E   T H E Y   ad   te  na   Se   À