After a discussion in which the delegates of  BELGIUM, EGYPT and SOUTH AFRICA took part,  and with amendments submitted by the delegates  of Mexico and the UNITED STATES, Article 7 b  was adopled as follows :  “ Members of the staff of the higher grades  must have a thorough knowledge of one of the  two working languages and must hold at least  a university diploma or have had equivalent  experience. À departure from this condition may  be made with the approval of the Selection  Board, based upon the possession of special qua-  lifications or particularly valuable experience or  outstanding work  ““ Members of the lower grades must have a  . perfect knowledge of one of the two working  languages and a satisfactory knowledge of the  other. ”  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Article 7 c,  proposed by the French delegation and seconded  by the GREEK delegation, stipulating that the per-  sonal files submitted to the Selection Board should  be presented by the National Commission of the  countries from which the candidates come.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVARTA, supported by  the delegate of SOUTH AFRICA, proposed to add  a second clause to this Article, stating that no  final appointment should be made to responsible  posts without prior consultation with the govern-  ment concerned.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM disagreed  with both amendments, considering them con-  trary to the spirit of the Constitution.  An exchange of views took place on the ques- .  tion whether it was sufficient to consult the Na-  tional Commission, which, under Article VII of the  Constitution, should contain representatives of the  government, or whether it would be necessary also  to seek the advice of the government.  Further discussion was postponed until the next  meeting of the Sub-Commission.  THIRD MEETING  Held on Saturday, 30 November 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  It was agreed that, in future, no amendments  to draft regulations should be considered by the  Sub-Commission unless they were submitted in  writing to the Secretary at least twelve hours be-  _ fore the meeting at which.they were to be moved.  DRAFT STAFF REGULATIONS (continued).  Proposed new Regulation 7 C.  The delegate of FRANCE read a new text of this  Regulation, agreed by the French and Czecho--  slovak delegations, as follows : :  ‘The Selection Board shall receive a file  which shall be submitted, whenever possible,  by the National Commission of the country to  which the nominee belongs or by the comipetent  body acting in its place, and this file shall con-  tain all information concerning the nominee's  qualifications and his previous career. ”’  Proposal seconded by the delegate of CZECHO-  SLOVAKIA.  The delegate of MEXICO enquired whether ac-  tual appointments would be in the hands of the  Director-General and whether the Director-Gene-  ral would have authority to appoint candidates  in cases where no file was available.  He was assured that this was so.  Regulation 7 C, in its amended form, was adop-  ted.  Regulation 8.  The addition suggested by the United States  delegation had already been circulated.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES now wished  to delete the first sentence of the amendment and .  add a phrase to the second, so that the proposed  text would read as follows :  ““ Such principal high officers as the Direc-  tor-General, with the approval of the Execu-  tive Board, may determine, shall be appointed  under contracts not to exceed six years, sub-  ject to the possibility of renewal ”.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of the Uni-  TED KINGDOM.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA proposed a  further addition to Regulation 8 as follows :  “ À certain number of posts on the Secreta-  riat will be occupied by officials seconded to  Unesco for a period of two or three years. These  officials will be chosen from amongst the offi-  cials who are working in similar services in their  own countries and who possess the necessary  qualifications for working in the Secretariat.  In exercising these functions at Unesco these  officials will be paid only by Unesco. These can-  didates will be subjected to the same exami-  nations as other candidates ”.  Proposal not seconded and therefore lapsed.  The additional paragraph suggested by the Uni-  TED STATES delegation was approved.  On the substantive motion that the whole Re-  gulation be approved, the delegate of INDIA sug-  gested that the third paragraph of the original  text (regarding experts and part-time consultants)  should be referred to the Drafting Committee,  which should try to find a more logical place for  it@lsewhere in the Regulations.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of the UNI-  TED STATES and agreed.  Regulations 10, II and 12.  Adopted.  Regulation 13.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM proposed  an alteration of the second sentence, which should  read as follows :  “ The probationary period shall not be ter-  minated without full knowledge and careful  estimate of the employee's work and conduct,  and may be prolonged for a further period not  exceeding twelve months where such informa-  tion is inconclusive, ”  Amendment seconded by the delegates of the -  UNITED STATES and GREECE and adopted:  Regulation 14.  Adopied,  ado 203 it   Regulation 15.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  moved that this text be referred to the Drafting  Committee to bring it into line with the regula-  tions mentioning the Selection Board.  « Proposal seconded by the delegate of FRANCE  and agreed. :  Regulation 16. :  The delegate of BELGIUM suggested the deletion  of the words : ‘“ Whenever he deems it to be to  the advantage of the Organization. ”  Agreed.  Regulation 16, as amended, was adopted.  . Regulation 17,  Adopted.  Regulation 18.  , The UNITED STATES delegation proposed the  insertion after the words ‘‘ at all times ” in the  second line, of the phrase “ as individuals through  their elected representatives ”.  Amendment adopted. :  The delegate of FRANCE suggested the deletion,  in the first sentence, of the words * and are  expected ”.  Agreed. :  Regulation 18, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 14.  The delegate of FRANCE suggested an amend-  ment to bring Regulation IQ into line with Regu-  lation g. The text should now read :  ‘‘ Subject to approval by the Executive  Board, the salary scales of members of the  staff shall be determined by the Director-  General in relation to the classification plan,  except in the special cases referred to in the  second sentence of Regulation 9.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of Norway,  and. Regulation 19 thus amended, was adopted.  Regulation 20.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM sugges-  ted the following new text :  ‘“ Salary increments within the grade shall  be granted at prescribed intervals, subject fo  satisfactory service, ”  Seconded by the delegate of INDIA, and adopted.  Regulations 21 and 22.  Adopted.  Regulation 23.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  suggested the addition, after the words “ Director-  General ’’, of the phrase ‘ with the approval of  the body referred to in Regulation 17”.  Amendment seconded by the delegate of CzE-  CHOSLOVAKIA and lost.  The delegate of FRANCE suggested that the  word ‘ pris ” in the third line of the French text  should be changed to ‘“ à prendre ’’. No change  was required in the English text.  Agreed. :  With this amendment to the French text Re-  gulation 23 was adopted. :  Regulation 24.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Regula-  tion 24 as amended by the delegation of the UNI-  TED STATES.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  a new amendment to Regulation 24 which was  finally adopted in the following form :  “The Director-General, after consultation  with the Secretary-General of the United Nat-  ions, will arrange, with the approval of the  Executive Board, to establish a scheme to  provide medical and hospital care for the mem-  bers of the Secretariat and their dependents, ”  Regulation 25. ;  Adopted without discussion.  Regulation 26.  After a discussion in which the delegates of  BErGIvM, the LEBANON and POLAND took part,  Regulation 26 was adopted with amendments pro-  posed by the delegates of the UNITED KINGDOM,  INDIA and FRANCE in the following form :  ‘ Subject to subsequent right of appeal to  the Tribunal referred to in Regulation 27, the  Director-General may impose disciplinary mea-  sures on members of the staff whose conduct or  work is unsatisfactory. He may suspend any  member of the staff who persistently fails to  give satisfactory service, or who is guilty of  serious misconduct. Cases of disciplinary action  shall be investigated by a committee, which  shall include representatives of the Director-  General and representatives elected by the  staff, in equal proportion, under a Chairman  nominated by the Executive Board.”  This Regulation was referred back to the draf-  ting Committee for final wording.  Regulation 27.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Regula-  tion 27, amended by the delegation of the UNITED  STATES. :  After a new amendment presented by the  FRENCH delegation, Regulation 27 was adopted  in the following form :  “ An Administrative Tribunal, to be set up  by the Executive Board, shall be the final  court of appeal in any dispute arising between  the Organization and members of the staff. ”  The CHAIRMAN stated that the Secretariat would  have to approach the Executive Board for the  establishment of this tribunal.  Regulation 28.  A long discussion followed on the point whether  or not the Director-General should have complete  discretion to terminate appointments in the case  of the abolition of certain posts, upon the com-  pletion of part of the programme.  The delegates of BELGIUM, the UNITED KING-  DOM and the UNITED STATES were of the opinion  that the Director-General must assume full res-  ponsibility for terminating contracts or abolish-  ing posts, while the delegates of AUSTRALIA,  FRANCE, INDrA, POLAND and the UNION OF SOUTH  AFRICA considered he should consult the Execu-  tive Board.  An amendment proposed by the delegate of  INDIA to the effect that the approval of the Exe-  cutive Board should only be necessary in the case  of terminations of contracts of members of the  — 204 —a   Lu  staff holding posts specified in paragraph 1 of  Regulation 7 A, was rejected.  Lastly, Regulation 28, subject to an amendment  proposed by the delegate of POLAND, was adopted  in the following form : F  “ The Director-General, with the approval  of the Executive Board, may terminate the  appointment of a member of the staff if the  necessities of the service require the suppression  of the post. ”  The Regulation was referred to the drafting  Committee for final wording. :  Regulation 20.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  suggested that the text should be amended, to  read as follows :  “ If the Director-General terminates an ap-  pointment under Regulation 28 above, he shall  give six months’ notice.  “These provisions of notice shall not apply  to probationers, persons holding short-term  contracts, or persons summarily dismissed. ”  Seconded by the delegate of POLAND, and adop-  ted. :  Regulation 30.  Adopted.  Sir Gecil K1scH made a statement regarding the  scale of contributions from Member States and  on the establishment of a Revolving Fund. Memo-  randa on these subjects were circulated to the  meeting, and Sir C. KiscH explained that the  proposals formulated therein were purely tenta-  tive.  The CHAIRMAN thanked Sir Cecil Kisch on  behalf of the meeting.  Regulation 31.  The delegate of FRANCE proposed the addition,  at the end of the Regulation, of the words * on  the basis of the scales adopted by the United  Nations ’’. :  Amendment seconded by the delegate of the  UNITED KINGDOM, and adopied.  Regulation 32.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA suggested the addi-  tion, at the end of paragraph (c) of the Regula-  tion, of the words * for .return to their home  country ”. |  Amendment seconded by the delegate of the  UNITED STATES and, after some discussion, lost.  The delegate of BELGIUM suggested a new text,  as follows, for sub-paragraph b) : “ (b) when  they are authorized to take home leave ”.  Adopted.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  proposed that the whole regulation should be  referred to the Drafting Committee for clarifica-  tion.  Proposal seconded by the delegate of INDIA,  and adopted.  Regulation 33.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM sugges-  ted the addition, at the end of the Regulation,  of the words : ‘“ Subject to the approval of the  Executive Board. ”  Seconded by the delegates of UNITED STATES,  CzecHosLovakia and FRANCE, and adopicd.  Regulation 33, as amended, was adopted.  Regulation 34.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES moved the  deletion of the words “in relation to”, in the  first sentence, and the substitution of the words  ““ as part of 7’,  Seconded by the delegate of INDIA.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  moved that the general principles laid down in  Regulation 34 be approved by the Sub-Commis-  ‘sion, but that the regulation be referred to the  Drafting Committee for clarification, with parti-  cular reference to the part to be played by the  Executive Board in approving any scheme invol-  ving considerable expenditure.  Adopted.  Regulation 35.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA  proposed that it should be adopted in principle,  but that the final wording should be referred to  the Drafting Committee.  This proposal was adopted.  Regulation 36.  Regulation 36, with an amendment proposed  by the delegation of the UNITED STATES, was  referred to the Drafting Committee for the final  text.  Regulation 37.  Adopted without discussion.  Regulation 38.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES proposed  the addition of a second paragraph, to read as  follows :  « The Director-General will make an annual  report to the General Confererice ôn the staff  regulations, including any amendments to these  ‘regulations which he may have introduced in  the implementation of the present regulations.  This regulation was referred to the Drafting  Committee, for the final form of the wording.  The CHAIRMAN requested the Drafting Com-  mittee to meet as soon as possible.  The consideration of the draft regulations being  concluded, he proposed that the questions of  principle raised in Sections 1 and 2 of Chapter IT,  which were not considered at the same time as  the regulations, should be referred to the Drafting  Committee, except for paragraph C of Section 2,  « Organizational Structure of the Secretariat ”,  which would be placed before the Sub-Commission  itself. . ,  FOURTH MEETING  Held on Monday, 2 December 1946 at 3 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  DRAFT FINANCIAL REGULATIONS  (Document C/7, page 95)-  Regulation T.  Adopted.  JE 205 —_