tal figure of 5.9 millions, it being understood that  the expenses of the Preparatory Commission would  not be discussed, since they could not be altered.  The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA,  supported by the delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKTA,  proposed six million dollars, because in his opinion  not all the projects of the programme could be  attempted in 1947, and it was easier to increase  than curtail the expenses. Moreover, Unesco should  not appear to be a burden to Member States be-  fore it had proved its worth by concrete results.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA declared that the  amount of 7.5 millions must be reduced and could  easily be; the instructions of the Programme Com-  mission had not been followed and some of the
1947 projects were neither very important nor  very useful.  He proposed, therefore, that the total amount  be reduced by approximately 30 per cent and that  the budget be considered in the light of this re-  duction.  The delegates of POLAND, BELGIUM and GREECE  supported this motion, but insisted that the  amount contemplated for reconstruction purposes  should not be reduced.  The report on the organization of the Secre-  tariat, which was to be submitted to the Plenary  Conference, was then read and approved.  The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA asked that, in  the course of the discussion on the budget, each  delegate should be authorized to speak more than  once on a given subject.  Adopted.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p. m. and reassembled  at 2.30 p.m.  The PoLrisH delegation seconded the proposal  of the AUSTRALIAN delegate and insisted partieu-  larly on the necessity of reducing the administra-  tive expenses to a minimum. Referring to the ques-  tion of scales, which the Sub-Commission had not  to discuss, the POLISH delegation pointed out that  the scale of contributions, as it was at present,  was not acceptable to it,  The delegate of NEW ZEALAND seconded the  AUSTRALIAN proposal, because he did not consider  that the figure of 7.5 millions rested on a serious  basis and could not understand what was the ba-  sis of calculation used. In any case, he thought the  programme would have to be completely revised  on the basis of the figure that would be fixed for  the budget. Moveover, in 1947, there would only  be a few months’ effective work, which should  allow of a substantial reduction of the budget.  The delegate of CANADA seconded the Austra-  Tan motion, whilst hoping at the same time that  the reduction would not affect the figure for re-  construction.  At the request of the delegate of AUSTRALIA, the  SECRETARIAT gave a brief account of the history  and establishment of the draft budget. Since the  programmg had been expanded after the budget  had been ®Mamed, there was no real relation be-  tween the figure considered and the nature and  number of projects. If they were to be compared  to those of the United Nations, the expenses would  not seem too high, especially with regard to staff,  for which only one-third of the requests by Heads  of Sections had been taken into consideration.  FOURTEENTH MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1940 at 3.20 b. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  At the request of the Unitep States delégate,  the CHAIRMAN put to the vote three resolutions  concerning the aggregate amount of the budget,  which had been submitted at the morning's mcee-  ting :
1st Resolution, submitted by the UNITED KING-  poy delegate, and seconded by the NORWEGIAN  delegate:  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). . . LLL.  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946  Total.  % 7,611,130
5 050,000  $ 8,501,139  znd Resolution, submitted by the CzECHOSLO-  VAK delegate and seconded by the delegate of the  UNION oF SOUTH AFRICA :  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). . . . . . . . . . . $ 6,000,000  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946 oo $ 950,000  Total. 5 6,030,000
3rd Resolution, submitted by the AUSTRALIAN  delegate and séconded by the delegate of the  UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA :  Budget for 1947 (including recon-  struction). Ce  Expenditure for Preparatory Com-  mission in 1946  Total.
3 5,700,000  # 950,600  $ 6,650,000  À vote was taken by roll-call.  The AUSTRALIAN resolution was rejected by 10  votes to 8.  The CZECHOSLOVAK resolution was adopted by 10  votes to 9; IT delegations abstaining.  The AUSTRALIAN delegate asked that the de-  tails of the vote should be accurately specified in  the report to be submitted to the General Con-  ference.  This proposal, seconded bv the FRENCH and  BELGIAN delegates, was adopted.  FIFTEENTH MEETING  Held on Saturday, 7 December 1940 at 6.10 p. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E .BEEBY (New Zealand).  The UNITED KINGDOM delegate, as Chairman of  the Drafting Committee, proposed the adoption  of Document 23 of the Administrative and Finan-  cial Sub-Commission, together with two resolu-  tions respecting :
1) the scale of contributions; oo
2) the total amount of the Revolving Fund.  The resolution regarding the adoption of Docu-  ment 23 was seconded by the BELGIAN and NOR-
214 —-   WEGIAN delegates, and was adopted unanimously.  ‘The UNITED Kingpom delegate then read a  draft resolution concerning the Revolving Fund :  “The General Conference decides that a  Revolving Fund of 3 million doltars shall be  established. ”  The resolution was seconded by the delegate of  INDIA.  The UNITED STATES delegate expressed the opi-  nion that the amount of the Revolving Fund was  closely related to the declarations made by the  delegate of Uruguay, and that it would be prefe-  rable to adjourn the matter until Monday.  This proposal was seconded by FRANCE and  CANADA.  The UntTrrp KinGnom delegate agreed with the  UNITED STATES delegate, and stated that he was  prepared to withdraw his resolution.  The resolution of the UNITED STATES was adop-  fed; and the discussion concerning the Revolving  Fund and the scale of contributions adjourned  until Monday.  The UNITED STATES delegate then submitted a  draft resolution respecting the approval of the  budget, but the CHAIRMAN suggested that a deci-  sion on this should be adjourned until Monday.  This. was approved unanimously.  The CHAIRMAN raised the question of the sala-  ries of the Deputy Director-General and the Assis-  tant Directors-General (page 36 of the English  text, paragraph 19 à and'1Q9 b, of the Preparatory .  Commission Report). |  The UNITED KINGnom delegate stated that he  thought the problem was solved by Regulation 22  of the Draft Staff Regulations.  The UNITED STATES delegate thought that it  would be advisable to adopt the same procedure  as United Nations. |  The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Morrissey to speak in  order to make a statement regarding contribu-  tions. :  Mr. Morrissey stated that he had been in  touch with the United Nations treasury. The  information received in Paris on this subject was  premature. No contribution scales for United Na-  tions had yet been adopted by the Sub-Commis-  ston dealing with contributions, nor had any yet  been submitted to the General Assembly for adop-  tion.  The FRENCH delegate proposed that the next  meeting should take place on Monday at 9.30 a. m.  This was seconded by the Belgian delegate.  SIXTEENTH MEETING  Held on Monday, 9 December 1946 at 9.30 a. m.  Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand).  Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN announced  that four draft resolutions would be considered.  These draft resolutions appeared in Document  Unesco/C/Admin. & Jur./S. C. Ad. & Fin./25.  Draft Resolution concerning the Budget.  Submitted by the Uxitep States delegation  and supported by the NETHERLANDS delegation.  Adopted.  The UNITED KINGDOM delegation proposed the  adoption of three other resolutions which the meet-  ing examined one by one.  Draft Resolution concerning Staff Regulations.  The UNITED STATES delegate supported the  draft resolution in its present form. However, on  the proposal of the BELGIAN delegate, supported  by the CHAIRMAN, the meeting decided to adopt  the resolution with the following amendment :  “ That the General Conference be asked to  delete Regulation 43 in the Staff Regulations. ”  Draft Resolution concerning the scale of contribu-  tions of Member States.  The CHINESE delegation expressed its desire to  act in close co-operation with Unesco, particularly  in connection with essential scientific and educa-  tional projects, which they would like to see deve-  loped in the Far East, and added their willingness  to contribute their allotted share of the budget.  The Resolution was adopted.  Draft Resolution concerning the Revolving Fund.  The UNITED STATES delegation supported the  Resolution.  An amendment by the CZECHOSLOVAK delega-  tion proposing the reduction of the Revolving  Fund to 1,500,000 dollars and the possibility of  paying contributions otherwise than in dollar cur-  rency was rejected.  The Resolution was adopted in its original form.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the meeting  should consider a document concerning additional  draft rules to the Rules of Procedure of the Exe-  cutive Board before referring it to the General  Conference. M. SOMMERFELT submitted the docu-  ment to the meeting.  À discussion began as to whether the words ‘‘ or  their substitutes ” should be deleted in para-  graph 2, but no decision was taken, the Sub-Com-  mission having agreed that it was not sufficiently  conversant with the legal aspect of the matter.  Several delegations considered that paragraph 4  was redundant, as its provisions were self-evident.  The Meeting decided to delete paragraph 4.  The UNITED STATES delegation proposed an  amendment to paragraph 2, which was supported  by the FRENCH delegation :  Insert the words ‘“ for the year 1947 ” after the  word “fix”  At the end of the paragraph add the words  “and the conditions applying to them, which  should be similar to those established by the Uni-  ted Nations. ”  À dopted.-  On the proposal of the UNITED KINGDOM dele-  gation, the Meeting decided to refer the amended  document to the Executive Board for considera-  tion and subsequent submission to the General  Conference, in accordance with procedure to be  "determined by the General Committee.  Before adjourning the meeting, the CHAIRMAN  again thanked Sir Cecil Kisch, Honorary Finan-  cial Adviser, and Mr. Richardson, Chairman of  the Drafting Committee.