expected for the coming year. However, it was always salutary for an organization to examine its own quality. The United States delegation would offer a general resolution, upon which it expected no vote at present, and conceived in the following general terms : The Commission resolves that the General Conference shall instruct the Director-General to institute, as soon as possible, a review of the experience and achievements of the present personnel with a view to replacing those staff members who do not measure up to the level of integrity and efficiency to be expected from Unesco personnel, or whose services are no longer necessary for the execution of the Programme elabo- rated for 1948. The Director-General is requested to report to the Execu- tive Board on this matter by 1 February 1948: The delegate of the United States of America added that the resolution was not intended as a NINTH criticism of the Director-General, but was to strength- en his hand. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay), Mr. JOCKEL (Austra- lia), Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) and Miss McPHEE (New-Zealand) expressed support for the United States resolution. “ThedelegateofAUSTRALIApointed out that Unesco personnel problems were parallel to those of the United Nations, and that the Commission of Experts there had reached a similar conclusion, namely, that the qualifications of the United Nations staff should be reviewed. It was agreed to refer the resolution back to the Drafting Committee. The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m. MEETING Tuesday, 18 November 1947, at 11.15 a. m. Chairman : Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) asked the Secretariat to prepare a document on the subject of per diem allowances for the present Conference. He pointed out that the Report of the Director-General (2C/64) expected a more adequate alternative system to be instituted before the end of the year, although the budget for 1948 provided almost $ 1,000,000 for per diem allowances. He maintained that the present system should not continue any longer than necessary and observed that the United Nations had asked Unesco to re-examine its system of per diem allowances. Review of discussions of the previous two meetings. The CHAIRMAN summarized the discussions of the previous two meetings, since a quorum of the Commission was present for the first time in two days. Resolutions were adopted relating to the non-payment of contributions by certain nations and to a more equitable geographical distribution of Unesco’s staff. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) A resolution by Mr. Ashfaque Husain (India) recommending that, pending the establishment of an International Civil Service Commission, recruit= ment should as far as possible, be conducted through Member States, was sent to the Drafting Committee as well as an amendment by the delegate of the United States ofAmerica urging reference to National Commissions rather than to Member States. Dr. Nogueira (Uruguay) requested the Draft- ing Committee to consider his reservation that constant consultation of Member States might impair the freedom of the Director-General to choose his staff. Another resolution by the delegate of the United States of America in the following terms was also sent to the Drafting Committee : The General Conference shall instruct the Director-General to institute, as soon as possible, a review of the experience, qualifications and achievements of present staff members, with a view to replacing those staff members who do not measure up to the high standards of competence, integrity and efficiency which must be expected of staff members of Unesco or whose services are no longer required in the light of changesin programmes approved for the year 1948; and — 569 —    further, to request the Director-General to report on this review to the Executive Board by 1 February 1948. The CHAIRMAN then reported that the General Committee had decided to incorporate the Working Party on Germany in the Administrative and External Relations Commission and that the Director- General had suggested that the Commission might have to meet on Thursday and Friday. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) declared that difficulties might arise if a meeting was held on
20 November, because it was a Mexican national holiday. In response to a question by Dr. DARMAWAN MANGOENKOESOEMO (Netherlands) the CHAIRMAN stated that the subject of relations with Germany would be considered ander Item 7 (b) of the Agenda, dealing with relations with non-Member States. tem 5 (b) of the Ayenda: Regulations. Raview of Staff Since there were no amendments proposed by the Executive Board, the Commission discussed the Regulations item by item. It was recalled that the delegate of URUGUAY had previously presented a resolution to amend Regulation 1, to prevent any member of Unésco's staff from accepting any honour, decoration, favour or monetary reward from any government or autho- rity external to the Organization except for services rendered before joining Unesco. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) expressed his sympathy with the intentions of the Uruguayan resolution, but declared that it would be unworkable. He instanced a case in which a Unesco member might be offered an honorary degree by a University for outstanding service in education, or the possibility that the Nobel Prize for Peace might be awarded to the Director-General, or the possibility that some governments might give free transportation on railroads to Unesco members ou mussions. He did not think that this provision was dangerous and asked the delegate of Uruguay not to insist on his amendment. In reply, Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) maintained that, in such an international Civil Service organi- zation as Unesco, honours should be attributed to the body as a whole and not to individuals. He considered it dangerous for any individual to accept monetary rewards and said that the Uruguayan delegation would hold to its position on this point. Sr. EVANGELISTA (Philippines), thought that this incentive to members of the Secretariat, who after all were human, should remain, There was a possibility of abuse, but the power lodged in the Director-General was a sufficient safeguard. He thought, however, that Regulation 1 should be altered to provide for the possibility that an honour might be conferred on the Director-General himself, which was not covered by any Regulation. He suggested that the power of consent should be vested in the Executive Board. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Staff Regulations dealt with the Director-General's subor- dinates and that therefore any reference to the Ahimself would not be appropriate there. The resolution proposed by the delegate of Uru- guay, seconded by Sr. BRISENO (Venezuela), mas defeated. Sr. EVANGELISTA (Philippines), suggested, how- ever, that the matter should be placed on record and appropriate action should be taken, because of the greater probability that the Director-General himself would be considered for honours. Regulations 1 to 6 were approved. Regulation 7. Dr. CHEN (China) said that the wording of the second paragraph might be too narrow to cover adequately the experiences during the past war. He presented a resolution that the words «or mili- tarist agression» should be added after the word «Nazism» in the last line of Regulation 7. Seconded by the delegate of Uruguay, this reso- lution was adopted. Regulations 8 to 10 were approved. At the request of Dr. J. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay), the DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained the intent of Regulation 9. Regulation 11. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of ’ America) stated that the Executive Board, under exceptional circumstances, had taken heavy responsibility in the fields of finance and administration. This practice was not good in the long run because the members of the Executive Board were chosen as individuals and not as representatives of Member States. Final approval of classifications and salaries should be made by the General Conference and not the Executive Board. He wished to eliminate the second sentence in Regulation 11 because inter- national organizations, except the International Labour Organization, did not recognize acquired rights». It might also be necessary to reduce salaries if the cost of living dropped. Hetherefore — 570 —    introduced a resolution to amend Regulation 11 to read that : Theres hall be set up for all members of the staff a system of classification and a scale ofsalaries to be submitted for the approval of the General Conference. Changes during the year required by emergency conditions must be approved in advance by the Executive Board subject to review by the next General Conference. (Delete sentence reading : «The classification system and salary schedule shall be subject to review without prejudice to acquired rights».) The Director-General shall, however, be authorized to employ, where necessary to the work of the Organization, temporary personnel on special limited-term contracts outside the permanent classification plan. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL and Prof. AUGER (France) expressed a desire to reflect on the proposal and its further discussion was post- pored until the following day. Regulations 12 to 24 were approved. Regulation 25. In reply to a question by Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) regarding the meaning of « special leave » in Regulation 25, the DEPUTY DIRECTOR- GENERAL explained that this was interpreted in circumstances when a staff member had exhausted the sick leave, had no regular leave, but was sick, nevertheless. It was sometimes similer to com- passionate leave, involving no pay or half pay. Regulation was adopted. Regulation 26. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of ME roposed that «Executive Board » should be replace by «General Conference», on the same grounds as those for his criticism of Regulation 11. It was decided to discuss Regulations 11 and 26 later. Regulation 27 was adopted. Regulations 28 and 29. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) and Sr. EVANGE- LISTA (Philippines) said that, in order to protect the rights of staff members, the right of appeal should be made expressly discretionary not only for the Director-General but also for the staff member concerned. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) proposed that the second paragraphin Regulation 28 should be changed so that «may» should read «shall, upon the request of the staff member con- cerned », and a similar change should be made in the case of «may» in the third line of Regulation 29. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay), agreed, but suggested that, with regard to Regulation 29, this change should read «shall, upon the request of the Director- General or the staff member concerned ». The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked for time to enable the Secretariat to re-examine Regu- lations 28 and 29 in the light of a complete new system of regulations on disciplinary measures recently worked out by the United Nations. It was decided to withhold final decision until the Secretariat could submit revisions based on the United Nations system. Regulations 30 to 34 were adopted. Regulation 35. In response to a question by Dr. KOTSCH IG (United States ofAmerica), the DEPUTY DIRECTOR- GENERAL explained that travel allowances were allotted to enable new staff members to travel from their country of origin to the headquarters of the Organization, but that these were not given to wives and children. When the delegate of the United States observed that the wording was not clear, especially in the French translation, the matter was referred to the Drafting Committee. The meeting rose at 1.30 p. m.