Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) pas out that each delegation consisted of at east two members, and that, consequently, it would be possible for the Commission to meet the following morning at 11 a. m. SECOND The proposal of the United States of America was carried.’ The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m. MEETING Thursday, 13 November 1947, at 11.45 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Appointment of Drafting Committees. In accordance with the request which had been made after the adoption of the Canadian proposal, as amended, the Chairman submitted to the Com- mission the countries nominated for the two draft- ing committees :
(1) Administration and Finance : Australia, Brazil, Czechoslovakia, India and the United States of America;
(2) External Relations : Canada, China, France, Mexico and the United Kingdom. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) approved this list of coun- tries, but was anxious that the members of the Commission should be able to take part in the work of the drafting committees. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) supported this pro- posal. The proposed list of countries was adopted. Dr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) pointed out, with regard to Item 8 of the agenda, that the Nominations Committee and the General Committee of the Conference had arranged for a Working Party to consider the question of Nation- al Commissions and Co-operating Bodies; this Working Party would, therefore, be able to begin work immediately and later submit a report on this matter to the Commission. The CHAIRMAN stated that arrangements had been made for such a Working Party, but it had not yet been set up. The Commission would be informedof the position the following day. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) remarked that it would be helpful for the Commission to establish contact with this Working Party with a view to to-operation. The SECRETARYsaid that he had been informed of the appointment of this Working Party, but that the dates for its meetings would only be known the following day, after consultations. Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) drew attention to the fact that the principal document for discussion by the Commission that day was document 2C/C2/1, dated 10 November 1947, containing the Report of the Executive Board to the General Conference on the financial administration of the Organization ; this document had been produced in only one language and had been distributed to the Commis- sion too late to be studied thoroughly. He therefore ventured to ask the Director-General : (1) to give the Commission special priority for the production of documents when the time came for it to make its report to the General Conference on the question of the Budget; (2) to distribute documents for discussion to the members of the Commission at least 24 hours in advance. He also asked the Chairman to indicate at the end of each meeting which items of the agenda would be discussed at the following day’s meeting. The CHAIRMAN agreed with the Australian delegate’s proposals and also stated that docu- ments would in future be translated into the three languages. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) took up again the subject on which he had spoken at the plenary meeting; it was extremely difficult for the Executive Board to assemble a quorum, since the members did not all live in Paris, Unesco’s headquarters and were sometimes unable to attend meetings, it was therefore advisable that deputies should be appointed by the General Conference to replace members who were unable to be present. There would be the following advantages in such a system : — 553 —
(1) the General Conference would realize geogra- pla and national representation among the mem- ers; (2) it would be easier to achieve a full quorum;
(3) it would be possible for a larger number of different nationalities to be represented on the governing body of Unesco; (4) a larger number of experts and specialists could be appointed to the Executive Board. Paragraph 4 of Article V of the Unesco Consti- tution provided that, in the event of the death or resignation of one of its members, the Executive Board should appoint a substitute who should serve until the next session of the General Conference. The Commission should give careful attention to this matter and, if necessary, an addition to this effect should be made to the rules of procedure of the Executive Board. The CHAIRMANstated thas this was not a matter within the scope of the Commission. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) pointed out that this matter would involve an amendment to the Constitution of Unesco. He suggested that the delegate of Uruguay should refer the question to the Sub-Committee on Procedure which had just been set up. The GHAIRMAN proposed that the delegate of Uruguay should submit his amendment to the General Committee of the Conference; the Secre- tariat would help to put him in touch with the General Committee. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) emphasized that he had no idea of amending the Unesco Constitution in any way but simply wished to make an addition to the rules of procedure of the Executive Board. He would submit his request to the General Com- mittee. The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commission should discuss Item 4 of the agenda and asked if the delegates wished to consider the report of the Executive Board to the General Conference on the Budget, or the scale of contributions from Member States for 1948. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) emphasized that when. 58-page documents were distributed, as had been done that morning, at 11.30 for a meeting beginning at 11,45, it was physically impossible for delegates to give them adequate consideration. He therefore proposed that the discussion of the documents mentioned should be postponed until the following day. Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) agreed with the delegate of Czechoslovakia. He suggested that the question of the audit of the accounts should first be consi- dered and that the reports which had just been sub- mitted should be discussed in detail the following day. If, however, the Commission wished to consider the scale of contributions immediately, he could give a verbal report which might serve as the basis for a preliminary discussion of the matter. Dr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) agreed with the delegate of Australia that the Commission should begin preliminary discussions on the scale of contributions. Item 4 (d) of the Agenda : tions. The CHAIRMAN therefore proposed that the Com- mission should consider the question of the scale of contributions and should begin with the verbal report from the Australian delegate, going on to a revised statement from the Secretariat and an open discussion, but should not take any final decisions. Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) suggested that the Com- mission should consider the first three pages of document 2C/C2/1; the General Conference had decided that the scale of contributions for Unesco should be based on that of the United Nations, bearing in mind that certain members of the United Nations did not belong to Unesco (cf. Table I on pages 3 and 4 of the document quoted). On a purely arithmetical calculation it was clear that the contribution from the United States of America would work out at 46.61 per cent of the total budget; this was to be reduced to 44.03 per cent, which would leave a balance of 5 per cent to be distributed between the new Member States of Unesco (see page 2 of document 20/02/1). It was not necessary for the Commission to consider this matter, as full powers had been given to the Executive Board for this purpose at the first Session of the General Conference. At ıts last meeting the Executive Board had decided to consult the General Conference regarding the percentage to be fixed for 1948 and to reduce the contributions of new Member States according to the date on which they were admitted to Unesco. The Executive Board was to submit the question of the contribu- tions of new Member States, admitted after the 1947 Conference, to the General Conference the following day. On behalf of the Secretariat, M. PEISSEL apo- logized for the delay in distributing the documents dealing with financial questions; it had not been possible to prepare them until after the last meeting Scale of contribu- — 554 —    of the Executive Board on the evening of 5 November. In future, the Secretariat would endeavour to distribute documents to delegates at least 24 hours before a meeting. The Secretariat proposed the United Nations scale as a basis for discussion for the scale of contributions to Unesco for 1948 (document 2C/C2/3). As Unesco had no specialists in the preparation of scales of contributions on its staff, it had been decided, following the General Conference of 1946, to adopt contributions for 1948, based on those of the United Nations. If the present General Conference adopted the same procedure, it would be necessary to adjust the two scales, taking account of the differing numbers of Member States. There were two problems : (1) the adjustment of the contributions of Member States of Unesco on the basis of the 1947 contributions; (2) the inclusion in the basic United Nations scale of con- tributions from countries which were not yet members of the United Nations. It was necessary to fix scales of contributions for
1948 and also to adjust contributions, taking into account the number of Member States. So far as the new Member States (El Salvador, Colombia, Cuba, Uruguay and Luxembourg) who were also members of the United Nations, were concerned, the scale of their contributions was shown on page 2 of document 2C/C2/3. These figures were approximate but they gave an idea of the con- tribution of each country. With regard to the four new Member States (Austria, Hungary, Italy and Switzerland), who did not belong to the United Nations, the General Conference would have to take account of the letter from Dr. Martinez Cabanas, Chairman of the United Nations Standing Committee on Contributions of Member States, informing Unesco of the approximate contributions which might be asked from these countries. If the figures given in this letter were adhered to, the percentage to be divided between the Member States would be reduced by some 3.68 per cent, the total of the contributions from these four countries. In this case, there would still be 9.75 per cent to be divided in order arrive at a scale which would give a total of 100 per cent. The basis on which this was to be done would have to be determined by the General Conference. For 1948 the United States of America would retain the percentage of 44.03 per cent, obtained by distributing 9.41 per cent only, 14.41 per cent representing the difference between the total amount of contributions based on the United Nations scale for 1947 and the total amountofcontributions calcu» lated on this scale for the States which were Members of Unesco in April 1947 ; there therefore remained
5 per cent to be distributed between all Unesco's Member States. After the admission of the six Mem- ber States of the United Nations and the four new Member States, the sum to be distributed was less than 5 per cent. For this reason, the contribution of the United States of America could legitimately be maintained for 1948 at the ceiling figure for 1947. As regards the scale of contributions, the budget for Unesco for 1948 was drawn up on the basis of the United Nations scale (see page 5 of document
20/02/3). 1 In 1947 the Executive Board had decided that countries which joined Unesco after the scale of contributions for 1948 had been adopted should make a contribution to the expenses for that year on the basis of the quota allotted to them for the following year — they would pay a percentage calculated according to the period of the year in which their membership became effective. This procedure would have to be submitted for approval to the General Conference, which should empower the Director-General, pending the adop- tion of the scale for 1949, to ask such States to make a payment calculated on the basis of their contribution under the United Nations scale for
1948. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) pointed out that his country did not appear on the list of States making a contribution to Unesco. He stressed the fact, however, that his country was prepared to under- take its full share of financial responsibility. : M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) apologized for the omission of Cuba. The CHAIRMAN read out the agenda for the following day, when the following items would be discussed :
1. Scale of Contributions.
9. Consideration of the Executive Board's Re- port. Consideration of the Auditors’ Report.
4. Review of Financial Statement. The meeting rose at 2 p. m.