e n m n FOURTH MEETING Monday, 1 December 1947, at 10 a. пт. Chairman : Mr. D. В. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) In the absence of the Chairman, the VICE- CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and reminded members that at the last meeting they had stopped at Rule 21 (new) of document 2C/PRO/2, which they would now consider. The delegate of NEW ZEALAND recalled that last time she had suggested an amendment to this rule to which several delegations appeared to object. Since then she had reached a compromise with the delegate of India and proposed that Rule 21 be divided into two parts, the first part going as far as « . . recommendationsin this connexion to the Con- ference». The remainder would constitute a new Rule, No. 22, for which she proposed the following text The Procedure Committee shall appoint a sub-committee of nine to consider and make recommendations for dealing with procedural problems, which may be referred to it by the General Conference or by any subordinate body of the Conference.” This sub-committee will report its recommen- dations to the body from which the question originated. In her view the setting up of this small sub- committee would allow of the rapid handling of a number of technical questions, which often could not be so handled at meetings of the committee through the lack of a quorum. The delegate of DENMARK recalled that at the last meeting he had proposed an amendment to Rule 22 as follows : The Chairman of the Executive Board or his represen- tative shall be present at meetings of the General Committee without right of vote, After a discussion, in which delegates wondered whether it would be better for the person replacing the Chairman to be automatically one of the Vice- Chairmen, or explicitly appointed by the Chair- man for the purpose, the following text was agreed on : The Chairman of the Executive Board or the person acting for him in that capacity may be present at the meeting without right of vote. This was unanimously approved. The delegate of INDIA reminded members that with reference to Rule 24 he had proposed the following text : The General Committee may revise the resolutions adop- ted by the General Conference when instructed to do so by the General Conference. However, he thought it would be better to omil the whole rule, as normally resolutions approved by the General Conference ought not to need al- teration. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA agreed with the delegate of India that it would be better to strike out this rule. She reminded them that this clause had originally been included in consequence of special working conditions at the first General Conference; she felt that, if such conditions recurred, it would always be opento the General Conference to ask for the special assistance of a drafting committee. The CHAIRMAN then arrived and explained that he had just left the General Committee, to which he had gone for advice on the best line of conduct to adopt for the future. The Committee had recom- mended the following procedure :
(1) The Procedure Committee should submit its report to the Executive Board on completion;
(2) The Executive Board would then send copies of the documents to all Member States of Unesco with a request for suggested amendments;
(3) The Executive Board would next appoint an expert committee to study the report and the suggested amendments (since the principal ques- tions arising were questions of language);
(4) The text of the Rules as finally amended would then be submitted to the first meeting of General Conference in 1948. The delegate of MEXICO thought that in this case there was no point in considering the docu- ment further, as it would require further amend- ment and the work of the present body would then have been in vain. In his view what was important was to consider amendments to the Constitution, — 627 —
40.   which was the basis of the Rules, and which in many instances was extremely defective. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA disagreed. She thoughtthe submission of an incomplete report would be a confession of failure and reminded them further that all Member States of Unesco were entitled to submit amendments to the Constitution, which should be done six months before the General Conference. The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA agreed that discussion of the present report should be continued. Speaking for himself, he would like an opportunity, which he had not so far had, of submitting an amendment to a specific item. The CHAIRMAN accordingly proposed that they continue the discussion of the report so as to be able to submit it to the Executive Board. The delegate of INDIA hoped that, when the report was forwarded to Member States with a request for any amendments, the amendments sug- gested by the present working party would be borne in mind. The SECRETARY was perfectly ready to accept the proposal of the delegate of India. He only wished to point out the necessity of reaching a decision, whether that decision came from the Exe- cutive Board or from the Conference: for so far the only document approved was document Unesco C/26 (approved at the First General Conference). The CHAIRMAN proposed that they continue the discussion of the report at 3.30 p. m. The meetin; rose at 11 a.m. FIFTH MEETING Monday, 1 December 1947, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman : Sr. Gual VIDAL (Mexico) The delegate of INDIA proposed that Rule 24 be deleted. The delegate of CANADA seconded this pro- posal. The CHAIRMAN said that he, too, was in favour of deleting this Rule, especially since changes in form often entailed changes in substance. Rule 24 was deleted. Section VI (Rules 25-31 ). = Presidency. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA explained that the Sub-Committee had not suggested any amendments to this Section and made a formal motion that it be adopted. The delegate of CHINA seconded the motion. Section VI was approved, Section VII (Rules 31-37). — Commissions and Committees. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA noted that a modified rule (Rule 31) and a new rule (Rule 32) were included in this Section. Rule 31 set up the procedure of the present Genera. Conference; it had been considered preferable to establish a general rule which would permit the widest latitude in establishing any subsidiary bodies needed in the course of the Conference. The dele- gate explained that Rules 33, 34, 35 and 36 remained unchanged. The SECRETARY pointed out that Rule 36 applied to subsidiary bodies of the Conferenee, and that the work of such bodies had often been hampered at the 1947 Conference by the absence of the quorum (dealt with under Rule 47). Hence he proposed that the words «Rule 47 excepted» be added after «in Sections IX, X, XI, XII and XIII of these Rules of Procedure ». The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA proposed an amendmentin the form of an addition to Rule 36 : provided that the quorum of any Commission or Comittee is present and provided further that the ‘Chairman may at his discretion proceed with the business of any Commission or Committee or subsidiary body unless his attention is drawn to the absence of the quorum. The delegate brought forward the following argu- ments in favour of this amendment : small committees — 625 —