ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 26 November 1947, at 4 р. т. CONTENTS Pagess
22. Discussion of the Recommendations of the Executive Board regarding the Date and Place of the Third Session of the General Conference..... 123
23. Discussion of the Resolutions concerning Measures to be taken against War Propaganda submitted by the delegation of Poland, the delegation of Australia ard, jointly, by the delegations of Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United States of America ...... 197 President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico).
22. Discussion regarding the Date and Place oi the Third Session of the General Con- ference. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We will first deal this afternoon with the report of the Executive Board on the seat of the Third Session of the General Conference. I call upon the Chair- man of the Executive Board. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Presi- dent, it was only this morning that the Executive Board started to study the proposals with regard to the place of the next session of the General Con- ference, that of 1948. I will read the English text of these recommendations : The Executive Board according to Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, has the responsibility of proposing to the Confe- rence the place of the next session of the General Conference, Only one invitation has been received from a Member State for the 1948 Conference, namely, that of the Government of the Lebanon. With respect to subsequent sessions of the Conference, invitations have been received from both Egypt and Norway for 1949; from China for 1950, which is the
2,500th anniversary of the birth of Confucius; and from the United Kingdom for 1951, the centenary of the Great Exhi- bition of 1851. At the invitation of the Executive Board, the represen- tative of the Lebanese delegation addressed the Board and in addition to presenting information relating to the material arrangements of the Conference, and travel and living costs, extended a most cordial and pressing invitation to the Orga- nization to hold its Third Conference in the Lebanon. The Executive Board has decided, however, to propose to the Conference that the 1948 ‘Conference be held at the headquarters of the Organization in Paris. This proposal is made by the Board with a view to avoiding, in 1948, the dislocation to the work of the Secretariat which is inevitable whenever the Conference is held at any other place than head- quarters; and in the interests of economy for the Organi- zation and its Member States. All members of the Board regret that this proposal, if approved by the Conference, will not permit the Organization to enjoy in1948 the many advantages offered by the invi- tation from the Lebanon. Neverthless, the Board fees bound to propose that we do not move away from headquarters for the year 1948, in the belief that such a decision would be in the best interests of the Organization. If this proposal is adopted by the Conference,it will be necessary to hold the
1949 session at some place other than Paris. The Board is of the opinion that the Third Session of the Conference should be held at about the same time of the year as on this occasion. It is possible that the General Assembly of the United Nations will also meet in Paris in
1948, ind the Board. assumes that the Director-General, in arcordance with Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, iu fix the date of the Unesco Conference so as to avoid or mini- mize any overlapping. The Board is also aware that the Pro- cedure Committee is considering an amendment to the Rules of Procedure which would empower the Board to propose an alternative place to Member States if any circumstances arise in the course of the year which make it impossible to meet in Paris. «On behalf of the Executive Board, therefore, I have the honour to place the following recommendation before the Conference : The Executive Board recommends to the General Conference that, in view of the urgent need to economizeresources and to avoid interruption of the work of the Organization, the Third Session should be held at the headquarters of the Organization in Paris, France. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) You have heard, gentlemen, the proposal of the Exe- cutive Board, recommending that the Third Confe- rence be held in Paris, headquarters of the Organi — 123 —   zation. I call upon the delegate of the Lebanon, who will speak to the proposal of the Executive Board. M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, gentlemen : I would like to reiterate here the invitation I gave on behalf of my government. I have already had occasion twice to state the moral and spiritual advantages, which are in full conformity and harmony with Unesco’s aims and which prove the desirability of our meeting in the Lebanon. It was also stated by the eminent head of the Bra- zilian delegation, during the two meetings of the Executive Board at which I had the honour to be present, that it would be interesting for the world in its new structure to keep in touch with the Arab countries. It has also been said, and I would like to repeat it, that, as far as the choice of the place for the next Conference is concerned, economic factors should not be the only criterion. Naturally, I fully realize that the economic factor is very important, but I believe firmly that fifty thousand dollars more or less, or even one hundred thousand dollars more or less, should not be the main factor in any decision on your part to hold the meeting elsewhere than in America or Europe. It is also highly important that, while this new post-war world is being formed, while you, gentle- men, work here and other gentlemen work in the United Nations for a stable international organiza- tion, the world should feel that the international organizations are taking care not just of one con- tinent but of the whole wide world. Since the discussions held in the Executive Board centred round the economic factor, I would like to repeat the points I tried to include in the note I submitted this morning and which I think each delegation has in its hands in the three languages. Yesterday, I undertook a commitment on behalf of my Government that,if this invitation were accep- ted, we would promise you the most perfect condi- tions possible for your work. Secondly, I also promised, on behalf of my government, to try to fulfil all the requests which the Secretariat might put forward concerning living accommodation, headquarters, transport, supplies, and so on. I have also given some information concerning the prices of hotels in the Lebanon and about the cost of the journey from Marseilles to Beirut and from Beirut to Marseilles. I do not wish, gentlemen, to take up too much of your time. Very simply and very briefly, this is my last request. In spite of the undeniable attractions which a meeting in Paris would hold for us, I would like to say that to go to a sunny country — a country, for example, like the one in which we meet here — and to get into touch with a new culture and a new population in a new world, would be in harmony with the ideal of Unesco and could have nothing but very great advantages. Gentlemen, it ill befits me to insist. As a host country, we are assuming in this offer to you an enormous responsibility and a great sacrifice. We do so gladly because, as a small country, we would like to make the best contribution possible to the work of Unesco and to the cause of peace. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Egypt. Mr. Ahmed NAGUIB HASHIM (Egypt) : On behalf of the Egyptian delegation, I wish to second the kind invitation extended by the Lebanon. I think we all know that Arab hospitality is prover- bial, and it would please Egypt if the invitation of the Lebanon were accepted — with the proviso, of course, that a subsequent invitation by Egypt be not declined. We, in the Middle East, would feel very happy indeed to have Unesco meet in Bei- rut, Cairo, Damascus, Bagdad or any other capital of the Arab League. I hope that members of the Conference will agree to accept the kind invitation of the Lebanese Government, in spite of the various difficulties that Dr. Walker has just explained to us. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Do any other delegates wish to speak on this matter? The delegate of France. M. J. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, the French delegation wishes to say how much we appreciate the argu- ments put forward by the delegate of the Lebanon and how touched we were by the generosity of his invitation. On the other hand, the economic factor is, of course, a very serious one which we cannot afford to ignore and, in this connexion, the remarks made by the Chairman of the Executive Board, Dr. Walker (whom we congratulate upon his elec- tion), cannot be neglected either. Nevertheless, it seems to us that the moral arguments adduced by the Lebanese delegation should be given more weight than the purely economic arguments. If the economic factor does not seem decisive to you, gentlemen, then we fully support the delegate of the Lebanon. As in Mexico, so in the Lebanon, France will feel not on foreign ground, but amongst old friends. Further, the arguments urged by the delegate of the Lebanon appear to us worthy of very serious consideration, and contact with — 124 —   countries of the Arab world seems to us highly desirable. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of India. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) : Sir, I shall be very brief. If, on grounds of efficiency, an amendment to the Constitution were proposed to the effect that the Conference should always be held at headquarters, my delegation might be prepared to support that amendment. So long, however, as the Constitution provides that the Conference should be a «travelling circus >, I think, Sir, it would be extremely discourteous on the part of this Conference to refuse the very warm and generous invitation of the Lebanese delegation, and I commend it to you with all the authority of my delegation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Mexico. Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : On behalf of the delegation of Mexico, I wish to say that we much appreciate the invitation we have received from the Government of the Lebanon. Since one of the essential func- tions of Unesco is to establish the best relations and best understanding between peoples; and having regard to Arab culture, whose importance needs no stressing; and considering the generous invitation of the Government of the Lebanon, which signifies that Unesco has found a sympathetic echo in that extremely important Middle East region, my delegation would be very happy if this Conference accepted the invitation and decided that the Third Conference should be held in Beirut. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Brazil. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, gentle- men, the Brazilian delegation wishes before all to see a universal Unesco. We wish to see in this Organization a full representation of all cultural streams and currents. It seems to me that, after the London Conference, the Paris Conference and the Mexico City Conference, we have a moral obli- gation to draw near to our brothers of the Arab world, whose culture grows richer every day. We hope that the next Conference — provided, of course, that the material resources at the disposal of Unesco allow — will be held in Beirut. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the representative of Iraq. M. Y. UMAR (Iraq) : As an Observer of my coun- try at this Conference, I have the honour to add my voice to that of the delegate of the Lebanon in support of his very kind invitation, and to endorse the support given to him by my colleague, the dele- gate of Egypt. I have every confidence that this Conference will give to the proposal by the delegate of the Lebanon the attention it deserves. The PRESIDENT (Trans ation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of the Union of South Africa. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. President, I have not had the advantage of seeing the figures, but I understand that — even leaving out of account the extremely important argument of taking Unesco to an area where we shall be able to understand, learn and get to know something about a new culture — because of the much lower cost of living in Lebanon, what Unesco would gain in administration if the Conference were held in Paris would be offset against the addi- tional expenses of certain delegates. If that infor- mation is correct, it seems to me that the financial argument loses some of its weight. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Do any other delegates wish to speak ? The dele- gate of the United Kingdom. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, I am sure that every delegation is gratified at the generosity of the invitation that has been put before this plenary meeting by the delegate of the Lebanon, and we must all agree with the very happy and generous sentiments that have been expressed in suppert of that invitation. Again, I think that every delegation here believes in the principle of the universality of Unesco. It is extreme- ly important that, from year to year, we should do our best to get to know the different countries of our Members and something of their great cul- tures. But, surely, in 1948 we are in a very pecu- liar international position. Everyone must admit the intense economic dislocation of the world. Butit is not only on that account that the United Kingdom delegation supports the report from the Executive Board made by Dr. Walker. It is on the grounds of efficiency. Unesco, in its third year, with an extremely important programme to get through in 1948, would have to begin very early making tremendous preparations for this Conference, if it were held as far away as Beirut. Then, again, the whole of this question has been thoroughly thrashed out at the meeting of the Executive Board, at which arguments for and against have been considered with very great care. — 125 —           The report of those arguments brings us to the conclusion that our Third Conference should be in Paris, and the United Kingdom delegation is prepared to support the recommendation made by the Executive Board, appreciating the welcome, appreciating the generous offer, recognizing the importance of getting to know the various cultures of the world and, above all, the importance of going to the Middle East. Nevertheless, on the grounds of efficiency more than anything else, we feel that this Plenary Gon- ference should for next year decide to hold its meeting in Paris. The relevant rule in our Constitution allows us to vary the meeting place from year to year, and we shall, by going to Paris as well as by going to the Lebanon or any other part of the world, be carrying out that rule to the letter. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I think, perhaps, the plenary meeting of the Conference might wish to know some ofthe figures which — obviously ona rather provisional basis — the Conferences Section of the da has worked out. It would appear that the cost of holding a Con- ference of the proposed type in Paris would be not less than $ 100,000 — it might be a little less, but probably not, and certainly not more than $ 120,000; but that the cost of holding the Conference in Beirut (this is the cost only to the Unesco budget even after deducting for the lowercost of allowances possible owing to the lower cost of living) would be not less than $ 250,000 and not more than $ 280,000. Of course, there is also the question, which has been raised by the delegate of the Union of South Africa, of the cost to Member Governments themselves with regard to delegations. I am not in a position to make a statement about that; the lower cost of living would come in against the extra cost of transport. I would like to support what the delegate of the United Kingdom has said with regard to economy not being the only matter which was at issue during the meeting of the Executive Board. It was, as he has rightly said, the question of efficiency. It is extremely obvious to us who have had to organize this Conference that it really takes up perhaps
10 per cent. of the available working time and energy of the members of the Secretariat. I would like to take this opportunity again at a plenary meeting of saying that I have from the outset been as convinced a believer as possible not merely in the desirability, but also in the necessity, of holding conferences of Unesco in different regions of the world as often as possible; and I know the value which has accrued to Unesco from holding this Conference in Mexico City. But I do plead that, in regard to next year, we may take this question of efficiency and also, in second order, economy, into consideration. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does any other delegate wish to speak ? The delegate of New Zealand. Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) : As individuals, the member of the New Zealand delegation would have nothing but pleasure in supporting the pro- posal put forward by the delegate of the Lebanon. There is, I think, no part of the world we would like to see more, and it is to us a most unhappy thing that we feel we must support the point of view put forward by Executive Board, and the point of view concerning economy. This is going to be a crucial year for Unesco — the amount of work we have put on to the Secretariat and the Organization as a whole in our programme this year is terrific. We have to remember that from each year the senior members of the Secretariat are losing at the very best five or six weeks, perhaps a couple of months, in preparing for the Conference, holding the Conference and clearing up after we have left. If we add to that the necessity of travelling to a new country, adapting themselves to the situation there, and making all the other preparations re- quired, we feelthatthis time,at least, we cannot but support the proposal put forward by the Executive Board, for the reasons given by the delegate of the United Kingdom and supported by the Director- General. We are, as I say, torn between our desire to visit a country of which we know, perhaps, very little but of which we have heard and thought very much, and the desire to make sure that this most crucial year of Unesco's activities should be one in which we put every ounce and every minute we have into the work of carrying out the Programme. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegate of the United States of America. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, the United States of America supports the point of view expressed by Dr. Beeby. The big cost is not in the budget figures, it seems to us — real as they are as presented by the Director- General — but the big cost would come in the drain on personnel and in the wear and tear of a not yet fully developed Secretariat in a very crucial and difficult year. I may say, however, that, if this Conference does not agree with the recommendation of the — 126 — ا ل   Executive Board, and votes otherwise on the motion of the delegate of the Lebanon, we shall have many reasons to feel happy at the opportunity to meet in Beirut. The American people, millions of them have an interest in that part of the world, through their missions and schools, that goes back over many decades. My own grandfather, after whom I am named, was sent to Beirut one hundred years ago as the first American missionary to go to Syria from the American Board of Foreign Missions, and my father graduated from the American University in Beirut, and the knowledge of that part of the world through our missions is very great throughout the United States. If therefore this Conference is not held in Beirut in the coming year, we can hope it will not be too long before the Unesco Conference will meet in Beirut or Cairo or in another Arab capital. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Since no other delegates have asked to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on the place of the Third Session of the General Conference. As we already have the proposal of the Lebanon, which amends the proposal of the Executive Board, the Chair is of the opinion that it would be convenient to vote first on the Lebanese proposal. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, France, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Philip- pines, Peru, Union of South Africa, Venezuela. Voted against : Australia, Belgium, Canada, Czecho- slovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Nether- lands, New Zealand, Norway, United Kingdom, United States of America, Turkey, Uruguay. Abstained : China, Colombia, Greece, Poland. Absent : Cuba, Haiti, Liberia, Luxemburg, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We have a tie vote of 13 to 13. Consequently, in accordance with Article 57 of the Rules of Pro- cedure, we must take another vote at another meet- ing. I therefore suggest that at to morrow’s meet- ing we take a new vote on this matter.
23. Discussion of Resolutions concerning Measures to be taken against War Pro- ganda. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Here we shall continue with the study of a darft resolution presented by the delegate of Poland to this Conference on 11 November 1947. This draft resolution is closely connected with an amend- ment presented by the delegations of Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United States of America, as well as with a proposal which has been submitted by the delegation of Australia on the same matter. It is convenient that the meeting should be informed of the three draft resolutions, so that delegates may speak with full knowledge of the draft proposals in question. M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : 1 would like to remind you, Mr. President, that there is a French resolution also, which has certain links with the others. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Secretariat had proposed that the French resolution should be considered immediately after we had decided upon the foregoing resolutions. However,if the French delegation wishesits propo- sals to be considered at the same time, I see no objection. The French delegation indicates that it wishes to haveits resolution taken after the first three. The documents in question are : 2C/BUR/2, which is the Polish proposal; 2G/107, which is the proposal of various delegations, headed by Brazil; 2CG/107 Annex; 2G/108. You have the documents at hand and, if you consider it is unnecessary for the secretary to read them, I will call upon the delegate of Poland, who wishes to speak in support of his proposal. M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, gentlemen, the two draft resolutions that have been submitted to you contain two conceptions of the attitude that Unesco should adopt towards the international situation and the threat of war. On 11 November I had the honour to submit to the plenary meeting, on behalf of my delegation, a draft resolution and an appeal to intellectuals of all countries. After that came a draft resolution from Australia, followed by a joint text from Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United States of America. It is we who, in the first place, took this initiative, moved by the desire to safeguard peace, which is a preoccupation common to a people and Government which suffered so much in both World Wars and which incurred immense losses in all fields. The other draft resolutions are the expression also of the wish of the different countries represented in Unesco to safeguard peace, to exorcise the spectre of war and to oppose those who incite us to war. Gentlemen, a heavy responsibility rests upon us here, a responsibility towards our people, towards the opinion of the whole world. Our voice must be raised loudly and insistently. It is not the time for half-measures or for evading our full responsibili- ties. Allow me to remind you where similar tactics led us duringthe years preceding the last World War. = di —          The Polish delegation will give no help to those whose seek to drown the struggle against war in a flood of phrases and formulae. During the discussion in the General Committee of the Conference, the Polish delegation urged the claims of substance against form. We repeat again : we will never accept any concession that might impair the very essence of our proposal. It seems to me that Unesco should rally the United Nations on behalf of the fight against war and war propa- ganda. It is not enough, in our opinion, to take note of the Resolution of the United Nations dated
3 November 1947. On the other hand, we think that the recommen- dation to Member States that legal steps should be taken to put mass communication methods at the exclusive disposal of international action, making it impossible to develop activity hostile to such co-operation, in no way prevents the different countries from employing such methods as are in conformity with their constitutions, traditions, history and politics. We are well aware that in most states liberty has to be restricted so as to prevent its abuse. But liberty is one thing; licence is another. We believe that incitement to war is a greater menace than dissemination of obscene literature or the traffic in drugs. We now come to the main points of our two pro- posals. We cannot advocate action on behalf of peace without condemning the activites of those who incite to war. It is impossible to conceive the struggle against criminal incitement to another world war without some reference to politics. The resolution submitted by the other delegations aims at opposing the adoption of the Polish reso- lutions and attempts to exclude all political con- siderations, on the grounds, presumably, that we are a non-political organization. This interpretation of the aims and purposes of Unesco means either disclaiming all resonsibility or else it betrays blind- ness to obvious facts. There is another loop-hole : the argument that, since the United Nations have already adopted a resolution, we here in Unesco need not bother about tendencies hostile to peace. Such reasoning is not in conformity with the letter or spirit of our Gonsti- tution. In declaring that wars begin in the minds of men and that it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed, we are bound to conclude that those who are supposed to fashion the minds of men have a graver responsibility than that resting upon the representatives of the Govern- ments which adopted the resolution of the United Nations . Poland has submitted two complementary reso- lutions. They are presented to you in 2C/BUR/5. As far as 2C/BUR/S is concerned, we submit it jointly with the delegations of France, Brazil, the United Kingdom and Czechoslovakia. For this reason the Polish delegation asks the Conference to vote upon the first of these resolutions and also to endorse the appeal contained in the resolution we have presented jointly with the delegations men- tioned. Together these resolutions manifest our unanimous desire to counter every tendency to re- gard another war as inevitable. In ths way we pro- claim our firm resolve to work for the safe guard- ing and consolidation of the peace of the world. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : So far the delegates of Czechoslovakia and Hungary have asked to speak. I call upon the delegate of Czechoslovakia. Dr. J. OPOCENSKY. (Czechoslovakia) : Mr. Pre- sident, I support the declaration of our Polish col- league and associate myself with the joint resolution submitted by the delegations of France, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Poland and Czechoslovakia. When I re-read the declaration which our Polish colleague, M. Wierblowski, made some days ago, it seemed to me that we stood at the cross-roads. I asked myself whether we were not living in timeslike those which followed the Napoleonic wars, when, after long years of strife, a policitical, economic and social system collapsed, giving way to new political, e- conomic and social institutions. Are we not living in a period when the old and the new still exist side by side, and when lovers of the old still hope desperately that their system may survive? They fail to see that it is impossible to reverse the wheels of history. Are we not living in days very like those which saw the end of feudalism in western Europe? And are we not suffering some of the same forms of persecution and inquisi- tion? There are examples everywhere of people persecuted for their political opinions, of men deprived of their livelihood. The need of our day is to ensure respect for human thought. This is a matter which Unesco cannot ignore and must do something about. We see around us — not here in Unesco, but in the world outside — individuals and movements that are doing all they can to oppose the progressive forces of history, even at the cost of war. Colleagues and friends, do we not know what war means? All of us have been witnesses of the horrors it inflicts. Most of us in the darkest hours fell victims to utter despair. Is there really anyone among us who is not terrified at the mere mention of war? Are there any who have forgotten the — 128 — S S S E E E   bomb that destroyed Hiroshima and Nagasaki? It is hard to imagine that anyone to-day should not think and feel what an atomic war would mean to the culture and civilization of our time. In my view,it is the first duty of Unesco not to keep silent on such a matter. May I remind those who attended the Conference in London in Novem- ber 1946, of the speech of Prime Minister Attlee, a passage from which is now incorporated in the Preamble of Unesco’s Constitution? I ask you this : Do you think that Unesco can shirk this duty and not cry out to the teachers of the nations, to the scientists and to men of learning everywhere : «Danger ahead»? Only thus can we hope to walk without fear through the valley of shadow. I entreat you, gentlemen, to take action along these lines. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Hungary. M. Edmond FERENCZI (Hungary) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President: It is a great honour for the delegate of Hungary to speak here at a plenary, meeting for the first time since the ratification of the Constitution of Unesco by my country. The question on the agenda is in very clear terms. On the one hand, we have a resolution which con- demns war in general abstract war. We have a resolution which condemns the instigators to war. Gentlemen, we are no longer living in the days of the Briand-Kellogg Pact. We are all against abstract war, and I do not think that a new affirmation of general condemnation will redound much to Unesco’s credit or prestige. On the other hand, we have to deal with specific instigators of war — certain clearly defined persons and groups. Every day we read the papers, listen to the radio and go to the pictures. There are our targets. Logically, those who declare that wars begin in the minds of men should understand the Polish resolution better than those who claim to have a more complex concept of the origin of world con- flicts. After her unhappy experiences Hungary gladly foregoesthe right to invite massacre through science, education and culture, even at the risk of slowing up the two-way flow of information. Hungary, con- quered, ruined and destroyed, can afford the luxury in such circumstances of giving voice to conscience and saying, with Vauvenargues : «Vice foments war, virtue attacks it». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Egypt. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. President : The Egyptian delegation 15 very happy to see thatall the delegates submitting these proposals have met on one point — that is, the denouncement of all war propaganda. All of them are very anxious to see that peace is encouraged and supported by all nations and governments. At the same time we feel happy that Unesco is taking a serious interest in this crucial problem and is not satisfied with the steps taken by the United Nations. It is a good sign that intellectuals are trying to let the people hear their voice in the world problems of to-day. In the meantime, we do not see any substantial difference in the four proposals submitted, especially if it is considered that the United States proposal is an appendix to the proposal made by the United Nations, and that the proposal from Australia in- cludes fundamental points contained in the proposal agreed by the United Nations. For this reason, Mr. President, we suggest that a sub-committee of the four delegations who sub- mitted these proposals be set up to work together, and we are sure that they will be able to agree upon a draft resolution for submission to the plenary meeting. We are anxious to have this draft reso- lution, to be sure that the vote here is unanimous. The vote must be unanimous, because on such a problem and such a proposal Unesco should be of one mind; there should be no differences at all between us. I will end, Mr. President and fellow-delegates, by saying that, although we agree to the proposal submitted, we stress the fact that it is not enough to have a resolution condemning war and denounc- ing propaganda. It is high time that intellec- tuals all over the world united to work positively for peace and security. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Since the proposal from Egypt is a new proposal, different from those before the meeting, the Chair would like to know whether any delegation wishes to support the Egyptian proposal. It is seconded by the Dominican Republic. Sr. R. E. JIMENEZ (Dominican Republic) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, considering that the reasons set forth by the dele- gate of Egypt are justified, in the sense that funda- mentally all these proposals express the same feeling, we warmly support the proposal that a sub-com- mittee should be set up to study the proposals and present them as a whole. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Icali upon the delegate of the United States of Ame- rica. — 129 —    Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) : Fellow-delegates, I should like to offer on behalf of the delegation of the United States a substitute resolution in amendment of the resolution sub- mitted by the delegation of Poland. This resolu- tion is offered not only by the United States, but by the delegations of Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico and the Netherlands. It seems to these delegations that this substitute resolution expresses better than the Polish resolution the desire of all mankind for peace, the common goal to which the delegate of Egypt was just referring, and the desire to which all of us are dedicated here at this meeting. I shall not read this substitute resolution, as you have it before you in document 2G/107. If you will look at the last paragraph on the front page, paragraph 3, however, you will see a paragraph parallel to the Polish resolution No. 2 which was withdrawn by the Polish delegate — and I congratu- late the Polish delegate on withdrawing that resolution No. 2 with its phrase « war-mongers». It seems to the United States delegation, and to many other delegations here, that Unesco must give positive and creative guidance in this domain. It must give such guidance to the many who are seeking the truth and, through the truth, the road to peace. Of all the world’s organizationsit seems fo us that Unesco should be the last to stumble into the pitfalls of repression, censorship and restriction. And here, for the benefit of the delegate of Egypt, it seems to us is the essential difference. 1 shall refer to one line in the Polish resolution which makes unanimity impossible and makes compromise impos- sible from the standpoint of the United States of America. This line in the Polish resolution pro- poses that : «The Conference appeals to the Orga- nization of the United Nations to undertake such legal steps as would put the free flow of ideas exclusively at the disposal...». That can only be read in terms of restriction, repression and censor- ship. We here assembled must not put man at the mercy of highly localized and highly controversial defini- tions or of the dialectics of the moment, and we cannot afford here to deal in tenuous, provocative words like « war-mongering ». In this Conference, called to help lift mankind from the atmosphere of political opportunism, suspicion and aggression, I feel we must ourselves rise to the perspective of the Unesco Charter, which calls on us «to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations». We of the United States delegation look upon Unesco as the appropriate organization through which to begin to promote this mutual collabora- tion, and not as a sounding board for ideological and national interests. Let other conferences deal in the passions of the moment; we are met here to consider the basic defences of the peace, and it seems to us there is no place here for the raised voice. In our substitute motion we have made common cause with the United Nations, which shares our concern that the agencies of the United Nations should be positive and creative, not restrictive. In our motion, we have incorporated the United Na- tions resolution, which defines « war-mongering» as propaganda «designed or likely to provoke or encourage any threat to the patie, breach of the peace, or act of aggression». With this definition, I think, all men of goodwill can agree. Thus it seems to us essential that we of Unesco should encourage the widest possible acceptance of the ideals offree enquiry, free expression and free association, to which the Unesco Constitution so definitely dedicates us. Tt is essential that in the world’s present state of bewilderment, with real peace still a fugitive, we make Unesco’s goals very clear. We must not let ourselves be drawn into a public expression that advocates legal action to control the things men think and say. Rather we must make it plain that men, by this vehicle we call Unesco, can educate themselves and thus in time learn to control themselves — so that the world can at last come freely and willingly, not to a Pax Romana, but to a Pax Populorum. With these values uppermost in our minds, we can make our way toward that moral and intellec- tual solidarity of mankind, desired by the Polish delegation, I am sure, with a fervour no less ardent than by other delegations here. I urge, then, upon you, representatives of your respective countries, the adoption of this substi- tute motion, which supports the action of the General Assembly of the United Nations, and which I think you will agree calls for a direct and creative attack on the propaganda of darkness. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Australia. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER(Australia) : Mr. President, the Australian delegation welcomes the initiative of the Polish delegation in raising at this Con- ference of Unesco the whole question of war propa- ganda, already debated in such detail in the General Assembly of the United Nations. The Australian delegation had already received instructions to draw the attention of this Conference to the Un- ited Nations Resolution, because my Government attaches the greatest importance to the obser- vance by all Governments and peoples of the spirit — 130 —    of the United Nations resolution on war propaganda. The practical question for this Conference to decide 1s what steps Unesco, as one of the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations, can and should take. We do not consider it appropriate for this Orga- nization to call on the United Nations Organization to take juridical action against war propaganda, as our Polish colleagues have suggested. If such a proposal is to be made, it should be made not to this Conference, but to the United Nations Assembly itself and, as we know, the United Nations Assembly has already devoted much time to considering the question and has agreed unani- mously on a resolution which condemns war propa- ganda and requests that each Member Government take appropriate steps to promote friendly relations among nations and fo encourage the dissemination of information expressing the undoubted desire of all peoples for peace. The Australian delegation is not able, therefore, to vote for the Polish reso- lution in its present form. The resolution proposed by a number of delega- tions as an alternative to the Polish resolution (document 2G/107) is, in our opinion, more appropriate for Unesco. Nevertheless, we think it does not go quite far enough. We agree that one way in which Unesco can help attain the objectives envisaged in the United Nations resolution is to appeal to the educators, scholars, scientists, artists, writers and journalists of the world to promote and defend the peace. That is what the alternative resolution of the Brazilian and other delegations suggests. But Unesco is an organization of States and we must address our selves to the Governments as well as to the peoples of the world. The Governments of the States which are Members of Unesco have already stated, when they accepted our Constitution, that they care agreed and determined to develop and to increase the means of communication between their peoples and to employ these means for the purposes of mutual understanding and a truer and more perfect knowledge of each other’s lives». In other words, we Members of Unesco have already, in the course of this Conference, carried further the practical plans initiated a year ago to promote friendly relations among the nations and to en- courage the dissemination of information expressing the undoubted desire of all peoples for peace. Our response to the United Nations resolution, therefore, should not be merely to address an appeal to the peoples of the world; we should also seize this opportunity of drawing the attention of all Members of the United Nations to the opportunities which membership of Unesco affords for practical work in accordance with the spirit of the United Nations resolution. At the same time, we should take this opportunity to make it clear that we invite all peace-loving nations to join with us in this work The Australian delegation, therefore, will support the draft resolution proposed by the delegation of Brazil and other countries, provided that an addi- tional paragraphis inserted, based on paragraph 2 of the Australian resolution. It would read as foilows: Draws the attention of all Members of the United Nations to the opportunities which membership of Unésco affords for Governments and their peoples to collaborate in practical and constructive work to promote friendly relations among nations in accordance with the terms and spirit of the above- mentioned Resolution of the United Nations, and looks for- ward to the day when all Members of the United Nations and all peace-loving nations will participate fully in the work of Unesco. I desire to move, therefore, that this additional paragraph be included in the draft resolution contained in document 2C/107, immediately after paragraph 3. If this amendment is accepted, we shall then withdraw our separate resolution. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of the United States. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) : The United States and those associated with it in its substitute resolution are happy to accept the pro- posed amendment by the delegate of Australia. This will make the present point 4 in the proposed original amended resolution point 5, and will insert the amendment proposed by Mr. Walker as a new point 4. This goes part of the way, at least, to- wards the goal set by the delegate of Egypt. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of China. % Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China): As co-signatory of the draft resolution submitted by Brazil and other coun- tries, China would like also to second the Australian delegate's amendment to the resolution. The purpose of Unesco is to promote peace; but we submit that the true way of promoting peace is first, the removal of causes offriction and the pro- motion of understanding. I personally doubt whe- ther it would be to the advantage of Unesco to in- trudeinto politics, and therefore I would like to see the motion by Brazil and Australia voted upon after the Polish resolution. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) г I think it would be appropriate if, after we have voted first upon the Polish resolution, we vote on that of Brazil and Australia. Does any delegate wish to speak? I call upon the delegate of Poland. — 131 —    M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the Polish delegation has, in the address of its chief ambassador, M. Wierblowski, stressed most of the important points that we think should favour the adoption of the Polish resolution. Nevertheless, there was not as much discussion as might have been expected and, therefore, before you pass to the vote, we should like to submit ad- ditional considerations and reflections upon the dis- cussion which took place here. We are very happy to note that the delegate of Egypt is not satisfied with the steps taken by the United Nations. We are not either. But, as far as his suggestion of a drafting sub-committee goes, I wish to state, on behalf of our delegation, that we have made it quite clear that we are willing to listen to suggestion as to the wording, but that we are not prepared to lose our resolution in verbosity. This has been very clearly stated also by the represen- tative of the United States, who said that he did not see any possible compromise. This is, unfortunate- ly, a point on which we agree. I wanted to go a little further because this dis- cussion has brought out two points. If I am mistaken, I will gladly stand corrected. These are two points which have already been discussed, however briefly, in another place, before this reso- lution came here. I believe that our English- speaking friends are particularly concerned about three aspects of the Polish draft resolution; one is the political aspect, the second is some sort of legal infringement of the traditions of Anglo-Saxon countries, the third is the fear that the press would be gagged. I think these are the three main points. If there are others, we might discuss them. Now I would like you, ladies and gentlemen, to open an existing and comprehensive dictionary, and find out what 1s termed «political », and whether you can exclude cultural or scientific life from political life. This, I think, is clear and it can be looked up in a moment. We have also dealt here with issues which are clearly political. We have dealt with racial equality, for instance, which cannot be restricted to culture or education. It is a political issue, and we have discussed it here; I myself had the honour of addressing this Conference. Now, there is the question of encroachment upon jurisdiction, upon the legal life of countries. Here a will trespass for a few moments on your patience aud quote, not from the Daily Worker, but from a perfectly good American book, Journalism in the United States, by Robert W. Jones, published in New York by E.-P. Dutton Co. Inc. in 1947. The question of freedom of the press has been discussed in the United States for quite some time, and I quote from this book : «Many of our printers make no scruple of gratifying the malice of indivi- duals by false accusations of the fairest characters among themselves, augmenting animosity even to the producing of duels, and are, moreover, so indis- creet as to print scurrilous reflections on the govern- ment of neighbouring states, and even on the con- duct of our best nationalallies, which may be attended with the most pernicious consequences». Now that is not our invention. It is not an accusation of war-mongering. It was written by Benjamin Franklin. Hereis another quotation : «Nothing can now be believed which is seen in a newspaper. Truth itself becomes suspicious by being put into that polluted vehicle». This is a quotation from Thomas Jefferson. I am trying to get through them quickly. They are quite interesting, and I am limiting myself here entirely to American sources. I am not voicing here my delegation’s or my own criticism. There will be no word of criticism on ourpart, and I beg the Press to note that scrupulously. I quote again from this book : The New York Journal, (this must have been some time about
1898), «was ready for war with Spain long before official action showed fight. A similar feeling per- vaded the people of the United States. The suf- ferings of: « reconcentrados », Cubans herded to- gether in the cities by order of General Weyler to prevent them from giving aid and succour to Gomez's and Garcia's revolutionary troops, had stirred popu- lar sympathy. When war came, volunteers were available in larger numbers than called for.» Now a further quotation : «It is, of course, merely a question of fact whether the New York Journal, seizing upon popular sentiment in favour of the Cuban revolutionists, rode to new heights of popu- larity upon the wave of hostile feeling toward Spain, or whether the Journal by its «jingo» policies, whipped up popular resentment against Spain and was largely instrumental in putting the United States in a position where war with Spain resulted, thus altering the course of history in both hemispheres». And again : «On March 16, 1898, the Journal showed Mark Hanna as the Goddess of Liberty, wearing a dollar-marked robe, and reading the stock- market ticker. The paper’s editorials flayed Presi- dent Mc Kinley and his cabinet for delaying action over the «Maine», because it might affect busi- ness». On the question of preventing people from enter- ing countries, it is a fact, and it is again in this book, that in 1916 the Hearst papers were banned in England and Canada. «In November, 1916, Canada barred Hearst papers, and a fine not to exceed $ 5,000 or imprisonment not to exceed five years, or both fine and imprisonment, was made the — 132 —    S e penalty for possessing a copy of a Hearst paper in Canada». Now we had, some time in 1939, a very interesting discussion, as reported by the Associated Press, between the Secretary of the Interior, Harold Ickes, and Frank Gannet. «Ickes said the chief accusations against the Press were : thatit has financialaffiliations which limit its freedom. Metropolitan newspapers in particular are part of the financial oligarchy trying to rule America; thatit is subject to the influence of advertisers, causing omission or improper slanting of news, and affecting editorial opinions» ete. I wish also to call your attention to this restriction of Liberty, this gagging of the Press. If this is not mistaken, the Postmaster-General has very wide powers in the United States to bar from the mail any publication which he deems obscene, indecent or lewd. Of course, we do not think that war-mongers are obscene or lewd, but they are much more danger- ous than publications like Laff, Peek, Film Fun, True Confessions, All-Story Love, etc., which Frank Walker, the Postmaster-General, barred. Herelet no one take exception to what I am saying, on the grounds that it is a question of news articles under war regulations, but I will point out the following : «General regulations regarding news articles to be held transmissible provided that they are accurate in statement and implication». Well, now, I do not believe that we should wait for a state of war before drawing up reasonable regulations; nor do I believe that any one in this room would honestly challenge the fact that very many news articles are inaccurate and entirely false and out of place. Do we have to wait for war, or do we not have to wait for war? In this connexion, I may read to you an excerpt from to-day’s Excelsior. On the English page there is a story about Unesco by Lloyd Brady, staff writer of the Associated Press. This is not a personal question, for I am very grateful for the publicity. At a certain point, Mr. Brady, as quoted by Excelsior, refers to « the Polish Ambassador to Mexico, in submitting the Polish resolution». I do not know what resolution, as I was not in the room at all. Well, I think that is very incorrect news. I am not saying it is slanderous or will create a new war, but it is certainly incorrect, for I was not in the room. Here is a final quotation from this book. It says that several states in the United States have also regulations restricting — well, what we would call here the free flow of information. They forbid this and that : for instance, not only questions like those of the papers I named — True Confession, or Love, or whatever it was; but they penalize blas- phemous publications. Prosecutions are rare, since a newspaper rarely attacks the Christian religion or questions Christian doctrine in such a way as to provoke breaches of the peace; but there it is. We have heard a good deal about liberty and «gagging»; about how our Anglo-Saxon friends cherish their institutions, their absolute freedom. I would like to quote from an article in a very reputable news- paper, the New York Times, 2 November 1947, section 6. Here we read a story under the heading, « Whatis loyalty?» by Mr. Arthur M. Schlesinger, of Harvard University. Mr. Schlesinger's conclusions possibly are not my conclusions. We do not think that his exposé of facts is devoid of certain propa- ganda aspects, but here he says some interesting things. He speaks about what Mr. Harold Laski said in the New Statesman and Nation, that America is now embarked on a hysterical witch-hunt. 1 leave alone; it was Mr. Laski's and not my statement. I want to make that point. Here is Mr. Schle- singer's statement about freedom and all those lovely things we are trying by our resolution to annihilate. He says : «Yet the Executive Order and the State Department Code are inexcusably defective, in parti- cular, the recent action of the State Department in denying most of these rights a hearing», and he continues that they are departing from the require- ments of security and entering the realm of per- secution. I will not enter into the question of American loyalty. That is none of my business. When in the United States, I have always been respectful of the laws, and I should be, if I lived there. But I wish also, and this will be my last quotation in con- nexion with what Mr. Schlesinger calls persecution, to read a little paragraph which says that « whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it and to institute a new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form... >. Now that is a document which is generally respected in Poland, one for which many Poles died in the American Revolution. It is the Declaration of Independence. Now, gentlemen, we come to the crucial point. We of the Polish delegation do not care much about words. We are interested in facts. The facts are before you. I would like to put them a little more drastically to you, perhaps, but I am a sentimental kind of fellow, and I believe also that the great assembly of brains gathered here should have a cer- tain amount of human feeling. We cannot and we will not be a party to any compromise which is not going to putits finger on the real evils. We are of the opinion that this body cannot wash its hands of responsibility by amendments or amendments to amendments, by committees and sub-committees. This is a much more serious problem. Nineteen — 133 — ga   hundred and forty-seven years ago a great idea of peace was sent to the Cross by the representatives of a wealthy and mighty power. Are you going to send hat idea now — I will not speak so dramatically — into the wastepaper basket? Gentlemen, I hope not, butif so you may rest assured that Poland, ewhnever it ispossible, will fight for peace, for real peace, and only for peace, because for Poland peace is life and war is death. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Canada. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, the Polish delegate said that in 1916 the Hearst papers were not allowed in Canada. I do not remember if that was so. I confess that I did not anticipate that that particular question would be raised in this debate, and I did not look it up last night. I know that we allow them in now, so that I can only think that since 1916 either Canada has improved or the Hearst papers have improved. I want to make one point, gentlemen, and one point particularly, which the last speakers have neglected to stress. I think it is the most important point in our discussion. It is this : this question has been discussed fully in the United Nations. Extreme positions were taken, but an agreement was reached unanimously, and I believe we can agree here, because we have an agreement before us that of the United Nations. We shall not be able to reach agreement by reverting to extreme positions which were taken before agreement was reached in the United Nations. Let us, a Specialized Agency of the United Nations, start not with differences, but with the agreement of the United Nations before us, and apply that unanimous agreement in Unesco’s field. The joint resolution to which Canada has subscribed does just that, and for that reason we urge its support. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of the Union of South Africa. Senator E. H. BROOKES (Union of South Africa) : Mr. President, it is a remarkable thing that almost the only issue which has introduced a spirit of war into the deliberations of Unesco is a motion dealing with the question of peace. I stand here to support the proposal of the dele- gate of Egypt. I hope that he will make it a resolu- tion — in which case I shall be glad to second it— that this matter be referred to a sub-committee in an endeavour to arrive at an agreed draft. Mr. President, we have had statements from two very forceful delegates who have told us that no compromise is possible. I would not compare any political experience with theirs, but I think it is rather dangerous to make statements of that kind so early in a discussion. [remember a consummate politician once said — it was Napoleon III — «In politics, never say «never». Mr. President, it would be, to my mind, a great tragedy, if we were to vote on this matter and if any resolution were to be carried by a majority vote in Unesco. We, in the South African delegation, know, if the matter comes to a vote, how and why we are going to vote, but we feel that any vote taken here on this point will not be a factor for peace, although it may be a resolution in favour of peace and against propaganda for war. Any resolution, even the best, even the resolution in favour of which we should vote, will not be in the cause of peace. It would be most unfortunate if we reproduced here in Unesco (and we are at the cross-roads) the political and geo- graphicalfeelings which have impeded the delibera- tions of the United Nations General Assembly. Here we have only one enemy, and that is ignorance. We are met together as educators, as men and women interested 1n the cause of education, and it does not seem to me, however entertaining it may be, that political debates in this General Conference are going to benefit that cause which is so much in our hearts and to which we have set our hands. By all means, if we can agree on a statement, let us issue a statement in favour of peace, and if we cannot agree on a statement in favour of peace, let us remain silent rather than put forward what will be regarded in one or another quarter as a partisan statement. It is natural enough that there should be deep differences of opinion in the world. It is natural enough that countries like Poland, which stand in the very path of war, should feel deeply on these matters. It is natural enough that we who enjoy an Anglo-Saxon heritage should cherish our concepts of freedom of speech and many of the other concepts to which reference has been made in this debate. But, Mr. President, we are here as servants of truth and peace, and good education. We are trying to build a better world, and we do not think that victory in this debate on one side or anotheris going to serve those ends. If you want a forum for quar- relling, the United Nations General Assembly pro- vides an excellent one, but this is a forum for peace and,in seeking peace, we should not divide ourselves and make our work more difficult. Those are the feelings of the South African delegation. As I have said, we know how we shall vote if a vote is taken, but we do most warmly support the suggestion of the delegate of Egypt that we should not vote on this matter this afternoon, but that an effort should — 134 —    be made to find a formula, a real truth, on which we can all join hands. | The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 call upon the delegate of Brazil. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Transla- tionfrom the French) : Mr. President, Brazil is a signa- tory power of one the motions submitted to the delegations present here. I would like to second both amendments presented, which seem excellently to supplement and complementthe original one. I did not come hereto tell you this, but to try to see where the problem that we have here actually resides. Unesco is a Specialized Agency of the United Nations. We have a task which is very well defined in our Constitution. We have our weapons, which are education, science and culture. We do not have to argue over theefficiency of these weapons, as they are the only weapons which we have the rightto carry with us. We must, without a sword, fight this war, and we must carry the flag of peace, on behalf of education, science and culture. If is not for us here to use means other than those we have been given. If our weapons are weak,it is not our fault; we must make ourselves equal to the task. The honourable delegate of Hungary quoted a very noble statement. Let me quote another, one of the most beautiful in the world — « Great minds are born in the heart». The problem is not to establish legal means, but rather to aspire higher, so that what is in our hearts may materialize. Unesco will only accomplishits task if it uses not swords and weapons, but souls. Weshall grapple with our task only if each one ofus here in full agreement is the apostle of peace. We have no countries really different at heart — Poland, the United States, South Africa, Brazil and so on — they are all the same when confronted by war, and they must work together for peace. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Since no delegate wishes to speak, we suggest that we vote first on the Egyptian proposal; this is a formal proposal, prior to the others in that it would lead to the appointment of a Sub-Committee to draft a new document, a committee made up of the countries which combined to submit the other docu- ment. If the appointment of this Sub-Committee were not acceptable to the Conference, we should vote on the proposal of Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United States of America: (document 2C/107), with the addition suggested by Australia, whieh is, to all intents and purposes, paragraph 2 of document 2C/108. If this amendment to the Polish proposal were defeated, we should then go on to vote on the pro- posal of Poland. The roll-call will now be taken by the Secretariat for a vote, I repeat, on the proposal of Egypt: that there be appointed a sub-committee, composed of members of the various delegations which appear inthe other documents, to draft a new proposal. The delegate of Poland wishes to raise a point of order. | M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, on a point of order, I would like to ask you whether this drafting committee which has been proposed by the delegate of Egypt would also deal with the request jointly submitted by France, Czechoslovakia, Brazil, the United Kingdom and Poland, or not? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegate of Egypt, who formulated the proposal, will give the answer to that question. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I think it has to do that, also. I might add something. In the United Nations, where I was privileged to be present for some time, we felt doubtful sometimes of the possi- bility of unanimous agreement, but when delegates came together and discussed the matter in a spirit of toleration, they reached agreement. I hope that in Unesco tolerance and understanding will also prevail and that we shall have at the next meeting a unanimous agreement on the proposal then submit- ted to us. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : You have heard, gentlemen, that the proposal of Egyptalso includes the document referred to by the delegate of Poland. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : I believe, Mr. President, that the appeal containing this propo- sal of the French, Polish, Brazilian, United Kingdom and Czechoslovakian delegations, which has not yet been discussed at all, should be considered separately. We feel that we should not refer to that specific sub- committee — if such a committee is created — a document which we feel will create no controversy at all. I believe that it would be rather dangerous to mix these two things for the purpose of arriving at the solution to which several of the speakers adverted, I feel that this proposal to which I have referred should also be submitted to the vote, whether or not the sub-committee would have it in its power to draft a resolution including that proposal or not. I feel that the two questions should be separated. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of the United States of America. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, I think the Polish delegate has further demonstrated the fact that we do not need this sub- — 135 —    committee. This issue has been discussed not only this afternoon but for many, many days at the United Nations. It is a very old issue. We are all very familiar with it. I think we are ready to vote on the amended resolution, which I presented on behalf of the group of delegations here who are thoroughly familiar with the issues. These cannot be further clarified by any drafting sub-committee. As 1 listened to the interesting excerpts of the Polish delegate in his reading from a book with which I am not familiar, I thought I would like to suggest to him an even better illustration of war-mongering in the United States Press than any that he discovered in Mr. Jones’ book — in many ways, indeed, the most shocking exhibition of war-mongering in the history of the United States Press. While newspa- pers in many countries were whitewashing German aggression, many papers in the United States were « war-mongering » with their demands that the Uni- ted States come to the aid of Poland and other countries which were being attacked. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The proposal which is submitted to the Conference is that of Egypt, and it will also include the documents referred to by the delegate of Poland. Is the French resolution also going to this drafting committee? M. J. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : The proposal submitted by France is not an appeal to Governments and States, but an appealto individuals and to the peoples. Therefore I think we should set it apart and study it separately. I would add that I hope it will meet with unanimous agreement. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : A vote by roll-call is being taken on the proposal to set up a sub-committee to consider all the docu- ments. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Re- public, Egypt, El Salvador, India, Lebanon, New Zealand, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom Venezuela. Voted against : Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, France, Greece, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Philippines, Turkey, United States of America, Uruguay. Abstained : Peru, Poland. Absent : Cuba, Haiti, Liberia, Luxemburg, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The proposal of Egypt to appoint a sub-committee is adopted by 15 votes ta 13. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : I wish to qualify the vote of the Polish delegation. The delegation abstained because it was our belief that the two different documents should not be taken together, not because of the merits of the case. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Asit has been decided to appoint a sub-committee, the documents which have been presented for the consideration of this assembly will be submitted to this sub-committee. Is there any suggestion from the meeting with regard to the constitution of that sub-committee? Has Egypt, which suggested the appointment of the sub-committee, any suggestion for a nomination? Dr. ABBAS AMMAR(Egypt) : I will leave it to the President, but Egypt would suggest that, in addition to the members who have submitted proposals, the committee might include one of the delegates here who has not done so. I leave the nomination to the President. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : As a simple suggestion to the meeting, I wish to remind you, gentlemen, that among the draft reso- lutions presented by various delegations we find one submitted by Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United States of America, another by Poland, another by Australia, and another by France; the sub-committee will, therefore, if it is to deal withall these proposals, have to include a representative of each of those delegations. Do you consider that we should form a sub- committee with a representative of each of those delegations nominated by his delegation, and, if so, that a list of the persons appointed to the sub- committee be submitted to the Secretariat? Do you agree to this? The delegate of Czechoslo- vakia. [ Dr. Jan OPOCENSKY (Czechoslovakia) (Transla- tion from the French) : Czechoslovakia is also one of the States which has approved — and seconded — the French resolution. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : That means then, that, in addition to the representa- tives of the delegations already mentioned, there would be a representative of the delegation of Czechoslovakia. Does the Conference agree that the delegations should nominate a person to serve on the sub- committee to the Secretariat? Will anybody whodisagrees please raise his hand? Theresolution is adopted on that basis. The meeting rose at 6 .30 p. m. — 136 —