‘stood the enormous difficulties in recruitment, but he agreed that the Secretariat must make a real and sincere effort to establish a more equitable geogra- phical distribution. He pointed out that a total of only some 12 Latin American nationals in the entire personnel was abnormal. Out of 68 posts with a salary of $ 5,000 and over, 11 went to France, 18 to the United States, and 22 to the United Kingdom — a total of 51 out of 68 to three countries. Only 3 of these higher posts went to Latin America. The delegate of Mexico thereupon proposed a resolution recommending to the Second General Conference, as had been done before, that in the choice of personnel, due importance should be given to international distribution and that the Executive Board should exercise effective super- vision to see this recommendation carried out. Sr. BAMBOA (Philippines), expressing full agree- ments with the delegates of India and Mexico, seconded the motion. Senator BROOKES (Union of South Africa) said that he wholeheartedly supported the delegate of India, but asked the Commission to keep in mind two factors. (1) He was not criticizing the arran- gements made in 1946-1947 but was looking to the future. (2) Wherever the seat of the Organi- zation mightbe, a big proportion of the personnel, especially in the lower grades, would live nearby, but, when all allowances were made, he felt strongly that the personnel should be based on the world of to-day, in which the countries of the East were playing a bigger róle, rather than on the world of thirty years ago. He referred to the absence of any reference tc Africa in connexion with the criteria of geographical distribution (20/64, page 4) as perhaps an unconscious indication that the Secre- tariat was apt to forget the existence of Africa. He agreed with the delegate of India that it was neces- sary to improve the pattern of geographical distri bution rather than to avoid impairing it. Prof. AUGER (France) declared that his country was always in favour of equitable international geographic distribution. He did not recognize that there were any major or minor cultures in Unesco. He pointed out that it was a superficial impression that practically half of Unesco’s personnel was French, because the majority of the 253 French employees were plumbers, carpenters, typists and telephone operator. Only the higher posts should be taken into consideration and in this respect the distribution was not so unfair. Sr. AROSEMENA (Ecuador) supported the Mexican resolution, in which his delegation was equally interested. It was decided to postpone discussion on the Mexican resolution until the next meeting of the Commission. The meeting rose at 1.30 p. m. EIGHTH MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Item 5 (d) of the Agenda: Geographical Distri- bution (continuation). The CHAIRMAN announced that, in the absence of a quorum, the deliberations would be considered in the nature of private discussions. Dr. KESSLER (Switzerland) wondered whether additional ‘press personnel was being considered. If that were the case, it might be advisable to recruit specialists from small European countries, not Switzerland necessarily, but from such countries as Belgium or Holland. Journalists from small coun- tries seemed to find it easier to overcome obstacles to the free flow of information, and the recruitment of personnel from these countries might prove beneficial to the Press Section of Unesco. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) supported the Mexican resolution but wished to stress an equally important point, namely, the question of selection of personnel. It was important to ensure imper- sonal selection as far as possible. The following paragraph might be added to the Mexican resolution : — 567 —
30 À.    Pending the establishment of an International Civil Service Commission, recruitment should be made, as far as possible, with the assistance of Member States, who may be requested in this matter to utilize their Civil Service Commissions, or whatever other mechanisms would ensure the selection of the best personnel. The CHAIRMAN remarked that the discussion was on a resolution dealing with geographical distribu- tion, and the Indian delegate was presenting a resolution on selection of personnel. The two matters were not related. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) had some doubts on the Indian resolution. If the proposed system were adopted and became mandatory, it would no longer leave the Director-General the possibility of selecting his assistants. Such a resolution would have to be very carefully worded. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) and M. DORGET (France) felt that the two motions should be dis- cussed separately. The French delegate was sur- prised that the delegates were not taking into consideration the conclusions which the Nominations Committee had reported to the Executive Board meeting in September. The delegates would do well to examine document Com. Nom./1 Sess./7. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) mentioned the preponderance of British nationals in the Unesco Secretariat, and thanked the delegates for their kindness in referring to the United Kingdom onthis question. His Government’s policy was to discou- rage any further candidates who might enquire how to join Unesco. It was true that the Executive Board had already examined the question of geogra- phical distribution and the Working Party might well refer to the document mentioned by the delegate of France. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) explained that the question of geographical distribution was not of immediate concern to Cuba since she was a new member of the Organization. Discussion of personnel was difficult in view of the fact that members of the Working Party did not have a list of officials. This was extremely important if experts were to produce efficient results. It should be clearly stated that nationals of countries which had not ratified the Unesco Constitution should not be attached to the staff. The Cuban delegation supported the Mexican resolution. The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the Mexican resolution, on the understanding that it would include a reference to document Com. Nom./1 Sess./
7 as suggested by the delegate of France. Since no quorum was present, this was not to be considered a formal vote, but merely an expression of the dele- gates’ opinion. The Mexican resolution read as follows: The Second Session of the General Conference of Unesco reiterates the recommendation made previously in order that, in the selection ofstaff, due importance be attached to the consideration of geographical distribution, and invites the Executive Board to supervise closely the implementation of that recommendation. The resolution was unanimously approved. It was agreed to forward it to the Drafting Committee. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) rose to protest at the absence of delegates from the meeting. There was no quorum present and the meeting should be adjourned. The Chairman should bring this impossible state of affairs to the attention of the General Committee. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) supported these remarks. M. DORGET (France) said the situation had already been brought to the attention of the Exe- cutive Board, which would now consider the possi- bility of organizing the Third Session of the General Conference differently. A proposal was to be put before the Executive Board suggesting that, in the future, specialists in the Working Parties should complete their work before the Conference itself began. Following an appeal from the CHAIRMAN and the RAPPORTEUR, the delegates continued their deliberations. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) expressed some misgiving about the Indian motion. Experience had demonstrated that the most out- standing civil servants could be complete failures in an international organization because of the lack of languages,lack of flexibility, and other factors. Possibly the various National Commissions might have the best knowledge of qualified personnel in eachfield. The Indian motion should be sent back to the Drafting Committee, together with the diffe- rent remarks made in the course of the discussion. The remarks of the delegate of the United States were supported by Mr. JOCKEL (Australia), Dr. KESSLER (Switzerland) and Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay). The CHAIRMAN summed up : the delegates as a whole were sympathetic to the spirit of the Indian motion, but did not wish to commit themselves to a resolution. It would be referred to the Drafting Committee. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) suggested that discussion on geographical recruiting or selection of personnel was futile in view of the fact that no heavy increases of personnel could be — 568 —    expected for the coming year. However, it was always salutary for an organization to examine its own quality. The United States delegation would offer a general resolution, upon which it expected no vote at present, and conceived in the following general terms : The Commission resolves that the General Conference shall instruct the Director-General to institute, as soon as possible, a review of the experience and achievements of the present personnel with a view to replacing those staff members who do not measure up to the level of integrity and efficiency to be expected from Unesco personnel, or whose services are no longer necessary for the execution of the Programme elabo- rated for 1948. The Director-General is requested to report to the Execu- tive Board on this matter by 1 February 1948: The delegate of the United States of America added that the resolution was not intended as a NINTH criticism of the Director-General, but was to strength- en his hand. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay), Mr. JOCKEL (Austra- lia), Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) and Miss McPHEE (New-Zealand) expressed support for the United States resolution. “ThedelegateofAUSTRALIApointed out that Unesco personnel problems were parallel to those of the United Nations, and that the Commission of Experts there had reached a similar conclusion, namely, that the qualifications of the United Nations staff should be reviewed. It was agreed to refer the resolution back to the Drafting Committee. The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m. MEETING Tuesday, 18 November 1947, at 11.15 a. m. Chairman : Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) asked the Secretariat to prepare a document on the subject of per diem allowances for the present Conference. He pointed out that the Report of the Director-General (2C/64) expected a more adequate alternative system to be instituted before the end of the year, although the budget for 1948 provided almost $ 1,000,000 for per diem allowances. He maintained that the present system should not continue any longer than necessary and observed that the United Nations had asked Unesco to re-examine its system of per diem allowances. Review of discussions of the previous two meetings. The CHAIRMAN summarized the discussions of the previous two meetings, since a quorum of the Commission was present for the first time in two days. Resolutions were adopted relating to the non-payment of contributions by certain nations and to a more equitable geographical distribution of Unesco’s staff. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) A resolution by Mr. Ashfaque Husain (India) recommending that, pending the establishment of an International Civil Service Commission, recruit= ment should as far as possible, be conducted through Member States, was sent to the Drafting Committee as well as an amendment by the delegate of the United States ofAmerica urging reference to National Commissions rather than to Member States. Dr. Nogueira (Uruguay) requested the Draft- ing Committee to consider his reservation that constant consultation of Member States might impair the freedom of the Director-General to choose his staff. Another resolution by the delegate of the United States of America in the following terms was also sent to the Drafting Committee : The General Conference shall instruct the Director-General to institute, as soon as possible, a review of the experience, qualifications and achievements of present staff members, with a view to replacing those staff members who do not measure up to the high standards of competence, integrity and efficiency which must be expected of staff members of Unesco or whose services are no longer required in the light of changesin programmes approved for the year 1948; and — 569 —