ELEVENTH MEETING Tuesday, 18 November 1947, at 11 a.m. CONTENTS Chapter II. B. 3. Chapter I. C.7. Chapter I. A. 5. Pages. — Modern Techniques of Presentation (continuation) 389 — Government and Community Support for the Arts.... 390 — Exchange of Books through National Book Centres.... 392 Chapter II. B. 1. c. — Intergovernmental Agreements for the International Exchange of Publications Chapter II. B. 1. /. — International Book Coupon Scheme Chapter II. B. 2. a. — Commission on Technical Needs inMass Communication. Chapter II. B. 2. c. — Public Libraries Chapter II. B. 2. d. — Bibliography Chapter IL. B. 2. f. — Archives Development Chapter IL. B. 2. h. — Ex-German Libraries in Italy Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). The CHAIRMAN : Before we proceed to our business to-day the Vice-Chairman of the Budget Sub-Commission would like to make a statement. Dr. W. P. ALEXANDER (United Kingdom) : Mr, Chairman, I have to convey the apologies of the Chairman of the Budget Sub-Commission, who is prevented from presenting this report by his official duties as Netherlands Minister. Your Sub-Commission has started its work. It had hoped that the reports made by the Working Parties to you would have enabled you, as Programme and Budget Commission, to pass to the Budget Sub-Commission a programme which would have enabled that Sub-Commission in turn to put price tags on projects and which would have indicated where you desired the emphasis to fall, so that the Programme for 1948 could be keyed effectively to the budget. Your Budget Sub-Commission has in fact examined the resolutions adopted by the Programme and Budget Commission on Chapter I. A. on Reconstruction and on Chapter I. B. on Funda- mental Education. It seems clear to us from a study of these resolutions that the activities approved, if followed bysimilar decisions in otherfields by the Programme and Budget Commission, will make it difficult to key the Programme to the Budget and to the total figure and will not indicate priorities as between different items. Therefore a scale of priorities must be drawn up and a limitation of cost must be placed on the various activities provided for in the resolutions. There seem to us to be two ways in which that can be done. The Programme and Budget Commission can perform the task itself. So far it would not appear to have done so. Alternatively the Budget Sub-Commission can be asked to recommend priori- ties after careful consideration of the resolutions adopted by the Programme and Budget Commission, along with the statements of costs prepared by the Secretariat. If you were to authorize the Budget Sub-Commission to do this, where no effective deci- sion had been made by the Programme and Budget Commission, we would try to prepare our report, indicating recommended priorities, and submit the report to you in order that the Programme for 1948 may be keyed effectively to the Budget for 1948. It is our view that priorities will have to be ind:- cated within the programme chapters and divisions and between programme chapters and divisions, and that, unless this policy is adopted and made effective, the question will have to be determined by the Executive Board and the Secretariat after the General Conference adjourns. We take the view, and we presumethat it would be your view, — 388 —    that these decisions should be made by the General Conference. We therefore seek your guidance as to how these decisions can be made effective, and we venture to suggest that the procedure we have indicated is the most appropriate for that purpose. Dr. E. A. KREIKEN (Netherlands) : I think thatit will be very difficult for this Commission to indicate priorities, as we have no definite figures on various costs. I would therefore like to put the following motion : That this Commission approves the report of the Budget Sub-Commission and that the Sub-Commission be authorized to indicate priorities, where these have not already been determined, in presenting its report to the Programme and Budget Commission. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Tt is seconded by the delegate of Australia. Is there any discussion ? The motion means that, if this Commission does not indicate priorities for the items that it sends on to the Budget Sub-Commission, it will be for the Budget Sub-Commission itself to indicate priorities in presenting its report to the Programme and Budget Commission. That report still has to be debated by the Commission, and the priorities will then be a matter for discussion. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : It is carried. The Budget Sub-Commission, therefore, is asked to indicate priorities if we do not do so, and I would ask this Commission to bear that in mind in the course ofits deliberations and remember that, if we cannot fix the priority, we are asking a group of nine people to do it. Chapter II. B. 3. — Modern Techniques of Presentation (continuation). The CHAIRMAN : The next business is the consi- deration of Item 2 in document 2C/C1/9, presented by the French delegation, in connection with Chapter II.B.3. You will recall that the first of these items was passed yesterday as orally presented by the delegate of France. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Yesterday afternoon our debates on this matter were somewhat confused and, as a result, there was no time for two proposals which the French delegation intended to submit. I had the impression, at our meeting yesterday afternoon, that the true meaning of the French pro- posal which is now being discussed had not been fully understood by all the delegates present. There- fore, because of the time already spent in discussing the Report of the Working Party on Mass Communi- cation, and in order to expedite our work as much as possible, I should like to emphasize that the French proposal which we are discussing introduces no new element, no proposal differing from the texts which have been in your hands for the last two months, The procedure we are following to complete the text of the Green Book laying down the Programme for 1948 makes it necessary for delegations to submit motions, even when the Working Party reports include the resolutions which the delegations want to support. The French motion before you merely repeats the recommendations of the experts present at the Radio Conference, which are contained im document 20/10 and have been unanimously approved by the Working Party. In order to simplify and hasten our work, and to avoid discussing, in detail, a proposal which I admit is a long one, I should like to ask the Chairman whetherit would be possible to vote simply that the recommendations of the radio experts contained in the Programme for 1948, Chapter II.B.3 and Chapter II.C, be incorporated by the Secretariat in the Programme for 1948, since, on the proposal of the Brazilian delegation, seconded by Mr. Priestley of the United Kingdom and by Mr. Lloyd A. Free of the United States of America, those recommen- dations have already been unanimously approved by the members of Working Party G — a Working Party which, according to the list of the members present, included the representatives of most of the delegations here present, The CHAIRMAN: I am sorry that I cannot accept the proposal of the French delegation, since it would involve our departing from the agenda for the day, which has already been decided. I took the second half of the French document simply because it was uncompleted business from yesterday. If we are now to go on to Chapters IT.C and II.D, we shall get into a state of entire confusion. If the delegate of France wishes us to go on to those sections, I am afraid he will have to hold it over until the rest of the business on to-day’s agenda has been settled. If he wishes to go ahead with document 2C/C1/9, that can be done. The delegate of France moves Item 2 in document
2C/C1/9. It is seconded by the delegate of China. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : To make this situation perfectly clear, I should like to repeat what the French delegate has said, namely, that this is not new business, this is not a new idea. The ideas which have been advanced were — 389 —
254    incorporated in the recommendations of a Com- wittee of Experts on Radio which met in Paris in August and of which incidentally, I was privileged to be a member. Those recommendations were considered and endorsed by the Working Party. I speak with some embarrassment and hesitation now, because I have not had a chance to speak with the French delegation since it was possible for us to get hold of these documents. I want, for that reason, to apologize to the French delegation. In the first place you will remember that yesterday, when the first part of the French resolution came up, I requested that certain other elements of the Report ofthe Committee of Experts be incorporated in the resolution of the French delegation; the French delegation was willing for that to be done. I raise this point now because the Chairman did say that we had approved it, and it sounded as if we had approved it as it appears before us now. This is not the case. I would suggest that the French delegation is willing to clear up this matter completely, and that it be referred to the Drafting Committee with instructions to utilize the exact language of the Committee of Experts in terms of their recommen- dations. I think that is what the French delegation wants. That language was worked out very care- fully and I think represents the consensus of opinion of everyone. The CHAIRMAN : I think we did refer the text to the Drafting Committee yesterday for that purpose; only by that time this document was going through the machines and could not be altered. ’ Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : The only other point I am making now is that I believe we understand, with the French delegation, that the Drafting Committee will use the exact lan- guage which was used by the Committee of Experts in Paris. It will save a good deal of their time if that can be understood. As to the second part of the French resolution, I must admit extreme embarrassment. I was a member of the Committee that met in Paris. I also approvedits Report in the Working Party the other day, having said at the beginning that there were many things coming up that had not been arranged with the delegations. I also endorsed this proposal to a very limited extent. I have been overruled by my delegation in only one particular. I do not think it is a vitally important matter, but we certainly do not oppose this idea. We think that this machinery may prove to be very helpful, but at the same time we recognize it is rather casual. We feel, therefore, that the machinery provided should be tried out over one year rather than that permanent machinery should be set up, so that at the end of the year we can deal with what this machi- nery has accomplished and go on from there. We feel that we would at that time find that the machin- ery was so helpful it ought to be continued, but I wonder whether the French delegation would agree to that very slight modification. I think what it involves is simply a few slight changes in wording. Looking at the second portion, we see a paragraph No. 3. Then there is (a), and I suggest that the wording be changed so that it reads : «A Programme Committee shall be set up to meet (once) during 1948... », and then continue as It IS. Similarly, on page 2, it would involve inserting, at the end of the paragraph numbered 2 at the top of the page, a provision that a small Sub-Committee should meet twice during the year 1948. Similarly, on that same page, the second paragraph under (d) would read : «the Sub-Section shall also set up for the year 1948 a small Council...» and so forth. There is one other point that we would like to suggest be incorporated by the Drafting Committee in this recommendation. It is a very simple one, advanced and approved at the First Session of the General Conference. It is simply that this Pro- gramme Committee would lay out on an experi- mental basis a complete schedule of programmes for a period of one week that might be used in connexion with a world radio network, so that we could at a subsequent time, if it becomes necessary and desi- rable, consider in agreed terms what might be accom- plished through that medium. The CHAIRMAN : This change is acceptable to the delegate of France and also to his seconder. So would you kindly make those changes here? Is there any discussion now on this motion? No discussion. In that case, may I putit to the vote? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. 0) That document now being completed, we will go through the agenda of the day as set out in the Journal. This is concerned with settling a number of questions for which papers have already been presented. Chapter I. C. 7. — Government and Commun- ity Support for the Arts. The CHATRMAN : Thefirst is Chapter I. C., Item 7, which appears on page 9 of the English text of the ® In final form: Resolution 2.2.3.3.3, 2.2.3.3.4, 2.2.3.3.5 and 2.2.3.3.7 ; vol. II, page 14. — 390 —   Green Book. The document is the Report of the Aris and Letters Working Party — 2C/1/3. The resolution concerned is contained in the second part of the document, and begins «The Working Party proposes... ». Does anyone wish to move this resolution? Dr. CHAO Yuen-Ren (China) : I move the adoption of this resolution proposed by the Working Party in document 2C/1/3, page 2. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second that? It is seconded by the delegate of the Netherlands. We have already had a resolution on Arts and Education couched in practically the same terms, referring to an intended conference. We have to leave it to the Drafting Committee to make the resolution itself entirely self-contained. Again, if I may make this point, this paper is not in itself complete. There are two or three references to a proposed conference, and also there is a refer- ence in the resolution itself. Nowhere in the paper are we told what the proposed conference is. I think each resolution and each document should be com- plete. Conferences are mentioned in the working paper, but that is not before this Commission. Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I am rather surprised that in the document submitted by the Working Party there is no mention of Item 7 in the Green Book. I am afraid that Unesco will be stifled under accumulations of paper if we ask all governments to undertake what is set out in paragraph 7 of Chapter I. G. of the Green Book. The CHAIRMAN: Item 7 is not before the meeting at the moment. The item before us is this report from the Working Party. Dr. CHAO Yuen-Ren (China) : With regard to the proposed conference, Mr. Chairman, might I explain that it is covered in document A. & L/14, page 3. «The Secretariat plans to keep in constant touch with work in each country and in 1948 will organize a meeting of those responsible for the reports. The meeting will be held in Paris, the travelling expenses of the delegates being paid by Unesco. So that they may be available in advance of the meeting, all countries will be asked to sub- mit interim reports to Unesco some weeks before- hand. The meeting will enable those working on the reports to compare experiences and problems and to discover if further information is required from their country. While they are completing their work, the Secretariat can begin to co-ordinate and collate the national reports. A report on the study will be presented to the 1948 General Conference of Unesco.» As to the other points in this document, might I suggest that a memberof the Secretariat who worked on this be requested to explain? The CHAIRMAN : If anyone asks for an expla- nation,it will be given by the members of the Secre- tariat concerned. I thank the delegate of China for his statement, which makes clear, I think, what the conference is. Mr. W. 1. WEEDEN (Australia) : I refer, Mr. Chair- man, to the first paragraph of the recommendation, the last line but three. «The Secretariat, which, in consultation with three or four experts in the field of government and community support for the Arts, will prepare a programme of concrete propo- sals in this field for submission to Member States as early as possible in 1948...» I am not clear what we are asking the Secretariat to do. Do we submit proposals to Member States for report, or for comment, or for adoption? We submit proposals to Member States for some parti- cular purpose. Perhaps the explanation which a member of the Secretariat could give would enable us to clarify this point. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I think the answer is clear, although I believe the wording is not good. The intention was that the answers from Member States would enable the Secretariat and the experts later to prepare the programme to be submitted to the Conference in 1948 for the year 1949. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I am still not clear. I want to know whether Member States are asked for information about their actions or possi- bility of action, or for their comment on the propo- sals. I take it what is desired is comment, but I am not sure. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Yes, Sir. It would be for specific comments on the proposals for action submitted by the Secretariat and the Committee of Experts, so that, in the light of these comments, the Secretariat could then submit to the Executive Board concrete proposals to be laid before the Conference, The CHAIRMAN : Perhaps it would be best to add the words «for comment». The resolution would then read in the third last line «submission to Member States for comment as early as possible in 1948». Prof. Paul RIVET (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation, Mr. Chairman, fully endorses the Greek delegate’s observations. — 391 —
25 A. N a — e e t v a n s e e Н О     The proposal is vast in scope, and will raise consi- derable difficulties and probably produce no good result. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to this proposal? I will put it to the vote. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (2) This brings us to the decision we made earlier this morning. Do you now wish to assign any priorityto this particular project? You realize that, if you do not, you are asking the Budget Sub-Com- mission to give it priority in relation to other items. If no one wishes to move a priority, I take it we are asking the Budget Sub-Commission to suggest one? That is agreed. Chapter I. A. 5. — Exchange of Books through National Book Centres. The CHAIRMAN : The next item on the agenda for to-day is Chapter I. A. 5., Reconstruction. The working papers on this are 2C/H/6 and 2C/H/9. The position now is, 1 understand, that the dele- gate of Australia, who is Chairman of the Working Party, wishes to introduce certain resolutions bearing on these two papers. However, we have already agreed that any resolutions contained in these papers — if there are any — shall have priority. Do these papers contain any resolutions that anyone wishes to move? Mr. J. W. METCALFE(Australia) : Yes, Mr. Chair- man, the resolutions are contained in the papers. The CHAIRMAN : I understood from the Secre- tariat that they were not. Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : They have been re-distributed in the order of the Programme. Before introducing these resolutions, I would like to speak generally and, as Chairman of the Working Party, to express appreciation of the work done by the head of the Libraries Section, Mr. Carter, and by the honorary consultant on Public Libraries, Mr. Greenaway. Document 2C/H/9 sets out an order of priority, and, at the conclusion of the resolutionsrelating to the work of the Working Party on Libraries, I should hope to move a general resolution for the adoption of the priorities set out in the document to which I have referred. First, however, I would move a resolution under L A. 5. and would indicate that it is in the first
(3) Resolution subsequently cancelled. group of priorities, and is No. 1. It reads as follows : That the current Clearing-House activities in promotin and assisting the collection, aliocation, distribution an: exchange of publications should be continued as an impor- tant reconstruction service. I would like to move that as a first resolution under I. A. 5. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second that reso- lution? It is seconded. Does anyone wish to speak to it? If not are ready to vote on it? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. 3) Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : 1 have a fur- ther resolution to move on I. A. 5. This resolution also refers to the next item, which relates to channels for ideas (II. B. 1.c.) The resolution reads : That the Second Session of the General Conference shall make the strongest possible recommendations to all Member States to set up National Book Exchange and Distribution Centres; that such centres, while exercising proper discretion in selection, should exercise no censorship that the Secretariat should fulfil a liaison function between National Centres and assist their work in all ways by negotiating for the reduc- tion or elimination of import duties and the reduction of transport costs for books. That Unesco itself should not maintain an international centre to handle material for normal exchanges, with the reser- vation that no restriction is intended ofthe current clearing- house reconstruction activities. The CHAIRMAN : That motion is seconded by the delegate of Czechoslovakia. Does anyone’ wish to speak to it? If you are ready to vote on the motion, I will put it to the meeting. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. ) Are there any other motions dealing with item I. A. 5.2 If not, we may take it that that item is now passed. The only item left in this whole section, I. A, if I remember rightly, is I. A. 4., concerning the Commission on Technical Needs and its report, which we discussed the other day. That book has actually been published, so if there are no further resolutions on Item I. A. 4., I think we can take it as lapsed. We have now completed the whole of Chapter I. A. As regards priorities, I should think myself that it would be a reasonable thing that, when any chapter (or perhaps sub-chapter) is completed, we should get as soon as we can a brief statement from the
(3) In final form : Resolution 1.9.1.1; vol. II, page 11.
(4) In final form : Resolutions 1.9.1.2. and 1.9.2; vol. Il, page 11. — 392 —    Drafting Committee to say what we have passed there, so that we can see if we want any judgment as regards priorities. When we have finished the complete Chapter or the complete Report, we might then allocate priorities as between sections. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Did we not agree, Sir, that, unless we specifically indicated, the job of suggesting priorities was for the Budget Sub- Commission? The CHAIRMAN : We have agreed that, if we do not allocate priorities, this job is for the Budget Sub-Commission: As Chairman, I have to be able to put before the meeting, at some particular point, the opportunity of judging on priorities. I propose, with your approval, that, when each chapter is com- pleted, we then judge on priorities. If you do not wish it done, the Budget Sub-Commission will doit. I think we certainly cannot do it from the book as it stands. So we will ask the Drafting Committeeif, as soon as a chapter is finished, it can let us know what we have decided in the chapter, and then you can decide whether you want to fix priorities or whe- ther you want the Budget Sub-Commissionto do so. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : That will mean a lot of delay. It will mean that, until the Drafting Committee has done its job and we have looked at it again, we cannot decide whether or not the matter should be referred directly to the Budget Sub-Com- mission or whether we should go over it again to decide if we want to. allocate priorities. The CHAIRMAN : The matter will only be referred to the Budget Sub-Commission if no priorities have been fixed here. If priorities have not been fixed by this Commission, the entire point could go to the Budget Sub-Commission, who, in terms of that resolution, could go ahead and suggest priorities, so that by the time the material comes from the Drafting Committee to us here, we would hope that the Budget Sub-Commission would have suggestions to make to us concerning priorities. As soon as we have from the Drafting Committee a full state- ment of what we have done under any chapter, this Commission can then, if it wishes, consider priori- ties and follow the lines of the suggestions of the Sub-Commission. Chapter II. B. I c. — Intergovernmental Agreements for the International Exchange of Publications. The CHAIRMAN : The next business then is II. B.
1.c. That is the proposal to promote intergovern- mental agreements for the international exchange of publications. The documents concerned are
2C/H/6 and 2C/H/9, which you have already been considering. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : The resolution of the Working Party is before you. I would like to move : That a committee of experts should be convened as soon as possible by Unesco, to study the whole problem of promo- ting by bilateral and multilateral intergovernmental agree- ments and by informal agreements between national exchange centres and otherwise, the increased and improved exchange of publications, both official and otherwise, as between governments and non-governmental institutions and research libraries. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Is there a seconder ? The delegate of Canada, supported by the delegate of France. Does anyone wish to speak ? It not, I will put it to the meeting. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (5) Is there any further motion concerning this item of our Programme ? Chapter II. B. 1 f. — International Book Coupon Scheme. The CHAIRMAN : We then pass to the next business on our agenda. That is ILB.1.f the International Book Coupon Scheme, and the two relevant Working Party documents are the same as before : 2C/H/6 and 2C/H/9. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I move that : Unesco continue the exploration, and if possible begin the experimental application, of an international book coupon scheme,or other devices to permit institutions and individuals in « soft currency» countries to buy books and periodicals from «hard currency » countries and to study their possible extension to other materials of education, science and culture. The CHAIRMAN : Thatis seconded by the delegate of Greece, and supported by the delegate of Czecho- slovakia. Does anyone wish to speak to this ? If not, and you have no objection, I put it to the vote. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (©) The next business is the continuation of II.B.2. I will take IL.B.2 in the order in which it appears in the Green Book.
(5) In final form: Resolution 2.3.3.7; vol. II, page 16.
(6) In final form: Resolution 2.3.2.2 ; vol. II, page 16. — 393 — R S e e e e E a     Chapter II. B. 2. a. — Commission on Tech- nical Needs in Mass Communication. The CHAIRMAN : I1.B.2.a. we have already dealt with on the French resolution. Is there anyone who wishes to propose any further motion concerning ILB.2.a.? M. Léon ROLLIN (France) (Translation from the French) : This is a proposal on a point of procedure. The Report of the Working Party on Mass Com- munication has already been approved in its totality as regards technical needs. Some of the matters in this Report have already been submitted to the Commission and have been approved by vote — the implementation of the recommendations of the Conference of Experts held in 1947, the extension of the enquiry in 1948 to South America and certain countries in South East Asia — but there seems to have been no formal vote on the following points, the adoption of which was, of course, implicit in the decisions already taken but which has not been explicitly stated :
(1) the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Experts held in 1947, considered in their general outline;
(2) the transfer of responsibility for this to the Reconstruc- tion Section in collaboration with the Mass Communication Section;
(3) the promotion of an Institute for the Press and Informa- tion under the auspices of Unesco and with a financial contri- bution from the Organization, provided that sufficient funds can be found outside Unesco’s Budget. This work would remain the responsibility of the Mass Communication Section (Press). If it should be necessary to have a formal decision from the Commission on these three points, the French delegation would propose the foregoing observations in the form of a formal motion for their adoption. The CHAIRMAN : I gather that the French dele- gation merely wishes to clarify the situation and make sure that we did give the necessary authority. In that case, if the delegation of France is agree- able, I would move that we refer this to the Drafting Committee, asking them if they would let us know what further action, if any, is necessary. The dele- gation of France is in agreement. Is there anyone against ? That is carried. If the delegate of France would let the Secretariat have the paper from which he read,it can be referred to the proper Committee. If there are no further matters on ILB.2.a, I pass to ILB.2.5. The Working Party on this section has not yet met. As it has not met, in accordance with your instructions, we shall simply have to leave this point behind us and return to it later. Chapter II. B. 2. c. — Public Libraries. The CHAIRMAN : ILB.2.c. 1 have before me a resolution from the Australian delegation. This is based on document 2C/H/8. Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : Under this item we have a series of resolutions dealing with Public Librairies, which I would like to preface by a few general remarks on behalf of the Working Party. The Constitution of Unesco, Article I — Purposes and Functions — mentions the maintenance, increase and diffusion of knowledge. We have provided in these resolutions for the continuance of such recon- struction activities as the clearing house for books in devastated countries; and, so far as the long view is concerned, in the field of culture and science at the creative level, we are urging that, through conference and enquiry, foundations be laid for some rationali- zation in bibliography, the recording of literature and abstracting. This is particularly important and urgent in the fields of natural science, and it is hopedthat initial investigations here will be of value in other scientific and cultural fields. I want, however, to urge that, at least in a short- term view, for peace, understanding and the accep- tance of Unesco itself, we must look to realization of the first part of Article I of the Constitution, which speaks of peoples, of Nation talking unto Nation, through all means of mass communication. Bibliographies and abstracts and the like are not means of mass communication. The Public Library, the popular library, to which a meeting of our Working Party was devoted, is such a means of communication to the people in the mass, but it is a different means; it is not communication in a mass way not mass communication at the level of the lowest common average, to which some means of mass communication are restricted. It is a public means of communication at all levels of understand- ing, education and background in the reader, at all levels of difficulty in the subject-matter. It is a flexible instrument, and, to speak the language of another mass medium, it offers not a limited but an infinite choice of programme. Public Libraries are not popular in the sense of dealing with a few popular subjects in a popular way; they are not confined to what is vaguely referred to as education or culture. In its vocational application and on the application of its method, science can only reach many people through the Public Library. The minorities who move majorities at the local government level, at the provincial level at the national level, at the international level, often find their learning only in Public Libraries, no matter what other media they use to diffuse it; and the popularizations of culture, arts and sciences — 394 —    which they attempt, can often only be seriously and reflectively studied in books which the people are only able to use through free public libraries. Knowledge is best made available in books read by the individual at his leisure, without the addition of outside emotional pressures or influences which are so often associated with other mass media and which allow oflittle quiet reflection and comparative study of the good with the bad, and the better with the best. Books in Public Libraries are each a correc- tive of the other; Public Libraries under some national plans are, collectively, not instruments of cultural imposition and are free from commercial and even political exploitation, compared with other media. On these grounds we think that Public Libraries should have a high place amongst Unesco’s interests. In the past the word «Library» has been used freely in its documents. But until this year the public, the popular, the people’s library has had little distinct place. This year we have a Public Library programme-quite a modest one, we do not suggest the sums that have been proposed in other direc- tions. It is a programme which we hope will be extended in future years; we believe it must be, because we believe the Public Library is an essential instrument of fundamental education, and one essential to all the other instruments for the achieve- ment of Unesco’s objects. With this preface I would like to move the first of several resolutions : That a summer school for working librarians be held during 1948, in co-operation with the International Federa- tion of Library Associations, preferably under the direction of one of the best European library schools, for the discussion of outstanding problems of public library development. The summer school should emphasize, in its personnel and its programme, the needs of war-devastated countries. The summer school should replace the Public Libraries Confer- ence referred to in the work plan of the 1948 Budget Esti- mates, and funds appropriated for the Conference should be devoted to the summer school. We place great emphasis on that personal contact of working librarians, particularly of the middle rank, and in Europe at the present time, through a summer school or seminar, and we refer to the value attri- buted by Dr. Howard Wilson to the seminar already held on Education and the emphasis he has placed on the great value of that personal contact. We have also that summer school for working librarians to be neld in Europe in relation to reconstruction, in our first group of priorities, and placed it as No. 2 in that group. The CHAIRMAN motion? Seconded by France, supported by Czechoslovakia and Canada. Does anyone second this May I ask a question? Again in fairness to: our Budget Sub-Commission, did the Working Party think this out in such detail that it would be willing to hand on to our Budget Sub-Commission an indication of the number of people it thought should attend and the probable cost? It is rather much to leave to the Budget Sub-Commission the fixing of the total cost; it cannot possibly know the number of people: Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : It is not proposed that the whole amount which was budgeted for the Public Library Conference mentioned in the Programme should be s; ent on a summer school. The CHAIRMAN : T would not wish to opposeit, naturally, but such schools are very expensive. They are not simple things. Does anyone wish to speak to this? Dr. W. P. ALEXANDER (United Kingdom) : Sir, I speak as Vice-Chairman of the Budget Sub- Commission. I wonder if you could generalize the question you have now put, into the form of advice, which would be of the greatest possible help to the Budget Sub-Commission. Particularly where new material is proposed by Working Parties and endorsed by the Programme and Budget Commission, could they give some indication of the extent of the material they are proposing — if it is a Conference, some indication of whether there would be 50, 100, or 150 people ? This would be of the greatest help both to the Budget Sub-Commission and to the Secretariat in costing. The CHAIRMAN : I think that is entirely fair. Where we are dealing with old material, which is already proposed and costed, and which appears in the budget, it is one thing. I think we could throw on the Working Parties the onus of suggest- ing the size and probable cost of the projects they propose. If again the Chairmen of the Working Parties, and Dr. Chagas in particular, could bring this to the notice of those parties, it would be helpful. Dr. Luther H. EVANS (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, I wish to add that the Working Party had thought of perhaps fifty. I would also draw attention to the fact that there is a document which shows the priority in which all these projects are placed. I think that will be helpful to the Budget Sub-Commission. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you, that will be very helpful indeed. If the Working Party could make their own suggestions on priority, it would be a very useful innovation. — 395 — E E A E e e e T e e s     Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, as the United States delegate has said, the number would be about fifty. Many of the students would, however, contribute largely to their own expenses in attending the Conference, and of course would be, as far as assistance is concerned, practically entirely within the confines of Europe. It is not, therefore, anticipated that the cost would be excessive. Fur- ther, we could convene a sub-committee to work out a very close budget to help the Budget Sub-Com- mission. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to speak ? If not, are you prepared 1 > vote on it? Sr. Roberto BILBAO LA VIEJA (Bolivia) (Transla- tionfrom the Spanish) : | have not had an opportunity of taking part in the work ofthe Libraries Working Party, but I think that the reasons for suggesting the organization of a Conference on popular public Libraries are well-founded, since, in addition to matters which can be studied and considered at a Summer School, there are the financial, educational and administrative aspects of these organizations, which are even more important than the technical questions that can be dealt with at a Summer School. The Bolivian delegation, therefore, will vote for retaining the original Working Party proposal regarding Public Libraries. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to speak? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (7) Mr. J. W. MERCALFE (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, on the programme of education for Public Library work, I have a resolution : That Unesco should study the suitability of existing manuals concerning library techniques, for translation and wide distribution, and should investigate the needs for new manuals and take steps to achieve their preparation, publica- tion and distribution. A general consultant should be appoin- ted in co-operation with the International Federation of Library Associations. That Unesco should also assist in the promotion of understanding of the value of Public Libraries by the publica- tion of suitable manuals in this field. The proposal is not that Unesco should publish manuals, but that it should investigate the need for manuals in various countries, and stimulate their production by other bodies, perhaps even by publishers. The manuals should fall into two groups technical manuals, and promotional manuals, which would explain the need for public libraries and the purposes which they could assist.
(7 In final form : Resolution 2.3.1.1.1.1 ; vol. TI, page 15. We have put that in our second group of prio- rities, which would not involve great expenditure, since it is not proposed that Unesco itself should publish these manuals, and there is already provi- sion for staff to carry out the work. The CHAIRMAN Does anyone second this? Greece seconds it. Is there any discussion? If not, may I put the motion? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (8) Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : Under the head of «Exhibitions» we have a resolution : That funds should not be expended in 1948 by Unesco in the preparation and circulation of panel exhibitions, but that staff work should be carried on to promotethe exhibition of «Best Books »and particularly of books listed in current select national bibliographies. That means that we do not propose that exhibi- tions of the type we see in the entrance to the hall here should be circulated or that further ones should be prepared, because we feel it is an expensive form of promotion and has perhaps other weaknesses. But we think that steps should be taken to promote — again not that Unesco should carry out — the exhibition of ‘Best Books’, and particularly those listed in current select national bibliographies. This also comes in our third group of priorities, the group of projects which could be discarded if there were a shortage of funds. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second this? France. Supported. Does anyone wish to speak to this? I may put it to the vote then? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (°) Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : The next item on thelist of resolutions, under the heading « Classi- fication », should properly appear at the end. This paragraph belongs to II.C.2, and will be brought up again at that stage. Under the heading «Dictionary» we have a reso- lution : That Unesco encourage, in all ways possible, the com- pletion and publication of the multilingual dictionary of libra- rianship, which was prepared before the war by the Interna- tional Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, in co-operation with the International Federation of Library Associations. This material has been prepared, and again it is not a matter of Unesco’s publishing, but merely
(8) In final form : Resolutions 2.3.1.1.1.2 and 2.3.
1110840" page 15.
(9) Resolution subsequently cancelled. — 396 —    of encouraging the introduction into print of that material already prepared. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to second that ? France. It is supported by Cuba. Does anyone wish to speak ? I may put it to the vote then ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (19) Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, the next resolution refers to the supply of books to libraries of all kinds. I will read it and then com- ment briefly : That it be a recommendation to Member States that they endeavour, by all means possible in their respective circum- stances, to ensure the supply of books and related materials to Public Libraries and the libraries of learned institutions and societies, at the lowest cost and, in particular, that efforts be made to ensure that books and related material be available from publishers to Public Libraries and libraries of learned institutions and societies, on the same terms as they are available to booksellers and other dealers, and that this proposed recommendation be referred for support to the Working Party on Cheap Book Production. It is, however, as far as we are concerned, a reso- lution before the Conference, in that the question of cheap books is before the Conference mainly from the point of view of the production of cheap books without reference to the question of sale. Public Libraries, however, in some countries, do find that the conditions of trade impose upon them what they consider an undue charge. That is to say, they are obliged to purchase books from the retailer, no matter in what quantities they buy or to what extent. They have no idea of opposition whatever to the bookseller, and might, in many circumstances, use his services on terms to be agreed on, but at present they are not given the opportunity of employing the bookseller on terms to be agreed upon, but are required to go to the bookseller and to buy retail, no matter how great the quantity they wish to buy, purchasing at a minimum discount. In Australia purchases of books by Government departments, even by State Governments, have to be madein this way. Public Libraries are handicapped greatly by this requirement that they must, as it were, support the retailer and are refused access to the wholesale market. Thatis the purpose of the resolution — to urge Member States, in their respec- tive cireumstances, to investigate the situation and to do what they can to secure for Public Libraries and other books, whether they are cheap or dear books, at the lowest possible price and therefore at the lowest charge to the taxpayer.
(19) In final form : Resolution 2.3.1.1.1.4; vol. II, page 15. The CHAIRMAN : Do you want this proposed recommendation to be referred for support to the Working Party on Cheap book production ? Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : We ourselves have referred it, so that phrase can be deleted. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone want to second this ? It is seconded by the delegate of France and supported by the delegate of Greece. No one wishes to speak to it. If you are ready we can vote on it. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. 11) Before the delegate speaks again, I would like to say that the next item begins : «that develop- ment of Public Library services should be a first priority interest of Unesco...» I think on one other occasion, on some other subject, this Commis- sion decided not to deal with priorities as between major activities piece-meal but to wait until they saw the whole picture. If this refers to priority within the Library Programme, however, that is a different matter. Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : It refers to the Public Library services within the Library Programme and is by way of being a general exhortation : That the development of Public Library services should be a first priority interest of Unesco and that increased efforts should be made during 1948 to develop an active programme and that the building up of the Public Library staff in the Organization should be given immediate attention. The second paragraph of the resolution reads : That the Second Session of the General Conference shall recommend to all Member States that library interests should be fully represented on National Commissions and Co-opera- ting Bodies. It is therefore a resolution directed to Unesco and to National Bodies. I shall speak to the first part separately. Provision has already been made for the attach- ment to the Secretariat of an expert on Public Li- brary services, and we are mainly aiming at the filling of that position immediately, because it is only by that means — the appointment of the expert and assistants — that an active programme can be de- veloped. The second paragraph arises out of our disappoint- ment at the number of public librarians, or libra- rians of any kind, actually present as delegates and functioning on Working Parties, or even present as observers and advisers. We do feel that the libraryissue — the Public Library issue particularly
(11) In final form : Resolution 2.3.1.1.2 ; vol. IT, page 15. — 397 —       — is of great importance to Unesco’s work, especially in the field of mass communication and popular education. We want to urge Member States that the utmost consideration should be given to the representation, therefore, of library interests on their National Commissions. We hope that that would lead to representation here. The CHAIRMAN : With regard to the second part of this motion, I think it will have to be referred to the External Relations Commission. It is not stric- tly speaking a programme matter. There is a Work- ing Party on National Commissions, and I would suggest that the Chairman of this Working Party consult with the Chairman of the Working Party on National Commissions with a view to bringing this before the External Relations Commission. Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, I would, on that advice, withdraw the second para- graph and leave the first paragraph as the motion before the meeting. The GHAIRMAN : The first paragraph on Public Libraries is now before you. Does anyone second it? It is seconded by the delegate of France. Does anyone wish to speak to it? You realize that you are making a judgment here on priorities, if you pass it at this point, not as be- tween programme sections, but within the Library Programme. Are you ready to vote? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (12) Are there any further motions concerning II.B.2.c, Public Libraries? If not, we have completed consi- deration of that item. Chapter II. B. 2. d. — Bibliography. The CHAIRMAN : We will now take ILB.2.d. The relevant document is 2C/H/7. # Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : I have three motions to move under this item in the Programme. The first is as follows : That the survey of bibliographical services planned as a joint venture of the Library of Congress and Unesco, should be undertaken as indispensable work ofco-ordination of biblio- graphical activites, and that the survey should be developed with the active co-operation of other national libraries. That work on the European Union Catalogue should be discontinued during the current year. That the Second Session of the General Conference call to the attention of Member States that it is desirable that all countries should establish National Union Catalogues. Unesco
(13) Covered by Resolution 2.3.1.1 ; vol. II, page 14. — 398 — shall study the techniques of production of such catalogues and the methods by which they may be promoted, and that the Secretariat shall provide technical advisory services. I wish to stress the importance of that rationaliza- tion, if we may so call it, of bibliographical services. It is of first importance for libraries, and particularly for large reference libraries and libraries of institu- tions, to know what material is available and the details of it. At the present time we have no clear idea of the field of bibliographical services and the first paragraph is a move in that direction. The second is an indication of what, for the time being, is something that we realize is too large to carry out at the present stage. The third is an encouragement to national bodies to do as much as possible of this work on the na- tional level. The CHAIRMAN : If nobody objects we will take those three paragraphs as one. Does anyone se- cond it? The delegate of the United States, sup- ported by the delegate of Colombia. Does anyone wish to speak to it? If not, I put the motion. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN The motion 1s carried. (13) Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : T move : That the Second Session of the General Conference should call the attention of the MemberStates to the urgent need for complete national bibliographies and that the manner in which they may be compiled and promoted should be studied by the Secretariat, in co-operation with Member States; that special efforts should be made to ensure the inclusion in such lists of audio-visual material and other material which normally escapes listing. Thereis a great lack at the present time of complete lists of national publications — publications of par- ticular countries, both official publications and non- official — and this is to encourage governments to see that, either through the trade or by the work of national libraries or in any other ways, there are national bibliographies published currently, of new books. Itis also felt that certain material which falls into the library field in some ways, but not in others, e.g. audio-visual material, film strips, documentary films, and so on, should, if possible, be brought into this kind of work. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. It is seconded by the delegate of France. If no one wishes to speak to it. I will take the vote. The vote was taken by show ofhands.
(13) In final form : Resolutions 2. 3.1.2. 0
2.3.1.2.1.2., and 2.3.1.2.2.1 ; vol. II, page 15.   The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (18) The next one relates to background document
2C/H/8. Mr, J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : As well as a need for complete national bibliographies, there is also a need for select information lists, particularly to enable one country to study another without being faced with a mass of bibliographical material listed in detail. It is proposed : That the Second Session of the General Conference should call the attention of the Member States to the urgent needs for select national bibliographies of current «Best Books», such lists being of immediate value in increasing international understanding and assisting the international flow of books. States should be urged to provide lists, translated as far as possible into the more important languages. Dr. Manuel SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : I wish to ask the delegate of Australia to specify what, in his opinion, are the more important languages. Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : I think that would vary from region to region, and I would not be prepared to express an opinion, in moving this resolution, on the relative importance of lan- guages. The CHAIRMAN : The motion has not yet been seconded. Does anyone wish to second this mo- tion? The delegate of France. Does anyone wish to speak to it? If not, I will put the motion. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (15) Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : The delegate of France has a resolution under the heading II B.2.d. Professor Paul RIVET (France) (Translation from the French) : 1 should like to submit, at this point in our work, a motion to which the French delega- tion attaches the greatest importance, and for which we request immediate priority. At a time when there are so many threats to the safety of the treasures of humanity — and we are not thinking only of the risk offire, which it is our earnest wish should be averted — one of Unesco’s most important and urgent duties is to preserve these treasures by arranging or bringing about their re- production by all known methods. By dissemi- nating such reproductions throughout the world, Unesco will not only contribute to the preserva- tion of the rare and unique treasures which are the
(1%) In final form : Resolutions 2.3.1.2.1.3. and
(15) In final form : page 15. Resolution 2.3.1.2.2.3 ; vol. II, common heritage of all mankind but, by putting them within the reach ofall, will also help to develop world-wide culture. You will realize that this motion relates not only to the chapter on Libraries but, equally, to the sections concerned with scien- tific or artistic treasures. To give an example,if casts had not been made of the skull of the Sinanthropus found at Peking (which represents the oldest known human or proto- human species) and sent to the main European laboratories, a uniquelink in the history of humanity would now have been lost. This motion which I am submitting in relation to Libraries, therefore, concerns also all the rare and unique specimens to be found in the world’s col- lections; the text, mentioning only manuscripts, printed books, valuable works and, generally, all the rare documents in our Libraries, reads as follows: I. The Director-General shall request the Member States of Unesco to draw up, through the agency of the national organizations concerned, a list, in order of their importance, of valuable works in the above-mentioned categories, repro- duction of which would seem particularly urgent in order to ensure their preservation; II. The microfilm reproduction, in at least four copies, shall be placed in several geographically separated localities, aga further measure for ensuring their preservation; Ш. To facilitate the study of these documents, Unesco shall draw up lists of the reproductions, and, upon request, shall transmit these lists to Study Centres; IV. In order to make immediate provision for preventing as far as possible, the destruction of certain valuable docu- ments, the Director-General should : (a) Consider the possibility of urging the countries con- cerned to take the necessary steps to safeguard certain national collections, the loss of which would be disastrous to knowledge throughout the world, and (b) Take all possible steps to help those countries to ensure theprotection of the documents in questions,Where the nation- al resources are inadequate to provide for the work. I believe this motion to be of primary importance. I shall return to it in connexion with scientific col- lections and artistic collections, but I thought it advisable, in the case of libraries, to submit it imme- diately for your consideration. Sr. Alberto Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Trans- lation form the Spanish) : The delegation of Ecuador seconds the French resolution. Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, speaking as an Australian delegate, I am not quite clear what might be involved in this. There are two things. There is the question of reproduction techniques, in which Unesco is interested, and that matter was before us, although we have no resolution on it — thatis, the investigation of equipment and so on for reproduction. Then there is the second question of what should be reproduced. It does seem to me that, as the delegate of France has suggested, that belongs to other fields; emphasis — 399 —    might be given under Arts and Letters, for example, to the preservation of treasures. There is, further, the question of what expense would be involved, before we accept it as a priority at this stage. We have no objection to recommenda- tion to the Member States that they should take all steps, by reproduction methods, to ensure the preservation of their treasures, but if it is going to involve any great charge on Unesco, I think it needs serious consideration in terms of priorities, and I would like to know what would be involved. Professor Paul RIVET (France) (Translation from the French) : It is understood that any expense entailed for Unesco by the French proposal would be very small, Unesco would act mainly as an insti- gating agency, to induce the various governments to list the treasures they possess,in every field, which must be preserved for posterity and which we hold in trust. We would then ask the governments to take the necessary measures to reproduce these rare documents and to make them available to the rest of humanity by distributing them throughout the world in order to avoid the possibility of their de- struction. Only if a State had not the material ressources to respond to this appeal from Unesco, would the Organization consider assisting it to protect the treasures in its care. This would of course, be an exceptional case, so that the French motion does not entail any very great expenditure for Unesco. Professor Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) (Translation Jrom the French) : The Brazilian delegation has great pleasure in supporting the proposal by the delegate of France. We consider that the motion deserves full appro- val, especially as the amount to be contributed by Unesco would be small.
3 Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, we certainly are in very hearty sympathy with the general scheme of this project, but we are a little worried about its budgetary implications and the amount of work placed upon the Secretariat in view of the way the motion is stated. I believe we should all be very much happier if the motion could be stated in such a way that the concluding remarks of the delegate of France would be included, which would indicate very definitely just what is, and what is not, expec- ted of the Secretariat in this particular matter. It seems to me that in its present form it leaves the whole situation wide open as to the assignment of a task, and it should be narrow. The CHAIRMAN : Might I make a suggestion to the delegate of France. I am a little worried, because this is a very long motion and the text is not before the members of the Commission. Ac- tually some of it comes up, if my interpretation is correct, under the Arts and Letters section on Reproduction. Some of it is quite definitely relat- ed to the section which we are working on. Might I suggest to the delegate of France that we get the Secretariat to mimeograph the resolution which he has put forward and that he be given the right to bring up this resolution when we are dealing with Arts and Letters; I know he will want to do so again, and he should have the right also to cover Libraries in that. It would be helpful, I think, to the meeting, which does not much like discussing things which it has not before it. The delegate of France has very kindly agreed to that procedure. That means that, unless anyone wishes to raise further matters, we have finished I.B.2.d. with the reservation that the delegate of France will later on bring forward a motion such as he has just put forward. Professor Paul RIVET (France) (Translation from the French) : It is clear that the proposal which I submitted on behalf of the French delegation includes libraries and archives, art collections and also scientific collections. I mention this because you referred to «Arts and Letters» and I am anxious that, when the question ofscientific collec- tions is discussed, the French motion should be sub- mitted again, since it relates to the whole of the world’s cultural heritage. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anything on II.B.2.e.? II.B.2./.? The delegate of Australia. Chapter II B. 2. /. — Archives Development. Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : In I.B.2./., Mr. Chairman, we have a resolution to move : That Unesco should assist in the promotion of an Inter- national Council of Professional Archivists and should actively assist in the holding of an inaugural meeting of the proposed ICPA during 1948. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second that ? Greece. If there is no discussion I put that to the meet- ing. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried, (18) The CHAIRMAN : Paragraph 9 comes under Philosophy and Humanistic Studies.
(1%) In final form : Resolution 2.3.1.4; vol. IL, page 15. — 400 —    Chapter II. B. 2. h. — Ex-German Libraries in Italy. Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : II.B.2.4. deals with ex-German libraries in Italy : That aid should be given in the rehabilitation of the ex- German libraries in Italy in co-operation with the Interna- tional Union of Institutes of Archaeology and History of Art. The CHAIRMAN : The background document for this is 2C/H/6. The delegate of France seconds this. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? I put it to the vote. The motion is carried. 17) That finishes IT.B.2 except for g and c which we have had to postpone, because we are waiting for results of Working Parties. I think you would wish me at this stage to express our appreciation to the Libraries Working Party for the Report they have presented. Whether the material we pass is good or bad, I do not know as Chairman, but this Report was presented with its priorities, and the method of presentation was extremely workmanlike, and I am very grateful to them. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation Jrom the French) : We must thank the Chairman for the way he has conducted our work to-day. We have, undoubtedly, done a very substantial amount of work and it is thanks to you, Mr. Chair- man, that order has been re-established in this Commission. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you, but I would prefer that any praise should be kept until much later; I fear slips ahead of me. This afternoon we shall go onat 4 o'clock to con- sider II.B.3-Modern Techniques of Presentation. The background document for that is 2C/G/7, the Report of the Working Party.
(7) In final form : Resolution 2.3.1.5; vol. IL, page 15. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, I am addressing you as the Vice-Chairman of the Working Party on Mass Communication. The Chairman has already left this country, and I shall presumably be seeing this committee through the remaining parts of its work. Our difficulty is this — that the Working Party has not completed its work. It has not, for instance, considered the question of priorities. It is true we have submit- ted two reports, one of which has already been dealt with, the other not, in its entirety. I think it would be for the general convenience both of the Programme and Budget Commission, as well as the Working Party, if you would agree to postpone the whole of B.3. until the Working Party has completed its task. The CHAIRMAN : The position there is that, if we do not take II.B.3. this afternoon, we have only two quite small matters, II.D.2. and 3., and that would mean, T think, adjourning the meet- ing of this Commission until to-morrow morning. Would anyone give me a lead as to what you wish done ? Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, may I, in order to bring this to a decision, move that the Programme and Budget Commission now adjourn so as to give the Working Party on Mass Media an opportunity to complete its work ? The CHAIRMAN : Sir Henry French has moved that we adjourn until eleven o’clock to-morrow morning. Does anyone second that ? It is second- ed by the delegate of Australia. Does anyone wish to speak ? In that that case, I ask all those in favour of adjourning until eleven o'clock to- morrow morning kindly to raise their hands. Will all those against raise their hands ? In that case we adjourn until to-morrow morning at eleven o'clock. The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.