Mr. HARDMANsaid he had given this question a great deal ‘of consideration and had discussed it with fellow-delegates. They had come to the conclusion thatit would be a mistake and a discourtesy towards the Mexican Government to curtail the Con- ference, even if it might be advisable from a purely business point of view. He fully understood and sympathized with the opinion of the delegate of Mexico. Mr, BENTON (United States of America) also sympathized with the point of view of the delegate of Mexico and agreed with Mr. Hardman that they must not be discourteous. He hoped that they could with equal efficiency adjourn on
30 November or 1 December and, as the idea in the United States was that the Conference would not end until 3 December, he suggested that those delegates who were busy and anxious to return to their countries as soon as possible might prefer to work through the recess and leave earlier, while others might work through the recess and take four daysholiday at the end of the Conference. He hoped the Secretariat would discuss the matter again. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) announced that at the Procedure Committee that morning there had been 8 delegates short of the quorum and they had only been able to hold an informal discus- sion. He announced that there would be another meeting on Wednesday at 10 a. m. and asked all delegates to attend. He hoped a similar announ- cement would be made at the Plenary meeting. He thought one member of each delegation might be nominated to attend the meetings of the Proce- dure Committee. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. FOURTH MEETING Tuesday, 11 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman :§Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) The CHAIRMAN announced that document
2C/BUR/1 dated 8 November — Proposals for the Organization of Work of the Programme and Budget Commission, the Budget Sub-Commission and the Working Parties — was now distributed and could be submitted to the Plenary Conference for final approval, Duration of the Conference. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL submitted the fol- lowing note on the possibility of shortening the duration of the Conference : The’ Secretariat has carefully reconsidered the possibility of eliminating the 3,1/2 days’ sittings of the Budget Sub- Commission scheduled to follow the plenary meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission,in the light of the deci- sion to have the Budget Sub-Commission sit at the call of the Chairman during the plenary meetings. These earlier sittings will be of great help in clearing the ground; but it is the considered judgement of the Secretariat that they cannot eliminate the need for more than summary sittings later. If the Conference wants the Budget Sub- Commission to submit a report that reflects balance, harmony and proportion, the Sub-Commission must have all the resolutions for the Programme and Budget Commission before it. Piecemeal budgetary review of earlier resolutions will inevitably have to be redone in the light of later resolu- tions, If the Budget Sub-Commission submits an overnight report, it is probable that the debate on it in the Programme and Budget Commission will simply be proportionately prolonged. The possibility has also been canvassed of curtailing the plenary meetings devoted to discussion of the programme, so that it would be concluded by the evening of 19 November. The Budget Sub-Commission could then meet 20-23 November (during the break in the calendar) with the hope that its report would be ready for consideration by the Programme and Budget Commission on Monday, 24 November, The General Committee will want to weigh thesealternatives. The Secretariat has also canvassed the possibility of short- ening the plenary meetings of the General Conference, now scheduled for 3 days, 1-3 December, The business to be transacted includes : Reports of Member States; Report ‘of Programme and Budget Commission; Report of Administrative and External Relations Com- mission; Amendment of the Constitution; Date and place of the next Session. It may be that this business can be transacted in 2 or
2.1/2 days, but it is not deemed possible at this time to fix a firm time-limit, It is noted that the Presidentof the Republic is scheduled to tender a luncheon to the Heads of delegations and senior staff on 2 December at 2 p. m., followed by a reception at
5. p. m. to the whole staff. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said all speakers had agreed that the Conference must produce a detailed Programme and Budget : but, while it was felt that the Programme and Budget Commission might finish by 19 November, he did not consider that they could be given any instruction. However, he thought it — AT —
164.    possible that the Conference might be shortened by
2 or 3 days. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) recalled that the dates originally fixed for the duration of the Con- ference were 6 November to 3 December. The Minister of Education had seen the President with a view to fixing a date for the reception for Heads of delegations and senior staff; the President, who was not then in Mexico City, would be unable to hold his reception before 2 December. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) thought it would be discourteous to close the Conference before the date fixed for the President's reception. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL saw no possible harm in asking the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission to summon the Budget Sub-Commis- sion before the Conference recess, at such time as might be desirable. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) thought it was not a question of a day or two, but of 6 or
7 days. He understood the point of view of the delegate of Mexico, but thought there was a dis- tinction between courtesy towards the host country and the problem ofefficient administration inherent in conferences of this kind. From 20 to 28 Novem- ber, the only meeting scheduled was that. of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission on 24 November. He wondered if Dr. Beeby could not finish the work in 7 days instead of 8. If the Budget Sub-Commis- sion could not work parallel to the Programme and Budget Commission, it might start work during the recess. In this way, the programme scheduled for
29 November could take place on 24, thus shortening the Conference by several days. This was an impor- tant point for the United States, where there would be severe criticism in the press and Congressif there were only 1 working day out of 9. Secondly, it would be hard to persuade the right type of men from the United States to attend future conferences, if this was the sort of schedule to which they were exposed. He added that, as the Conference had been scheduled to end on 3 December, many Heads of delegations would no doubt arrange to stay for the President's reception. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it impossible for the Committee to take any firm decision regarding the date of termination. With regard to Mr. Ben- ton’s suggestion of saving the time between 24 and
29 November this was impossible, as 1-1/2 days of it were devoted to Working Parties and further requests had been received from Working Parties to meet then. These meetings would take about 2 or 3 days. It might be possible to save 1 or 1-1/2 days of the plenary meetings at the end of the Con- ference, but the utmost total saving would be 3 days. Dr. HAN (China), as Head of the Chinese delega- tion, would be glad to ask his colleagues to stay for the President’s reception. But the question of the length of the Conference was one of principle and, ifit were too long, it would have a bad psycho- logical effect. Also, there was a practical difficulty for delegates from the Far East, who, on account of the distance, would have to spend one to one and a half months out of every year at the Conference, and this was too long. He thought the matter of the dates of the current Conference should be left to the Secretariat. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) had two points to make : (1) if the time-table in document 2C/BUR/1 was adhered to, the plenary meetings mustfinish in the morning of 11 November, and 8 or 10 delegates had asked to speak; (2) there must be a plenary meeting of a minimum of 2 hoursafter the discussion on the total budget in the Programme and Budget Commission, scheduled for 12 November. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) reminded members that they must hold a plenary meeting to deal with the election of members of the Executive Board before the recess. This was a decision of the Conference. It was agreed that 2 extra plenary meetings would be inscribed in the time-table. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) thought that Dr. Beeby would know better in a week's time whether the Programme and Budget Commission could finish before the recess. He remarked that the Working Parties might continue work after the formulation of the Budget and Programme, although this might give them a feeling of frustration. He suggested that the General Committee should review the matter again on 15 or 16 November and hoped that the meetings would be conducted as rapidly and efficiently as possible. The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat would take these opinions into account. He then called on the delegate of the United Kingdom, who wished to raise an urgent question regarding the Reconstruc- tion Working Party. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) said that the question of Youth Service Camps could be regarded as either a reconstruction or an education matter. Personally, he thought it was primarily a recon- struction matter. It had come up before the Reconstruction Working Party the previous day, but had been ruled outof its provisional agenda because it was said that the question had been transferred to the agenda of the Education Working Party. He moved that it be retransferred to the agenda of the Reconstruction Working Party. — 248) —   Dr. HAN (China) seconded the motion. The CHAIRMAN remarked that in any case the Reconstruction and Education Working Parties would hold a joint meeting and that it was only a question of who should take the Chair. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) thought the per should be on both agendas and that the Working Parties should themselves decide on the Chairman. A vote was taken, and the motion was carried by
7 votes to 1. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) asked that the decision be communicated immediately to both Working Parties. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL raised the question of limiting the 10 speakers at the morning’s plenary meeting to 10 minutes each. It was agreed that this would be unfair as earlier speakers had not been subject to a time-limit. The SECRETARY announced that Dr. R. Castro (El Salvador), who was to have been Vice-Chairman of the Social Sciences Working Party, had been named Rapporteur of the Fundamental Education Working Party, in place of Mr. Charles Johnson (U. S. A.), who had not been present. This left a vacancy for Vice-Chairman of the Social Sciences Working Party. Further, there was a proposal by Professor Wallon (France) that the group of Working Parties : Education, Fundamental Education and International Understanding should hold two joint meetings. The CHAIRMAN proposed that Sr. Adolpho Costa Du Reis (Bolivia) should replace Dr. R. Castro as Vice-Chairman of the Social Sciences Working Party. The proposal was seconded by the delegate of Mexico. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) did not think it was for the Committee to make any further suggestions for the Working Parties, which, now that they were constituted, selected their own Chairman, Vice- Chairman and Rapporteur. He suggested, how- ever, that representatives on the Social Sciences Working Party should be informally advised to support the nomination of Sr. Costa Du Reis as Vice-Chairman, Agreed. The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that mem- bers of ‘the Executive Board had to be elected as soon as possible before 23 November, and sugges- ted 19 November. The Nominations Committee must meet beforehand, and he proposed to fix the meeting of the Nominations Committee for 17 Novem- ber and the Plenary Meeting for 19 November. Agreed. Before adjourning, it was decided that the Chair- man of the Committee should extend a welcome to the representatives of Republican Spain, who were arriving that morning to attend the Conference as guests of honour, and that this procedure should set a precedent for all subsequent comparable cases. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. FIFTH MEETING Wednesday, 12 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) The CHAIRMAN announced with deep regret the death by suicide of Mr. Frank Medworth, a member of the Australian delegation. He had received a letter from Dr. Walker saying that the Australian delegation would not take part in the Conference that day, and thanking Dr. Martinez Baez and the Mexican Government for their sympathy and belp. It was agreed that the Secretary should be asked to convey the sympathy of the Committee to Dr. Walker. The next question to be discussed was that of the status of the Rev. C. E. Rupp, representative of the International Catholic Co-ordinating Committee, who was attending the Conference as an observer. The SECRETARY explained that the Committee afthe Executive Board which had decided upon the list of observers had issued an invitation to the International Catholic Co-ordinating Committee and had received an affirmative reply. Canon Rupp had been sitting at the back of the conference hall with observers from the International Non-Governmental Organizations and had expressed surprise that he — 0 — a i ] k —и н е й