name of Prof. Stanislaw Arnold and read a short biographical notice of him. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) recalled that the object of the present meeting was to avoid prolonged discussion at a plenary meeting of the Conference. Much time had already been lost with- out their even beginning the consideration of vitally important principles. He himself wished to speak in somedetail on questions of principle, but, in view of the lateness of the hour, requested that the meet- ing be closed, and the discussion continued on the following day. The motion of adjournment was supported by the delegate of the United Kingdom and adopted. The next meeting was fixed for the following day at 6 p. m. and members were asked to bring lists of candidates. The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Tuesday, 18 November 1947, at 6 p. m. Chairman : Mr. S, D. PIERCE (Canada). The CHAIRMAN suggested that the delegate of the Union of South Africa should speak and that the general discussion should then be closed.  Nomi- nations would next be sought, and then they would proceed to vote by secret ballot. This procedure was seconded by Sr, GUELL (Cuba) and was approved. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) had felt since the last Conference that the present method of appointing the Executive Board was inadequate, as the principles applied were conflicting. They tried to provide for good individuals and yet assure geo- graphical distribution ; theytried to obtain continuity and yet wanted to provide room for different cultures and different parts of the world. Owing to the sys- tem by which membersof the Board were allowed to appoint substitutes, they were not even sure of the service of individuals. He pleaded the cause of South Africa and the Philippines, both of which countries represented large numbers of people; South Africa had 12, 1/2 million inhabitants, and the Philippines,
18 million, and together they represented European, African and Asiatic cultures. Each of them was iso- lated and unable to have its view put before the Exe- cutive Board. As regards the question of re-election, he submitted that it was no argument that because a man had served well on the Board he should be re-elected ; he was sure that each country could find at least one good man to represent it on the Board, and he urged that if the meeting went on to the selection of candi- dates, distant and isolated countries should be repre- sented and also cultures which had as yet no voice on the Board. On the other hand, Unesco must have the support of large nations and be partially con- trolled by them, and the Executive Board must there- fore include representatives of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, India and China. In view of all these considerations, he bad a new pro- cedure to propose which he thought was the best they could achieve without amending the Constitu- tion — which,as a matter of fact, he thought should be amended. His proposal was as follows :
1. The six Member States making the largest contribution shall each provide one member who shall hold office until replaced by another by the State concerned;
2. The Latin American States shall provide three members to be elected by themselves, and to hold office for such period, not exceeding three years, as they may decide;
3. The remaining nine seats shall be filled as vacancies occur by the States not included in (1) and (2) above, in cycle order, following a list arranged according to the date of deposit of ratification of the Constitution of Unesco. Such appointments shall be for a period of one year. He explained that the Conference could not con- stitute a proper Executive Board unless there was ade- quate provision made for the Latin American group. The proposal did not provide for as large a measure of continuity as he would have desired, but he thought it would ensure the co-operation of men as good as those who could have been obtained by other methods, The CHAIRMAN said that if this was a formal motion, he regretted that he would have to rule it — 619 —      out of order, as it was not in accordance with Article V of the Constitution. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) accepted the Chairman's ruling, but gave notice that he wished to bring his motion up again at the next Conference. The CHAIRMAN thanked him for so graciously accepting his ruling and closed the general debate. He then read the list of names of members whose term of office expired the next year and the year after that :
1948. Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Greece, India.
1949. Brazil, France, Norway, Turkey, United States of America, Venezuela. Before calling for nominations, he drew attention to the second paragraph of Rule 58 A : « The Nomi- nations Committee shall consist of the heads of the delegations entitled to vote. Heads of delegations may designate another member to attend a meeting and vote in their stead.» Dr. VALCARCEL (Peru) proposed the name of the great humanistic writer, Prof. Benjamin Carrion Ecuador), which was seconded by the delegate of enezuela, Dr. J. JONES PARRA. Bearing in mind the principles of Article V. A., paragraph 2, of the Constitution, Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN(India) proposed the re-election of Dr. Chen Yuan (China). Prof. AUGER (France) supported the nomination of Prof. Benjamin Carrion. The delegate of CHINA thanked the delegate of India for proposing the re-election of Dr. Chen Yuan. In view of the fact that no woman had so far been elected to the Executive Board, and that Asia was inadequately represented, he proposed the name of Dr. Encarnacion Alzona (Philippines), who was an eminent historian. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded the nomina- tions of Dr. Chen Yuan and Dr. Alzona : he hoped that the latter would be near Paris so that she could take part in the meetings. Dr. OPOCENSKY (Czechoslovakia) recalled that he had already nominated, the previous evening, Prof. Stanislaw Arnold (Poland). He also wished to nominate for re-election Dr. H. R. Kruyt (Nether- lands), Dr. M. Martinez Baez (Mexico), Sir John Maud (United Kingdom) and Dr. E. Ronald Walker (Australia). He also supported the nomination of Dr. Chen Yuan. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) seconded the nomination of Prof. Stanislaw Arnold (Poland). Dr. DUGGAN (United States of America) had great pleasure in seconding the nominations of Prof. Arnold and Dr. Walker. Sr. BILBAO LA VIEJA (Bolivia) supported the nomination of Dr. Carrion and seconded that of Dr. Martinez Baez. Sr. GUELL (Cuba) proposed Dr. Cosme de la Torriente (Cuba), who had held high office in the League of Nations, and was a former Minister of State and ex-Ambassador. He would be able to attend meetings in Paris and had always shown great enthusiasm for the international cause. Sr. Guell also supported the nominations of Dr. Chen Yuan, Dr. Martinez Baez and Dr. Alzona. Dr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) seconded the re- election of Sir John Maud and thought there was no need to say how valuable his work had been during the past year. Dr. PALLARES ZALDUMBIDE (Ecuador) suppor- ted the nominations of Prof. Carrion, Dr. Alzona, Dr. Martinez Baez and Dr. Cosme de la Torriente. M. DROHOJO WSKI (Poland) supported the no- minations of Dr. Chen Yuan, Prof. Carrion, Sir John Maud, Dr. Martinez Baez and Dr. Walker. Dr. VALCARCEL (Peru) supported the nomina- tion of Dr. Martinez Baez, and Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) supported that of Dr. Martinez Baez and Prof. Carrion. At this point, Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) remarked thatif there were no fresh nomina- tions, there was no need to continue seconding. Sr. BAMBOA (Philippines), answering the ques- tion of the delegate of Greece as to whether or not Dr. Alzona could attend meetings in Paris, said that she would be both willing and able to attend all meetings. On behalf of the Philippines, he thanked the delegate of China for having nominated her and would be very happy indeed if she were elected; this would not be for selfish reasons, but because he thought the presence of a woman on the Board was desirable, as women stood for peace and were deeply concerned with education. Also she would be able to contribute much to Unesco. She was an M. A. and Ph. D. and was one of the leading educators in the Philippines, where she had been a teacher of history for twenty years. She was familiar with the work of Unesco and with the intricacies of its organi- zation. He recalled that the Philippines was one of the countries most cruelly devastated by the war, and ended by saying that a wider representation of the East was necessary on the Executive Board. — 620 —    Sr. GUELL (Guba) supported the nomination of Sir John Maud. On the proposal of Sir Sarvepalli RADKAKRISH- NAN (India), it was decided to proceed to the ballot. In reply to a question by the delegate of ECUADOR as to whether there was anything in the Constitution which laid down that the ballot should be secret, the CHAIRMAN referred him to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The SECRETARYread the full list of the names proposed, after which members proceeded to vote. The CHAIRMAN called attention to Rule 55 : To be elected eachcandidate must obtain in the first ballot a clear majority of the votes cast. In the second ballot, a plurality is sufficient. If in the second ballot the votes are equally divided, the President shall decide between them by drawing lots. As there were 29 delegations voting, the absolute majority would be 15. The vote was taken by roll-call, the following three countries being absent : Lebanon, Dominican Repu- blic and Turkey. The results were as follows : Obtained an absolute majority :
19 votes. votes. votes. votes. votes. votes. Dr. Encarnacion Alzona (Philippines). . Dr. Stanislaw Arnold (Poland) Dr. Chen Yuan (China) Dr. Martinez Baez (Mexico) Sir John Maud (United Kingdom) Dr. E. Ronald Walker (Australia) Did not obtain an absolute majority : Prof. Benjamin Carrion (Ecuador) Dr. de la Torriente (Cuba) Dr. Kruyt (Netherlands) One vote was cast for a name not on the list. votes. votes.
7 votes. The CHAIRMAN announced that the {Plenary Meeting to elect seven members to the Executive Board would be held the following evening at
6 p. m. The meeting rose at 7.50 р. т.