SIXTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 2 December 1947, at 3.30 p. m. CONTENTS Consideration of the Report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission (continuation). Speeches by delegates of Australia, China, United States of America, United Kingdom, Belgium, France and India. Consideration of Draft Resolution on Increase in Representation Allow- Consideration of document submitted by the Programme and Budget Commission concerning the Revolving Fund for 1948 President : Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil).
30. Consideration of the Report of the Admi- nistrative and External Relations Com- mission (continuation). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Fellow delegates, it had been decided to re-open the debate on Section 6 of Annex VII to; document
20/02/12. I propose that the debate oñ the sub- stance of the question be postponed until the plen- ary meeting to-morrow morning. Is there any objection? Then the debate will take place to- morrow morning. We now pass to the consideration of Section 9 of Annex VII National Commissions and Co- operating Bodies. The Secretariat has a statement to make on this paragraph, which appears in the English text on page 6 The Secretary of the ADMINISTRATIVE AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION There should be eleven paragraphs and, according to my copy of the document, there are only ten. It appears that, owing to another mistake, paragraph 11 was copied on page 9. You will find it after sub-para- graph (6) on page 9. The paragraph 11 which appears there should be at the end ofthe resolution on National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies. This explanation only applies to the English text. [ understand that the French and Spanish texts are correct. = The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The delegates have before them Section 9, National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies. They have also had the Secretariat’s explanation. Are there any comments on this subject? Mr. S. P. LEWIS (Australia) : Mr. President, I have some remarks to make on this section of the report. The report on Administration and External Relations is of outstanding importance to the exis- tence and welfare of Unesco. The size of the programme depends onthe organi- zation developed by Unesco and its relations with various types of national and international, govern- mental and non-governmental, bodies. The Austra- lian delegation lays particular stress on the relation- ship of Unesco with National Commissions and generally with people’s organizations. We refer particularly to sub-paragraph (4) of paragraph 9 of Annex VII to this report. We note that nowhere in the programme or in this report has it been seenfit to include certain passages from chapter V of the original Green Book, par- ticularly the passage which reads as follows : To reach men of goodwill and to show them how they can participate in Unesco’s work, Unesco relies in the first instance on National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies, which have a leading rôle to play under Unesco’s Constitution. They should bring together in each country the representatives of education, science and culture as well as those of the — 177 — a E m e       churches and of the trade unions to the extent that their work relates to Unesco’s programme... As one elected by an organization of practising teachers to act as a member of the Australian dele- gation, I wish to emphasize this approach and draw the attention of this Conference to the importance of sub-paragraph (4) andits development. The delegates to this Conference ave for the most part government officials and what are called «intel- lectuals». It is of great value to the human kind that such people should come together, in the words of the Unesco Constitution, to « contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture». It is desirable and necessary that the staff of Unesco should be drawn very largely from specialists in the fields of education, science and culture. But the decisions of this Conference and the work of Unesco will be so much wasted effort if they are to remain the possession merely of delegates who attend Unesco conferences and meetings, if they are to remain the possession of a handful of people, no matter how brilliant their intellectual achievements may be. Teachers’ organizations can become much more alive to the purposes, functions and programme of Unesco. They can become active and powerful agents on behalf of Unesco. Various organizations can be more fully informed and can play a vital réle in popularizing Unesco’s aims and achievements. Then there are organizations about which too little is heard in Unesco : organizations which have roots penetrating to basic elements of the popula- tion, organizations which use world-wide communi- cations on a scale far wider than Unesco’s. I refer to the Trade Unions. It is no accident that a dele- gate of Australia should raise this issue, because in that country one sixth of the population are mem- bers of Trade Unions, possibly a larger proportion of the population than in any other country in the world. In all countries, however, these organizations of the people are influential, and in many they are numerically strong. Further they are a world-wide organization, covering more than 50 countries, with influence of publicity and organizational value among people in those countries. Just how the assistance and co-operation of the Trade Union movement can be developed, may be demonstrated by a simple fact from a country with such a Small population as Australia — a country isolated in the southwest Pacific Ocean. A state teachers” organization in that country this year forwarded to the central body of the Trade Union movement, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, a proposal which was adopted unani- mously by the congress of that body. Points from this resolution, adopted unanimously by the Trade Union Congress, will be of interest to all delegates to Unesco. Theyare : That the World Federation of Trade Unions, through its central apparatus and affiliated organizations, work for the advancement of the education of the people of all lands. The Federation shall strive to make culture the possession, not of a privileged few, but of the people as a whole. The first elementary objective shall be to take steps to assist all peoples to become literate and to rehabilitate educa- tionally the countries devastated by the Second World War. Other points in this resolution read : Education can only be fully developed in a world at peace, a world in which is maintained. the unity of the nations found so essential in the war against the Axis Powers. Further, education itself can play a most important part in fostering international understanding and enduring peace. It is essential that the fullest educational, scientific and cultural intercourse should be developed between the nations. The World Federation of Trade Unions will use its influence with governments throughout the world to sce that the administration, content and methods of education are condu- cive to the development of peace between the nations, to the expansion of democracy, and to the fullest educational, scientific and cultural advancement of the people of all lands. Is this not taking to the people of the world the principles which Unesco advocates? It is essential, if the purposes of Unesco are to be fostered and developed, that support shall be secured for them among the organizations of the people — teachers’, parents’, trade union, farmers’, ex-servicemen's organizations. All patronage of the people, all talkmg at the people, and regarding them from aloft must be eliminated. Do not let us conceal from ourselves the fact that large numbers of the people are suspicious of intellectuals and that a certain amount of that suspicion is due to the attitude of at least some intellectuals. If Unesco is to survive, the intellectuals, educa- tionists, scientists, artists and officials who make up the Unesco machine must become part of the flesh and blood of the people. This requires something more than taking ready-made decisions to the people and their organizations, It means that National Commissions must give organizations of the people a real voice in the development of Unesco policy within their own national spheres. It means that at future Unesco Conferences there should be included in delegations more representatives of teachers’ and other peoples’ organizations. Such representatives should have a hand in the deter- mination of Unesco policy, if they are expected to enlist the support of their members for Unesco decisions. — 178 —   In this way a real unity for peace can be welded between intellectuals and the people. Either Unesco will become an organization of the people, with educationists, scientists, artists and officials acting as men of the people, or it will sink in the bog of intellectual abstractions and words; or suffer even a worse fate! The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Gentlemen, you have just heard the comments of the delegate of Australia. Are there any other obser- vations? If there are no other comments, and no objections, I consider section 9 of Annex VII as approved”. We now pass to section 10 : Relations with the United Nations. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. President, on several occasions I have stressed the need of remind- ing ourselves that Unesco is a Specialized Agency, and that our field of competence is limited to edu- cation, science and culture NowI wish to stress the other feature, that we are a Specialized Agency of the United Nations and are part of the United Nations. I think not only that Unesco should constantly remind itself of this, but also that it should remind the other Specialized Agencies, the Economic and Social Council and the United Nations. It would be to the advantage of all to remember that there is a special relationship. Therefore, in supporting the adoptionof section 10 : Relations with the United Nations, I would like to stress the following points, and I hope they will be put in the minutes. First, it is desirable that there should be a co-ordinated policy of national delega- tions to Unesco, the United Nations and the different Specialized Agencies, as stated in resolution 10. Se- cond, it is desirable that there should be advance programme planning at the Secretariat level, because without this there can be no financial and budgetary co-ordination, and without the latter the necessary over-all efficiency and economy cannot exist in the family of the United Nations. Third, in defining the policy of each Member State, the co-ordinating réle of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations should be stressed over and above its réle as an operating agency. Fourth, Member States should also bear in mind that the co-ordinating function of the Economic and Social Council should not be limited to co-ordinating the efforts of the Specialized Agencies, but should extend to a co-ordi- “ The final form of the Resolutions adopted by the Gene- ral Conference on the Report of the Administrative and Exter- nal Relations Commission appears in vol. ll, pages 34-61. nation of the activities of the Economie and Social Council with those of the Specialized Agencies. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) The delegate of China has requested that his obser- vations be noted in the minutes of the meeting. There is no motion submitted to this assembly. Are there any other observations? If there are no other comments or observations, I consider section 10 : Relations with the United Nations, as submitted in Annex VII, as adopted. We now pass to the consideration of section 11 : Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agen- cies. Does any delegate wish to speak? If no one wishes to speak, and if there are no objections to section 11, it is approved. Section. 12 Relations with the Specialized Agencies, The delegate of Poland. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I should like to read section 12 in order to avoid any misunderstanding. That the Director-General is instructed to enter into negotiations with the International Refugee Organization, looking toward the inclusion of educational services for dis- placed persons in Unesco’s appeal for aid to the devastated countries. Here we would like to make a few observations. We feel that this paragraph is completely super- fluous. We know that there are a number of displaced persons coming within the scope of sec- tion 12. We know also that their situation is purely temporary — or could be temporary, if they were not kept where they are for specific political purposes. We know that all these displaced per- sons can return to their own countries any time they wish, and that nothing will happen to them provi- ded that they are not criminals or that they have not been collaborators. The question is, first, whether Unesco wants to spend time and money on such people; and, second, whether Unesco wants to contribute to the main- tenance of an abnormal situation. The Polish dele- gation therefore moves that section 12 be struck out. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Before we begin the discussion on the delegate of Poland’s proposal, the Secretariat has some infor- mation to give us. The Secretary of the ADMINISTRATIVE AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION : For the third time, I think, in our discussion, I have to apologize for a mistake. This oceurs in the second paragraph of section 12 : Relations with Specialized
179 —    Agencies. The second resolution should read as follows : «The General Conference expresses the view that agreements of relationships with inter-governmen- tal agencies...» and here we should add : should be confined to those Specialized Agencies...», and then we go on : «whose interests and acti- vities are related to its purposes, as provided by Section 1, Article XI of the Unesco Constitution. » The PRESIDENT(Translation from the French) : You have before you a proposal by the delegate of Poland that section 12 : Relations with Specialized Agencies should be deleted. Are there any obser- vations on this paragraph? Mr. J. MARSHALL (United States of America) : Mr. President, this is a resolution that was intro- duced at the instance of theUnited States delegation. We do not feel that there should be any question before Unesco as to the propriety or impropriety of refugees or displaced persons being at present in camps for refugees and displaced persons. This is a question for political authority. But what we are faced with is the fact that there are many thousands of these people nowin such camps, and that, if they remain there without proper educational and cultural facilities, they will deteriorate and become a great drag on Europe and other places. We feel that one of the duties of Unesco in connexion with recon- struction is to do what it can to help raise up these people, to keep up their morale, to keep up their culture, and to enable them to take their places eventually in the world as citizens of some country, no matter what country. Therefore we feel they are the proper objects of the help that Unesco gives; and we have no doubt that, if Unesco will use its efforts in collaboration with the International Refugee Orgamization to help these people, plenty of funds can be found through- out the world to aid in this work. We therefore urge that, as a matter of humanity, as a matter of good policy, and as a duty of Unesco, this resolution be adopted as planned and proposed by the Admi- nistrative and External Relations Commission and that the present motion be defeated. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : I think the humanitarian cloak can cover much. As a matter of fact it can cover confusion as well. It covers confusion in the mind of the delegate of the United States of America as to refugees and displaced per- sons. That is the first point. Then I would like to know whether the represen- ative of the United States of America claims that the military authorities who are in charge of D. P.’s camps are not taking care of these people. Does he think they are deteriorating in these camps and that there are no schools there? We know to the contrary. The В. P.’s are very well taken care of for the time being, and there are very good schools, managed by the American military authorities. We insist, therefore, not only that the Polish motion should be maintained, but that paragraph 12, which is a purely political resolution, should be dropped. The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the French) : The delegate of Poland has submitted a motion. Before I ask whether it is seconded, the Rapporteur will make a statement to the Conference. Senator E. H. BROOKES (Union of South Africa) Rapporteur of the Admimstrative and External Relations Commission) : I merely wanted to raise the point that there are two resolutions in section
12. The Polish proposal presumably is to strike out the first, but in its present form it will involve striking out the second part as well. I should like to be clear on that, because I think the real intention is to strike out only the first part. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : That is a very important point. I think the pro- posal relates only to the first part. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : Yes, Sir. It does relate only to the first part of section 12, which ends with the words : €... for aid to the devastated countries». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The position is quite clear. We have a proposal for the deletion of the first part of section 12, down to the words «for aid to the devastated countries». Is that motion seconded? It is seconded by Czecho- slovakia. We will vote on it. (A vote was taken by show of hands on the Polish pro- posal, which was lost.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We will now pass to the second part of section 12 : «The General Conference expresses the view» and so on. Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, I have merely two small drafting points to raise on this resolution. I think it would be more businesslike in the first line to insert the word «formal» before the word «agreements». The line would then read: « ...expresses the view that formal agreements of relationships...» — 180 —   I would also like to change the next few words, if the Conference agrees. Instead of «inter-govern- mental agencies» it would, I think, be better to refer to «Specialized Agencies». The resolution would then read : «expresses the view that formal agreements of relationships with Specialized Agencies should be confined to those Specialized Agencies whose interests and activities are related to its purposes...» The intention is merely to tidy up the clause. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The United Kingdom delegation has just proposed a drafting amendment which does not affect the substance ofthe resolution. Are there any comments? M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I should like to ask the dele- gate of the United Kingdom what would be the final text, as amended. I would point out that in the French version the word «/ormels» does not add much to the meaning of the word «accords» and, as a matter of fact, may even cause confusion. Therefore, while it could be added in the English text, we would be content with the word «accords» alone in the French text. If we refer to «Special ized Agencies» in the second line, what happens to the words «Specialized Agencies» in the third line? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The delegate of France has just pointed out certain problems which arise in the French text; these might cause ambiguity and misunderstanding. Would the United Kingdom delegate kindly elucidate this matter? Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, T think that all we want to do is to bring this clause into line with the arrangements we have with other Specialized Agencies. We have a formal agreement with them, set out in rather diplomatic language, and it would be advisable, I think, to continue that practice with all Specialized Agencies. With many intergovernmental agencies which are not Specialized Agencies it would not always be necessary, I think, for the Secretariat to draw up these rather formal documents that now characterize the relationships of Unesco with the Food and Agriculture Organization, for example, and the Inter- national Labour Office. Theresult of my suggestion would be, as the delegate of France would like the point repeated, that the resolution would read : The General Conference : Expresses the view that formal agreements of relationships with Specialized Agencies should be confined to those Specialized Agencies whose inte- rests and activities are related to its purposes... and so on. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) + Is the delegate of France satisfied with the explana- tions which have just been given by the United Kindgom delegate? M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation Jrom the French) . Yes, indeed, always with reservations regard- ing the French text. We should besatisfied there with the word «accords». The Secretary of the ADMINISTRATIVE AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION : Would the French delegate be satisfied with the words cen due forme »? M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Yes. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Then we are agreed that «en due forme» shall be inserted in the French text. If there is no objection, I will put this resolution to the vote. The second resolution in section 12 is approved with the drafting amendment which has been noted. We now pass to section 13 : International Bureau of Education. Are there ‘any comments? If there are no objections, section 13, regarding the Inter- national Bureau of Education, is approved. Section 14 : International Institute of Intellec- tual Go-operation. Do any of the delegates wish to speak to that point? There are no observations? The text as it now stands is approved. Section 15 : International Council of Scientific Unions. Any comments? Any objections? The proposal is approved. Section 16 : International Studies Conference. Any comments? If the text raises no objections, I declare it approved. Section 17 : Relations with non-governmental international organizations. The delegate of Bel- glum. M. L. VERNIERS (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I would like to draw the attention of this assembly to one word which appears on page 16 of the French text and page 15 of the English text. It is, in Annex VII, section (c), third paragraph, and the word is «exclusively». My remarks do not apply only to a change of an editorial nature, but also to a change of substance. I propose that the word «exclusively» be deleted,so as to allow Unesco to help international non-governmental or- ganizations whose field of activities, although not exclusively the same as that of Unesco, covers certain — 181 —    parts of the same field as Unesco. I refer particu- larly to such organizations as the League of Red Cross Societies, the International Youth Hostel Federation and the Federation of Organizations for School Correspondence. If you keep the word «exclusively», and rigidly adhere to the text, it will be impossible to grant support to such organi- zations, which, nevertheless, have for many years pursued the same aims as Unesco's, and which were in existence long before Unesco. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) The delegate of Belgium has requested the deletion of the word «exclusively» in the text of Annex VII, which is to be found on page 16 of the French text. Professor P. RIVET(France) (Translation from the French) : 1 had the same intention of speaking with reference to this section (c). Formal Agreements. I was struck in the same way as the delegate of Bel- gium by the word «exclusively», which is too re- strictive. I may add that this whole section (c) : Formal Agreements seems too elaborate and too long, and could be considerably simpler. As a matter of fact, the first paragraph and the third paragraph are nothing but repetition, and I believe that a simpler and clearer draft could easily be drawn up, on the following lines : The Director-General, with the approval of the Executive Board, may conclude formal agreements with a very restricted number of well established and representative organizations whose close co-operation is essential to Unesco... Then, part of paragraph 3 of the present text : ‚..And which have a substantive and immediate contri- bution to make to the work of Unesco as set forth in its pro- gramme. Then, paragraph 2 : Such formal agreements are necessary where, in conformity with the budget approved by the General Conference and the general policy adopted in this respect, organizations are eligible for grants-in-aid for well defined purposes in fur- therance of Unesco's programme. Similarly, such agreements are necessary where organizations are eligible for the grant of office space and secretarial facilities. Such a draft would not restrict, as much as the present text does, the powers of the Secretariat and the Executive Board : it leaves them a certain initia- tive, a certain latitude, I do not think it is good to establish too strict regulations — a sort of «strait- jacketn — for our Secretariat. I believe that the new paragraphs which I have just read include all the general ideas expressed in this section and will give full satisfaction, as I hope they will, to the dele- gate of Belgium. We would thus give our Director- General and the Executive Board a certain latitude in the performance of their functions. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The delegate of France has proposed an amendment affecting thefirst and third paragraphs of section (c): Formal Agreements, whilst leaving the second para- graph as it now stands. I should like first to ask whether the delegate of Belgium, who raised the point, agrees to the French delegate’s proposal. M. L. VERNIERS (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : I entirely agree with the proposal made by the delegate of France. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Are there any comments, or any objections, to the text which has just been read? Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : Mr. President, I do not think that we can possibly come to a decision on the suggestion made by the delegate of France without the written material before us. This section was carefully considered by the delegates of all countries in the Administrative and External Relations Commission, and to try now to understand a re-writing on a purely verbal basis is impossible. So,if we are to consider it formally, I suggest that it ought to be typed and put on our desks. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Difficulties may indeed arise if we embark on the consideration of this proposal without having the text before us. I therefore propose that we first vote on the Belgian amendment : the deletion of the word «exclusively». Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, this is not the first time that we have considered this word «exclusively». It was raised fully in the Gom- mission, when the delegate of the United States of America and the delegate of the United Kingdom had to point out that behind the word «exclusively lies the whole conception of the relations with inter- governmental organizations. Based upon the first form of consultative arrangement and within that form, there is a tighter and closer form ofrelation- ship which one must define in some manner. The field of Unesco is large, and to say that an organization must work exclusively within that wide field is not really very restrictive. We have Libraries, we have Museums, we have Education, Science, Culture, Art; and all that this word «exclusively» asks for is that any organization to whom we are going to pay — 182 —    money out of our very slender purse must fulfil the obligations of the programme and the Constitution of Unesco. I was very perturbed to hear that the delegate of Belgium considered making awardsto such bodies as the Red Cross. This is a very complex business; the arrangements with these innumerable complex organizations and the United Nations, through the Economic and Social Council, have many more grades, oneof which is a grade that covers the sort of organi- zation which the Red Cross is — that is, a general welfare and information organization. Now, we are taking that in under Consultative Arrangements, and I do not think it was ever in the minds of the Commission to make a grant-in-aid to that sort of organization. Therefore, if you strike out «exclu- sively», you really strike out the core, the essence, the definitive element of a formal agreement; and I would repeat, before concluding, that a formal agree- ment is necessary before you pay money from the budget to an organization, althoughat the sametime it is not necessarily the case that, if you have a formal agreement, you automatically give a grant-in-aid. The paper before you is the result of a great deal of toil and, if we are to cut out «exclusively», we really undermine the whole structure. There- fore, I move that we support the conclusion of the Commission, which, after considering this problem, agreed to retain it. Professor H. J. BHABHA (India) : Sir, as the delegate of the United Kingdom has pointed out, we have been over this ground on several occasions before. Unfortunately we have not been able to agree on this matter. I had hoped that the French change, which does not strike out the word «exclu- sively», might perhaps have met the different points of view, and that we might thus have reached agreement. The situation is as follows. According to the document before us here, grants-in-aid can only be given to those bodies with whom Unesco has formal agreements. Grants may, however, be made, for specific work, to other organizations. But there are bodies which, in the normal course of their work, carry on activities furthering the causes for which Unesco stands, and deserving of assistance. These are not covered by the two clauses we have before us. For example, there is the International Federation of Organizations for School Correspondence and there is an inter- national organization of university professors or lecturers. These bodies do, in fact, carry on work which is directly in line with what Unesco desires, and therefore should be supported not by specific contracts for specific jobs, but because they, in gene- ral, in the course of their other activities, do work which we consider is desirable. For this reason I support, on behalf of my delegation, the Belgian amendment. Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : I merely want to second the remarks made by the delegate of the United Kingdom. We voted last night a budget to include grants-in-aid, which was developed on the theory that grants would be made to agencies helping to carry out the Unesco pro- gramme, and, I am sure, within the meaning of those agencies working exclusively in Unesco's field. I think we should remember that there are plenty of agencies to which we shall be making grants- in-aid within the definition as it stands. At least I think we should learn to work effectively with these organizations that are so closely allied to Unesco's purposes before we even consider broaden- ing our field to make grants to other organiza- tions. I hope the Conference will maintain this section as it stands. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) . If there are no other comments, I will put to the vote first the proposal made by the delegate of Belgium, seconded by the delegate of France and supported by the delegate of India. M. L. VERNIERS (Belgium) (Translation from theFrench) : 1 think it would simplify the procedure if I were to abandon my proposal and if we could vote at once on the amendment proposed by the delegate of France, with which I have expressed my agreement. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Would the delegate of India be in agreement with this new procedure ? He is in agreement. The Secretary of the ADMINISTRATIVE AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION : The proposal of the French delegation is to leave the first paragraph « conclude formal agreements...» as it is, and to delete, after the word «Unesco», the last three lines on page 15 of the English text, Thefirst paragraph will therefore read as follows : The Director-General, with the approval of the Executive Board, may conclude formal agreements with a very restricted number of well-established and representative organizations, whose close co-operation is essential to Unesco, and which have a substantive and immediate contribution to make to the work of Unesco as set forth in its programme. The second paragraph will stand as it is, and the third will be deleted. — 183 —    The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Are there any objections to the text as it has now been read ? Is there any objection to its being discussed ? Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom) : Mr. Presi- dent, we have nothing to add except to say that, by transforming these three paragraphs in this manner, you have successfully managed to exclude the word «exclusively»; therefore all I said before applies to this case. It merely seems to me a long way to go round the problem, and it is tantamount to deleting the word «exclusively», to which my delegation is opposed. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I will first put a question of principle. Has the meeting any objection to discussing the text which has just been read, on account of its not having been distributed ? There are no observations. I will therefore put the proposed text to the vote. Will those in favour of the text as redrafted by the French delegation, in agreement with the Belgian and Indian delegations, please raise their hands ? 13 in favour, 13 against. If the Confer- ence agrees, we will therefore take a vote by roll- call. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Belgium, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Dominican Republie, Ecuador, Egypt, France,Haiti, India, Lebanon, Peru, Poland, Uruguay. Voted against : Australia, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Greece, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zea- land, Norway, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America. Absent : Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Liberia, Luxemburg, Philippines, Syria, Venezuela.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : There are 14 votes for the proposal, 13 against. The text of section ( : Formal Agreements will therefore be redrafted in accordance with the pro- posal made by the delegate of France. Are there any other comments with regard to the text now under discussion ? If there are no other comments or objections, I consider proposal 17 and its Appendix I as appro- ved, with the amendment just read. We now have to consider Appendix II — Direc- tive concerning payments to international non- governmental and semi-governmental organiza— tions. Are there any observations or objections ? Then Appendix II of proposal 17 is approved. We now pass to proposal 18, which is the last one in the report — Grants-in-aid to Spanish chil- dren and students in exile. Are there any comments ? Any objections The text is approved. We have approved paragraph by paragraph the report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission. I shall now submit to you the report as a whole, with the exception of paragraph 6, which remains in abeyance for the plenary meeting to-morrow morning. Do you wish that, with this exception, we should now consider the report as approved ? The report was approved by acclamation. 2
31. Consideration of drait resolution on increase in representation allowances. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Document 2C/119 is now under discussion. Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : Mr. President, I move the approval of the resolution submitted to the General Conference in document
20/119. During the year, with the approval of the Execu- tive Board, allowances were increased for the Secre- tariat. A similar increase could not, however, be granted to the Director-General, since that lies solely within the competence of the General Con- ference. I therefore move that this resolution be approved. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : You have before you a proposal. Is it seconded ? Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. President, I wish to second the proposal of the United States delegate that this resolution be approved. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The proposal has been seconded by the delegate of China. If there is no objection, I shall consider it approved. ©)
32. Consideration of document submitted by the Programme and Budget Commission concerning the Revolving Fund for 1948. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now have to consider document 2C/C1/22, submitted by the Programme and Budget Commis- sion, with regard to the Revolving Fund for 1948. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I move the appro- ‘val of the draft resolution in document 2C/C1/22. © Resolution IX; vol. Il, page 34. ® Resolution X. 9; vol. 11, page 66. — 184 —       Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : For the moment, Mr. President, I merely wish to make a request rather than to speak to any point. This documentis so important that I would to requestlike that we take it paragraph by paragraph — that is, the numbered paragraphs. M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, as the United States dele- gate has just said, the document we now have before us is very important. Would it be possible to ask the Deputy Director-General to give us a very brief summary of the salient points of the question ? The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : There are, in fact, two documents before you : One is
20/01/22 and the other 2C/C1/22 (Rev.). The first document gives the justification for the pro- posed resolution which is now before you for conside- ration on page 4 of document 2C/C1/22. This was the resolution originally drafted, which is now to be replaced entirely by the draft resolution appearing at the bottom of 2C/C1/22 (Rev.). May I say a word, Mr. President, about the essence of this document ? The resolution calls, in fact, for three principal things : First of all, that the Director-General be authorized to ask for an addi- tional $ 1,000,000 for the Revolving Fund in the course of 1948; second, that the amount depo- sited by Member States in 1947with the Revolv- ing Fund be set against the new allocations of deposits to be made in 1948, with appropriate adjustments, of course, for changes in the scale of contributions. The third point in the resolution is that which relates to the use to be made of the Revolving Fund during the year 1948. There are three uses : First, to advance sums in order to finance the appropriations under the 1948 budget during the period in which the regular contributions to the 1948 budget are not yet avail- able, due to the usual delays that occur in trans- mission or because Member States have a legislative calendar which necessitates making their contribu- tions later in the year. Second, it is for the pur- pose of advancing certain sums in order to finance suspense accounts covering miscellaneous, self- liquidating activities of the Organization, such as those suggested by the Administrative and External Relations Commission in respect of the establish- ment of a commissary for food and for clothing. Thirdly,it is proposed that the Fund be available for an advance during 1948, not exceeding $ 150,000, to establish a staff housing and wel- fare fund for the purpose of financing advance rental payments, ete. This, again, derives from — 185 —     the resolution of the Administrative and External Relations Commission. May I conclude this preliminary statement about the need for funds by pointing out that the First General Conference in Paris last year established by resolution a Revolving Fund of $3,000,000? Early in 1947 it was decided that it would be unnecessary to call the full amount of $ 3,000,000 and only $ 1,000,000 was called. It is now proposed that the total amount available in the Revolving Fund shall be raised from $ 1,000,000 to $ 2,000,000. The reasons why we need these funds, I need not repeat. They are set forth in detail in document 2C/C1/22, beginning with the last paragraph on page 1. I would like, however, to emphasize the fact that the usual delay, the quite appropriate delay, which takes place in the course of the year in the payments of contributions to each annual budget, inevitably results in embarrassment to the Organization and makes it extremely difficult to move on quickly with the programme. We still have substantial funds outstanding due to the Organization for the year 1947. During this year we were fortunate in securing some assis- tance in the form of a Joan from the United Nations. We feel that it would be wiser if in the year 1948 we could finance our own affairs through the use of the Revolving Fund. I would remind you in this connexion that the Revolving Fund is a deposit. It is only a deposit, Mr. President, which the Mem- ber States retain. It remains the property of the Member States. It is, if you like the word better, the Working Capital Fund which the Organization can make use of for the purposes set out in the pro- posed resolution. I think that is all I have to say, Mr. President, unless there are any more questions. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Is it the wish of the Conference that we now pass to the discussion of the draft proposal, paragraph by paragraph ? The text will be found in document
20/01/22 (Rev.). Are there any comments on the first paragraph — «The Director-General is authorized to issue...» and so on ? As there are no comments, we will consider paragraph 1 as adopted. Are there any comments onthe second paragraph ? Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of Ameriea) : Mr. President, I should like to ask the Deputy Director-General to give us some explanation of paragraph 2. I cannot make out what is meant by the words, «The amounts deposited by Member                                                                                                     States in 1947 to the Revolving Fund shall be set against the new allocations of deposits...» Could he give us an example to show how it would work ? The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : In the first place, the paragraph follows the United Nations practice. They have a Working Capital Fund, and they say in this connexion : «that there shall be set against this in the allocation of advances the amounts paid by Members as advances to the Work- ing Capital Fund for the financial year 1947, provided that, should the advances paid by any Member States to the Working Capital Fund for the financial year 1947 exceed the amount of that Member's advance under the provisions of para- graph 2... », and so on. Now the reason for putting this in, Mr. President, is that the percentage of contributions by Member States differs from year to year as — we hope — the membership of Unesco increases. The total of the Revolving Fund, $3,000,000, we assume will be the maximum when that is attained, as it may be, on the basis of a proper proportion of contribution from all the Member States. During the first year we had a smaller numberof Members in Unesco than we had during the second year and, I hope, than we shall have during other years. That means, Sir, that during the first year the proportion paid into the Revolving Fund by those countries that were then Members of Unesco was greater than it would have been if it had been calculated after other Members had come in. The purpose of this clause is to assure all Members that an adjustment will be made in order that there may be an equitable distribution of the $3,000,000. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The explanations given by the Deputy Director- General regarding paragraph 2 are before you. Are there any other comments ? May I consider paragraph 2 as approved ? Is there any objection ? Approved. We now pass to paragraph 3. I call upon the delegate of France. M. R. SEYDOUX (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I think we should take (a) and (b) of paragraph 3 at the same time, and I should like to ask the Deputy Director-General a question. (b) provides for certain advances from the Revol- ving Fund to finance suspense accounts. I was wondering whether the term «suspense accounts» was the right one. I should have thought «special accounts» would have been better. I was wondering too, whether there would be one suspense account or several. Is a limit to be established for these accounts, or any ceiling besides, of course, the total sum to be advanced of $125,000 ? The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : The term «suspense accounts» would appear to be appro- priate. You may call it a special account. The important thing is that these are intended to be accounts which are self-liquidating. Naturally it was extremely difficult for us to calculate how much money would be needed. I would remind you that the Administrative and External Relations Commission expressed a desire that there should be established a fully-fledged commissariat on the part of the Organization, in which there could, however, be co-operation on the part of the staff. Now, it is very difficult to tell, Mr. President, how this is going to be financed; how much capital we are going to need; how far in advance we shall have to purchase supplies; how much capital we shall secure by way of contributions from individual staff members if this becomes something in the nature of a co-operative. It was thought, however, that it would be proper to take a figure like $ 125,000. You may ask whether it should not be $ 175,000 or $ 150,000; but it was a difficult figure to arrive at. I should point out that another account of a self- liquidating kind is the one that is set up when, for example, we are called upon to arrange for transportation of delegates coming to the Con- ference. That is taken care of temporarily, as when, for example, arrangements were made for a number of delegates from Europe to participate in a «grand tour» from Paris to Mexico City. We made special arrangements with the airlines. We have to be able to draw upon funds for that purpose. We thought there was no appropriate source for funds for that in any other part of our accounts. Dr. Z. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I would like to raise one point in order to elucidate the text, which is not quite clear. I would draw your attention to the beginning of the text, where it is stated that the Director- General is to take steps to improvethe living condi- tions of thestaff attached to headquarters in Paris. Certain facilities will be arranged; but reference is made only to personnel. Are these facilities intended also for persons who are oflicially attached to Unesco ? I think that, for the words alluding to members of the staff, we should substitute words which would also cover the latter category. All other persons who are attached to Unesco would then be included, and would be allowed the facilities provided for members of the staff. — 186 —    The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : You have before you a proposal by the delegate of Poland. Are there any observations on this ? Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) : Mr. President, I would like, if I may, to ask the Deputy Director- General a question bearing on (c). What provision has been made for the possibility of bad debts in a case like this ? For example, if we advance rent to an officer who, after two or three months, goes back to his own country and does not pay ? The money which we have lent is not Unesco’s own money, and must be reim- bursed somehow. Does that mean that we shall be providing for it in our budget for the following year, or does it mean that provision has been made to see that this situation does not arise ? The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I think, Mr. President, that the delegate of New Zealand has answered his own question. The Organisation will, of necessity, take all precautions to ensure that reimbursement does actually take place. He is quite right : if there were a loss as a result of bad administration on the part of the Organization, the Revolving Fund would have to be reimbursed, and that reimbursement would presumably take place in the appropriation bill of the succeeding year. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I now ask the delegate of Poland to read the text of his amendment. Dr. Z. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : I venture to add that the Sub-Commis- sion had previously remarked upon this at a meeting, at which it was agreed that the correction would be made. It is therefore only a matter of detail. The text should read : That the Director-General is instructed to take steps to improve the living conditions of the staff and other persons residing in Paris who are attached to Unesco on official duties, and in particular (a) to take immediate steps for the improve- ment of the meals served in the Unesco restaurant; (b) to establish a better stocked and comprehensive commissariat which would enable them (instead of «the staff») to buy food, clothing and items necessary for personal health and comfort, this commissariat to be operated on a non-profit basis. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : We were bound in this resolution by the language of the resolution passed in the Administrative and Exter- nal Relations Commission, which in the English copy of the document we have recently disposed of — document 2C/C2/12 — appears in Annex IV on page 2. There the language which you have just adopted here reads : « That the Director-General is instructed to take steps to improve the living conditions of the staff and other persons residing in Paris who are atta- ched to Unesco on official duty.» And then it goes on : «And in particular» (in paragraph (b)) : «To establish a well stocked and comprehensive Commissariat which will enable the staff to buy food, clothing and items necessary for personal health and comfort», and so on. That is the text of the resolution that has been adopted. Therefore, we felt bound to use that language in this resolution. Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : Mr. President, I have a great many questions on this problem. As the Deputy Director-General has said, the Revolving Fund does not belong to Unesco, as an international organization, but to the Member States. There is no doubt that the Member States advanced this money for one pur- pose and one purpose only, and that was to pay the operating costs of Unesco pending the receipt of the annual contributions owed by the Member States to Unesco. And so we should be very clear here, as we consider this matter, that we are con- sidering a whole new policy in respectof the Revolv- ing Fund. Secondly, I am somewhat surprised that this matter was not referred to the Budget Sub-Commis- sion, because it seems to me that it is a budgetary item, to be considered in the annual budget, rather than a matter involving the Revolving Fund as the Member States understood it when it was first voted. The resolution of the Administrative and External Relations Commission was passed in plenty of time for this matter to be taken to the Budget Sub-Com- mission. Further, the resolution we have before us now is not identical with the resolution passed by the Administrative and External Relations Com- mission. That Commission provided for four things. It wanted an improved restaurant service; it wanted a commissariat; it wanted a housing service and it wanted certain duty-free services from the French Government. It said nothing about covering mis- cellaneous self-liquidating projects and activities. I wouldlike to turn now to paragraph (b), because, of course, there can be no question about paragraph (a), that is, the purpose of the Revolving Fund as initially voted at Paris and which we have now expanded in paragraph 1 of this document. — 187 —   Unesco has an operating restaurant, commissa- riat and bar. The commissariat and the bar have been self-liquidating — they have been carrying themselves. The restaurant has been losing money. Consequently, the Executive Board only several days ago transferred $ 35,000 to cover past deficiences and advanced an additional $ 35,000 from 1947 appropriations to serve as a working capital fund. The Executive Board directed that henceforth these three operations should be kept on the books as a unit and, should be operated without loss, includ- ing depreciation on equipment. Now, I am under the impression that there will be substantial funds left in the treasury of Unesco on
1 January 1948, and that, therefore, if an advance as a capital working fund for the bar, the commissa- riat or the restaurant is needed in addition to the $ 35,000 already advanced from 1947 funds, then perhaps additional 1947 funds could be found ; and thus we would not, so far as paragraph (b) is concer- ned, have to change the fundamental policy of this Revolving Fund, which, I repeat, was set up for a single purpose and not to be a capital working fund for such operations as we have here. Paragaph (c) is a little more difficult. I am sure everyone here wants Unesco to provide improved housing services to all members of the Secretariat who come to Paris and have difficulties in getting housed. Indeed, the Administrative and External Relations Commission so recommended. However, they did not suggest that Unesco should go into the car financing business. This in an addition. If any advance from the Revolving Fund for these new purposes could be repaid to that Fund, which belongs to the Member States, by 31 December of each year, then I think there could be no serious question about this whole matter, because on 1 Janu- ary, as we enter a new fiscal year, the Fund would be there to pay the bills, as it was intended to do, pending the receipt of Member States’ contribu- tions. I should like to conclude my remarks by giving notice that my present intention is to move an addi- tional paragraph as an amendment, which will require the repayment of such advances by 31 December each year. But I am going to withhold that, because I hope that the members of the Conference will consider this resolution paragraph by paragraph. I therefore conclude by asking whether or not, in view of the action already taken by the Executive Board with regard to the commissariat, the bar and the restaurant, we can get along with what we have, with a few additional advances from 1947 funds, without further borrowing from the Revolving Fund. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I have followed with great attention the observations which have just been made by the United States delegate. 1 fully understand the restrictions which he has pro- posed and I fully understand the precautions which he wishes to take. But how does the United States delegate imagine that the total of the advances can be reimbursed by 31 December? There are certain stocks. How are these to be sold and then reim- bursed? I should like to have an explanation on this point. Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : Mr. President, as I said in the beginning, I think that this item should have been brought up to the Bud- get Sub-Commission for an appropriation rather than that we should tap the Revolving Fund. Since that was not done, however, my own opinion is that we can essentially eliminate item (b) or refer it back to the Executive Board with the request that the latter should make an additional advance from savings on the 1947 programme. I certainly think that we should amend para- graph (c) so that it would apply only to housing. I do not believe we want to go into the business of financing the purchase of motor cars. If there are not sufficient savings in the $7,690,000 odd Budget which we voted last night, to repay advances, we will meet in November in Beirut, and Ithink we should take this matter up and put the repayment in the appropriation budget, so as to preserve the true character of the Revolv- ing Fund. Senator E. H. BROOKES (Union of South Africa) : Mr. President, I would like to deal with this question from the point of view of the Administrative and External Relations Commission and its report. The delegate of Poland has raised the question of confining these grants to members of the staff of the Secretariat. I remember that, when this matter was debated in the Administrative and External Relations Commission, this point was specifically raised and voted upon, and we deliberately inserted the words here : «and other persons residing in Paris who are attached to Unesco on official duties». We went on, referring to housing, to put in those words, specifically, again : «an efficient housing ser- vice designed to assist members of the staff and other persons residing in Paris who are attached to Unesco on official duties». That phrase has disappeared from the draft before us, and I think this dis- crepancy should be brought to the notice of the Conference. I also want to say that these proposals, from the point of view of the Administrative and External Relations Commission, are very important and form — 188 —    an integral part of our efforts to put the whole staffing question on a satisfactory and sound basis. If you were to read our resolutions — I do not want to take up time by reading them at length — you would find that we said,for example : « The Director- General is instructed to examine without delay the question of the daily living allowance and to consider the possibility of replacing this allowance by a system of allowances taking into accountthe special facilities indicated in paragraph 8», ete. Those are the staff facilities being debated now. Ourfeeling was that we could not retain a satisfactory staff in Paris, with the present fluctuations in the cost of living, unless we had some system which would enable us to meet those fluctuations. It is difficult to prophesy, but it seems possible that the cost of maintaining our staff in Paris will increase rather than decrease in the near future. We felt in our Commission very strongly — and I think others will bear me out — that it was far better for us to save what we could in collective buying, and other ways indicated here, than to come down on Unesco for a very big increase in the Budget alloca- tionfor staff allowances. Members must face this in a realistic way. It is all very well to put these argu- ments, which in themselves seem sound enough, about the Revolving Find; but actually, if you do not adequately provide these arrangements, and pro- vide them without any possibility of a breakdown, either you will lose some of your best members of staff or you will have a supplementary charge on the Budgetfar greater than what is nowrequested by the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion. The PRESIDENT(Translation from the French) : Gentlemen, a general discussion has taken place regarding the proposals before us. If you so desire, I will now go over the various paragraphs so as to arrive at a final text. I think that the amendment proposed by the Polish delegate has just been seconded by the South African delegate as being a return to the original text drawn up by the Administrative and External Relations Commission. The delegate of Greece and the delegate of Uruguay also support this proposal. T shall now put it to the vote. The amendment would read as follows : ‚(b) to establish a well stocked and comprehensive com- missariat which will enable them to buy food, clothing... «them» applying both to members of the staff and to other persons residing in Paris who are attached to Unesco on official duties. This is the draft which was submitted to us by the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sionand which the amendment proposed by the dele- gate of Poland is designed to re-establish. (On a vote taken by a show of hands, the amendment was adopted.) We now come to the various sub-paragraphs of paragraph 3. Are there any comments on sub- paragraph (a)? If there are no objections, the first sub-paragraph is adopted as it stands in document
20/01/22 (Rev.). The second sub-paragraph(b). to speak on (4)? Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of Ame- rica) : I move that sub-paragraph (b) be deleted and that the problem offinancing the restaurant, the com- missariat and the bar be referred to the Executive Board. Does anyone wish The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now have before us a proposal from the United States delegation that sub-paragraph (4) be deleted from the document. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I would like to say, just for the record, that this matter was referred to the Budget Sub-Commission. The Budget Sub-Commission passed it to the Programme and Budget Commission, and last night the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission decided to refer the matter to the Plenary Conference. Apparently nobody likes this subject. I would like also to point out that it is quite true that this does raise a question of basic policy. I would emphasize, however, that the Conference is the body that has the authority to determine that policy. The only resolution on the Revolving Fund that passed the First Conference, in Paris last year, was to the effect that the General Conference resolved that there be established a Revolving Fund in the amount of $ 3,000,000; and then a paragraph in respect of the deposit to be madetoit. If this Conference agrees to make provision that the Revolving Fund can be drawn upon for expendi- tures of this kind, it is clearly within its authority. Now as to the proposal that is before us, that the problem of financing the restaurant, the commissariat and so forth should be referred to the Executive Board, I simply wantto raise the point thatit is not at all clear yet how much moneyis going to be avail- able at the end of the year for financing. At the present time it is our assumption that we will have obligated that portion of our intended receipts which will actually have arrived during the year 1947. There will still be some contributions not paid. Now it is conceivable, of course, that, if there
18 a profit at the end of the year for the Organization, — 189 —    the Executive Board might take it upon itself to undertake the necessary transfers. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The United States delegation has proposed the de- letion of sub-paragraph (5). Does anyone second this proposal? Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) : I second it. I was just going to say, Sir, with your permission, that I think that the subject has been sufficiently de- bated. If the amendment proposed by the United States delegation has not yet been formally seconded, I wish to second it, and suggest that we proceed to vote. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : If it were possible to carry this matter a little further before referring it to the Board, I think the Board would be grateful. During the past year it has not been clear that the Board had authority to apply the funds from the annual budget of the Organization to such enterprises as a housing scheme or the financing of a commissariat. Early in the year, we discussed informally with the Deputy Director-General the desirability of money being provided to assist housing, and we thought at that time that our author- ity did not extend to sucha step. We were obliged, however, towards the end of the year, to take the responsibility of providing certain money from the unspent balance this year to cover a deficit in the restaurant and to provide some of the working capital which had already in fact been advanced in the period of the Preparatory Commission. We had to ratify that. Now if it is the view of the Conference that money should be avanced for these purposes from the un- spent funds remaining available at the end of 1947, it seems to me that this is a responsibility for the Gon- ference to take, and it would be perhaps a solution of this particular matter. To see whether we cannot get a decision on this matter here and now, I would like to propose that the matter be treated outside the Revolving Fund and that the Executive Board be authorized to make advances within the limits contained in this resolution from the unspent balance of the regular budget remaining in 1947. Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : With the consent of the delegate of India, who was the seconder, I would very happily accept that in- stead of my own motion. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Does the delegate of India agree? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, I rise with more than my usual diffidence when the Cha'rman of the Executive Board has made a pro- posal of this sort; but I think, and hope I shall be corrected if I am wrong, that to do as is now pro- posed by the delegate of Australia would mean a change in our financial regulations. I was going to raise the question of spending unused funds, before the delegate of Australia spoke, because it seemed to me to be an obstacle in the way of proceding as the delegate of the United States had suggested. I will not read out the regu- lations, Mr. President, but in fact the financial rules, Regulations 25, 26 and 27, do set out the purposes for which funds that have not been spent at the end of one year can and cannot be used; and it seems to me that, unless we make a special rule, we cannot implement the proposal that the delegate of Australia has just made. I think myself, therefore, that it would be prefer- able if the United States delegate could agree to allow the proposal as in the paper before us to go forward, to use the Revolving Fund by a decision of this Conference for these desirable purposes, and to add a further resolution which would make it plain that the Revolving Fund had to be made good by the end of the year somewhere. I think that he is perfectly right in maintaining that these funds, which belong to the States and not to Unesco, must remain intact, or rather must be restored without fail by the end of the financial year. But I do not think, provided we do that, that there can be any objection in principle to using, by deliberate reso- lution of the General Conference, the Revolving Fund for this purpose. I cannot help feeling, therefore, that it might be easier if we could agree to (b) and (c) before us, with whatever other amend- ments the United States delegate wishes to move regarding motor cars, and then add at the end some words which T shall be happy to propose later as an additional rider, just to ensure that the Revolving Fund is restored by the end of the year. I therefore do not support the motion before us from the delegate of Australia, which I takeit is a sub- stitute for the motion previously moved by the delegate of the United States of America. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : I am afraid I did not make my proposal sufficiently clear. The position for the year 1947 was that the First Gene- ral Conference voted a total figure of the budget, and then authorized the Executive Board to approve an additional budget, which was done last April. The Board also had full authority to make transfers within the budget. Now it might be suggested that that gave the Board full authority to dispose of the funds during that year in accordance with the general programme laid down by the Organization, — 190 —    The Conference had not at that time expressed any view regarding the desirability of advancing funds for the particular purpose now under consi- deration, and for that reason the members of the Board did not feel during the year that they would have been justified in applying funds. At this Conference we have, I think, taken a decision in principle that the Organization should advance a portion of the working capital ый for the commissariat and for the housing scheme, and the question before us now is the source from which this should come. The financial year has not yet ended, and the Board still has authority to obligate money which has not been spent. It seems to me therefore that, if it
1s the view of this Conference that the money might be more conveniently found from within the 1947 budget than from the Revolving Fund or from the
1948 Budget, and if the Conference expressly au- thorizes the Board to proceed to obligate the neces- sary sums, then the rules to which Sir John Maud referred would not prevent us from so doing. We should have a decision by this Conference that, since there is some unspent money available in the 1947 budget, the Board is authorized to apply funds to this specific purpose. Dr. M. EISENHOWER(United States of America) : I hope this is not getting too confused, Mr. Presi- dent. My original motion only referred to para- graph (b), not (c), and I understood that the sub- stitute motion by the delegate of Australia, which I accepted, also referred only to paragraph (b). The reason why I am making this distinction is that I feel quite certain that sufficient funds can be found by the Executive Board to expand the ope- rations already under way in the commissariat, res- taurant, etc. I doubt whether enough money could be found from such sources for paragraph (c), and I was going to propose that we should mention only housing, and then consider the amendment suggested by Sir John Maud, saying that the funds had to be repaid by 31 December 1948. We must remember that there will be another General Conference before that date. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I should like to ask the delegate of Australia to state the actual terms of his proposal. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : «The Exe- cutive Board is authorized to advance from funds available in the 1947 budget sums not exceeding $ 50,000 to finance suspense accounts covering miscellaneous self-li uidating purchases and acti- vities, including the e of a commissariat, provided that the persons benefiting...» ete. I suggest $ 50,000 because the Board found $ 35,000 a few days ago, and $ 85,000 would pro- bably be sufficient for this purpose. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : You have before you the proposal of the delegate of Australia : a proposal to replace sub-paragraph (b) as it now stands by the new draft which has just been read. Is this quite clear? We shall now vote on the delegate of Australia’s amendment. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Pre- sident, since paragraph 3 authorizes the Director- General to do certain things, this amendment will take the form of a new paragraph, number 4, since it says « The Executive Board is authorized...» The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : In that case sub-paragraph (b) would be deleted from the text, and the proposal of the Australian delegation would become paragraph 4 of the docu- ment before us. Will all those in favour of the delegate of Australia’s proposal please raise their hands? Fifteen in favour. Are there any votes against? The amendment is approved. We shall now pass to the discussion of sub- paragraph (c), which will become paragraph 5. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, I would like to ask a question of the Deputy Director- General. I see here that there is mention of loans to the staff for the purchase of household furniture Would the Deputy Director-General be good enough to tell us whether the object is to make avai- lable to employees a credit service which does not exist commercially, or whether the object is to make a service available to employees at a cheaper rate than the commercial rate? The two objectives are quite different, and one might be acceptable whilst the other might not. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : This is related to the same point that I want to make about motor cars. The situation is such that it is not pos- sible for the staff to secure credit for the purchase of furniture. Similarly, unlike the practice in some other places,it is not possible to secure credit for the purchase of motor cars. Now the purpose of this, Mr. President, is not to make sure that everyone on the Secretariat has his own car, The justification you will find in docu- ment 20/01/22 (rev.), where it is pointed out that we are only concerned with facilities for the pur- chase of motor cars for the staff, if the only housing accommodation available is outside the Paris metro- politan area. Housing, as well as transportation is one of the problems which form part of the — 191 —   current difficulties under which the Secretariat is having to live. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Has consideration been given to the rates that are to be charged? The delegate of New Zealand mentioned the problem of bad debts. I wonder whether consideration has been given to charging not commercial rates but semi- commercial rates, which would envisage a certain loss in bad debts. If the estimate were correct, we would in fact have no bad debts. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : There has been no final determination with regard to rates, but we have been thinking of a rate which would be approximate to the commercial rate. It might be slightly less. But at the same time, adequate safeguards would be instituted to place a lien by the Organization on the property that is involved. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We are now discussing the former sub-para- graph (c), which has become paragraph 5. Are there any other comments? The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : In the corrected resolution there has been a typographical error in that the words «motor cars» have been left out. They appear in document 22 but not in the revised document. Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : There is a general proposal and we have already the explanatory working background as to what it covers. I think the Deputy Director-General need have no fear that he would have to finance motor cars under this language. Just in order to keep the question open for debate (though I am not sure this is the best way to do it), I move that the last sentence be deleted. It now reads, «all advances shall be reimbursed to the Revolving Fund following recovery of rental ad- vances...» and so on. [I should like to substitute instead «All advances herein authorized shall be repaid to the Revolving Fund by 31 December
19485. It seems to me that there are several ways in which this could be dealt with in the future. My own view is that, since we are not putting it in this year’s budget, then by all meansin next year’s budget we we should include whatever sum is required to ope- rate particularly a housing service, which we all know is needed. That appropriation could be so worded as to repay this Revolving Fund. Secondly, in this year’s budget there is an item of $ 920,000 for residence allowances, which I believe I am correct in saying it was understood in the Budget Sub-Commission might be materially reduced if the activities which we are now discussing could be put into operation. There might therefore be savings in this $ 920,000, and the United States delegation feels that it would be correct to pass an DNI resolution making these funds avai- able. Finally, if there were any other savings in the close to $ 8,000,000 appropriation which we are making for 1948, the next Conference could gather up these savings and appropriate them for these purposes. I do not think, therefore, that this amendment would produce an impossible situation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : You have before you a formal motion, an amendment which refers to paragraph 5. The sentence in question would read as follows : All advances herein authorized shall be repaid to the Revolving Fund by 31 December 1948. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Would the United States delegate be willing to change the date from 31 December 1948 to 1 January 1949? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The proposal of the Secretariat is accepted by the mover of the amendment and is seconded by the delegate of Greece. It will now be put to the vote: (The vote was taken by show of hands.) The PRESIDENT (Translation rom the French) : The amendment of the United States delegation is therefore approved.) Are there any further comments on this document, or may we consider it approved as a whole? M. L. VERNIERS (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : 1 have no objection, but I wish to draw your attentionto a drafting point. Sub-paragraphs(a), (b) and (c) have been replaced by paragraphs 3,
4 and 5. Paragraph 3 begins : « The Director- General is authorized...». Paragraph 4 will, of course, have to start with « The Executive Board... ». We have not mentioned who is to be authorized under paragraph 5 — the Director-General or the Executive Board. This point should be clarified. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : It seems to me that this paragraph refers to the Director-General. Is the delegate of the United States of America prepared to make a suggestion on this point? Dr. M. EISENHOWER(United States of America) : Mr. President, I thought this would automatically come under the Executive Board. I would like to ask the Deputy Director-General if he has any feeling on the subject. My intention when I moved the proposal was that paragraph 5 should come — 192 —      under the heading «The Executive Board is autho- rized to...». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Then this would not refer to the Director-General but to the Executive Board. Are there any other observations? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, the Executive Board can do a great many things, and if the motion is passed as the United States delegate suggests, it will have to give prior approval to its own acts. The resolution would read «Ad- vances from the Revolving Fund shall be approved by the Executive Board prior to establishment». I think it would be easier, if the delegate of the United States would agree with this, to restore it to its original form. Paragraph 3 (b) would be as here. Then you would have paragraph 4, which would be about the $ 125,000. Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : I have no objection, Mr. President. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : If there is no objection, the amendment proposed by the delegate of the United Kingdom is approved, and the final draft will therefore take due account of that amendment. If there are no further comments, the meeting stands adjourned until 10 a.m. to-morrow. The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. SEVENTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 3 December 1947, at 10 a. m. CONTENTS Consideration of the Report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission Annex VII (6) Relations with Germany Pages (coutinuation). Speeches by delegates of the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, France, and Czechoslovakia Consideration of the Report of the Committee on Procedure Recognition of Hindustani as an Official Language of the Conference. .. President : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium). M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : The President has asked me to replace him for the time being, as he wishes to take part in the discussion, and I ask your indulgence. The first question on the agenda is «Considera- tion of the Report of the Procedure Committees, but the Czechoslovak delegate has asked to speak on the agenda.
33. Consideration of the Report of the Admini- strative and External Relations Commis- sion, Annex VII (b) : Relations with Germany (continuation). Dr. M. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, I am very surprised to see on the agenda, Item 3, discussion on section 6 — Relations with Germany. Yesterday this proposal was voted upon. I was present at the beginning of the meeting, but after I had left it was decided to reopen the discussion. I know that this procedure is possible, but it seems to me that to reopen a discussion on something which had already been settled is some- what dangerous, particularly on the last day of the Conference. It creates a dangerous precedent, for by the same token we might ask for the re- opening of the discussion on any item, or the rever- sal of any decision we have taken. I do not think we have time. I may betold it is necessary to vote upon the proposal of a delegation which wanted to reopen a discussion on a point already voted — 103 —