of associating as many States as possible with the work of the Organization. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed that everything should be done to make the work of the Organization as universal as pos- sible, but doubted whether the tactics employed were conducive to this end. It was unnecessary to extend the privileges of membership to non-mem- bers and it had already been shown that this policy had not induced States to join the Organization. No distinction should be made, except as regarding admission to the Organization, between members of the United Nations which were not members of Unesco and other non-members of Unesco, with the exception of Spain. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that this document was intended to focus attention on participation in the work of Unesco as distinct from benefits. The resolutions passed by the First General Conference and the Executive Board had explicitly excluded non-members from the enjoyment of such advantages of membership as scholarships. The matter for consideration was whether all non- members should be excluded from participation in the work of Unesco, even when such participation would be in the interest of the Organization. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed that the participation of Non-Member States in the work of Unesco should not be excluded but rather accepted. Nationals of Non-Member States could take part in technical conferences, give expert advice, and provide technical information on subjects covered by Unesco’s enquiries if such participation was of material assistance to the programme of the Organization. With regard to recruitment, nation- als of Member States should have priority. He proposed to submit a formal resolution recommend- ing that States not members of Unesco but members of the United Nations and other Non-Member States, except Spain, should be given the same treatment. M. ABRAHAM (France) agreed that members of the United Nations not also members of Unesco should not benefit from the advantages of membership of Unesco, but should not be regarded as colleagues, particularly in the matter of recruitment, since membership of the United Nations provided a poli- tical guarantee, Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) said that it was not right to consider nationals of Non-Member States for posts on the staff of the Secretariat until all Member States were adequately represented. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) suggested that, from the point of view of propaganda, it might be in the interest of Unesco to provide benefits, such as relief, to States which were not members of Unesco but belonged to the United Nations. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed to submit a formal motion to the next meeting, The meeting rose at 1 .30 p.m. NINETEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 25 November 1947, at 4 р. т. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). Item 7 (b) of the Agenda : Relations with Non-Member States (continuation). The CHAIRMAN called on the delegate of the United States of America to present his draft reso- lution on relations with Member States and non- Member States. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) ex- plained that he had tried to putin clear language the proposals put forward at the morning’s meeting. He regretted that he had been unable to accept the French suggestion that no distinction should be made between nationals of Member States and non-member States of Unesco which were members of the United Nations. He then read the following draft resolution : Considering that the purposes of Unesco can best be attained if its membership is extended to include all peace-loving States; and Realizing that, until universality of membership isattained principles have to be established to govern the relations o Unesco with Non-Member States; — 595 —     The General Conference decides :
1. That States which belong to the United Nations but not to Unesco, and States which remained neutral during the war and which have not joined the United Nations, should within the terms of the Constitution be afforded the same treatment and the same privileges.
2. That no State which, while eligible to menbership in Unesco, has not applied for such membership should be offered opportunities to participate in the execution of Unesco’s programme to the extent that such participation would give it benefits and privileges enjoyed by Member States.
3. That participation of Non-Member States should be invited only to the extent that it appears desirable to further the purposes and programme of Unesco, and that in carrying out this principle : (a) In accordance with Rule III of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, Member States of the United Nations, who do not belong to Unesco, will be invited to send observers to the sessions of the General Conference. In addition, the Executive Board will every year decide upon the list of States not members of the United Nations nor of Unesco also to be invited to send observers to the next session of the General Conference. (b) Non-Member States may be invited to send repre- sentatives to technical conferences in those cases where participation of a Non-MemberStateis essential to the achieve- ment of the purposesfor which the conference has been called. (ec) Nationals of Non-Member States may be invited to take part in an individual capacity in Unesco’s advisory or expert committees. (d) When appropriate, non-members should be invited to provide technical information on subjects covered by Unesco’s enquiries. (e) So far as appropriate, non-members should receive, for information, documents distributed to Member States. (f) Nationals of Non-Member States should be given, in cases of special merit or expert knowledge only, opportunities to be considered for appointment to Unesco's staff. The appointment of nationals of Non-Member States should be subject to the approval of the Executive Board. The resolution was seconded by the delegate of CANADA. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) queried the necessity of the words : «expressing the regret that there are a large number of States concerned.» Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) thought the Conference would want it made clear that the whole purpose of the resolution was to obtain new Members and to stress the need for universality in Unesco. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) preferred the Secretariat's original proposal and thought it was too early to bring pressure to bear on non- member States. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) agreed with the final remarks of the United States delegate. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) fully agreed with the delegate of South Africa that it would be premature to make a distinction between Member and non-member States. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) thought that, if the words were not essential, they should be deleted. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) felt it would be easier to reach agreement on the resolution if the words were left in. His delegation was as keen as any other that the Soviet Union should join Unesco and another resolution was in prepara- tion which would make a positive appeal to coun- tries to join. Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) wondered if paragraph 2 added any strength to the motion and thought it would be better omitted. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) moved the deletion of the paragraph beginning « expressing its regret. . » until the next paragraph « realizing that...». The amendment was not seconded. The United States’ motion was adopted. U) Item 7 (a) (i) of the Agenda : Representation of Unesco in the main cultural areas of the world (continuation). The CHAIRMAN recalled that the question of Regional Offices had been discussed that morning and a committee had been set up to co-ordinate three draft resolutions. He called on the delegate of India to present his draft resolution. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) read the follow- ing draft resolution : With a view to making the aims, ideals and programme of Unesco properly known in all Member States, and to assisting the National Commissions and Member States with specialist advice and information in implementing that programme : The General Conference resolves :
1. To establish as soon as possible, after consultation with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, regional offices or centres of Unesco, in order to further the aims of the Organization and to co-ordinate the activities of National Commissions in the major geographical regions of the world.
2. The representatives of Unesco who conduct the con- sultation should place before the United Nations and Specialized Agencies the generous offer of the Cuban delegation made at the Second Session of the General Conference of Unesco, as well as the expression of views of delegations to the Confe- rence on the value of opening a regional office in Cuba.
3. That the Executive Board should consider the matter and report to the Third Session of the General Conference, which shall determine the geographical regions of the world in which the establishment of such offices or centres will best contribute to the aims of the Organization.
4. That, pending the establishment of such regional offices or centres : (a) The Executive Board is instructed to consider imme- diately the possibility of establishing at least one such office or centre during 1948, bearing in mind the needs of different regions as well as facilities likely to be available in those regions, and especially those available at Havana through the offer of the Cuban Government mentioned in paragraph 2.
(1) Resolution IX, Annex VII (5); vol. II, page 55. — 596 —      In arriving at the resolution the Committee had remembered the problem of expenditure. He did not know what figure the Budget Sub-Commission had provided for these offices, but, if there was a lack of funds, Guba was prepared to offer a building and a grant of $ 10,000 for 1948. As regards visits of officials, these could be met out of the present bud- get. No mention was made in the resolution as to where the scheme should be started, but he thought Latin America might be suitable, as Unesco was holding its Conference in Mexico and had brought its ideas to that part of the world. Sr. GUELL (Cuba) supported the resolution and confirmed the statement of the delegate of India that Cuba was prepared to dedicate a building and $ 10,000 annually to the scheme. The experiment was thefirst of its kind and would contribute greatly to culturall development. The resolution was adopted. (2) Item 7 (c) of the Agenda : Trust and Non- Self-Governing Territories. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) drew attention to document 20/51 (rev.), relating to the Agreement between the United Nations and Unesco on Trust and Non-Self-Governing Territories. Under Articles IX and X of the United Nations Charter, Unesco was to co-operate with the United Nations in this field, and steps had been taken to establish collaboration between the two Secretariats, which it was hopedthe Conference would approve. # M. de VISSCHER (Belgium) asked whether the Unesco Secretariat had contacted non-governmental specialized agencies, such as the Institute for Colonial Studies. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) replied that during the last year contacts had been established with non- governmental specialized agencies and, in particular, with the Institute for Colonial Studies in Brussels. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) observed that there were certain specific problems which Unesco should study and to which special importance should be given in the 1948 and 1949 Programmes : (i) Educational policies in different territories in relation to indigenous culture and the prominence given to the matter in school curriculae. (ii) The status of natives in education as compared with non-natives. (iii) An examination of the extent to which educa- tion was raising the standard of living in different territories, without taking people away from their own communities and provinces.
(3) Resolution IX, Annex VII (1); volume II, page 53. The questionnaire mentioned in document 20/51 (rev.) was an experiment and it was one of Unesco’s tasks to make suggestions to the United Nations as to the possibility of improving it. Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) asked if the draft resolution contained at the end of document 2C/51 (rev.) had been moved. On learning that it had not, he observed that it was important to avoid passin resolutions which deviated from Article 73 (e) of the United Nations Charter, and therefore recommended an addition to paragraph (ii) of the resolution. The words «Subject to any limitation contained in Article 73 (e) of the Charter of the United Nations» should be added after : «due attention should be paid...» This was seconded by Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America). Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) opposed the addition, calling attention to the inter-relation between Article
73 (a), (b) and (e) of the United Nations Charter and consi ering that Article 73 e) might not be understood if isolated from 73 a) and (b). He thought there was nothing in the resolution which contradicted Article 73 (e). Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) thought it would do no harm to leave the phrase in, as it would bring the matter to the attention of all concerned. The amendment was adopted by 11 votes to 2. (3) Item 8 of the Agenda : National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies. The SECRETARY stated that Working Party N had examined this question and had drafted an eleven point resolution, contained in document
2C/N/2, which he read. Miss McPHEE (New Zealand) offered two slight corrections, In paragraph 8,the thirdline : « Secre- tariat of the National Commissions» should read : «Secretariat to the National Commissions». Also the fourth line of paragraph 11 should read»... the teaching about the Charter» instead of «... the teaching of the Charter.» ” Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) moved the adoption of the resolution, with the exception of paragraph 7, on which he asked for further discussion as the Commission had already adopted a resolution on the subject, with which paragraph 7 should be in accord. Dr. EISENHOWER, Chairman of the Working Party on National Commissions, said that 12 to 17 countries had been represented on the Working Party and every point of the resolution had been (a) Resolution IX, Annex VII (8); vol. II, page 56. — 597 —
384         adopted unanimously. However, as a delegate of his country (the United States of America), and not as Chairman of the Working Party, he wished to point out that one matter was inconsistent with other actions of the Conference; that Unesco should give temporary aid to a Member State in setting up its National Commission and that the aid should be at the expense of the State concerned, Unesco was helping to set up an International Theatre Institute and an International Music Institute by lending temporary personnel, and it was inconsistent that it should not be able to do the same for National Commissions. He would therefore like to amend one of the paragraphs. In paragraph 5, he sugges- ted the deletion of the words : «at the expense of that State». Addressing himself to the delegate of South Africa, he thought that no conflict existed between paragraph 7 and the motion previously adopted by the Commission. Ë Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) preferred the original wording of paragraph 5. Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) wondered if it would not be possible for Unesco to pay the expenses tem- porarily of a secretary chosen from the country itself. He was in favour of the resolution, except for para- graph 5. Theresolution, with the exception of paragraph 5, was adopted. (*) Dr. EISENHOWER (United States of America), referring to paragraph 5, explained that the question had been debated by the Working Party, which had agreed, by 12 votes to 4, that Member States should pay the expenses instead of Unesco. He had now changed his mind, however, in view of the fact that the Programme and Budget Commission had pro- vided for financial aid from Unesco for non-govern- mental organizations, such as the International Theatre Institute, and he considered that National Commissions should have priority. In reply to the delegate of Austria, he pointed out that a vote had been taken concerning financial aid to war-devastated countries in ways other than that mentioned in paragraph 5, and it had been agreed that financial aid should not be given, as stated in paragraph 2 of the Resolution. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) seconded the United States proposal to eliminate «at the expense of that State» in paragraph 5. He observed that Article VII, paragraph 3 of the Constitution stated : «The Organization may, on the request of a Member State, delegate, either temporarily or permanently, a mem- ber of its Secretariat to serve on the National Com- mission of that State, in order to assist in the deve-
(4) Resolution IX, Annex VIT (9); vol. TT, page 56. lopment of its work»; but it was not obliged to do so, if the expenses were too great. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) peinied out that the resolution passed by the Gommission that morning approved in principle the sending of senior officials of the Organization to help in setting up National Commissions and to further Unesco's aims in the countries to which they went. The experience and knowledge they gained would be of great value to the Secretariat. Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) thought the Organi- zation might be involved in great expense if the words «at the expense ofthat State » were eliminated ; he therefore moved their re-introduction. This was seconded by the delegates of NEW ZEALAND and AUSTRALIA. It was agreed by 7 votes to 5 to leave paragraph 5 as it stood. Item 9 of the Agenda : Relations with the United Nations. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) presented document
2C/76, dealing with proposals for a consolidated United Nations-Unesco budget, and explained that since that document had been prepared, the Director- General had been informed that Joint Committees 2,
3 and 5 of the General Assembly of the United Nations had approved a draft Assembly resolution on the co-ordination of the specialized agencies. The question of a consolidated budget had not yet been endorsed by these Joint Committees; in its place, on the proposal of the Indian delegation, the motion of a consolidated budget had been replaced by a proposal for budgetary co-ordination. That resolu- tion was contained in document 2C/76 add. 1 rev. 1. Mr. ARNALDO (Secretariat) presented point 9 (с) = Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies. Since document 2C/G2/5 had beendis- tributed, there had been certain developments. On
22 November, the General Assembly of the United Nations had adopted a convention on immunities which contained clauses for all the specialized agen- cies as well as annexes modifying the standard clauses. It was not practicable to discuss the con- vention then,since its text had not been distributed. The General Assembly had also passed a general resolution requesting Member States to enforce the Convention. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) felt it was a waste of time for the Commission to discuss the Convention, since it had no text before it. How- ever, he would move that the Commission instruct the Director-General to submit this Convention to all Member States as soon as possible, with the - 508 —    request that they apply its clauses even though they had not been ratified by the Conference. The United States motion, seconded by the dele- gate of Czechoslovakia, was approved. Item 7 (b) (ii) : Relations with Germany ‘and Japan. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL opened the discussion on the possibilities of Unesco’s programme in Ger- many. At the First Session of the General Confe- rence, the delegation of the Netherlands had moved a resolution recommending that Unesco should study immediately the problem of opening up ex-enemy countries to the educational and cultural influences of democratic countries. Accordingly, the Director- General had been instructed by the Executive Board to approach the Allied Control Council in Germany on the matter. After receiving the approval of the Governments of France, the United Kingdom and the United States for the proposed procedure, the Direc- tor-General had approached the Information Commit- tee of the Allied Control Council. The Allied Control Council replied that it would be glad to know what aid Unesco would be able to give toward the re- orientation of Germany and expressed the wish that Unesco should send a representative to Berlin with a view to determining the nature and scope of possible co-operation. The Director-General’s representative was now in Germany establishing contacts. The Secretariat was submitting, for the information of members of the Administrative and External Relations Commissions, document 2C/104 which contained a list of suggestions on the problem. At that point, it was merely necessary to decide on the principle whether Unesco would work in Germany. If that was decided, and the experiment proved successful, Unesco would undoubtedly, in the near future, be empowered to perform a similar task in Japan. While document 2C/104 merely contained Secre- tariat suggestions, the United Kingdom was propos- ing a formal draft resolution on relations with Ger- many, document 20/02/9. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) felt that if the olive branch was to be extended to Germany, it could not he done better than by Unesco. The question then arose of the degree of speed and methods to be adopted. The United Kingdom delegation was accordingly presenting a general resolution on Unesco's relations with Germany, and was putting the resolution contained in document 2C/C2/9 to the vote. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said the Secretariat would gladly accept the proposals contained in
20/02/9. The United Kingdom resolution was seconded by Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands). However, the Nether- lands delegation would like that resolution to include that portion (page 3, point 1) of document 2C/104 which dealt with strengthening international under- standiug through youth group movements. Expe- rience proved this was a major factor. Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) approved the British resolution whole-heartedly. Ît was excellent for two reasons : 1) because it very clearly recognized the necessity to deal with the occupation authorities; and 2) because it did not attempt to dictate the steps to be taken. That was very wise, since the pattern would only emerge in the course of the work. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) said his country fully understood the need for peaceful relations with Germany. It was necessary the Germans be ıre- educated to this end, but that would have to be done under strict control. The Polish delegation agreed with points 3 and 4 of document 2C/104, but objec- ted to points 1 and 2 as being premature. It was necessary first of all to prepare the ground for contacts between the youth of Germany and the youth of those countries which had been devastated by Germany. The Polish delegation could only approve of a resolution which omitted the points contained in 1 and 2 of document 2C/104. It did not oppose the general spirit of the United Kingdom resolution butin view ofthe fact that Unesco had cut its budget for assistance to countries devastated by the Germans, it was not admissible that the Organization should spend money of the 1948 budget for re-education of Germany. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) said his delegation heartily supported the United Kingdom resolution since the United States Government and people had a vital concern in the re-education of German and Japanese youth for peace. The resolu- tion spoke of negotiation with the appropriate allied authorities. The United States delegation took this to mean that, failing negotiations with the Allied Control Council, Unesco would be free to deal with individual zone commanders in Germany. Following a general discussion, in which the dele- gates of Egypt, the Netherlands and France spoke in support of the United Kingdom resolution and the delegate of Czechoslovakia re-iterated the Polish delegation’s warning against excessive expenditure in Germany, the CHAIRMAN put the United Kingdom resolution to the vote. The resolution was approved by seventeen votes in favour, one against and one abstention. (5)
(5) Resolution IX, Annex VII (6); vol. IL, page 55. — 599 —
38 a.     Dr. CHIH (China) believed that, in view of the general sentiment expressed at the Conference favour- ring the re-education of ex-enemy States, it would be proper, at this time, to take some action to extend education for peace in Japan. Accordingly, he submitted a general resolution : The General Conference : Considering that the purpose of Unesco is to contribute to world peace and security through the advancement of edu- cation, science and culture, and the eradication of militarist aggressive ideas dangerous to the maintenance of peace; Considering that, to this end, Unesco should explore the possibilities of extending its activities to education for peace among the peoples in ex-enemystates, such as Japan; Considering that, at the present time, knowledge of condi- tions in Japan is notsufficient to warrant laying downa con- crete programme of action; and Considering that anystep taken by Unesco in this connexion should have the full co-operation of the Far Eastern Commis- sion, Resolves: that the Director-General be asked to consult with the Far Eastern Commission to collect information regarding Japanese education, its trends and tendencies, and to ascertain the ways and means by which Unesco, within its present programme and budget, may contribute to tha education for peace of the Japanese people in accordance with the principles of Unesco, and to submit a report of such findings to the Executive Board for consideration and action, Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) supported the principle of the Chinese resolution, but felt the Commission could not commit itself to definite action at this time. He therefore wished it to be referred to the Drafting Committee to determine whether action could be taken this year. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) wished to reserve his delegation’s opinion whether Unesco should consult with the Far Eastern Commis- sion or with the Allied Military Authority in Japan. The Commission approved the general principle outlined in the Chinese resolution and moved it be referred to the Drafting Committee (©). The meeting rose at 6.30 p. m.
6) Resolution IX, Annex VII (1); volume II, page 55. TWENTIETH MEETING Wednesday, 26 November 1947, at 11 a. m. ¡Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Item 40 of the Agenda : Relations with the Specialized Agencies (documents 2C/C2/8 and 2C/4, pages 79, 80). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) introduced the ques- tion and read the resolution proposed by the Director General. INTERNATIONAL FFICE expressed his satisfaction with the The representative of the LABOUR 0 agreement which had been concluded between Unesco and ILO. He quoted the Philadelphia Charter, which stated that human labour was not a commodity, poverty was a threat to реке and affir- med the equality of races and the right of every man to employment. The aims of ILO were capable of realization in company with those of Unesco. The Director-General's words, that there could be по lasting peace as long as a minority was exploiting a majority, could equally well have been spoken by a representative of ILO. Among the problems calling for a common solution were : the minimum age at which young people should begin work; the international exchange of social welfare workers ; the employment of workers’ leisure time; professional, agricultural and industrial training colleges. The speaker recalled that the Conference to be held at San Francisco in the coming year would be followed jointly by the two Organizations, Unesco and ILO working in common. ILO had been in existence for a quarter of a century and put its extensive and in- valuable documentation, assembled by experts, fat the disposal of Unesco. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) reminded the Com- mission that on 13 November a proposal had been madeto the Executive Board by the delegation of the United States of America that the Board should establish contact with the bodies concerned with displaced persons. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) stated that his delegation’s proposal was that the Director- General should enter into negotiations with the IRO with a view to that body setting up an educational service in camps for displaced persons. This pro- posal could be conceived as part ofthe reconstruction programme for war-devastated countries. — 600 —