SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 12 November 1947 at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Consideration of Programme Policy and Total Budget Figure (continuation). . . .. 283 Chairman : Dr C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). The CHAIRMAN : The meeting is open. You rememberthat yesterday we decided that we would discuss the general principles of the pro- gramme, and to-day we were going to try to get on to the budget. I would like to know now how the meeting feels about this. The meeting yesterday did not want at that stage to discuss the general principles of the programme. Does the Commission want to do so now, or does it want to go straight on to the consideration of the total figure for the budget? One delegation, at least, has said that it has a resolution to bring forward concerning the balance of items within the programme. I do not know if this morning would be the time to put that forward, though they may do so if they wish. There is a plenary meeting of the Conference at
4 p.m. to-day to consider the report on the total figure for the budget. It would be desirable, there- fore, that we should not spend the morning dis- cussing programmes independently of the budget. I am entirely in the meeting's hands. Would someone move that we pass to consideration of the budget, or would you like to have a preliminary period for discussion of the programme without any definite resolution on the budget? Once we begin on the discussion of the budget concerning any particular sum, I cannot receive any other mo- tion concerning anything else not in support or in amendmentofit. The delegate of the United Kingdom wishes to speak. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, [understood yesterday that you suggested we should first have a general discussion on the programme, and thereafter have a definite motion before us regarding the total budget figure. Wedid not, in fact, have that general discussion yesterday, but decided to adjourn until this morning. I would, therefore, like to move that your suggestion, Mr. Chairman, be adopted by way of procedure, and that we should have our general discussion up to a point which you, Mr. Chairman, will determine, a point at which you will accept and ask for a motion on the total budget figure, but that, until that point is reached and you accept a motion on the total budget figure, you, Sir, do not accept any motion, and instead we have the general discussion on the programme to give any delegate the opportunity of making his comments on the programme as a whole, and no doubt referring to finance in the course of it, but not making any actual motion. You, Mr. Chairman, will decide at what point dis- cussion should stop and you ask for a motion on the budget figure. From that time on we shall simply be discussing the motion on the total budget figure; until that is accepted, there will be no motion before us, but only a general discussion on the programme. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion put forward by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Does anyone wish to second that? The delegate of South Africa seconds that motion. The delegate of Cuba wishes to speak. Dr. Herminio RODRIGUEZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegation of Cuba accepts the Chairman’s proposal with the addition suggested by the delegate of the United Kingdom, to the effect that the Commission first consider the general programme of Unesco, and afterwards the budget, so far as we must base the total figure of the budget on the programme. We therefore support the proposal that we dis- cuss in the first place the report on the general — 279 —
184.   activities, or the programme of Unesco, and then discuss the budget. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : 1 am in full agreement with the proposal made by Sir John Maud, but I should like to remark that we have completely discarded all the parliamentary principles regulating discussion. If we are going to discuss the Programme, coming to the rostrum every time, we shall never get results. The parliamentary principle of discussion requires absolutely that there should be no tribune. The CHAIRMAN : With regard to the point raised by the delegate of Greece, I should be inte- rested if anyone could suggest a method of speaking from the floor without coming to the rostrum. I think myself that this is in some ways unsatis- factory, but with simultaneous interpretation you must speak through your microphone. If not, you must have successive interpretation, in which case the conduct of the meeting is altogether diffe- rent. It may be that we shall find this system un- satisfactory and have to resort to successive inter- pretation, and it is open to anyone to move that suggestion. In the meantime, there is no mechan- ical method of speaking from the floor, unless there is a long flex to take the microphone. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the ee : The Executive Board has passed a recommendation that the Working Parties should send their reports, including any resolutions, to the Programme and Budget Commission, which would take them into account during the course ofits dis- cussion. This recommendation is a matter of plain common sense, since it is to pave the way for the work of the Programme and Budget Commission that the Working Parties meet and reach their conclusions. Document 2C/BUR/1, which wasadop- ted yesterday by the Conference towards the end of its meeting, although it did not appear on the agenda, does not allow of any liaison between the Working Parties and the Programme and Budget Commission, and is consequently in contradiction to the recommendation of the Executive Board. A number of delegates are unanimously agreed that our methods of work are deplorable and seem likely to paralyse the Conference rather than help it forward. We fetch very competent men here from great distances and at great expense to discuss the matters before the Conference. The Working Parties are, in general, carrying out their task in an excellent manner, but the plan of work of the Confe- rence as set out in document 2C/BUR/1 means that these meetings of Working Parties have a purely academic character, and the views of these highly qualified men cannot be taken into consi- deration by the Conference. Moreover, the Work- ing Parties are so numerous that most delegations, particularly those from the smaller nations, cannot be represented simultaneously both there and in the Programme and Budget Commission. The inter- national and democratic spirit which should prevail at this Conference is therefore not respected. Again, the Working Parties are operating on a subject basis, which 1s logical and in conformity with the experience of all international conferences, whereas the Programme (document 2C/3), on which the Executive Board has not expressed its opinion, is set out in large chapters where different subjects are mixed, making it impossible to pick out concrete problems. The Secretariat found itself obliged to draw up a programme by Sections, such as, for example, that for the Social Sciences (document 20/71) or the Natural Sciences (document 20/13). This pro- gramme by sections would be a much better work- ing instrument than the General Programme 20/3, of which my delegation does not approve and which it wishes to see modified as soon as possible. The Secretariat could not do otherwise than submit a budget by Sections (document 20/2). This docu- mentis clear and well set out and the French dele- gation would prefer the discussion to be based on this document. Consequently, we have the honour to submit the following motion :
1. No decision shall be taken by the Programme and Budget Commission until the competent Working Party has presentedits conclusions on the question under discussion.
9. If in the Programme and Budget Commission the course of the discussion does not allow of the opinion of the competent Working Party being obtained, that Commission shall adjournits discussion until such time as the competent Working Party has submitted its conclusions. The CHAIRMAN : Since there is already a motion before the meeting from the United Kingdom delegation, may I take it that what the French dele- gation has doneis to give notice of a further motion when this has been considered? Sir John Maud’s motion was essentially this : that we should now have a general discussion on the programme up to a point where a definite motion is ut before the meeting concerning the total amount of the budget, but, until that motion is put before the meeting, no motion of any other kind will be received by the Chair. That motion has been moved and seconded, and I cannot allow anyone to speak to any except that specific one. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to Sir John Maud’s motion? Does the Brazilian delegation wish to speak on Sir John Maud's motion? — 280 —     Prof. Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translationfrom the French) : No, on the French mo- tion. The CHAIRMAN : The French motion is not before the meeting. It is taken as a notice of motion. The motion of M. Maritain is a later motion, which will come up if Sir John Maud’s motion is lost. If Sir John Maud’s motion is passed, then M. Mari- tain's motion will have to wait over until we have discussed the total budget figure. I am sure that M. Maritain will realize that this is the only clear thing to do at this stage. We have before us the motion of Sir John Maud, which you realize will prevent any other motion on any other subject being presented until the bud- get has been settled, but which will allow anyone at any time he wishes to bring up a motion concerning the total amount of the budget. That is Sir John Maud’s motion. Is there anyone who wishes to speak,either for or against the motion? Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. Chairman, fellow- delegates, I would like to speak in support of Sir John Maud’s motion that a general discussion be held on the programme as a whole. But, secondly, I would like to suggest to the Chairman that he should use his discretion so that the general dis- cussion will not be prolonged over too long a pe- riod. Thirdly, I would like to say that if we are to put Unesco on a solid foundation, we must go slowly and surely, so I would certainly like all delegates to bear in mind the experience of the present year in the general discussion and also in making a decision about a total budget figure for the future. The CHAIRMAN : This motion has been moved and seconded and is supported by the Chinese delegate. MayI, since the Chinese delegate has suggested that I use my discretion, point out that I am only the servant of this Conference, and it is not for meto say when a budget comes forward. As far as I am con- cerned, if you pass this motion, the discussion will continue until someone gets up and moves a motion to discuss the budget. I shall naturally do my best to see that matters do not take too long, but I have no discretion apart from the power you give me. Sir John Maud's motion is now before thc meet- ing. Does anyone else wish to speak to that? I should like to point out that Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure reads : That draft resolutions, substantive motions and amend- ments shall be introduced in writing and handed to the Secretariat, who shall circulate copies to delegations, but as a general rule no substantive motion shall be put to the vote unless copies of it have been circulated to all delegations not ater than the day preceding the meeting. The term ‘as a general rule’ leaves a fair amount of discretion to the Chairman of each Commission, and I think you will agree that it would be intole- rable that, in a working committee, where there is so much to be done, one should be expected to sub- mit all notice of motions 24 hours ahead. I think though that we have the right to expect that, when we come to deal with the Programme, any completely new material in the programme resolutions should be handed to the Secretary of this Commission
24 hours before the matter is brought up. For other motions may TJ suggest, when any individual member proposes a motion or proposes an amendment he should, before his speech, or immediately after it, hand a copy in writing to the Secretary. Sir John Maud’s motion is as follows :
1. That we now have a general discussion of the 1948 Programme as presented by the Executive Board ;
1. That during this discussion the Chairman receive no motion;
3. Thereafter, on a motion ‘proposed from the floor, the Commission consider the question of the total budget figure and the Chairman receive only motions or amendments concerning that figure. If there is no further discussion, may I suggest that while we are spread out and using the simul- taneous interpretation system, I shall ask in the first place if anyone opposes ordinary routine motions. If no one does, I will take them as ap- proved. The question of counting hands in such a large hall is very difficult. T now put the motion of the United Kingdom delegation to the vote. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, there 1s a point which I have not quite understood in the motion presented by Sir John Maud. Let me add that I speak as a Rapporteur and not as a delegate of France. I think that Sir John Maud spoke in his motion of the pro- gramme of Unesco as approved by the Executive Board. I would point out that up to now neither the Chairman nor any member of the Executive Board has told us officially that they approve this programme. The CHAIRMAN : The motion of the United Kingdom is now before the Meeting. Is there anyone who opposes the motion ? M. Pierre AUGER (France) (Translation from the French) : We oppose it. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is opposed by the delegate of France and perhaps by others. In this case we will put it to the vote. Does the French Salas wish to exercise his right to speak in oppo- sition ? — 281 —     M. Pierre AUGER (France) (Translation from the French) : Gentlemen, if we have correctly understood Sir John Maud’s motion, it is a blocking motion. It forbids the presentation of any motion on the general discussion of the budget, whereas we of the French delegation have a motion to submit which deals with the method of working of this Commission, which we think is a very important motion. We would like to submit it without delay. The CHAIRMAN : I think in that case the proce- dure for the French delegation would be to oppose the motion put forward by the United Kingdom. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak now ? Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I want to get my own ideas clear about this discussion because I have not altogether understood the position. I believe Sir John Maud’s motion requires that we should pass right away to the discussion of the total figure for the budget, without considering for the present the details of the programme as a whole, and that we should fix a total figure. Am I wrong ? It seems to me that, in any case, as soon as we start examining the programme we should take into account the French motion, pointing out that the Working Parties, which are technical Committees have been set up to give to this Programme and Budget Commission certain technical directives which could not all be discussed and formulated here. It would be impossible for us to approve a program without previously having been advised y the experts whom our countries have delegated to the Working Parties. I could never vote for a rogramme which had not been discussed or analysed eforehand in the Working Parties; it was for that purpose that they were created. Asto the vote on the total figure, if I understand Sir John Maud’s motion aright, that we should fix a total based on a political basis rather than on a technical basis, I shall not oppose that because it will facilitate our work. Nevertheless I would like to see a clear distinction made between these two aspects of the programme which seem to me a little confused. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone else who now wishes to speak to this motion ? The delegate of Greece. Prof. A. PHOTIADES(Greece) (Translationfrom the French) : Mr. Chairman,I think that Prof. de Berrodo Carneiro has crossed the t’s and dotted the i's, for we must know what is the basis for our work so as to facilitate the work of the Working Parties. If we set the ceiling of the budget, it will be much easier for the Working Parties to get on with their work. But, gentlemen, there is a very important question which was raised a minute ago. The Rapporteur of this Commission has told us that the programme has in reality been submitted in a very irregular way. Since this is a legal question, I should like it to be cleared up before we go any further. The CHAIRMAN : Sir John Maud’s motion is still before the Commission. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to it ? The difference of opinion now is between those who wish to deal with no formal motion before the consideration of the budget figure, although they are perfectly willing for a general discussion on the programme to take place before then, and those who wish for a consideration of the programme first, with a right for any delegation to move any motion concerning the programme as a whole, before we consider the Budget figure. I think those are the two opinions. If you wish to support the first of those, you will vote for the United Kingdom motion. If you wish to support the second, you will vote against it. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak ? Dr. J. C. KIELSTRA (Netherlands) : Mr. Chairman, I wanted to ask whether it is possible to propose an amendmentto the British motion which is before the Meeting ? I would propose that the British motion should be passed on the understanding that no decision even on the total figure will be taken before the competent Working Party has presented its report on the matter. The CHAIRMAN : That would mean that we could not take a decision on the total figure until the end of the Conference. Dr. J. C. KIELSTRA (Netherlands) : No, it does not mean that. It means that the motion will be passed on the understanding that no decision on the total figure will be taken before the competent Working Party has presented its report on the matter. The CHAIRMAN : I would read that as meaning that, until every Working Party had reported, we could not decide the total figure. That would mean that the total figure could not be decided until the end of the Conference; but you will remember that we have been instructed by the Plenary Meeting, on the motion, I think, of the French delegation on our first day, that we shall deal with the total figure first. I do not think this Commission is competent to come to a decision which is the exact opposite of the decision arrived at in this room by the Plenary Meeting. That would be my ruling. Dr. J. C. KIELSTRA (Netherlands) : I quite agree, Mr. Chairman, that it would not be very desirable to postpone, and we certainly could not take any — 282 —    decision that is not in conformity with that taken by the General Conference; but I believe it is not necessary to postpone the decision as long as to the end of the Conference, if all the relevant Working Parties would be kind enough to keep our decision in mind and to speed up their work. But I believe that a motion on the total figure will only be of value if it is founded upon those reports of the Working Parties. The CHAIRMAN : Yes. I am sorry that I cannot accept that amendment from the delegate of the Netherlands, because it is opposed to the decision arrived at on the motion of the French delegation and supported by the whole Conference in the first plenary meeting. If the delegate of the Netherlands does not agree with my ruling, of course, he can bring it up in the plenary meeting again. I think the delegate of the Lebanon wishes to speak — if the delegate of the Lebanon understands that we are speaking purely on the motion of the United Kingdom, and that no other material will be allowed into the debate at this stage. Mgr. Jean MAROUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, the Head of the French delegation said a few moments ago that the smaller countries could not participate in the work of all the Working Parties or even of both the Commissions, If I have understood the method of work which has been adopted in the different Working Parties and especially in the Parties on Education and Philosophy and Humanities, each time that a project was presented to us, there was a corresponding budget project. Consequently, it seems to me that the Budget is dependent on the work accomplished in the different Working Parties. For that reason it would be logical that the question of the Budget should be entirely dependent on the reports to be submitted by the different Working Parties. It seems to me therefore, that the motion sub- mitted by the French delegation is plain common- sense; the question before us is this : first, the Working Parties must submit their proposals to the Programme Commission, and then we can talk about the Budget in relation to the programme submitted. That is why I believe the French motion to be the one most in conformity with reason and logic. The CHAIRMAN: I should be glad to know if the delegate of Brazil wishes to speak on a point of order, or make an explanation, since we agreed yesterday to speak once only on each motion. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) ( Trans- lation from the French) : I believe, Mr. Chairman, that we could come to an agreement, if we were to establish that we would first proceed with the discussion, which would lead up to a vote on the total budget figure, independently of any questions of detail about the order of work or the nature of the programme itself; and that as soon as this vote is taken on the total figure, we could study in detail the method of work and the question of the programmeitself. The CHAIRMAN : If what the delegate of Brazil says meets the objection of the delegate of France, it is entirely what was in my own mind, but I would not want at any stage to stop any member raising any point on any of these matters. I think they should be discussed and, of course, they will be, whether I think so or not. The only thing now is the order of priority of these matters. I still have the motion — the only one before me at the moment — from the United Kingdom delegation, which you heard. No other motion can come before the Meeting until we have dealt with and settled that one on the budget. If the French delegation has a notice of motion, it will be raised as soon as we meet again after the budget figure has been settled. Is the delegate for France satisfied now, or does hestill oppose the motion put forward by the United Kingdom ? M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation is in no way opposed to Sir John Maud’s motion, on condition that this motion does not block the discussion of our own motion. The CHAIRMAN : In that case, ladies and gentle- men, may I take it there is no one now opposing this motion from the United Kingdom ? In that case I declare that motion adopted and we will now move on to a consideration of the programme, which will continue until someone raises a motion on the Budget; and when the motion on the Budget is raised, they will obviously still have the right to discuss programme questions in relation to it, but not the right to bring in a new motion not connected with the Budget. Is that clear ? Consideration of Programme Policy and Total Budget Figure (continuation). The CHAIRMAN : We now have a list of countries which have asked for the right to speak this morning. I have at the top of this list the delegate of France. He was the first to ask for the right to speak and he has not exhausted that right; he can still talk about the programme without moving a motion, if he wishes; or he can move a motion concerning the — 283 —    total amount of the budget. Does the delegate of France wish to speak now concerning the pro- gramme ? I take it that he does not; so the next country who put down its name as desiring to speak is Bolivia. Does the delegate of Bolivia wish to speak ? Sr. BILBAO LA VIEJA (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman and delegates,the discus- sion we have just had demonstrates the indisoluble unity between the two subjects of programme and budget. In fact, it is a material impossibility to discuss one without the other, so that it seemed to mein the last debate that we were, if you will excuse the expression, in the middle of a vicious circle. In some of the meetings I have attended I have found that the immediate objection to any proposal for expansion of any of Unesco’s activities was the budget. The figure for 1947 clearly shows the great difficulties referred to by the French delega- tion at the first plenary meeting in giving effect to the numerousresolutions adopted at the Conference which preceded the year 1947. I have found, in studying both the programme and budget submitted by the Executive Board, that thereislittle or nothing to be modified by this assembly. Obviously,the majority of the proposals for 1948 are matters which have already been begun in 1947; that is to say, for administrative and economic reasons their effect would be wasted if the budget and programme were not approved. From the point of view of the countries most in need of Unesco’s collaboration to reach a cultural level from which they would in turn be able to give greater support to Unesco's purposes, I find the distribution of the budget lamentable, particularly in regard to the funds destined for fundamental education. The basic purpose of Unesco in the second chapter of the Programmeis to promote help in reaching a minimum standard of culture for countries which are culturally backward. Clearly, if this plan is not carried out to the full, we could not obtain the collaboration of millions and millions of men — (it has been said half of the human race) — in the great work of improving understanding, and sowing a seed in the spirit of men to help them resist the old warlike tendencies sowing the seed of peace. Who are the men we must help ? Those who have not had the good fortune to reach even the lowest cultural level ? If that is so, the figures for this essential work of Unesco require the Confe- renceto putfirst emphasis, in revising the programme of activities for 1948, upon measuresof fundamental education. Even so I do not believe the problem can be solved in this way for the majority of econo- mically weak countries. What is the point of raising the budget from six to eight million dollars if little or nothing is done in the field of Funda- mental Education ? Bearing in mind the need for greater collaboration by Unesco in these matters, I should like to intro- duce the following proposal for your consideration : that the undoubtedly extensive programme of acti- vities which the Working Party on Fundamental Education submits to this Commission should not only be considered as an official programme for Unesco ; but that it should be backed by the approved budget of at least $ 8,000,000 for 1948; and there should be also an additional programme with matters classed in order of urgency, to be backed by an international fund which the Executive Board of Unesco would endeavour to constitute, with the aid of a committee of experts. In this way, we could secure the co-operation of the countries of greatest economic capacity and those which are economically weak. The CHAIRMAN : The next country on the list is the Netherlands. TI call on the delegate of the Netherlands. Dr. J. C. KIELSTRA (Netherlands) : Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if I make a few remarks on, and even a few objections to, the 1948 programme of Unesco in relation to the budget as put before us, it is not from any lack of interest in Unesco’s work. The Netherlands, as you all know, have always encouraged international co-operation and they have an interest as keen as ever in the methods of work and results of this Organization. But, in the very difficult financial circumstances of the day, there are limits to the financial capacity of the Kingdom; Her Majesty’s Government have to economize as much as possible and, although regretting this necessity, cannot avoid recommending the same regarding Unesco’s organization ; the more so as they have to bear in mind that, not only the Netherlands, but nearly every European and Asiatic country, is impoverished after this war. The impression which the proposed budget will make at first sight on anyone looking at the figures of the various chapters is one of inequality between the amounts assigned to what a business concern would call «overhead expenses», and those allotted to the direct realization of the Organization’s aims. I find : Chapter I. Conferences and meetings, roughly $ 378,000; Chapter II. Expenses of per- sonnel services $ 4,035,000; Chapter V. Expenses of Initial Recruitment, $ 1,448,000. The total of these three items is $ 5,862,000, whereas under Chapter IV, Grants and Subsidies, there is assigned only $ 813,000. I have left out of consideration Chapter III, Common Services, because I recognize that expen- — 281 —    diture under this chapter — $ 1,431,000 — directly serves the realization of our aims; for instance, contractual printing, freight and other items. Nevertheless, a certain percentage of the amount assigned in this chapter could also be considered as allotted to overhead expenses. Roughly calculated, and on the assumption that in Chapter IIL, 50 per cent of the assignment serves directly the realization of our plans, I find of the total budget $6 6,577,000 is assigned to overhead expen- ses and $ 1,529,000 to direct execution of plans and the realization of Unesco’s aims.That means 77 per cent for overhead expenses and 23 per cent for the direct realization of our aims. I recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that Unesco is a young organization and is therefore not yet fully developed, and that in consequence overhead expenses in the first years must be somewhat heavy in relation to other payments, but even taking this into consideration, it seems to me that this dispro- portionis too large, and that when looking over the proposed budget we should try to find a way to establish a better relationship between the two parts. I certainly do not deny that many of the staff perform very useful tasks. We have only to consult the appropriations under Chapter II by Sections, etc., which accompany the draft budget, to convince ourselves of this. On the other hand, comparing the appropriations for the same Sections under Chapter IV, Grants and Subsidies, the question arises whether the money spent under Chapter II, Personnel, on a certain Section, is necessary for the administration of business under the same Section in Chapter IV. For instance, I find the following: Social Sciences : Chapter II, $ 105,000; Chapter 1V, $ 18,000 ; Arts and Letters : Chapter IT, $ 103,000 ; Chapter IV, $ 6,000; Libraries : Chapter IT, $ 147,000; Chapter IV, $ 8,250; Mass Commu- nication : Chapter II, $ 290,000; Chapter IV, $-27,500. Is it necessary, I ask, to allot these amounts for the administration of business under the same Section ? The answer, of course, is in the negative. Certainly, the staff concerned not only administers the amounts assigned under Chapter IV, but also studies various subjects, perpares new plans and investigates requests received from various sources for subsidies, grants, or pilot projects. And: I foresee, therefore, that the answer to my objections as to the incompatibility between the two parts of the budget may perhaps be that the way to diminish such disproportion in future will be to grant the proposed amount, even the proposed extension of personnel, because this will result in a broader study, a more speedy and concrete working-out of new plans, and as a consequence, the possibility of larger grants and subsidies, or even — if the execution of such plans were not chargeable to Unesco’s budget — a more general realization of its aims. I believe, however, ladies and gentlemen, that such an answer would ignore the present financial circumstances of many countries. We see in the draft budget that 17 out of 30 States have not yet made any payment for 1947 and 6 have paid in part only. That is an indication of the financial circum- stances in which they find themselves. The execu- tion of new plans, however, would involve new and greater burdens, whether in the shape of higher contributions to Unesco or of higher expenditure in the budgets of the states concerned. And as both seem to be impossible, or at least improbable, I think the execution of these plans should be kept in abeyance until better times. The question might therefore arise whether, over such a period, the studies and plans for 1948 would still retain their value and whether further investigations might not be necessary. I do not think the strict limitation of studies and plans to what is immediately possible would cause any long delay in the realization of Unesco’s aims; and it therefore seems to me that, without substantial detriment, we might curtail or limit them and cut down the estimates for per- sonnel in charge of such work. As a consequence, expenditure on initial recruitment could also be diminished to a great extent. Fewer studies, of course, would then be taken in hand. New plan- ning and new investigations would have to be set aside for the moment. But what real difference is there between not carrying out certain projects and in planning projects but not being able to execute them ? Now perhaps you will ask me whether I could give you some examples in the Programme of Unesco in 1948, which was presented to us and is, of course, closely connected with the proposed budget. It is rather difficult to find them unless you are aufait with the details of the work thatis undertaken by the Secretariat. Nevertheless, I will try to give a few hints. In Chapter IA of the Programme «Educational, Scientific and Cultural Reconstruction», I find Point 3 : Early in 1948 Unesco plans to place in the hands of Member States, intergovernmental bodies, international non-governmental organizations and other agencies and persons concerned, the information required to provide a basis for accelerated provision to meet the needs of the war- devastated countries, including the needs of new Member States as soon as they become eligible for participation in the scheme. Would it cause any damage if such information — 285 —    were postponed ? Most of the countries concerned have no money to accelerate those provisions, and generally they themselves know pretty well what they need. In the same Chapter Point 4, reads: The Commission on Technical Needs in Mass Communi- cations will, early in 1948, as the first part of a projected three-year world survey, publish the result of its inquiry covering ten war-devastated countries in Europe and the Far East. I do not see any real danger in postponing the publication of this survey for a year or two. There are more examples. Let me take under Fundamental Education, Chapter IB, point 2, which reads : In the light of the experience in 1947 of the regional conferences in Nanking and Mexico City, Unesco will promote regional study. conferences in the areas of proposed additional pilot-projects. Is the cost of such regional conferences, I ask, proportionate to the results that they have achie- ved ? Two of them have furnished ‘an exchange of information, and their recommendations in 1948 certainly will not yet have been put into practice. Why organize or prepare any any new conferences for that year ? One more example in Chapter IC, «Increasing Opportunities for Education, Science and Culture». Paragraph 9 reads: To promote the establishment of experimental production centres in several countries for films for popular presentation of the arts, I would ask,is it of any use to promote the estab- lishment of such production centres now, when most countries are not in financial circumstances to grant the costs of their construction ? I could quote other examples, but it would take too much of this meeting’s time if I read them to you. But I think that, when studying the pro- gramme closely under every chapter, a certain number of subjects can be found that, without any difficulty, can be postponed for one or two or perhaps even three years, and if that is the position, cur- tailing of Chapters II and IV of the budget will not cause any real loss to the realization of Unesco's aims. On the contrary, plans projected or advice given in periods more favourable from a financial point of view, have a better chance of execution in due time than those whose realization will be impe- ded by lack of means. The Netherlands, I repeat, are prepared for any possible international co-operation, but they stress the necessity of economizing also in this field, however desirable and useful it might appear to be; and Her Majesty’s Government are convinced that such economizing, reducing the 1948 budget to an amount of perhaps, let us say, $ 7,000,000 might be contemplated without any real damage or detriment to Unesco’s aims and results. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (South Africa) : Mr. Chair- man, fellow-delegates : I would have preferred to speak at a later stage, especially after my colleague from Australia, as I believe that much of what my country feelsis also felt particularly by the delegation of Australia. I would also like to have had a definite figure proposed by some other country. But it may expedite matters if I state shortly what are the basic considerations which lie behind the attitude adopted by my country and state at once the attitude of my country on this question of finance. I wouldlike to say first that my esteemed colleague of the Netherlands has, I think, laid undue emphasis on the question of overheads. This Organization can hardly be compared with an organization which has to put into execution its own plans. The primary object of Unesco, as we understand it, is to provide personnel who will obtain information and disseminate it, will conduct experiments on a com- paratively small scale, but cannot be expected to do the actual work of Unesco throughout the world. There I agree whole- heartedly with the excellent speech made by the leader of the Australian delega- tion at the plenary meeting. I do feel that the pri- mary purpose of Unesco should be to help to bring about co-operation with nations and to enable the nations to do the work themselves. We cannot expect, by making this comparatively insignificant contribution to Unesco, to have the work done for us. I find myself in this difficulty, which I think lay behind the remarks of the leader of the French dele- gation, that we cannot be expected to determine the amount to be spent on particular projects until we have heard the reports of the Working Parties. I feel most strongly with him that the procedure being adopted at the present moment is paralysing the work of the Conference, but the fault lies with us and not with the Secretariat. As was expressed by my colleague from Australia, we ourselves have attempted too many disparate activities simulta- neously, and the unfortunate Secretariat has been faced with the difficulty of trying to give effect to our wishes. We ourselves are to blame, if I may repeat, for finding that we — particularly we smaller coun- tries — just cannot do the work for which we were sent to Unesco. It is a physical impossibility, and when we look at the programme and see it contem- plated that this vitally important Commission should sit every morning and every afternoon at the same time as the Working Parties, then it will be realized that for a small delegation like mine (even though it is much bigger this year than last) it is just impos- sible for us to do our job. — 286 —    But those are criticisms an answer to which can only be found at a later stage. The only purpose which could be usefully served to-day would be to have a discussion in which countries would state on very broad lines their attitude towards the budget and the programme. I can say at once that my country is one of the countries which is not rich, in spite of the fact that it produces so much gold. The population of about two-and-a-half million has to provide for the needs, to a very large extent, of twelve million, and’ it means considerable sacrifice for us to increase our contribution. Nevertheless, my country feels that the work which is being done by Unesco is of such vital importance to the world that, if we are satisfied when the reports come in from the Working Parties that this amount provided for, the Budget of eight-and-a-half million dollars, can usefully be spent, we shall find that money. I would therefore make the suggestion, without being in the position to mention a specific figure (though I might interpolate here that I think the figure of 7,000,000, which is about what we gave last year with a smaller membership, is too low), that it is incumbent upon me to promise in ad- vance the support of my country for any programme which satisfies us as having a reasonable prospect of being put into operation. I would therefore suggest that my colleagues this morning confine themselves to a broad statement of principle and, if possible, an indication ofthe attitude which will be adopted by their countries. Then I would like some specific figure mentioned so that we can go to the General Conference and say : « We are drawing up the Budgetin this way : — taxa- tion can bring in an amount of, say, $ 8,500,000 but the final figure cannot be voted upon until we can come back to you and say that we have satis- fied ourselves that each request for expenditure. is fully justified.» The CHAIRMAN : I call upon the delegate of Mexico. Sr. Guillermo Hector RODRIGUEZ (Mexico) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, fellow- delegates : In relation to the problem of the Pro- gramme and Budget, Mexico wishes to make certain points initially, because the main proposal of the Mexican delegation to this General Conference falls info two sections : on the one hand, a section which pre-supposes a budget to be expended by Unesco, and on the other hand, a section which does not pre-suppose a budget to be expended by Unesco, but rather by Mexico herself. So it is, gentlemen, that we deem it necessary to bring to your notice both sections and, in order to justify as fully as possible our attitude and the conclusions based upon it, I am going to expound, under six short headings, Mexico's proposal and its basic attitude in regard to the Programme and Budget, prefacing what I say with the declaration that Mexico accepts the increase in the Budget and, even though it means for Mexico itself a considerable economic effort, our Government is prepared to make this effort. Mexico has the following proposal to make, which includes and amplifies my previous remarks. It reads : Whereas the purpose of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture, in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world without distinction of race, sex, language or religion, by the Charter of the United Nations; Whereas, to realize this purpose, the Organization will give fresh impulse to popular education and to the spread of culture : by collaborating with Members, at their request, in the development of educational activities; by instituting collaboration among the nations to advance the ideal of equality of educational opportunity without regard to race, sex or any distinctions, economic or social; by suggesting educational methods best suited to prepare the children of the world for the responsibilities of freedom ; « Whereas Unesco is a Specialized Agency of the United Nations; Whereas the United Nations includes among the aims of Article 55 of its Charter that of international co-operation in the cultural and educational field (Clause (b)), universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion, and the efficacy of such rights and liberties (Clause (c)); Whereas Article 56 of the Charter of the United Nations establishes that all Members shall engage themselves to take measures jointly or independently, in co-operation with the United Nations, for the realization of the aims specified in Article 55 of the same Charter; Whereas with a view to preserving the independence, integrity and fruitful diversity of the cultures and educational systems of the Member States of Unesco, the Organization is prohibited from intervening in matters which are essentially within the sphere of domestic jurisdiction (Paragraph 3 of Article 1 of the Constitution of Unesco); Whereas no disposition of the Charter of the United Nations authorizes it to intervene in matters which are essen- tially within the domestic jurisdiction of States; Whereas the collaboration of the Member States with the United Nations and Unesco to contribute to peace, through Education, requires that the Member States re-organize their education as requisite, to conform to pacific and democratic principles, respect for the dignity and worth of the person, and equality and the fundamental freedoms of all ; Whereas for the practical realization of all these purposes it is essential that all Member States of Unesco should adopt effective pedagogic principles in order to establish educational systems that enable the citizen to respect in his behaviour, both in himself and in others, the dignity and worth of the person, and democratic freedoms; The delegation of the Mexican Government to the General Conference of Unesco proposes :
1. That it be agreed that the Member States undertake the task of studying the perfecting of agreements made among — 287 —    themselves and within the framework of Unesco, for the pur- pose ofestablishing school systems for practical international understanding, in which shall be adopted the educational methods best fitted to prepare the children and adults of the whole world for the responsibilities implied by freedom.
2. That, to achieve this, it is necessary to determine the basic pedagogic principles conducive to an essentially demo- cratic culture, based upon the dignity and worth of the indi- vidual regarded as the heirto all liberties, within the framework of lasting peace, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion. Mexico requests that its proposal be transmitted to the appropriate consultative agencies; it requests that Regional Conferences be organized, and that in general, all necessary measures be adopted to make the fullest possible study of its proposal and also of the plans of study, program- mes, text-books, teaching methods,etc., which may serve as guides to each Member State in establishing a system of schools embodying the educational methods most apt to Unesco's principal aim.
3. That as soon as possible an expert committee shall carry out all the necessary preparatory work for the drafting of a text embodying those educational principles, systems, plans of study, programmes, etc., conducive to international understanding which Member States should undertake within their respective sovereignties.
4. That, finally, there be drawn up, through the appro- priate legal channels, an agreement in and by which the Member States of Unesco may establish their new national systems of education.
5. That, pending the completion of the above, each Member State, basing itself on the Constitution of Unesco, shall seek, within ¡ts jurisdiction, a way of founding forthwith a system of educational institutions and schools which could be called « UnescoPilot Schools», or simply « Unesco Schools» ; designed to obtain practical experience which may be extended to all the other schools and educational institutions of the nation, with the aid not only of the Government but also of private citizens. Mexico proposes that each Member State shall establish, in so far as possible and in accordance with its particular educational problems and systems, Unesco insti- tutions and sohools.
6. The training of teachers in Training Colleges must be an essential part mn fulfilling the educational tasks referred to above, to which end the instruction in Teachers’ Training Colleges must be so designed to produce teachers apt for the cause of peace and democracy.
7. To facilitate the legal position of Member States of Unesco in the necessary re-organization of their educational systems in accordance with the requirements of peace and democracy, Mexico suggests that they should individually adopt the constitutional principles of Unesco and include them in their political constitutions, in the Section concerning Education. The Mexican delegation informs the Second General Conference of Unesco that during 1948 it will commence the re-organization of the training for teachers given in the Republic, in conformity with the principles of Unesco; it will also begin to found its system of Unesco Schools, of primary, secondary and higher grades. In regard to University Teaching, Mexican practice has for some time conformed to the ideals of Unesco, but it will now intensify the revision ofits teaching; it will institute essential modifications in its key curricula, for civic training (such as ethics, sociology, etc.) and will found Pilot Courses, organize series of Conferences and adopt other measures for the civic and demoeratic training ofits graduates, as also ofits student population. Basing itself on sub-section (b) of para. 2 of Article 1 of the Constitution ol Unesco, the Mexican delegation asks the Organization for full co-operation, both in these tasks and for the perfecting of pedagogic principles based on democracy and freedom, which project is already in hand. As can be gathered from the proposal of the Mexican delegation to the General Conference of Unesco, Mexico, besides paying its quota to the budget of Unesco for 1948, will make certain expen- diture for the establishing of the educational system, which has already been briefly explained. This leads the Mexican delegation to state that without doubtits proposals conform to the draft programme for 1948. However, it also wishes to make the point that, to our mind, the centre of gravity of Unesco’s programme of activities should be educa- tion, in which the part of science and culture must be functionalized ; in our view all science falls within the sphere of teaching of education; there is nu form of culture which does notfall within the sphere of teaching or of education; generally speaking, science is culture and education is culture. The act for education is, in effect, the assimilation of culture, and if this be so, then we cannot conceive of science or culture as unconnected. It is good that these matters should be approached from the point of view not only of the school but also of the world around and the world beyond the school, as Unesco itself has done, but perhaps one of the first and most important duties of Unesco is that of forming world education in order to train not only children but also adults to face the responsibilities implied by freedom,as is explicit in Unesco’s Consti- tution. To sum up, the delegation of Mexico, as we have already said, accepts the increase in the budget. It requests that the activities which Mexico itself is to undertake should figure in the programme and that in that programme should figure also the activities proposed by Mexico to all the Member States of Unesco. None the less, Mexico declares that, even if the stress in Unesco’s programme of activities is not laid on education, education functionalizing science and culture, Mexico will in any case continue to make all possible efforts in support of Unesco’s work. But in any case it requests that, should the contrary opinion prevail, this should not mean the setting aside of the suggestion made in the pro- posal I have just put before you, in the document which will be submitted to the different Working Parties. The GHAIRMAN : I take it there is still no motion before the Conference as to the total amount. I would draw your attention to the fact that it is now a quarter to one and we are supposed to have reached a total figure by 1.30, which is perhaps optimistic. It is entirely for the Conference to say at what — 288 —    point they wish an actual amount to be moved by somebody. I call on the delegate of the United Kingdom. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I may begin by quoting some remarks made by Mr. Pierce yesterday. Mr. Pierce insisted, as I think did many other delegates, that « the immediately essential must take precedence over the eventually desirable». May I quote again, from your own remarks, Mr. Chair- man : «A crisp, concise programme » was one phrase; «Unesco is concerned with ways and means» was another you used. Then may I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the starry-eyed idealism referred to in vivid terms by the honourable leader of the United States delegation. He insisted that vision and idealism should be closely allied with what was practicable. I think in speech after speech delegates insisted that we must be practical and keep our feet firmly on the ground in envisaging the programme for 1948. This morning the honourable delegate of South Africa spoke in wordsvery like these: representatives of countries who are speaking to-day upon this particular item of the agenda should say in broad terms what their attitude is towards the programme for 1948. So it, seems, Mr. Chairman,as if we are all agreed that we have to speak to-day in practical terms con- cerning what is possible in the coming twelve months, but never losingfaith in the eventual great deeds that Unesco can accomplish : vision allied all the time with what is practical; vision allied with efficiency. We members of the British delegation accept the form of the programme which has been presented to us. In the speech I have to make this morning I want to ally that form, which we accept, in the Green Book, with the figures prepared in the appropriation table, which gives us details of a proposed budget for 1948. And the attitude we take — allying these figures with the generally accepted proposals in the Green Book — our general view is that, being practical and yet remaining visionary, a good pro- gramme is possible — it is possible to execute a good programme — within the suggested figure of $ 7,000,000. Please understand that this "ig not a proposal on my part. The United Kingdom is prepared at all times to work whole-heartedly within a figure decided by this Conference, but we suggest, in order perhaps to get down to realistic figures, that it is possible to have a good programme in 1948 with an overall budget of $7,000,000. Later the Conference may decide that this is not the right figure and may want a bigger budget, and I want to assure you again that the United Kingdom is prepared to play its part. That figure was mentioned this morning by the Nether- lands delegate, and he gave in considerable detail his explanation of such an overall figure, and I propose to give my interpretation of that samefigure. First of all, I want to make it perfectly clear that we completely understand, as the delegate of South Africa pointed out, the full implications of the sum of over $ 4,000,000 concerning personnel. I think all delegates here realize that this is not simply an overhead expense, that it includes per- sonnel who are actually carrying out a programme, and not merely what are usually termed administra- tive officers. With that explanation of where we stand, may I proceed, Mr. Chairman, to make sugges- tions, supposing the Conference were to agree that a budget of $ 7,000,000 was the right one? I am not going through this item by item, but shall do what the delegate the Netherlands did, and give a few illustrations. It is realized that in the coming year — maybe in many years that lie ahead — we are absolutely pledged to devote our energies in a great measure to problems of reconstruction, so that I can envisage within this overall figure of $ 7,000,000 no cut in the figure for reconstruction proposed by the Director-General. That is one illustration. Another illustration would consist in those items whose importance demands an increased figure. Take mass communication : many delegates have referred in their speeches at this Conference to the dire necessity of using all means at our disposal for «selling» Unesco to the bewildered and frustrated peoples of the world. If we can find suitable pro- jects to increase the use of mass communication for this purpose, if we can approve such projects,if we can insist on going into action, going into produc- tion, then I think you will require, in addition to the proposed figure, perhaps $ 500,000. If, on the other hand, the Conference decides that 'it is too early to proceed with the extension of mass communication methods, if we are to continue with last year’s programme, if we are to continue laying the foundations in regard to this particular item, then we would suggest no increase was justifiable. The figure would remain as printed. Then some illustrations of cases where we think the figures are justified. In regard to the exchange of persons,it is essential at the earliest opportunity to collect information which will enable us to know what is being done in all countries. ‘In so doing we shall discover gaps. We mustthen fill the gaps. We shall discover overlapping. We must then eliminate the overlapping so that one would suggest that in an item concerned with the exchange of persons no cut need necessarily be proposed. — 289 — '9        Then in regard to asubject inwhichyou, Mr. Chair- man, are intensely interested, and have great ex- perience — mass education — Unesco must continue to be a clearing-house of information. We must continue to organize and sponsor where we can pilot projects and associated projects. We continue then in this field of action, and again one would suggest no cut in the proposed figure 1s justifiable. In regard to the field of patural sciences, our scientists in Britain are satisfied with Unesco's scientific work; and, in the realm of grants-in-aid to scientific endeavour the world over, Unesco is playing a great and magnificent part. Therefore, once more, one might suggest that no cut is justi- fiable in the figure proposed. On the other hand, there are other examples one might give by way of illustration — examples which deserve the proposed figure, but have not yet justi- fied it in the realm of action. May I take the over-all subject of education? And I use the term «over-all» because for my purpose I want it to include education for international understanding and I want it to exclude fundamental education, which I have already mentioned, Is it possible that under this heading Unesco in
1948 can do a magnificent and a vivid piece of work among the educationalists, the teachers, and the children in the schools? I believe it is possible to organize a magnificent essay competition. Tam not going into the details of any such project from this platform this morning, but I do know that young people could be fired in countries all over the world if a certain number of prizes were available for each country — and prizes which struck the imagination of the young as well as of their teachers. Such a prize might well be that, from each country, four or six or eight young people from sixteen or seventeen years of age to twenty would go to Paris and learn of the great French civilization and would be brought directly into contact with the headquarters of Unesco House. It is, it seems to me, with that kind of pro- ject that you would fire the imagination of those children in the schools which I referred to in my address the other day as being as yet almost un- touched by Unesco’s work. Then, too, under this over-all phrase «education» we ought to have conferences again in 1948 as we have had them in 1947, conferences of educators on educational subjects. How important it is that teachers in one country should learn how teachers teach in other countries! How important it is to exchange ideas about the right kind of text-booksto suit particular types of children or particular age- groups! May I suggest that,if we rigorously cut out enqui- ries,if we cutout those eternal questionaires nawhich simply baffle most individuals in most countries throughout the world to-day, if Unesco can take a lead there and drop enquiries for the time being as far as possible and abolish all questionnaires for the next twelve to twenty-four months, then in the realm of education we can work under the proposed figures. Weuse educationthen as a means of letting people know about Unesco. In that way we fulfil one of the prime objects of a Conference like this : to create international understanding. In other words, it is possible — doing these things in the realm of educa- tion which I have taken as an example — to do a first-class job of work. Not for the sum proposed here, $ 492,000, but for a sum considerably smaller — a sum, I suggest, of $ 300,000. Now may we go on to certain items which we feel might be cut until a concrete programme is ready. And here I speak with very great hesitation, ladies and gentlemen, because I am one who practises in a very small way — a very small way — in the realm of one of the arts. I am one of those educationalists who go up and down my country pleading all the time for the close association of the arts with the day-to-day teaching in the schools. But we must be practical. We cannotwait here until there are con- crete programmes and budgets associated with arts and letters, with social sciences, with the libraries, with the museums, with philosophy and the human-
1t1es. I am unhappy about this, as is everybody who remembers the ideals of Unesco and its all-embracing title. But can we, not having got ambitious projects yet worked out in these particular items; can we, remembering all the time that they provide the sunshine for the human spirit; can we say that for twelve months — and that is the discussion we are concerned with this morning — get rid of the heavy overheads here and, in certain directions, cut the staff? Then I think, taking the total figure of eight and a half million dollars, perhaps there are other means of saving and yet never deserting our reasons for being at this Conference of Unesco. Is it possible that we could hold a conference next year in Paris, where the headquarters are situated, and that this conference might be briefer in duration and might be very mucha business conference? Is it possible to suggest no further increase in staff in 1948 and, associated with that, a reduction in the number of replacements, and, as the delegate of the Nether- lands suggested, a modified short-term recruitment policy? Could I also make the suggestion that we could reconsider, with benefit to our budget for 1948, the whole policy ofresidence allowances? We conld — 290 —    at the earliest opportunity review the administrative organization. Like many here — and I am going to be frank about it — I have not felt happy about the administrative organization in the past twelve months. I have felt — I will be frank again — that the Executive Board itself may not yet have realized, through lack of experience, what its chief and most valuable function might be in regard to connecting what we decidé on at a Plenary Conference, the pro- jects we insist upon, with the working out of these projects, and decisions by the Administration on these points. Mr. Chairman, we were asked yester- day, and the day before, to keep our feet firmly upon the ground. We were asked, when these discussions began, to be practical. All I have done, on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation, is to make suggestions. 1 have not proposed a figure of $ 7,000,000. Al I have tried to illustrate is that, in our opinion, with such a figure (and we know that many delegations are feeling that this is the figure to be aimed at) it is possible,it is practical, nay, itis desirable with the state of most of the world to-day, to see that Unesco shows that it means business and yet maintains its vision and its idealism. The CHAIRMAN I call upon the delegate of Nor- way. M. Rolf CHRISTENSEN (Norway) : Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen : I shall only take three minutes of your time. Norway participated in the work which led to the formation of Unesco andis vitally interested in its work and strongly in favour of its aims. Ноу- ever, it is the desire of the Norwegian Governmentto stress that, during the present difficult period, the work of Unesco must be limited to certain great and fundamental tasks of immediate importance. There- fore, the Norwegian Government would not favour the extension of personnel and administration ex- penses, and it would like to see the amounts appro- priated to purely administrative purposes limited as far as possible. Most countries have great financial difficulties at the present time, and it is the aim of each responsible government to be self-supporting. In these circumstances, the contribution to Unesco, along with the contribution to the United Nations and many other international obligations, may weigh heavily on ‘their budgets. The Norwegian Govern- ment think that, in view of the present erisis, the contributions now in force should not be increased in 1948. With the increased membership, this might mean a budget of $ 6,500,000. It is regrettable that money should play such an important part in idealistic work of such magnitude, but this is, nevertheless, a fact that must be consi- dered soberly. It would also be in the interests of Unesco and its future to proceed carefully and — 291 thoughtfully, planning for a perpetuation ofits work. It would be disastrous for this Organization if any country should find itself unable to carry the burdens placed upon it. The CHAIRMAN : I call upon the delegate of Brazil. Professor Paulo DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translationfrom the French) : Mr. Chairman, my dear colleagues, we are now reaching the heart of our discussions with the fixing of a ceiling figure for the budget. Allow me first to quote a few figures to you. If we compare the budget proposed and adopted for 1947 with the one which has been submitted to us for the year 1948, we see that the new States admitted to Unesco represent about 4.6 per cent of the total budget. If we compare the percentage that each State will have to pay for the realization of Unesco’s programme, we shall find for most of the States a decrease ; but if we consider the sums to be paid out, there is a slight increase. Here are two examples which I have taken at random : for a country which in 1947 paid 2.27 per cent we find in 1948, 2.06 per cent; and another country which paid in 1947
14.07 per cent, has to pay in 1948, 12.77 per cent. Forneither is the actual increase in the contribution more than 10 per cent. The problem, stating it in figures, is then this : We are prepared to ask not only our governments but our people to contribute about 10 per cent more for Unesco's programme to be slightly en- larged in comparison with 1947. lam quite ready, on behalf of my delegation, to accept this under- taking on the condition that, in the discussion which we are going to have on the programme itself, we can give our Governments and our people an assurance that in return for this increase of
10 per cent we require of them, they will receive real benefits and a state of moral and intellectual peace which is the fore-runner of political peace; that this 10 per cent will bring to us a moral streng- thening and comfort, and will enable us to develop international co-operation. If that is so, I sin- cerely believe, gentlemen, that it will represent a wonderful economy, the finest and most valuable economy. The CHAIRMAN : I call upon the delegate of New Zealand. Miss L. McPHEE (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman, do I understand thatthis is the last speech on the general question of the Programme — that unless one speaks now one does not have another oppor- tunity to speak, but that we proceed to the budget figure ?    The CHAIRMAN : The decision rests entirely with the meeting whether or not they go on with this general discussion. But supposing somebody should, immediately after lunch, manage to put forward an actual detailed proposal as a motion, then it would no longer be possible to speak except to that budget figure. In any case it is not possible to bring forward any other motion, but people would have then to speak to that budget figure. They could, however, still speak about the Programme in exactly the same terms as they did this morning, so long as what they had to say had reference to the budget figure. Miss L. MePHEE (New Zealand) : T think that, now I am on my feet, I may as well continue. I do not want to propose a budget figure, but I' do want to give you some of the views of the New Zea- land delegation on the Programme as it has been presented to us, and also some of our ideas about the way we might proceed if this motion for the reduc- tion of the Budget comes before us. The New Zealand delegation will support a pro- posal for the reduction of the Budget on one condi- tion only, namely that this year the Programme Commission and the Conference really tackle the problem of selecting the essential programme projects for 1948, and eliminating from the Pro- gramme everything which is unessential or may interfere with the effective prosecution of the most urgent and rewarding tasks which Unesco must undertake in 1948 and in which some substantial progress must be made if the Organization is to survive. We have in this Programme presented to us by the Executive Board, between eighty and ninety separate projects. I think we would all agree that we cannot possibly tackle all the programme pro- jects in this list. If each were given some attention in 1948, no substantial progress would be made in any one of them,evenif we had the largerfigure of $ 8,500,000 — and it appears now that some people are thinking of considerably smaller sums. The New Zealand delegation considers that any move for the reduction of the Budget must be accompanied by concrete suggestions as to how and where reductions may be made, and on this point I would congratulate some of the speakers this morning on making quite clear to us just where their delegations would cut the Programme and where they see a possibility in the Budget of reduc- ing by quite definite sums. Upon the degree to which we can disencumber the Programme of all non-urgent or impracticable schemes depends the degree to which we are justified in paring the bud- getary estimates. We must not this year evade our responsibilities. We must not present the Organization with the impossible task of executing an inflated Programme which cannot be accomplished within the limits of the staff or the finance available to it. We must recognize that we have a very difficult task before us. We shall need all our courage to eliminate many projects which, though attractive in themselves and which may have our own personal support and the support of interested groups in © our countries, are not urgent in terms of the over- riding purpose of the Organization to contribute to peace and security. The Programme before us has many of the cha- racteristics of the earlier programmes which we have had before us over the past two years. I must confess to you that, when we presented it to our National Commission, we did so with’ considerable diffidence, and it received very severe criticism from the National Commission. This concerned largely the manner of its presentation. We in New Zealand had hoped that the Executive Board would, this year, have presented us with a clear, precise and concrete programme of action for 1948. The leader of the New Zealand delegation protested yesterday against the words« stimulate », « promote » and «encourage». I think we must give a word of explanation on this point. We agree that the functions of stimulation, promotion and encourage- ment are functions of Unesco, but what we object to is the use of these words to preface Programme projects where no indication is given as to how and when the projects are going to be carried out. It was said in New Zealand that in this programme we had the original «cavalcade of hobby horses» of the Preparatory Commission's programme docu- ment. When we were presented with this docu- ment, someone made a very dramatic speech about the «cavalcade of hobby-horses», and we have never forgotten that phrase in New Zealand ; but this time they were obscured in the mists thrown up by the words «promote», «stimulate» and «encourage». Is it too much to hope that the Commission will work out, and this Conference will approve, a pro- gramme which is clear, crisp and limited — that in respect of each project the proposed method of action will be indicated and that adequate and pre- cise budgetary allotments will be made for each pro- ject to enable the Organization to prosecute the 1948 programme next year ? May I in all humility suggest to the Executive Board that next year, when they are considering their programme proposals for 1949, they present us with this type of programme, which all Member States can present with confidence to their legisla- tures,their National Commissions and their peoples ? —292 —    The New Zealand delegation considers that we must concentrate on three main programme propo- sals for this year : the very important programme project of Reconstruction, which is vital to the life of the Organization; Fundamental Education, which we feel should receive a larger expenditure of money and personnel; and a wider project for International Understanding and Exchange of Persons — the enquiry into the Tensions affecting International Understanding, and an increased emphasis on the use of Mass Media — all those projects by which we hope to create a peaceful intent in the minds of men, To make real progress in these three large fields we must face the possibility of the rejection of many other programme items, or their reduction to the role of continuing services. This may mean a drastic regrouping of the Unesco Secretariat, and I think we may have confidence in the fairminded- ness of the various professional groups and in their ‘desire for the survival of Unesco if, where it cannot be clearly demonstrated that autonomy is essential to the effective carrying out of their service roles and their important contribution to the main programme projects decided upon, they are amalgamated with related Sections in the Secre- tariat. As an example, may I suggest to you that the Sections on Libraries, Museums, Arts and Letters could probably be amalgamated without loss of efficiency ? I said earlier that we must be prepared to see eliminated some of the items in which we have a special interest. I am a librarian by profession, and I have there- fore a special interest in the Libraries Section; but for 1948, when the main projects of the Libra- ries Section should, I think, be to service the Recon- struction Section and to have a considerable number of Library projects to contribute to the Fundamental Education programme and the programme on inter- national understanding, the Libraries Section might amalgamate with the other Sections with related interests. And we must have a really large project for the creation of the right attitude to other people by all people in all countries. There again, I think, the Libraries Section might amalgamate with the other Sections with related interests. We must quite clearly reject from the 1948 programme those projects on which the United Nations, through either its Commissions or its Specialized Agencies, may already have initiated action. I think that when we considered the 1948 programme we felt there was considerable overlap- ping, and this must be eliminated in 1948, by better understanding between Unesco and the United Nations. Out of this programme I would   instance a few items where it is obvious that Unesco and the Economic and Social Council are overlap- ping. If we take ILB.la, Freedom of Information, we know that the Economic and Social Council adopted atits last session the agenda for a Freedom of Information Conference to be held next year, and resolved to request the Secretary-General to prepare the necessary documentation under each item of the proposed agenda for the Conference, and, should he deem it necessary, to seek the co- operation of Unesco and other international orga- nizations working in this field. We think that Unesco should not undertake in this field anything more than it is asked to do, although we consider that, since this was one of our projects, it was unfor- tunate that it was not decided to hand the question of Freedom of Information over to Unesco instead of giving it to another Organization; but I think we must only do what we are asked to do. On Section TI. D. 4 ¢, International Law, ‘the United Nations Assembly has already set up a com- mittee to consider the question ofthe codification of International Law. Any action by Unesco would be inadvisable until its recommendations are made known. On Human Rights, III.1, there is a special com- mission of the Economic and Social Council dealing solely with this subject, which has highly conten- tious political implications, and it would seem we must in all cases wait for a request before under- taking any special research in this field. Town and Country Planning, IV.C.I, is already under action in the Social Commission of the Econo- mic and Social Council. All these things are desirable in themselves, but we obviously are going to be faced with a limited budget, and must not overlap with work being done by other organizations. While on the subject of IV.C.I., which you find on page 21, may I say that certain items, 4-6, appear to us to be outside our field, and should be rejected from our programme. Unesco has enough prob- lems without intervening in this field. Now I was relieved to hear the United Kingdom delegate speak with such a large measure of agree- ment with our views on Reconstruction and Funda- mental Education, Mass Communication and Ex- change of Persons. We have, however, some reservations about the Natural Sciences. It has been the feeling in New Zealand, in some important and influential quarters, that the Natural Sciences tended to swamp — or in any case the emphasis tended to swamp — other branches of the work of the Organization, and we — 993: —
194                                                                                                                                     regret very much to observe that Education appears to have been put into a very secondary position. While we await with interest the result of the discussions on the Natural Sciences in this Confe- rence, we certainly feel that this subject should not be given any greater emphasis than it has at the moment. There is one point particularly in the Education Programme which we have been very loth to see relegated to a secondary position, and that is the enquiry on text-books. We shall have more to say on that subject a little later on, when it is before you as a separate item of the programme. I would very strongly support the suggestion of the United Kingdom delegate that next year the Conference should be held in Paris. That, I feel, would result in a considerable saving of the energy and finance of the Organization, and I shall be very glad to see the Conference agree with that sugges- tion. We also accept the suggestion that there should be no increase of staff in 1948. We feel that, with a limited butreally efficientstaff, it would be possible to launch effectively the small number of principal programme projects which we adopt at this Conference. We havealso to think interms of doing something about the organization of the Secretariat. That will largely depend, of course, on the programme which we give the Secretariat. No doubt they will regroup their staff according to the programme projects that we assign to them. I will take up your time no longer; I think that we are all of the same opinion — enthusiastic on the subject of Unesco, or we should not be here to-day; but we must give the Secretariat a clear indication of what we want them to do, and what we expect them to do in 1948, and we can only do that if we make a clear and precise programme, and then see that they are given adequate finance to carry out our recommendations. The CHAIRMAN : I think the delegate of Poland would like to speak for one minute, which I hope will conclude this portion of the debate. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : This is not the time to go into details of the programme, but I will try to tell you what is the opinion of our delegation concerning the Budget. As at the Paris Conference, our delegation wishes to support the largest possible budget. We should be equally prepared to propose either $ 3,000,000 ог $ 200,000,000 If Unesco decided to confine itself to the task of co-ordination, $ 300,000 is enough. But it seems to us that a large budget up to perhaps $ 100,000,000 is necessary. However, as we know this proposal will not be seconded, my delegation will be content with seconding the Secretariat’s figure of $ 8,500,000. We do not believe that we could eliminate, as the delegate of Great Britain suggested, certain of the most important projects, such as those concerning arts and letters, museums, etc. That is all T have to say, Mr. Chairman. The CHAIRMAN : I must thank the delegate of Poland for keeping within his time-limit of sixty seconds. He mentioned seconding a motion. There is no motion yet before the Conference, but we gather that,if it were moved by someone, it would have his support. I am afraid we must inform the Secretariat, or ask them to inform the General Committee, that we are not yet ready with a budget figure which will make possible a plenary meeting this afternoon at
4 o'clock. If you are agreeable, therefore, this Commission will meet again at 4 p. m.and I hope someone will be in a position to put before us a definite figure. The meeting, ladies and gentlemen, stands ad- journed until 4 o'clock this afternoon. The meeting rose at 1.40. p. m.