FIFTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 2 December 1947, at 10 a. m. CONTENTS Page
29. Consideration of the Report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission. Speeches by delegates of Cuba, India, Brazil, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, the Director-General, and delegates of Canada, Australia, Polard, the Netherlands, Egypt, ©0461B00. President : M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon)
29. Consideration of the report of the Admini- strative and External Relations Ccmmis- sion. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Today's agenda calls for discussion of the report of the Administrative and External Relations Com- mission, document 2C/C2/12 of 29 November. I call upon the Rapporteur of the Commission, Senator Edgar H. Brookes. Senator E. H. BROOKES (Union of South Africa) (Rapporteur of the Administrative and External Relations Commission) : The report of the Adminis- trative and External Relations Commission is before you. I propose to read part of the report, with comments where necessary, but I will not weary vou by reading the whole of it. You have had it before you since yesterday. The Commission elected Dr. Han Lih-Wu of China as its Chairman and Dr. Howard E. Wilson of the United States of America as its Vice-Chairman, and considered the subjects mentioned in Annex I to this report. I think that the Commission would not wish me to pass from this point without mentioning our feelings of appreciation and, I think I may say, affection towards Dr. Han Lih-Wu as our Chairman, and our appreciation of our Vice-Chairman,Dr. Wil- son, and our Secretary, Mr. Arenales. The work of the Commission falls into two parts — administration, including financial and staff questions; and external relations. This year, per- haps of necessity, more time was given to the first half of the work, without derogation to the great importance of the second. Before proceeding to a detailed account of the action taken on the administrative half of the Com- mission’s work,it seemsright to adopt the somewhat unusual procedure of first summing up the general effect of its recommendations and the spirit in which it has made them. The Commission as a whole gave the most detailed and assiduous attention to this part of its work, and laid down what it believes to be sound foundations for future policy. We found ourselves faced with many of the inevitable disadvantages of an organi- zation which was necessarily a hastily improvised one and called to guide Unesco as to the principles on which future administrative policy should be based. There were differences of emphasis in our discussions, but a general measure of agreementthat, combined with a sound and prudent financial admin- istration and a serious eflort to avoid extravagance, waste and overlapping, should be a policy of buil- ding up a more permanent staff, adequately remu- nerated, its recruitment better distributed geogra- phically than at present, its members competent in every case for the work entrusted to them, and assis- ted to cope with the difficulties of life at Unesco headquarters. The comprehensive resolution which appears as Annex 117 sums up the common mind of the Commission on these matters. The Commission looks confidently to the working out of these prin- ciples by the Director-General during the coming year, and to a process of consolidation and good organisation, combined with a judicious policy of progress in the new fields approved by the General Conference. Then we went on to deal with financial questions. You will notice that in our report we refer to th — 157 —   various annexes. 1 do not know, Mr. President, what procedure you intend to follow, but I think the Commission would feel that we may take these annexes one by one and give an opportunity for dis- cussion on them and then putthe report as a whole. In any case a great deal of the substance of the Com- mission’s recommendations will, of course, be found in these annexes. On financial matters we gave much time to the report of the Executive Board on the financial admi- nistration of the Organization and to the auditors’ report. Wefeel that, with the action already taken and the action recommended by a special sub-com- mittee which went into the auditors’ report, the dangers of further financial irregularities and waste will be reduced to a minimum. There are directives given in Annex II, paragraph 5, on this matter. A recommendation is also made under this head in regard to Member States in arrears with their contri- butions. The Commission further went through the Financial Regulations, and certain approved amendments are published in Annex III. The report then goes on, as you will see, to staff questions. We laid down in Annex IV, which in our view is a very important annex, the principles of staff recruitment, organization and remuneration, and in Annex V you will find the amended Staff Regulations. The Staff Regulations have been amended and brought up to date or various points, Organizational questions are dealt with in Annex VI. Then,if you will follow the report, you will see the paragraph which I am going to read, headed «Rela- tions with Member States and Non-Member States» — page 3 of the report : The Commission has broken new ground with regard to the representation of Unesco in Member States, both by reconsidering first steps to implement the principle of Regional Offices and also by urging visits by key members of the Secre- tariat to strategic areas (see Annex III, paragraph 1). The Commission feels strongly the urgent need of greater knowledge of the Organization and its work in Member States, espe- cially those in remote parts of the world. The Commission has also advocated a change of policy regarding Non-Member States, in the direction of somewhat increasing the relative advantages of membership (see Annex I, paragraph 5). Further points of great importance are the resolutions indicating the future relations of the Organization with Ger- many and Japan (Annex III, paragraphs 6 and 7). And at the top of page 4 you will find a list of five matters on which recommendations have been made. Still following the report, on page 4 of the English text — National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies — I want to draw attention to a special set of resolutions, Annex VII, paragraph 9, which was based on the very valuable report of a special Working Party.
1 The next few points I will leave you to read — Rela- tions with the United Nations; Privileges and Immu- nities. Perhaps I should say that under Relations with the United Nations there was a rather important resolution passed concerning budgetary co-opera- tion between the United Nations and Unesco. I was asked, as Rapporteur, to draw your attention especially to that annex. Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies — Relations with the Specialized Agencies — Relations with other organizations. Here again we have made certain important proposals and issued certain directives to the Executive Board, and I am asked to draw your attention especiallyto this impor- tant proposed directive on the scope of future rela- tions with international non-governmental organiza- tions, contained in Annex VII, paragraph 17. I pass to the conclusion ofthe report: In conclusion, the Commission trusts that, facing, as it has done, an unusually heavy task, it has succeeded in laying down principles which are sound and which should put the good ship «Unesco» in a satisfactory condition for the voyages of adventure and discovery which it should make, resisting both the temptation to let it put out to sea in an unseaworthy condition and also the temptation to keep it safely and inglo- riously in harbour, Which is perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, another way of saying that it is a good thing to balance the budget and have a programme; but man does not live on budgets alone, and that is a point which I think we should keep very much in mind. I have much pleasure in moving the adoption of the report and of the annexes as a whole. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : If nobody wishes to speak on this report, we will study Annex II of document 2C/C2/12. Does anybody wish to speak to Annex II, which deals with the resolutions on financial questions? All those in favour of resolution of Annex II, section 1, Scale of Contributions, are asked to raise their hands. (On a vote taken by show of hands, section 1, Seale of Contributionsfor 1948, was approved). (V Section 2, Currency of Contributions. (On a vote taken by show ofhands, section 2, Currency of Contributions, was approved.) © Section 3, Payment of Contributions. (On a vote taken by show ofhands,section 3, Payment of Contributions, was approved.) © The final form of the Resolutions adopted by the General Con erence on the Report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission appears in ‘vol. II, pages
34-61. STE     Section 4, Financial statments. (On a vote taken by show ofhands, section 4, Financial Statements, was approved.) M. R. BASTIEN (Haiti) (Translation Jon the ‘rench) ; Mr. President, we received this document this morning. Will you allow us to read it before putting these different proposals to the vote? Ido not mean to read the whole document, but to read the different points separately as we go along. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We will wait a few minutes so that everyone can take full cognizance of the purportof the different resolu- tions. Does anybody wish to speak now? If not, I will put section 5 to the meeting. (On a vote taken by show ofhands, section 5, Financial Administration, was approved.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now turn to Annex III, Financial Regulations. This has been studied by our Commission and I suggest that we put Annex III, to the vote as a whole. (On a vote taken by show ofhands, Annex III, Finan- cial Regulations, as a whole, was approved.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We will now take Annex IV, Resolutions on Staff Questions. This annex has already been studied by the special Commission. (On a vote taken by a Show of hands, Annex IV, Resolutions ofStaff Questions, as a whole, was approved.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Annex V, Staff Regulations that have been revised. I propose that we follow the same procedure. (On a vote taken by show of hands, Annex V, Staff Regulations that have been revised, as a whole, was approved.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Annex VI, Resolution on Organization Questions. I propose that we follow the same procedure. (On a vote taken by show of hands, Annex VI, Reso- lution on Organization Questions, as a whole, was approved.) The PRESIDENT (Translation Jrom the French) : Annex VII, Resolutions on External Relations Ques- tions.
1. Representation of Unesco in the main cultural areas of the World. With regard to this point we have a proposal submitted by Cuba. Sr. G. GUELL (Guba) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : In relation to the motion which was approved by the Commission with regard to the establishment of regional centres, Cuba upholds that opinion, in the belief that such centres would fundamentally further the work and development of Unesco. In sociology as well as in biology there are great affinities. This Organization requires for its efficacy certain methods and a distribution of work. Consequently, regional centres, which serve as liaison units between the National Commissions and the requirements of each of the regions where centres are established, vis-á-vis Paris headquarters, are essential for efficient develop- ment. It cannot be said that this would slow down pro- gress; on the contrary, the permanent centre would continue the work and develop it. Consequently, Cuba maintains its opinion and leaves the motion in your hands. My delegation has also presented a motion comple- mentary to the one unanimously approved in the Commission on External Relations after it had gone through a sub-committee consisting of the delegates of the United States, India, the Rapporteur of the Commission and myself, who formulated the motion; and it was unanimously approved, I repeat. On the additional motion of Cuba, additional to the one we are discussing, I would request the Chair to per- mit that it be discussed when the delegations of the Latin American countries, now absent, are here. I think that the Conference should carefelly listen to their opinions, as they are vitally interested, before taking a vote. Consequently, I move we wait for further discussion until the arrival of the Latin-Ame- rican delegations. Professor H. J. BHABHA (India) : T do not wish to differ from the delegate of Cuba, but we are not quite sure whether it is necessary to postpone the discussion of this item; the conclusions seem to me to be fairly obvious. The Sub-Committee which was entrusted with the task of drafting a resolution on the subject did not considerit necessary to refer specifically in the resolution to a suggestion to have one of these liaison Unesco offices in Cuba; butthey had this in mind, and there were — I hope I am not giving away secrets — suggestions that the principle laid down in paragraph 3 (a) of the resolution would be fully satisfied if the first of these liaison offices were established in Cuba. I therefore have very great pleasure in supporting the suggestion that the first liaison office should be established as early as possible during 1948 in Cuba, not only for the reasons which have been put forward by the delegate of Cuba, not only because Guba has certain facilities which will to some extent be a relief to the budget of Unesco, but also because I think that for — 159 —    Unesco, having come to Latin-America this year, it would perhaps be more appropriate to make a start with these liaison offices in Latin-America, which has been made aware of Unesco's activities. Senator E. H. BROOKES (Rapporteur): I cannot, of course speak for the Commission as a whole on any matters on which it has not taken a definite resolution; but I think a word of explanation may be helpful. If you read our resolutions in Annex VII, section
1, you will see that we are recommending two things: first, the setting up of regional offices or centres of Unesco, with regard to which we are asking for consul- tation with the United Nations and Specialized Agen- cies and we are asking the Executive Board to consider suitable areas; and, secondly, we are recommending visits of key members of the Secretariat to several geographical regions of the world — a very important recommendation, which in some cases may be an alternative to setting up regional offices. In our discussions we felt it right to recommend, and did recommend unanimously, that one centre should be set up straight away. While we did not specify any area in our resolution, the general tenor of the debates was that it was the right moment to follow up the tremendous impetus gained by hold- ing this Conference in Mexico City. We should strike while the iron is hot, and not wait a year and let next year be too late. The suggestion that this centre might be in Cuba, and that facilities are available in Cuba without drawing on the budget, was made in the course of the debate. No resolution was taken on it, but I think our Commission would be completely unanimous on this point; I think there was a very considerable consensus of opinion for it, and for what my personal opinion is worth, I should like very strongly,as a delegate, to support the Cuban proposal. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translationfrom the French) : The Brazilian delegation supports with very great interest the proposals sub- mitted by Cuba, and moves that the first regional centre to be set up under the auspices of Unesco be established in 1948, and that its headquarters be in Havana. During the war, whenthe Institute of International Co-operation was in danger and we had to shelter it, it came to Havana, and there found a very congenial centre. We are convinced that this generous offer by Cuba of $ 10,000 to cover all the expenses of the installation of this first regional centre is a guarantee of its immediate establishment, and also of the very deep interest of the Cuban delegation. All the South American countries are very happy to see such an initiative taken at this meeting of the General Gonferenee. We all know full well that a project is being carefully watched by our Pan-American Union, namely, that a Cultural Commission should be set up as soon as possible, so as to answer the several needs of the Latin-American world. It seems to me that the initiative taken by the Cuban Governmentis in line with the suggestion we discussed in Bogota, and therefore Unesco will be present in the regional organization which we in the South American countries unanimously want to see set up. I propose that this Conference approve the pro- posal submitted by Cuba, which I think answers a very pressing need and a request which emanates from all the Latin-American countries — that is, that Unesco set up its first centre among us. We shall all do our best to give it our resources, enthusiasm and full co-operation. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, the United States delegation has been very sceptical about this whole idea of regional centres. The ultimate end of such a development might,of course, well be the establishment of a Unesco office in every single country. Surely every country here would welcome such an office. Secondly, we have felt that these offices, if esta- blished prematurely, might weaken the central Secre- tariat in Paris and the authority of the Secretariat. The problem has been to establish strong liaison between the Secretariat in Paris and the Member Countries. It may well be, as we have felt, that it is premature to begin to set up our own barriers, and these regional offices have seemed to us to be such barriers. Iwas particularly interested in Senator Brookes’ statement that he felt, and his committee felt, that there is an alternative to the idea of regional centres. If the viewpoint expressed by the delegates of Cuba and Brazil is correct ,l do not see why we need doubt the capacity of our Executive Board to reach such a conclusion after the study thatis called for in this first resolution. I dot not see why we need be in such a hurry here to precipitate ourselves into this new type of structure or organization. It is not at all clear to me what this regional office is to do. It sounds very plausible — let us have a regional office — but I am not clear as to its rôle, and its function, and its staffing and its cost. Thus, on behalf of the United States delegation, I reluctantly oppose the resolution just submitted by the delegate of Cuba. I say reluctantly, because, if there is to be one regional office launched experimentally this year, I know of no better place to establish it than in Havana and in the western hemisphere. The opposition comes from concern lest we pre- cipitately and without study embark through a General Conference debate on organizational — 160 —    procedures that may prove harmful to our Secreta- riat in Paris, and thus prove harmful to Unesco. Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, it is always a very thankless task to have to look a gift horse in the mouth, and we share the embarrassment which the delegate of the United States of America has indicated in venturing to suggest, as we do, the same caution he has asked for. The principles of this regional office were consi- dered in the External Relations Commission, which did no more than establish these guiding lines for future action, and we very much agree with the United States delegate that it would be better to follow the plan. which was laid out for us after very careful consi- deration by the Commission. We hope, of course, that our friends from Cuba will not take that as in any way an affront, and that they will exercise the required patience for the few months we think necessary in order to enable the Executive Board to look into this matter with the care it deserves. For that reason we support the opposition ably voiced by the delegate of the United States of Ame- rica. Dr. J. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (Translation fromthe Spanish) : Mr. President, I have listened with atten- tion to the remarks made by the delegates of the United States of America and of the United King- dom. I have also listened with great interest to the words of the delegate of Brazil. Iam of the opi- nion that there is a slight confusion. It might be convenient to keep in mind that the establishment of the regional office, which we suggest should be established in Cuba, is of a limited character. It is limited to the year 1948, and is intended as an experiment to test the efficacy of such a centre. Therefore, and since it is a question of an expe- riment, and will not cost Unesco one cent, I do not se: why we cannot vote for the Cuban proposal within the limitation which I have referred to. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr President, I think that, if the Canadian delegation had to choose a centre now, to open an office immediately, we would certainly choose Cuba. Cuba has made a very generous offer of a building, of $ 10,000 a year, and there will be no cost to Unesco. But there is one point which, I think, has not been mentioned yet in the debate. It is contained in paragraph (1) of the resolution (Annex VII) : «To establish as soon as possible, after consultation with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies.» That is what worries me, Sir. If the United Nations is set- ting up a regional office somewhere close to Cuba, to service the same zone, we would not want to set up a regional office nearby even at no cost to Unesco. It is not a matter ofcost at all : one of our obligations is to avoid overlapping and duplication, and we run the danger of doingsoif, before consulting the United Nations and Specialized Agencies, we embark on a regional office. Perhaps we could include in our resolution an instruction that, in the consultation with the United Nations and Specialized Agencies, we mention the opportunity that Cuba is giving us to establish a regional office without cost, and do everything we can to see that one regional office which may serve several organizations be established in Cuba. I think we might incorporate some of that thinking into our general resolution, but I feel that we are not discharging our general obligation to the United Nations and Specialized Agencies if we embark, without consultation, on the establishment of a regional office anywhere. I am sorry I did not give this enough thought to suggest any wording, but perhaps we can empha- size our desire to set up the first office in Cuba, and ask that that shall be borne in mind in our discussion with the United Nations and Specialized Agencies. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I should like to say a few words on this subject. Sir, this is my personal history. The first thing which I did after routine work, on being asked to be Secretary- General of the Preparatory Commission, was to prepare a memorandum on this very subject of regional offices. It is one which I regard as of the highest importance. I have taken it up : it was the first thing I put on the agenda of Unesco for the Co-ordinating Committee of the United Nations. I have also visited Cuba, and I know what an ad- mirable centre it would be for a regional office for either the Latin-American region as a whole, or perbaps preferably for the Caribbean region. But I must confess that I view with great misgiv- ings the idea of committing ourselves at this mo- ment to setting up a regional office in Guba or anywhere else, first of all for the reason which the Canadian delegate has given. I have pledged myself that Unesco shall consult the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies before we set up any regional offices anywhere. That is the first point. Incidentally, some people have said we have a regional office in the United States. We have not : we have a liaison office with the United Nations. I just wanted to clear up that point. Secondly, we feel that we have not yet, either in the Secretariat, the Executive Board or the Confe- rence itself, if I may say so, cleared our minds suffi- ciently about the implications of regional offices : the great need for combining all the Specialized — 161 —    Agencies and the United Nations in one building with common services, the great need for being extremely careful that the site is the best possible oneforthe region, the need for delimiting the region, and so forth. Thirdly, we feel that for the present the best way in which we can ensure liaison with the regions of the world from headquarters is by getting Member Governments to set up strong National Commissions. Tt will be only through the agency of such National Commissions that regional offices can function properly. The Government of Cuba has set up, in the last few weeks, a National Commission. We welcome this very much, as I say; but for the moment I personally feel that the best way of working on this problem of the regional offices is to strengthen the ational Commissions in all countries, and then per- haps a year hence we can decide on a regional centre in which they can all participate. Finally, there is one point which sounds un- grateful, but I must makeit. The question was raised by certain speakers that this would cost Unesco nothing. So far in our thinking on this matter we have always — and I believe rightly — considered that the regional offices must not be formed out of the region. They must not be essentially local Unescos: that would tend to disrupt the world into potentially competing cultural regions. We have always worked on the principle, both in our thinking in the Secretariat and in the discussions in the Executive Board, that the only proper way to organize such offices would be by regarding them as outliers from the centre, with constant change of personnel, a great deal oftravel, and so forth. For that reason, I think it would be very difficult to fit into this our idea of a regional office, even if it were for one year temporarily, which was staffed by personnel provided by the Cuban Government, however generous such an offer may be. I think it would be very difficult to fit this into our conception of regional offices, and therefore I would add my views to those of the delegations who have spoken, not against the proposal but against the proposal to set up this one office immediately. Sr. G. GUELL (Cuba) (Translationfrom the Spanish): First of all, I wish to thank the delegates for their very generous words with regard to my country as the site of the disputed cultural centre. Next I should like to say that the principal motion which is being discussed — and here I repeat what I have already said — was approved unanimously in the Com- mission after having been submitted to a sub-com- mittee of three, formed by those who objected to certain aspects of the original motion or who offered amendments which fitted into the text of the mo- tion, The combined motion of the three delegations was approved unanimously. However, the important point seems to be that there is a fear in certain quarters that the establishment of this centre might interfere with the consultations provided for in the original motion before you, and that it might hinder the work instead of facilitating it. It is my view that the contrary would be the case. How, gentlemen, are we to judge of the establishment of these cultural centres as a whole without having any practical guide, without any concrete facts upon which to base our judgment? It would be better to discuss, in 1948, or whenever it is thought fit, not in a theoretical manner but on practical grounds, the significance of these cultural centres — to consider them with concrete facts before us. It would be better to have an accurate idea of how they might function and of whether it is useful to establish them immediately. There is no doubt that the establishment of a centre, with all its activities, would afford a magni- ficent opportunity for observation and study and would produce fruitful results. It seems to me that it would canalize the work of the correspond- ing National Commissions and would encourage the establishment of National Commissions which have not yet been set up. The subsequent results might be compared with the work developed in other regions when leadership comes from a far-off office without a centre of support. This useful knowledge which would be acquired, these aspects of the mat- ter, might be communicated to others and corre- lated, and on this basis norms of procedure might be established. Moreover, the termsof the principal resolution before you give wide latitude for consul- tation. How can we interpret this in the sense that the establishment of the centre — which can later be confirmed and ratified by the 1948 Conference, — is contrary to the provisions for consultation when its development out of its own resources will facilitate discussions on the setting up of regional offices in the future and enable us to pass judgment, favourable or unfavourable, on a sound basis? This would be an opportunity for us to see errors which we might incur, and we might thus avoid them. We should be able to see the advantages inherent in this scheme, and it would affort all the necessary elements to enable us more efficiently to exploit those advantages for the benefit of all. Finally, we might note what cannot be done and then supply the necessary requirements, so that the centre could be put into working order, with the resources which Unesco might then contribute. With regard to ils expenses, I have already said that the Cuban Government has a building and a
162 —    credit of $ 10,000. I would remind you, gent- lemen, ‘in order to refute certain references which I consider very well intentioned but not corresponding to reality, that, in the dark moments when war prevented the meeting of the International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation and the mem- bers of the Institute were scattered throughout the world, the Cuban Government, with the building and the credit which it now offers to Unesco, housed in 1941 all the representatives of the International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation. That was a very successful meeting and enabled us to maintain links with important elements for the ennoblement of the spirit and for mutual understanding between countries, both of which are conducive to peace. It is said that these credits are reduced. Un- doubtedly they are; but we do not intend perpetu- ally to continue this organization with such small credits, and that is why we say ’until 1948’, when Unesco will work out the financial co-operation it can give as well as the financial support it may give to any other cultural centres that we may decide to establish. Cubais willing, if it is accepted by this Conference, to organize the work in agreement with the Nationai Commissions and the central headquarters at Paris. We will make every effort to ensure that the officials shall not draw their salaries unless the items in question are approved by Unesco. We are willing that all the workers — the translators, the opera- tors of the technical apparatus and all the necessary personnel for the carrying out of the work — shall be covered by the $ 10,000 and, moreover, that officials of Unesco shall then come to the Republic of Cuba and (in accordance with the scales laid down by the Executive Board and the Secretariat) take the necessary measures for the efficient operation of the office. They can come to Cuba at a nominal price and have good lodgings in hotels and meals, in addition to the other privi- leges extended to accredited diplomats in Cuba, to help them with the problems ofliving and enable them to carry out their duties. I think we could use two or three officials of Unesco to co-operate with this office. I am not going to embark upon other arguments. Many delegates have spoken in support of this pro- posal and of Cuba's offer. Finally, I believe we should carefully consider, before voting, the im- portance of being able to read in an open book, in a straightforward way, the exact development of that office instead of taking an arbitrary decision without knowing just how it ean be done. That is my fundamental argument. I hope that the vote will be based on the desire of all for the best possible development of Unesco, and I think that my proposal, which has been supported by so many delegates, is the best way of furthering Unesco’s aims. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, I think it would be distressing if we had to vote for or against Cuba here, because those of us who would vote against it, would not be against Cuba. I speak for ourselves; we should have to vote against the Cuban resolution only because we feel that our obligations as a Member of the United Na- tions, and our position here as a Specialized Agency do not justify us in setting up a regional office before we consult the United Nations. I am convinced that if we follow this practice other Specialized Agencies will choose their own regional offices, too, and we shall be embarrassed by duplication and lack of co-ordination. Î very much hope that the delegate of Cuba will see his way to accepting this amendment, and I move : To insert a new paragraph 2. Paragraph 1 refers to the need for consultation, and paragraph 2 would say : The representatives of Unesco who conduct the consulta- tions shouyd place befose the United Nations and the Special- ized Agencies the generous offer of the Cuban delegation, made at the Second General Conference of Unesco, as well as the expression of views of the delegates to the Conference, and the value of opening a regional office in Cuba. Then in paragraph 3, which now becomes 4, in the last line of (a) after the word «regions» add : «especially the offer of the Cuban Government mentioned in paragraph 2. Paragraph (a) would then read : (a) The Executive Board is instructed to consider imme- diately the possibility of establishing at least one such office or centre during 1948, bearing in mind the needs of different regions as well as facilities likely to be available in those regions, and especially the offer ofthe Cuban Government mentioned in paragraph 2.» Mr. G. JOCKEL (Australia) : The Australian dele- gation would like to second the Canadian amendment, in its present form. At this time we should have to vote against the Cuban proposal as submitted. We entirely endorse the remarks of the Canadian representative and we would draw attention to the fact that our formal constitutional agreement with the United Nations provides that regional offices shall be associated as far as practicable with the Uni- ted Nations regional offices. That sentence implies certain obligations. It implies consultation and it implies finding out whether or not it is practicable to have our offices co-ordinated with the United Nations offices. We cannot make a decision until we have enquired into that point. — 163 —
11.     MH H T T H T T i c o n M H H y . o n я Secondly, I think it would be quite pre-judging the resolution which we already have in Annex VII if we were now to make up our minds on what we have asked the Executive Board to study in the course of the year. Thirdly, I think this is a matter of organization and it is one in which the Director-General’s words must carry great weight, and we entirely agree with the Director-General’s remarks in this matter. Fourthly — and this may be an unpopular point — I would like to remind delegates that the United Nations passed a motion on the size of the budget. Now that was a very serious decision, coming from an organization which is, in a very real sense, a superior organization to this, in that it represents the Heads of States and the Heads of Governments; and that implies a certain general attitude towards Unesco at this stage; it implies that Unesco must proceed carefully. If now, on top of that, we were to go ahead on our own initiative and pass such a resolution, I think we should further jeopardize, ourselves in the eyes of the United Nations, which as I say, represents Heads of States. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The delegate of Cuba has asked us to delay the dis- cussion because a number of Latin American dele- gations, who are extremely concerned with this matter, are not present here. Therefore, I propose that discussion be postponed until the next meeting. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French): Mr. President, gentle- men, having supported and seconded the Cuban motion, I would be quite ready to support the amend- ment presented by Canada, with the addition that these contacts, these liaisons with the United Na- tions, which seem to me rather necessary, be made in good time so that at the next meeting of the Exe- cutive Board we may be able to examine the whole of the matter in the light of the information and data which the United Nations may give us. There- fore I support the Canadian motion with this addi- tional consideration. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the delegate of the United States of Ame- rica. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, I, who took the lead in opposing the Cuban resolution, am glad to associate the Uni- ted States of America in support of the amendment offered by the delegate of Canada. However, I do not think, in the resolution as it would then stand, that enough weight has been given to the possibi- lity that there is an alternative to the development of these regional offices. The Cuban delegate has eloquently advocated the office in Havana on the ground that it is an experiment, that it will give us pragmatic experience. So, too, point (b) in this resolution will give us experience, and I would therefore like to add to point (%), in the resolution which we are now consi- dering, the following phrase, as a further amend- ment to the suggestion of the delegate of Canada. I propose adding these words: and with a further view to determining whether such liaison between headquarters and the field eliminates the supposed need for regional offices, That puts into proper perspective the administra- tive dilemma with which we are faced. It would mean that point (b) would then read as follows : The Director-General is instructed to arrange during 1948 for extended visits of key Unesco officials to several geographi- cal regions of the world with a view to assisting in the establish- ment or development of National Commissions and with a fur- ther view to determining whether such liaison between head- quarters and thefield eliminates the supposed need for regio- nal offices. I move and propose that, Mr. President, because I do not have faith or confidence in the word « expe- riment» applied to starting offices of this kind, unless at the same time there is a plan for studying an alter- native. Sr. G. GUELL (Cuba) (Translation from the Spa- nish) : Mr. President, first of all, the delegate of Canada requested a few minutes in order to recon- cle the two viewpoints in the amendment which he suggested; and, in the second place, the part to which the delegate of the United States of America referred was proposed by India, and I do not think thatits spirit and intention were to eliminate regio- nal centres, but, on the contrary, to favour them. Consequently I beg the Chair to give us two minutes in order to see whether it is possible to reconcile the viewpoint of the delegate of Canada with that of Cuba, and then to deal with the point raised by India of which the spirit is well known, and which was mcreover approved unanimously in a meeting of the Commission on External Relations. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Then,if you do not object, we shall wait for a few minutes. The delegate of the United Kingdom. Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, while we are waiting for the results of these deliberations, I speak in order to second the motion just proposed by the delegate of the United States of America. It is, we think, quite consistent with the spirit of the resolutions before us and the atti- tude taken generally by the Commission. — 164 —   This question of establishing regional offices undoubtedly wants very careful consideration, and the amendment proposed by the United States delegate would enable the Executive Board to look into the matter with that detailed scrutiny which we think is very much needed. A great deal of money can be spent in this way and we should, I think, make absolutely certain that we are likely to get the really efficient aid that we hope for from that cen- tre. The great thing to keep in mind is the major aims which Unesco hopes to achieve and we cannot therefore be too careful in examining as closely as possible the means of achieving ends on which, I think, we are all agreed. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We shall now continue the discussion of the report of the Administrative Commission : Section 2 of Annex VII — Technical advice to governments of Member States. Does anybody wish to speak on this matter? Then I propose the approval of this second para- graph. All those in favour? Against? Approved. Section 3 : Reports by Member States. The same procedure, if you do not mind. All in favour? Against? Approved. Section 4 : General Policy concerning recommen- dations to Member States and International Con- ventions. Will all those in favour please raise their hands? Against? Approved. Section 5 : General Policy concerning co-operation with Non-Member States. The delegate of Poland has asked to speak. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Fellow dele- gates, in this friendly and marvellous country, we have been snowed under the free flow of invi- tations, and sometimes I feel resolutions or recom- mendations may be adopted hastily. It is up to us now to devote some time to checking on what has been done in different groups or Commissions. I have before me Annex VII, Section 5 : General Policy concerning co-operation with Non-Member States (pages 4 and 5 in the English text). I see here in the second paragraph a pious wish expressing regret that there are still a large number of States, including Member States of the United Nations, which continue to remain outside Unesco. Now that was adopted as a recommendation a number of days ago, and since that time certain things have happened. If I may be frank, I would say that such pious wishes remind me of some sort of mermaid luring States, including Member States of the United Nations, to Unesco. Unfortunately, the mermaid does not look fo us to-day so lovely as she did a few days ago. I am not going to quote any cases. I just want to say that Unesco should be attractive by its work, by its results, by its spirit; and at this point I wish to say that what happened at the end of last week was to us, and maybe to many other States, most unattractive. We came here in a spirit of co-ope- ration, we came here expecting positive results. I do not deny that Unesco in its present General Conference has achieved many results, and we are ready to applaud them. We have co-operated in this General Conference to the fullest extent, but I must say that this pious wish, this regret, verges somewhat on hypocrisy and that, I think, we should avoid. Next year you will probably be on the way to, or already in, the beautiful city of Beirut. You will be in a country of many historical associations. You will probably visit Palestine, too; and do not forget on this occasion to read a good book. That book is the Bible. It has two parts. One is the Old Testa- ment, and I look upon you as the Chosen People who are going to the Promised Unesco Land. There are many indications in Exodus on how to behave. There is also, in Chapter 32, I believe, a passage about the Ten Commandments, and the Golden Calf. Well, it is not by bowing to the Golden Calf, but by bowing to the Ten Commandments, that you will reach the Promised Unesco Land. I have another objection to make to this particu- lar recommendation. It is in sub-paragraph (/) of paragraph (3). May I read it to you? «Nationals of Non-Member States should be given, in cases of special merit or expert knowledge only, opportuni- ties to be considered for appointment to Unesco’s staff. The appointment of nationals of Non-Member States should be subject to the approval of the Exe- cutive Board». I feel that this text is not borne out by any other text. First of all, we have the text of the Charter of the United Nations — Article 101, I believe. We must act, we are told, only in agree- ment with the United Nations. In Article 101, I find in paragraph 3 : «The paramount consideration in the employment of staff and in the determination of the conditions of service shall be the necessity of securing the highest stan- dards ofefficiency, competence and integrity. Due regard shall be paid to the importance of recruiting the staff on as wide a geographical basis as possible». I do not see anything which concurs with this sub- paragraph (/). We have something more. We have a resolution adopted by the General Assembly during the first half of its First Session from 10 January to 14 Fe- bruary 1946. Annex 2 — Provisional Staff Regula- tions : Duties and Obligations of the Secretariat. Regulation 1 : «The Secretary-General and all
165 — EA   members of the staff of the Organization are interna- ‘tional civil servants, and their responsibilities are not national but exclusively international. By accept- ing appointments they pledge themselves...» etc. There is nothing either in this Annex 2, Regulation
1, which concurs with the proposal submitted to us under sub-paragraph (f). Finally, we have a document, Cons. Exec. 4th Session, Paris, 20 October 1947, which the Execu- tive Board examined hére on 29 November. Under « International Civil Service Advisory Board», point
6, it says specifically : «The members should be appointed in their personal capacity as individuals who have earned wide public trust for their good judgment and whose high qualifications would ensure respect for the Board’s advice. They should be representative of different regions and cultures and bring to the Board the experience appropriate to its work. They should not be chosen or regarded as national representatives. No Board member should serve at the same time a member of the United Nations Organization or any Specialized Agency.» This is the text which has been approved by the Executive Board, and I do not see that it has the same spirit as sub-paragraph (f). This leads me to think that we have had lately in our discussions here many sentences, many speech- es, about not introducing any political problems. I feel that in the preamble of the present document — expressing its regret — we have a certain political motive. ‘I think that should not be in this document, which is of an administrative nature. Therefore, whilst we support section 5 (General Policy concer- ning co-operation with Non-Member States), we suggest the deletion of the second paragraph in the preamble and the deletion of sub-paragraph (/). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The Secretariat wishes to speak on this matter. The SECRETARY : Annex VII, on page 4 of the English text, under General Policy concerning co- operation with Non-Member States, paragraph (3) (a), should be deleted, as decided by the Commission. Instead of that text, the text of the present paragraph
(1), beginning : «In accordance with Chapter IH of the Rules of Procedure...» etc, should be inserted. That means the text of paragraph (1) should actually be paragraph (3) (a). This was a mistake in the typing of the document. Instead of the present paragraph (1), the fol- lowing wording should be inserted : « That States which belongto the United Nations but not to Unesco, and States which remained neutral during the war and which have not joined the United Nations, should within the terms of the Constitution be afforded the same treatment and the same privileges.» Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, there are now, I believe, two amendments before the meeting, and both were proposed by the delegate of Poland. With the first one we are quite prepared to agree. I assume that the delegate of Poland shares the view of Spinoza that to regret is futile, and that consequently he has only affirmations. He no doubt also wishes, as we all do, that the membership of Unesco should be complete, and doubtless he would like to be positive rather than negative. But with regard to his second proposal, this was very carefully considered by the Commission, and that Commission was, as members will very well remember, under extremely strong pressure to ensure better geographical distribution of the staff of the Secretariat. That is difficult enough as it is, and we were very concerned in the Commission that steps should be taken to redress the balance as far as pos- sible. Consequently, it seems rather difficult at this stage of Unesco’s career to complicate the matter further by opening the door to what might, in the view of some members at least, be regarded as rather an influx of nationals of States who do not belong to Unesco at all. Therefore, while in favour of the first deletion, I think that, further thought should be given to the second. I formally second the first, but not the second, amendment, M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, there is a most regrettable confusion regarding point
(1). Do I understand rightly from point (1), as worded, that States which belong to the United Nations but not to Unesco, and States which remained neutral during the war and which have not joined the United Nations, should, within the terms of the Constitution, be afforded the same treatment and the same privileges ? Is that correct ? That is correct. Well, in that case, I wish to draw your attention to the fact that we are, if I understand rightly, dealing with countries which are Members of the United Nations and not Members of Unesco. We feel that within Unesco the Members of the United Nations should have a more privileged position than those States who are not Members of the United Nations. I would therefore move to delete point (1). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Allow me to suggest that we take up the discussion where we left it off with respect to the Cuban resolu- tion. I think we are in a position to do so. = 166 —    Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) ; Mr. President, I am most happy to tell you that the delegate of Cuba and I have agreed on an amendment to the first resolution in Annex VI. This amendment, if I understand rightly, will take the place of the Cuban resolution. There is a new paragraph (2) reading as follows : The representatives of Unesco who conduct the consulta- tion should place before the United Nations and Specialized Agencies the generous offer of the Cuban delegation made at the Second Session of the General Conference of Unesco, as well as the expression of views of delegations to the Conference on the value of opening a regional office in Cuba. Paragraph (2) becomes paragraph (3), and para- graph (3) becomes paragraph (4); and in the sixth line of the new (4) (a), after the word «regions», will be inserted the following words : and especially those available at Havana through the offer of the Cuban Government mentioned in paragraph (2). «Those» refers to facilities. I wish to move that as an amendment. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : These amendments in fact, Mr. President, endorse the idea of the regional office with a strong recom- mendation from this Conference that one be opened quickly in Havana. The United States delegation will support these amendments as submitted, if the further amendment is also adopted, or agreed to, which I am about to propose. I have somewhat toned it down, from my original suggestion, in line with my discussions with Mr. Pierce. I have changed two words in it as follows. I would like to add to point (4) (b) this line : and with a further view to determining how such liaison between headquarters and the field affects the supposed need for regional offices. I had originally suggested that such liaison be- ween headquarters and the field eliminates the need. This is a further change that leaves the question still more open. It seems to me implicit in this whole resolution that both approaches to this subject should be open to study by the Secretariat and the Executive Board. Myfurther amendment is designed to achieve that end. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translationfrom the French) : Just one word, Mr. Pre- sident, to support the two amendments which have been presented. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : If no-oneelse wishes to speak on this matter, the Cuban proposal as amended will be put to the vote. In the meantime I call uponthe delegate of India. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India): While accept- ing the amendment moved by the delegate of Canada, I regret that I am unable to subscribe to the amendment now: proposed by the delegate of the United States of America. If T have understood the language of the new resolution as it is intended to be aménded, I think the last line will make nonsense of the whole reso- lution. The resolution begins with a preamble which sets out the purpose that we have in view. With a view to making the aims, ideals and programme of Unesco properly known in all Member States, and to assis- ting the National Commissions and Member States with specialist advice and information in implementing that pro- gramme. That sets forth succinctly the réle and the purpose of these offices or centres. Then the General Conference resolves to establish — not to consider the question at some later stage as to whether we should or should not establish — these centres. It resolves to establish them now; to establish centres as soon as possible after consul- tation with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, and so on. I submit, Sir, that the resolution as placed before you already accepts, in principle, the need for regional offices. To add at the tail end of the resolution a sentence to the effect that we should consider to what extent the action indicated in paragraph (3) (b), or the new paragraph (4) (b), will affect the supposed need for regional offices, sets at naught what we have said before. Either the needis accepted by this Conference or it is not. If we accept the need, then 1 suggest that to use the word «supposed» is not quite correct. I will not put it more strongly than that. If, on the other hand, this Conference is not satisfied as to the need for such offices, then we should not pass this resolution at all. We should say that we are unable to make up our minds on the impor- tance of this measure. In my own mind I have no doubt whatsoever of the importance of the measure. I consider it perhaps more important than most of the projects and programmes that have been or are to be placed before this Conference. I dot not wish to repeat all that I said at the meet- ing of the Administrative and External Relations Commission, but I feel very strongly that, if the programme of Unesco, varied and useful as it may be, 1s to have any real meaning,if it is to have any real effect, then the message of Unesco must reach the people, the people of the world, not merely the select few in government and other top organizations If we are going, as I said before, to construct the defences of peace in the minds of men, then we must teah the minds of men. And what is the position — 167 —    in regard to that? There are countries, — I have no doubt that the United States of America are in that fortunate position — wherethere is a sufficiently ela- borate and, I have no reason to doubt it, efficient organization for carrying Unesco to the people. That unfortunately is not true of the majority of countries — I almost said it is not true of most countries which are Members of the Organization. In most countries, Unesco is not known except to officials of governments and perhaps a few select ones outside. It may well be said that it is the duty of Member States to make their people aware of the existence and the purpose of Unesco. I do not contest that; but merely to admit that it is a correct principle is not to admit that it is a fact. The Member States have not discharged their duty. Are we going to wait till they are ina position to do so, or are we — I mean the Organization, Unesco — going to take the lead in this matter ? It is a deplorable fact that in the majorityof the countries we have not yet National Commissions, to which importance is very rightly attached. I suggest that, if we had a representative of Unesco in different countries, or at least to serve groups of countries — representatives who could serve a goad to the govern- ments of those countries and as a means of carrying information about Unesco to the people of those countries — we could achieve far more than we have been able to achieve during these last two years. For that reason I attach very great importance to the direct representation of Unesco in different countries. My original proposal was that we should imme- diately appoint about nine such representatives in larger States and in groups of smaller States. I accepted, however, a compromise resolution, which is before you, and that is that, in view of possible practical difficulties, administrative and financial, we should not start on a large scale. But I insist that we must make a beginning. With that view we suggested two lines of action. We started off by accepting in principle the need for these liaison offices. Then we suggested two concrete lines of action. One, that the Executive Board should consider the possibility of establishing at least one such centre during 1948, and then for the Third General Confe- rence to consider in greater detail where else, in what other regions or countries, we can have these offices. At the same time, the Director-General should arrange for extended visits of first-class officials to different countries or different regions. That was not intended by the Commission as an alternative to (a). It was an addition to (a). It was supple- mentary. It was, shall I say, preparatory to action (a). The action indicated in (b), in other words, paves the way for some definite action, and I would beg the delegate of the United States of America not to insist on his amendment. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Once more I call upon the delegate of Cuba, and then the delegate of the United Kingdom. Sr. G. GUELL (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) I wish to say that you have in your hands a proposal which was approved by the Commission and an additional proposal, which my delegation presented, to complete that already submitted. I should add that a certain number of delegations had offered me their support to both proposals. I have not gone to a vote, and therefore do not know what would have beenthe result. Inspired by a sentiment of cordiality and a desire for unanimity, the delegation of the United States of America re- peatedly stated its wish that this motion should be submitted to diverse consultations, but, very cour- teously towards my country, mentioned that Havana was an ideal site. The delegate of Canada drafted a motion which I accepted even though it took us quite far from that which we had before us. The amendment of the delegate of Canada, in which other delegates — those of the United States of America and Brazil — participated, maintained the spirit of the resolution, even though it postponedit. I cannot agree, and I am sorry to say this, with the last amendment suggested by the delegation of the United States of America. My delegation does not wish to see the spirit of its motion postponed. I had accepted postponement in the interests of una- nimity, without this alteration (and I might say adul- teration) of the spirit of our motion. In view of this statement, which I consider perfectly clear, and with regard to which the delegate of India has spoken so eloquently, I find myself obliged to say that I only accept the proposal of the delegate of Canada if it remains without the United States amendment; otherwise, I shall beg the Chair to submit the initial motion to a vote, and afterwards the Cuban motion, in order to determine whether there should or should not be established a centre at Havana. We have to choose between two different courses : either to take the path of compromise with unanimity or to take a vote and see what are the wishes of the Conference in this matter. Mr.F.R.COWELL (United Kingdom):Mr.President, I am sure we would all agree that we should now pretty rapidly come to a decision, and it is most disappointing to find that, when we seemed on the brink of unanimity, a further somewhat discordant note has been introduced. I think, however, that that discordant note is not really at all serious and could easily be eliminated. We all applaud, I am — 168 —    sure, the brilliantly expressed missionary zeal of the Indian delegate who wants to see Unesco spread around the world. The question, I submit, Mr. Pre- sident, is notreally that principle atall. It is merely a question of how bestit is to be done; and there we think the United States amendment is quite unob- jectionable. All they ask Unesco to do is to see how the situation which their officers will explore is to be affected by the result of their enquiries. It may well be, I think, that the amendmentis entirely neu- tral in its effect, and it would be undoubtedly so, I think, if the word «supposed» was withdrawn. I understand that the delegate of the United States of America is willing to withdraw that word «sup- posed», which is the only word in the amendment which in any way prejudges the very important issue to which the India delegate has drawn attention. I submit, on behalf of the United Kingdom dele- gation, which seconded the amendment proposed by the United States of America, that we, with the per- mission of the United States delegation, withdraw the word «supposed» and still put the resolution to the vote — together, if possible, and separately if it is not possible to secure the agreement of the delegates of India and Cuba to the United States delegation’s amendment, which would then read : and with a view further to assisting the consideration of the question of establishing regional offices. the word «affects» being entirely neutral — it may mean an increase in regional offices. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We have a United States amendment, which stands to modify the Canadian amendment, which in turn modifies the amendment submitted by Cuba. We shall read the amendments and, immediately after- wards, submit them to the vote. Sr. G. GUELL (Cuba) (Translationfromthe Spanish): I am very sorry to delay the discussion, but I believe this is a point of vital interest to all. Some of us are of opinion that the regional centres will bring enor- mous advantages, especially when they are in areas where fundamental education is very necessary. When speaking before, with reference to the dele- gate of India’s statement, I said that I only accepted the Canadian modification provided that there were no mention which destroyed the spirit of the motion, which is that the centres should be established. The phrase to which I referred signifies that those centres are not necessary. Consequently,it is only subjet to the withdrawal of that amendment, or to the accep- tance of the revision as set forth by the United Kingdom delegate, which does not carry with it a spirit contrary to the establishment of those regional centres, that I would accept the Canadian amend- ment. Otherwise it would be necessary to submit both motions to the vote as they stand. I think we might ask the delegate of India to state whether the modification of the United Kingdom which does not carry with it any implication with regard to the non-establishment of the centres, is satisfactory to him. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) Allow me to draw attention to the fact that this matter seems to have been disposed of once and for all. Delegates have spoken twice, three and four times. For two hours now we have been speaking of exactly the same thing. I think I shall be acting in full harmony with the Rules of Procedure if I put to the vote first the amendment which is furthest away from the original proposal. The United States amend- ment stands to amend the Canadian amendment. Therefore, I will put the United States amendment first. It will be read before the vote. Nevertheless, for the last time, I hope, I call upon the delegate of India. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) : I promise not to speak again and I am not going to make a long speech. The delegate of the United Kingdom has very learnedly pointed out to us the meaning of the amendment proposed by the United States delega- tion and has told us that it is a purely neutral amend- ment. I thought so, too, because it neutralizes the resolution. May I suggest to him, if he will consider it, a slightly different wording, sinceit is only neutral wording that he desires; in place of the clause sug- gested by the United States delegate, would he consider this : and with a view further to assisting the consideration of the question of establishing regional offices. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, I cannot speak for the delegate of the United Kingdom in interpreting his word «neutral ». My interpretation of it is that there is nothing in the amendment as suggested, now we have deleted the word «supposed », that runs counter to an obligation on the Secretariat to continue to study the implica- tions, in an organizational and a budgetary sense, of these regional offices and their contributions; and I feel that the Secretariat should be instructed by this Conference to keep its mind open and neutral on this subject, instead of being instructed, without the experience indicated in point (6) under paragraph
3, to proceed with the establishment of regional offices as a necessarily established policy of the Organization. We have a great deal to learn in this area. The «neutral» tone of my suggested amend- ment is to admit that we have a great deal to learn, and we charge the Secretariat with reporting back to — 169 —     | | | | | | | | | |   < = a h z l ; T T ” r N     the Conference, under the direction we are giving the Secretariat in point (b), as to how the experience of point (b) effects the questions involved in the preceding paragraphs of the amendment. So the Indian delegate has properly interpreted the purpose of the amendment the United States of America has submitted, and I am unwilling to accept his suggestion, which completely changes the spirit and intent of the amendment. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The United States delegation proposes to add to paragraph 3 (5) the following words : «and with a further view to determining how such liaison between headquarters and the region affects the need for regional offices. » Will all those in favour of the amendment submit- ted by the United States of America kindly raise their hands? Against? The amendment is lost. Now we shall vote on the motion submitted by the Canadian delegate. I shall ask the delegate of Canada to be kind enough to read his text. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : The new paragraph
(2) readsas follows : « The representatives of Unesco who conduct the consultation should place before the United Nations and Specialized Agencies the generousoffer of the Cuban delegation made at the second Session of the General Conference of Unesco, as well as the expression of views of delegations to the Conference on the value of opening a regional office in Cuba.» The the next two paragraphs are re-numbered, and after the word «regions » in the sixth line of new paragraph 4 (a), the following : «And especially those available at Havana through the offer of the Cuban Government mentioned in paragraph (2).» The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Will those in favour of the amendmentjust read by the delegate of Canada please raise their hands? Against? The amendment is adopted. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : May I call for a vote on the resolution, bécause I intend to cast the vote of the United States of America against the resolution. I prefer the resolution with the amendments, to the resolution as it stands; but we are opposed to the resolution or other resolutions or motions by this Organization along similar lines at this stage of its development. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Firench) : The United States of America has asked to vote on the whole of the resolution submitted by the External Relations Commission. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI(Poland) : À point of order. I second the motion of the delegate of the United States of America. May I also demand a roll-call, please? Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I think that after we have voted upon an amendment,the original reso- lution must not be put to the vote. I just want to know what to vote for. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We will take a vote by roll-call on the whole resolu- tion, as amended, naturally, by the delegate of Canada. (The vote was taken by rollcall. Voted in favour : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Venezuela. Voted against : Poland, United States of America. Absent : Greece, Liberia, Luxemburg, Phillip- pines, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The whole of the resolution, as modified by the dele- gate of Canada, is adopted by 28 votes to 2, with 6 ab- sences. We will now consider Annex VII, Section 5, (General Policy concerning co-operation with Non- Member States). We will vote on Section 5, as amended by the delegate of Poland. However, the delegate of Egypt wishes to speak. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. President, I think the delegate of Poland asked for two amend- ments here. The first is the deletion of paragraph
(2), and the Egyptian delegation wholeheartedly supports him in this amendment, in accordance with the views expressed when we were discussing this resolution in the External Relations Commis- sion. We do not think at all that we are here to express regret, and, as the delegate of Poland has said, it 1s much better for us to leave out these regrets, since, as we see, the third paragraph is enough. With regard to the other amendments by the dele- gate of Poland, we are not quite clear what they are. We have first of all some amendments by the delegate of Poland, and then there were other amendments, from the Chair, I think. I should like, before we vote on the second amendment, to be clear about it, and would suggest we vote first on the deletion of — 170 —   paragraph (2) and then on the further amend- ments. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, I think the delegate of Egypt, and perhaps some other delegates, are not quite clear about the position. As a matter of fact, we had first the text which was distributed by the Secretariat, and I made two amendments to that text that which the delegate of Egypt now mentions, and an amendment to sub- paragraph (f). Nevertheless, later on, after 'I had the honour of addressing the General Conference, a change was made in paragraph (1), the text of which had been distributed by the Secretariat. I have moved also that this paragraph be deleted. I think now the situation is clear, and the Polish delegation accepts whatever method of voting may be suggested. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We shall first vote on the suppression of paragraph
(2) — «That no State...» All those in favour of the deletion of paragraph (2), please raise their hands. ‘Against? The deletion of the paragraph is approved. Now we shall deal with deletion of paragraph (3) of the same resolution, beginning : «Nationals of Non-Member States. ..», etc. All those in favour of the deletion, please raise their hands. The delegate of China wishes to speak. Mr. LEE Hsin (China) : Mr. President, I only want to point out that the second and third points put by the delegate of Poland have not yet been seconded by any delegation. Therefore we cannot vote. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Does anyone wish to second both amendments sub- mitted by the delegate of Poland? Or to support them? No one. In that case, the only way we can proceed is by voting upon the whole of Section 5, dealing with general policy. All those in favour of the whole paragraph, please raise their hands. Against? The whole of the paragraphis, therefore, adopted. Section 6 (Relations with Germany). The dele- gate of Poland. M. M. WIKINSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, the delegation of Poland wishes to stress again the importance of this problem, especially for nations which were victims of German oppression. But we have no illustions. Unesco, I am sorry to say, seems to me too weak. Unesco is not really capable of approaching this serious task. One of the delegates a few days ago said that money spent on the education of Germany will be spent for the security of Europe. We are not very enthusiastic, Iam sorry to say, about this kind of security, which is based upon a few thousand dollars and some Unesco resolutions. We attach ‘very great importance to this task, and we approve Annex VII, Section 6; but we suggest, in order to clear up a misunderstan- ding, that the word «activities» be replaced by the word «surveys». We have no means of action in Germany. The passage in question would then read «in respect of such surveys as may be approved by the Executive Board...» The next phrase would then read «always provided that the services are undertaken...» The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The word «activities» does not occur in the French text. The word used there is «initiatives ». Does anyone wish to second the amendment proposed by the delegate of Poland? If not, I will put Section 6 of Annex VII to the vote. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Could we have the Polish amendment explained? I was not able to follow it. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : In the French text, the amendment would be to re- place the word «initiatives» by the word «enquétes». In the English text, the word «activities» would be replaced by «surveys». M. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : We are in full agreement with the French text of the amendment. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I will now put the amendment to the vote. (A vote was taken by show of hands on the Polish amendment, which was adopted.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We will now vote on Section 6 (Relations with Ger- many), as a whole. (A vote was taken by show of hands on Section 6, as a whole, which was approved.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now come to Section 7 (Relations with Japan). (A vote was taken by show ofhands on Section 7, which was approved.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The next item is Section 8 (Trust and non-self governing territories). Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I should like to ask for a clarification. What precisely is meant, in para- — 171 — = m e r e o E E . » ا ا ا ل ‎ n m E E I I   — r t e e e
2 O graph 8 (ii), by « subject to any limitations contained in Article 73 (e) of the Charter of the United Nations » ? As far as I can recollect, there are no limitations there with regard to education. After that has been cleared up, I should like to speak on this point, Mr. President. Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : I am sorry that I am not able to give a very satisfactory explana- tion on this. I have been trying to get a copy of the Charter to refer to. This matter was not the subject of controversy in the Commission at all, as far as I remember. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I beg to differ, Mr. President. I think it was a matter of contro- versy, and, if I rememberrightly, the Egyptian dele- gation objected to this addition because it was not in the original proposal, but was, I believe, suggested by the delegate of Canada. It seems to me that by putting it in this way, we are referring to something which does not exist in the Charter, and I am afraid that it may limit Unesco’s functions with regard to non-self-governing terri- tories. The only point in Article 73 (e) which is subject to limitations relates to constitutional and security considerations. We may find we have closed the door to requests from Unesco for data bearing on educational policies, and so on. Yet, if we take the article as a whole in its bearing on para- graph 8, we find that one of the most important tasks of the interested States is to promote educa- tion amongst the people of non-self-governing terri- tories in the light of their indigenous culture, their conditions oflife, and so on. If we are to take Article 73 (¢) in part only, this might be interpreted in the future in such a way as would hinder rather than help us in carrying out the mission of Unesco among these primitive peoples. I believe also that the Secretariat read for us, when we were discussing this aspect of the matter, the text of the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations, and in that Agreementthere is no reference at all to Article 73 (e) of the Charter. That is why I am asking why we have inserted an allusion to Article 73 (e). Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, I can at least read this Article 73 (e), which says that the limitations to which the delegate of Egypt refers care such limitations as security and constitutional considerations may require». To comply with such limitations, the countries concerned are asked to transmit regularly to the Secretary- General for information purposes, statistical and other information of a technical nature relating to economic, social and educational conditions in the territories for which they are respectively responsible, other than those territories to which Chapters 12 and
13 relate. So I think we are doing no more here, in quoting Article 73 (e), than referring to a perfectly legitimate clause in the Charter, which we are, I suggest, bound to respect. I do not think that Unesco's objectives are likely to be in any way hampered by observing these security and constitutional limitations, and I think we may,if the delegate of Egypt agrees, accept the clause as it stands in the draft. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. President, I feel justified now in saying that in Article 73 (e) there is nothing to limit us as far as education is concerned, and I do not think that in the security field there is anything that could be related to education at all. I say that, Mr. President, because I remember the long discussion that was raised in the United Nations with regard to non-self-governing territories, and I remember that Article 73 (e) was quoted and was stressed to put limitations upon discussing anything related to policies. Therefore, I do not wish at all to add here anything that might be used against Unesco in the future, and prevent Unesco from raising matters relating to educational policies and so on. I think that our function and our mission with regard to primitive peoples are to discuss eve- rything that relates to education, and for this reason Mr. President, I should like to delete this last phrase. If the delegate of the United Kingdom believes that there is nothing which has any bearing on edu- cation in Article 73 (e), I do not see why we insist on it. As I mentioned before, Mr. President, in the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations, there is no reference at all to Article 73 (e). Mr. I. DILWORTH (Canada) : I would like to press for the inclusion of this phrase. It may not seem very important, but it was proposed that this phrase should be added for a very simple but, I think, a very sound reason. It seems desirable to us that Unesco, as a Specialized Agency, should refrain from adopting resolutions at this Conference which are inconsistent in any way with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. This article simply gives administering peoples the right to determine the amount and quality of information sent to the Secretary-General. I think the delegate of Egypt is stating a proposal which is the other way round, and I would like to press for the inclusion of this clause in the amendment before you. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The delegate of Egypt wishes to delete in paragraph
(11) the sentence starting with «subject» down to the end. Is this seconded? It is seconded by the delegate of Belgium. We will proceed to a vote. — 172 —   Will all those in favour of the Egyptian amendment please raise their hands? Against? The amendmentis approved, and the wordsstart- ing with «subject to any limitations » to the end of that paragraph are deleted. Now we must vote on the whole of Section 8. Will all those in favour of the whole of Section 8 please raise their hands? Against? The whole of Section 8 is approved. Section 9 (National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies). The delegate of the Netherlands. Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : Mr. President, I ask permission to raise a point here. We have just passed Section 6, but I think there is some confusion. My personal understanding was that the word «activities» should be changed for the word «ser- vices». Later on I found that it was «Surveys», so lam not quite sure if other people have been in the same confusion as I have, and have not understood the change which was made in Section 6. Therefore I want to ask you if we may discuss that paragraph for one moment longer, because there has been a misunderstanding, and we have taken a vote with only a very small majority. I should like to say at this point that, if we decide only that there will be a survey, we are no further than we were a year ago. A year ago my delegation proposed that this project should be considered by Unesco. Now, if we only say there will be a survey, we are no further on, and I think itis a very important thing for Unesco to draw attention to Unesco’s ideals within Germany. 1 think, and many people share my opinion, that this is a question of great impor- tance to Unesco, and therefore that, when we say that in 1948 only a survey will be made, we are missing the psychological moment in 1948. Unesco should try to carry out activities. «Services» 1 would accept, but 1 prefer the word «activities». Unesco should in 1948 do more than merely make a survey. Aslsaid, IT understood the word «services » ; and therefore I think it would be desirable to discuss this once more and at all events to have a roll-call on this point and not a show of hands. Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr Pre- sident, as we have your permission to speak again on this question, I would like to say how grateful we are to the delegate of the Netherlands for men- tioning this matter, and I do so because the original resolution, which was passed with only one dissentient voice in the Commission, was a resolution by the United Kindgom. It is important, as the delegate of the Netherlands has said, to ensure that we can undertake, if necessary (it does not mean that we certainly shall do, but, if necessary, we should be allowed to undertake) more activies than mere surveys. Dr. A. RUDZINSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, on a point of order, I am wondering what procedure we are following in the General Conference. As every- body here knows, we have already decided this point, and we cannot discuss it any more. If somebody wants to raise the question again, he is free to move the re-opening of the question, and we must vote on such a motion; otherwise any discussion is inad- missible at this point. The PRESIDENT (Translation Jrom the French) : In spite of the vote already taken, since there cer- tainly was some confusion in the minds of a number of the delegates, including the delegate of the Netherlands, who thought that we spoke ‎هأ » instead of «surveys» we shall proceed to vote by roll-call. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translationfrom the French) : Mr. President, I am rather surprised at the reason for which we have to reconsider the question. I did not think there was any confusion. The dele- gate of Poland asked for a modification of a word. We agreed to that. I myself on behalf of my dele- gation asked whether it was a matter of replacing activities» by «surveys» and the President said «Yes.» It seems rather difficult to me, especially as the delegate who submitted this motion on behalf of Poland is not here any longer, to go back on a vote which has already been taken and whichis final. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The confusion does not arise from the French text. Weall agreed to replace the word «initiatives» by «enquêtes» in the French, but the confusion arose when we were considering the English text, because «services» and «surveys», phonetically, are rather alike. That is why I asked the meeting to be kind enough to proceed to a roll-call. I will ask for a show of hands on the question whether or not we shall take a vote by roli-call. (On a vote taken by show of hands, the proposal to take a vote by roll-call was defeated.) Well, then, the first vote is valid. There is no second vote. I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, on a point of order, I think it really is not the wish of this Conference that a very important decision, on which there has been disagreement and on which there will perhaps, be continuing disagreement, should be taken with the fact before us that at least one delegation — I do not know whether more than — 173 —   m i - e y . ج ه ‎
5 ح ك i z   E i i . — S S ‎دج one, but at least one delegation — was under a complete misapprehension on the matter on which the Conference was being asked to vote. This is a plenary meeting of an international assembly, and I cannot believe that either the Polish delegation or the French delegation, or any delega- tion here, would wish a decision to be taken by persons who were not aware of the question that was before them. You, Sir, have recently explained, and I think that it is worth repeating, that in your opinion the French text was not in doubt; that is to say, it was clear that, in respect of the French text, the word «enquétes» was being substituted for the word «initiatives». But, if that is so, at least we ought to have known what the English word was which was the translation of the word «enquêtes». I also very much appreciate the point made by the French delegation that it would be wrong, as a vote was taken and not challenged at the time, to have a second vote in the absence of the Polish delegate who had moved the amendment. I therefore wish to ask, Mr. President, whether we could not, all of us, agree to have another vote on another occasion, properly advertized, at which the Polish delegate could put forward his suggestion. We should be clear what the suggested English word was, what the suggested French word was, and what the suggested Spanish word was. We could then debate it and take a vote, and the United Kingdom delegation would, of course, be delighted to abide by whatever the democratic decision of the assembly 1s. What I protest against -and I am sure we areall in agreement — is the unhappy position of being aware that a vote was taken when at least one dele- gation misunderstood the motion that was before us; and, as the motion was not in writing, it seems ' a very natural misunderstanding, which we should all of us wish to correct, either at a later time, or now, if the Polish delegate has returned. Dr. A. RUDZINSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, I regret that I cannot understand how any possible misunderstanding could arise, We have heard the motion and we know, Sir, both English and French. The French words were quite under- standable to everybody : «imitiatives» was to be replaced by «enquêtes». I think «initiatives» 1s quite clear also for English-speaking people. I do not know what change, if any, could be made by changing the word «activities» into «services». I do not know what the real difference is between those two notions. Therefore I do not know how anybody here could be under a false impression, when we moved these amendments. I regret that the delegate of the United Kingdom says that he did not understand; and I think that the French text was perfectly clear, and that there is no real difference between «services» and racti- vities». It seems rather his own fault that he has not understood. Therefore I do not think it is necessary to take a new vote. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the Rapporteur of the Commission. Senator E. H. BROOKES (Union of South Africa) : Mr. President, I have before me my notes on the discussion in the Commission. According to those notes, which I think are correct, this vote as it stands was carried in the Commission by 17 votes to 1. Now, Mr. President, as Rapporteur of the Commis- sion, and having to defend this resolution, I feel it is not fair to the Commission that a vote carried by 17 to 1 should be reversed on a vote by show of hands, when there is a misunderstanding. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, I must not allow my Polish friend to misunderstand me. From the speech he has just made it is quite clear that he has misunderstood me. I did not say that the United Kingdom delegation had mis- understood what we were voting on. We understood pee that we did say «surveys», and we there- ore voted against it. What I said in my speech was that at least one delegation in this assembly had misunderstood. I refer to the delegate of the Netherlands, whom the Polish delegate may not have heard a little earlier in the discussion saying quite clearly that he had thought the word was «services». And it was simply because I was sure that the Polish delegate would not wish a decision on this important matter to be confirmed if it were clear there had been a misunderstanding, that I suggested that another vote should be taken. The fact that my Polish friend misunderstood me, indicates that it is possible for delegates in this room to misunderstand each other in what they are saying; and I am quite convinced that no member of this assembly would wish a decision on this to be taken on a misunder- standing. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. President, I would like to associate, myself with the remarks made by the Rapporteur. I remember, when I was in the Chair, there was a debate on this matter and the majority of votes approved the word «activities». I would like to second the motion of the United Kingdom delegate to have another vote, especially as we have approved the draft Resolution VII, and in that the word «activities» is approved. — 174 —   M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : I think we are wasting precious time. At this moment it is absolu- tely immaterial whether it was the delegate of the United Kingdom or the delegate of the Netherlands who did not understand something. As a matter of fact, I am inclined to agree with Sir John Maud on this item. It is also absolutely immaterial what sort of vote was taken in the Commission. The fact remains that, when a vote was taken here, everybody was conscious of what the vote was for; or, if not, the objections at this moment are absolutely irrele- vant and should be rejected by the Chair. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, T have heard with great interest the explanations of the Rapporteur, and they remind us that these decisions have already been taken in the Commission by a vote of 17 against 1. Allow me to say to him that, although votes in the Commission are very important, the votes that really count are the ones taken here. We have often had cases where votes taken in Com- mittees or Commissions have been completely changed by a plenary assembly. This is a very democratic procedure, and I fervently hope it will be preserved by Unesco. Asfar as difficulties of interpretation are concerned, I think my colleague, Sir John Maud, has proved that, if we did agree on the French text —and I believe we did so — we were possibly not in full agreement on the English text. In the French we say «enquêtes», and therefore we have to translate «enquêtes» into English. It seems to me that wenquiries» is a better translation and may satisfy the wishes of a number of delegates. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I think all these discussions should have taken place before we voted on the motion submitted by the President, whether we were going to vote or not. This proposal was submitted to the Conference and so, from a proce- dural point of view, I do not think we should raise this point again. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I could do nothing else but ask the opinion of the assembly on the re-opening of the question. The motion for a roll-call was completely lost, so I cannot see how we can proceed to another vote. We now turn, therefore, to Section 9 (National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies). Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, I am very sorry, but I still do not understand. I have moved, and it has been seconded, that a vote be taken on whether we should re-open this question in order to avoid the misunderstanding. I have moved, and the delegate of China has seconded, a motion which has not yet been put to the meeting that we re-open this question in order to get clear what the decision and will of this Conference is; and, with great respect, I ask that a vote be taken, and that it be by roll-call, on whether we should reconsider Section 6, on which we took a vote a little time ago, and on which we now know there was some misunderstanding. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We will take a vote by roll-call ; butfirst the delegate of Poland wishes to speak. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, I respectfully submit that we really do not know where we are. One minute ago the President had passed the whole question — it was all settled. We had a clear-cut situation. One delegate main- tains he did not understand the translation at a cer- tain moment, and on account of that we are re-open- ing the whole question, when some of the delegates already have left this room — some of the delegates who voted. I think this is absolutely unfair, Mr. President, and, if the Chair rules for a vote by roll-call, we will protest most emphatically, which I am doing now in anticipation. Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : I want to say only this, Mr. President. If I had understood that the word «activities» was changed not into «ser- vices» but into «surveys», I would, of course, have spoken at this meeting, because I have defended, and now raise, the other point of view. As our colleague from Poland has said, the word «services» was used in the translation, so the misunderstanding is absolutely comprehensible. Therefore I think we cannot put the question as the Polish delegate does at this moment. There was a misunderstanding about the words, and if I had known that it was the word «survey», I would have spoken to defend the word «activities». Mr. G. JOCKEL (Australia) : Mr. President, can I repeat what I said before ? I would like the delegate of Poland to listen, as I think it should affect his attitude. When his statement was first translated, the word «services» was used. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, this is a very important question. I beg to differ, and I must say we are not responsible for any trans- lation. As a matterof fact, in the translation in the printed documents there are many mistakes, such as in the document we have been discussing here to- day, and we accepted a version by the Chair which is not the version printed in that document. We cannot be responsible for any translations, and we object to the vote being taken at this late hour when many of the delegates have gone. We consider this — 175 —   re-opening of the vote is contrary to any parlia- mentary procedure. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, when I first spoke, the Polish delegate who has just spoken was not in the room — at least so I was informed — and I therefore madeit quite plain that I did not wish to suggest that the vote on the point of substance should be taken this morning, because I thought that it would be unfair that that vote should be re-taken in his absence. I only suggested we should proceed to re-vote this morning, because I understood that he had returned and that it would be fair to vote. He has now made what seems to me a perfectly fair point, that it is rather late in the morning and it would be unfair to take the vote of substance again now. All I am moving — and with great respect I ask him to search the Rules of Procedure to find any possible point at which it is validly suggested that it is illegal or unparliamentary to make this motion — is that we do re-open this question because of the misunderstanding. There ıs nothing in the Rules of Procedure to prevent the General Conference from re-voting on a matter on which it voted earlier. What I am suggesting now is to take a vote by roll-call on the question whether or not we re-open this section 6. If that vote goes in the way I hope it will — and I hope it will be a unanimous vote — I propose that the vote of substance be not taken this morning, but be taken at a later meeting of the General Conference properly advertised so that every delegate will have the opportunity of coming here. The arguments can be renewed, or not renewed, as delegates wish, and we can then take a vote on which there can be no possible doubt and which will decide a matter of some importance. I beg, therefore, to move a vote by roll-call on the uestion whether we should or should not re-open this question. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We have a request by the delegate of the United Kingdom to vote by roll-call on the question whether we should re-open the debate. In conformity with Rule 52, this should be supported by five members. If five members wish to support it, we will proceed immediately to vote by roll-call. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, I wish to draw your attention to the fact that we are about to re-open a vote, even if it is not on the merits of the case. The Polish delegation protests most emphatically against this procedure and will not be present in the room when the vote is taken. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I think what I said 1s in full conformity with the Rules of Procedure, which I have in my hand. A vote by roll-call will be taken if it is requested by not less than five members. We shall proceed therefore to vote by roll-call. We shall vote on whether to re-open the discussion of the translation of the French word «enquêtes». (The vote was taken by roll-call. Twenty-three countries voted in favour, one voted against, there were three abstentions and ten countries were absent.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The discussion will be re-opened and taken up at another meeting. The meeting rose at 1.40 p.m.