THIRTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 November 1947 at 10 a.m. Chairman : Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) recalled that the Session of the Mexican Congress in honour of Unesco was to have met on Monday 24 November; for technical reasons this was impossible and he asked that 26 November should be accepted as the definite date, the meeting to take place between the morning and afternoon meetings of the Confe- rence. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) agreed to that date and went on to suggest that the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission should be empowered to hold night sittings, if necessary, in order to finish work by Monday night. It was the opinion of the United States delegation that the Programme and Budget Commission mustfinish by then if the Conference was to end by 3 December. He was seconded by Mr. PIERCE (Canada). M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) thought that the suggestion of the delegate of Mexico should be accepted unless a plenary meeting was scheduled for 26 November. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked for the views of the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission on the subject of night sittings. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the Commission, replied that he was in favour of night sittings and, although he did not think they could hold one before, suggested putting a meeting down in the Journal at once for Monday night at 9 p.m. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN announced that he had a letter from the Chairman of the Budget Sub-Commission, asking that the date and place of the Third Session of the General Conference should be fixed as soon as possible. The Executive Board was to meet on Tuesday, 25 November, to make a decision in this connexion and its recommendations would be trans- mitted to the Plenary Conference. He asked the meeting whether they thought the Plenary Confe- rence could meet on 26 November to consider the Executive Board’s recommendations and the mo- tions presented by the delegations of Poland, the United States of America and Australia. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) recalled that he had anticipated the difficulty of holding a plenary meeting on the same day as the session of the Mexican Congress; he and the Head of his delega- tion were particularly interested in the United States and Australian resolutions, yet did not wish to absent themselves from the Congress. At the suggestion of Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), it was agreed to hold a plenary meeting at 4 p.m. on 26 November, by which time the meeting of Congress would be over. Consideration of the Drait Resolution proposed by the delegation of the United States. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) announced that his resolution was approximately the same as the one he had read at the last meeting. He had omitted a specific reference to Mr. Hardman, but thought that, as Chairman of the Procedure Com- mittee, he seemed the most suitable man to preside over the special meeting proposed. The resolution assumed the appointment of the Committee of Five at the Executive Board meeting the following Tuesday, and the Committee might meet on Thursday, 27 November. He moved the adoption of the resolution. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) asked the United States delegate whether the Committee of Five was to be a temporary body appointed only for the duration of the Conference. Mr. BENTON(United States of America) replied in the negative. The Executive Board had already decided to set up the Committee and the resolution congratulated the Board on its decision and suggested widening the powers of the committee. The latter was to meet during the Conference, in order to give heads of delegations an opportunity to state views : for example, Mr. Roberts (Union of South Africa), whose country was not represented on the Board. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) objected to the extension of the Committee’s powers on the grounds that it would restrict the powers of the Executive Board. The delegate of the UNITED STATES explained that the Committee of Five was to be com- — @65 —      posed of members of the Executive Board, to which it would be responsible and he therefore thought the Polish delegate’s fears were unfounded. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) seconded the United States resolution and said that he would be glad to be of any service in the manner suggested by the United States delegate. He thought the meeting between the Committee and heads of delegations might discuss the machinery of the Conference in order to make suggestions for the better running of the next Conference. The CHAIRMAN explained that, in accordance with a resolution of Professor Auger (France), the Executive Board had already appointed a Committee of Five to discuss the organization of the next General Conference and he thought it better not to confuse the work of the two Committees. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) agreed. M. DROHOJOWSKI eed was in favour of creating a Committee of Five, but wasstill against broadening its powers, as he felt that, if it met more often than the Executive Board, it would have too much influence on the Board's decisions. The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Executive Board at its meeting on Tuesday would define the powers of the Committee and its procedure and therefore suggested that the Polish member of the Board should make suggestions then. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) was not sure whether Poland would have a member at the Executive Board meeting, as he did not know whether it would be the new or the old Executive Board. Secondly, he could not accept the United States resolution as a whole because he did not agree to the proposed extension of powers of the Committee. The CHAIRMANreplied that it was the new Exe- cutive Board which was to meet and the Polish member could be represented if he could not be present personally. In order to satisfy the objection raised by the Polish delegate, the delegate of the United States proposed to insert the words «ad hoc» before « Gom- mittee» in the second line of paragraph 1 of the resolution and after the word «study» to insert the words «during the coming year»; the sentence would then read : «... an ad hoc Committee of Five to study, during the coming year, the sta- tus...» M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) agreed to the amendment, but also wished paragraphs 1 and 5 to be merged. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) remarked that they were already merged in one resolution and that he saw no necessity for farther modifications beyond the amendment he had suggested. He asked that they should vote on the resolution. He was seconded by the delegates of MEXICO and the UNITED KINGDOM. The resolution, with the amendment proposed by the United States delegate, was adopted by 8 votes
01 It was agreed that the meeting of the Gommittee of Five and heads of delegations should be held on Thursday, 27 November, at 4 p.m. Consideration of the Draft Resolution proposed by the delegation of Uruguay. As this concerned the election of members of the Executive Board, it was decided to refer it to the Committee of Five to be created by the Exe- cutive Board. Mexican proposal concerning Further Education. It was agreed that the item should be referred to the Programme and Budget Commission. The SECRETARY announced that the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission had submitted to the General Committee a section of the documententitled « Working Party L — Natural Sciences» including a resolution proposed by the delegation of Mexico and seconded by the delegation of Peru. He read the resolution, which had been sent to the General Committee because it contained constitutional implications. The CHAIRMAN suggested alternative procedures :
1) to submit the resolution to the Procedure Com- mittee; or 2) to considerit as not concerning Unesco at the present time, since it was a question of the future accession of Spain and Portugal to the United Nations. The delegate of POLAND supported the first procedure, which was approved. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, raised the question of Grants-in-Aid, which were down for consideration that day by the Programme and Bud- get Commission. The Director-General had requested him to postpone the matter until Monday, 24 No- vember, but the instructions he had received to finish work on Monday night made it difficult to accede to the request. Dr. HAN (China) announced that the Admi- nistrative and External Relations Commission had received a letter from the Budget Sub-Commis- sion on the subject, and the opinion of the Com- mission was that it should consider the general principle of Grants-in-Aid, leaving questions of substance to be decided by the Programme and Bud- get Commission. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) suggested that there should be no postponement, unless the United States delegation was going to move an amendment in the Programme and Budget Commission. The — 266 —       UNITED STATES delegate replied that he would enquire whether his delegation wished to move such an amendment. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), in orderto satisfy the Director-General's request, said he would put the matter at the end of the day’s agenda, but would not FOURTEENTH waste time by adjourning the meeting in order not to discuss the matter that day. M. DROHOJOWSKI(Poland) moved the adjourn- ment of the meeting. Agreed. The meeting rose at 11 a.m. MEETING Monday, 24 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Seat of the {Third Session of the General Conference. On behalf of his delegation, the CHAIRMAN announced that the Lebanese Government had extended an invitation to hold the next General Conference at Beirut. He intended to give the reas- ons for this invitation at the next plenary meeting. These reasons were, in short, that Unesco had already held a Conference in Europe and one on the American continent, and it was important that Eastern populations should be given the assurance that Western civilizations did not monopolize the Organization. Furthermore, Beirut was a suitable place because of its considerable cultural and uni- vertsity achievements and because it was only a few hours from Europe by plane. The Lebanon might not be able to receive the Conference on the same scale as Mexico, but would do its best to do honourto Eastern traditions. He therefore requested that the Generali Committee should submit a recom- mendation to the Executive Board supporting the Lebanese invitation. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought they should acknowledge the suggestion with much gratitude, but that it was not a matter for the Com- mittee to discuss. The normal procedure would be for it to forward the request without comment to the Executive Board. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) agreed that the question should be left wholly to the Executive Board, but it might be stated that the Committee was very grateful for the cordial invita- tion and saw no reason why a Conference should not be held at Beirut at some time during the next few years. He recalled that the United States felt warmly towards Beirut, because of the American University there. M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland), on behalf of his delegation, expressed gratitude for the invitation and added that cordial friendship existed between Poland and Middle Eastern countries. Nevertheless, he agreed with the United Kingdom delegate that the Committee could not decide on the question and that the matter should be referred to the Executive Board. The delegate of CHINA also seconded the United Kingdom proposal. The CHAIRMAN excused himself for having raised the question, which was not in order under Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, but he had merely wanted the matter referred to the Executive Board with an expression of the General Committees fa- vourable opinion. As regards the question of eco- nomy, he pointed out that the present living condi- tions in Beirut were less expensive than those in Mexico. He suggested that the Executive Board, or its Sub-Committee, should not decide on the matter before hearing the delegation of Lebanon. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought it might be more advantageous for him to put his case before the Plenary Conference, rather than the Execu- tive Board. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) thought the door should be open to small countries without representatives on the Board to put their views be- fore it. It was agreed that the delegate of Lebanon should be allowed to raise the matter at the Executive Board meeting or at the plenary meeting, as he desired. Progress of work of the Conference. The SECRETARY announced that the Secretariat had received enquiries from delegations regarding the work schedule for the end of the week. He thought it would be usefulif the next days Journal — 267 —