NINTH PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 13 November 1947, at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Pages.
19. Discussion of the Recommendations of the Programme and Budget Com- mission concerning the Total Budget Figure for 1948 (Continuation) : Speeches by delegates of Greece, France, Denmark, Australia, Norway, the Union of South Africa, Bolivia, ete 112
20. Vote on the Total Budget Figure.... ......... .... Président : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The meeting is now open. There are certain announcements to be made for to day. Mr. Hardman will make a report in connexion with the Committee on Procedure, while M. Seydoux will inform us of the resolutions which the Programme and Budget Commission has taken in regard to the budget itself, and the total figure, which is the main subject of this meeting. I now ask Mr. Hardmanto give us his report. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, fellow-delegates, this is a purely formal report to keep everything in order. The Procedure Commit- tee met on 12 November and agreed to set up a sub- committee to examine the Rules of Procedure. The following nations compose this sub-committee : — Belgium, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, India, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela. Any amendment to the Rule§ of Procedure should be sent to the Secretary, Room 5, at the latest by
10 o’clock on 17 November. The first meeting of the sub-committee will take place in Room 7 at
10 am. on 17 November. The sub-committe intends to report to the Committee on Procedure by 10 o’clock on 24 November. In the meantime, the Rules of Procedure submitted in document C/26 will hold good for the conducting of the Con- ference until revised rules are presented. I beg leave to present this report.
49. Discussion of the Recommendations of the Programme and Budget Commission con- cerning the Total Budget Figure for 1948 (continuation.) M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, as Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, I have the honourto acquaint the Conference with the following facts : our Commission, upon an amendment submit- ted by France and seconded by Czechoslovakia, has fixed the total figure for the Budget of Unesco for the year 1948 at $ 8,000,000. A vote was taken, showing 15 in favour, 11 against, and 9 abstentions. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) The debate on the Report is now open. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, we are very happy at the decision taken by the Commission concerning the Budget of our Organization. The evident interpreta- tion of this vote is that any criticism which might have been addressed to the Executive Board concern- ing comments the Board might have made on the Programme, so far as the Budget is concerned, has been discarded by the vote itself, which is in favour of this figure of $ 8,000,000. As a matter of fact, the comments made by the Finance Committee, which were officially transmitted to the Member States and to all delegations, have been taken fully into account by this result. Those comments, which may be found on page 7 of the pamphlet on the Budget Estimates, were deemed too severe by the Conference, since they were set aside in the official estimate of the budget and the fixing of the total figure. The Executive Board is, therefore, in my opinion, all the more justified in not having submitted other observations, since these, its major comments, were considered over-critical. For my part, I amvery happy that the delegations which criticized, voted against their own criticisms when they adopted the final figure, because, unless
112 —    m m “ E we draw up a new Programmein the very brief space of a few days, the one which has been submitted must be assumed to have been adopted in prin- ciple so far as the cost is concerned. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 call upon the delegate of France. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, the French delegation hopes that the decision which the Conference will reach this morning on the total budget figure, and which is of the very greatest importance, will be taken not merely in an entirely calm atmosphere but in an atmosphere of complete confidence and amity and, as far as possible, unanimously. Yesterday a number of votes were taken and the Programme and Budget Commission finally voted for the figure of $ 8,000,000. It had been decided that a plenary meeting of the Conference should be held immediately afterwards, but, upon the request of the United Kingdom delegation, that meeting was postponed until this morning by the vote of the delegates concerned. The French delegation believes that that decision was a very wise one and we are glad that, because ofit, the resolu- tions which we are going to take now will avoid any appearance of undue haste. The French delegation again supports its motion for the figure of $ 8,000,000 for the 1948 Budget of Unesco, and hopes very strongly that this proposal will be adopted. In addition to the reasons put forward yesterday, allow me to emphasize to-day the importance of making a positive gesture of confidence and hope in Unesco, a practical demonstration that the Organiza- tion is in full growth and that we are expecting from its activity results which will be fruitful for the peace of the world. The PRESIDENT (Translation from ‘the Spanish) : We are informed by the Secretariat that Denmark and Australia appear on thelist as wishing to speak. If any other delegation wishes to speak, we request it to inform the Secretariat. I now call upon the delegate of Denmark. Mr. Lyngby HOEST (Denmark) : Mr. President fellow-delegates, the Danish delegation fully ap- preciates the motives of various nations in voting for a considerably increased budget. We, too, have full sympathy for Unesco’s work and wish it the greatest possible success but, and there is a «But », Denmark, like many other countries suffered considerably during the World War, and the period following, has not broughtit better economic or material con- ditions. Our trade position is very difficult : it has been necessary for us to borrow dollars from the United States of America, and we have even been forced ‘to introduce severe restrictions on our imports, to an extent unknown during the war. In these circums- tances, we regret very much indeed that we must suggest that the expenses of Unesco for the time being be kept as low as possible. We therefore sympathize with the Norwegian and Dutch proposal that ‘the Budget should be onlyslightly increased,for example, from 6 to 7 million dollars. We have always lived up to our obligations, and we have fully paid our contributions to Unesco, although it has caused difficulties for so many of us Member States to meet these external commitments. We believe that the expenses of reconstruction for all the war-devastated countries are so heavy that economy must be exercised wherever possible. The Danish delegation is in favour of a budget of, say, $ 7,000,000 for the year 1948. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Presi- dent, Tam speaking on the proposal of theProgramme and Budget Commission that the total figure of the Budget should be fixed at $ 8,000,000. On behalf of the Australian delegation, I beg to move the following amendment to the proposal of the Programme and Budget Commission : The Conference resolves that the Budget for the year
1948 shall not exceed $ 8,000,000 ; and that the Programme and Budget Commission, after considering the Programme which it decides to recommend, and any relevant recommen- dations of the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion, shall recommend a detailed budget within this limit. The reasons which the Avstralian delegation would already have advanced in support of this amendment in the Programme and Budget Commission, if cir- cumstances had not prevented us from being repre- sented at yesterday's meeting, are the following : First of all, the budget proposed by the Director- General was $ 8,507,000. It included an undis- tributed appropriation of $ 400,000, in addition to some $ 364,000 distributed as contingencies under Chapters I, II and IV. If we deduct these contingency funds from the total budget recom- ded by the Director-General, we reach a figure of $ 7,733,000. This figure of $ 7,733,000 repre- sents the Director-General’s estimate of the cost of all the activities in the proposed programme for which he was able to submit working plans. Second point : Almost every speaker in the plenary discussions on the Director-General’s Report endorsed the view that the activities in 1947 were too diffuse and that the Programme for 1948 should concen- trate upon a more limited number of undertakings. The Executive Board itself invited this Conference to — 113 —   make a selection from the many activities suggested in the Programme submitted to the Conference. It is possible, therefore, that the Programme finally to be approved by the Conference would not, apart from contingencies, cost as much as $ 7,733,000. A third point : The sum of $ 7,733,000 proposed by the Director-General, apart from contingencies, envisages an increase of 25 per cent in the number of posts in the Secretariat. The Finance Committee of the Board has asked the Conferenceto consider the problems of recruitment and management implied in this proposal; and it is possible that the Administrative and External Relations Commission will advise against so large an increase in staff. In that event, also, the Director-General’s estimate of $ 7,733,000 would be reduced. Fourth point : The Conference has not yet had an opportunity of considering the Executive Board's report on the Financial Administration of the Organi- zation, nor the present organization of the Secreta- riat, and in this connexion I would like to inform the Plenary Conference that the Australian delegation is moving that the Director-General be requested to give priority to the reproduction and distribution of that document, which has been in the hands of the Secretariat in its final form since last Friday, the reason being, of course, that this document was requested by special resolution of the last Conference and has been prepared and transmitted some days ago with the approval of the Executive Board; and the Australian delegation is moving that it be given complete priority over all material that is being prepared by the Secretariat for various working parties. As I say, the Conference has not yet had an oppor- tunity of considering that report. The Administra- tive and External Relations Commission may also be able to make other recommendations which will reduce costs of administration and operation, so that the Director-General’s estimates would be still further reduced. This is my fifth point : the Australian delegation has suggested, and I know that several other dele- gations are in agreement, that in 1948 more stress be laid on participation of Member States. This may also involve some reduction in the cost of the Secretariat, offsetting any additional costs imposed on Member States for their own activities under the Programme to be approved. Six : Furthermore, the Conference has had no opportunity of examining the Director-General's proposals for contingency funds. Seven : Finally, the Director-General himself desires to suggest some additional programme activities, and some delegations will also be proposing certain activities not provided for in the Budget. In the light of these considerations the Australian delegation is now prepared to vote for a motion which would here and now fix the budget at no more and noless than$ 8,000,000. We would bepre- pared to vote for a larger figure if we assured that the money could be well spent; and we shall be pre- pared to vote a Budget of $ 8,000,000 sfweare able to support the Programme on which it is based and if we are satisfied that the cost estimates are not in- flated. There has not yet been any opportunity for the Conference or for delegations to reach any con- clusion on these matters, and it would be the height of absurdity, in our opinion, for this Conference, at this stage, to fix the Budget unalterably at $ 8,000,000. One other consideration : We have not yet consi- dered the question of the Revolving Fund, and indi- vidual delegations cannot know at this moment whether this figure of $ 8.000.000 commits them to a further contribution to the Revolving Fund. The Director-General has been instructed by the Executive Board to present a total Budget figure to the Conference (that means, I take it, to the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, or one of the Commissions) and detailed information and any views he has on the matter of the Revolving Fund; and how we can act on that information in any final way is beyond me. It may be said that, in pressing this amendment, I am going back on an early decision of the Conference; but that is not the case. The question on the agenda is a vote on the total figure of the Budget. My amendment is a vote on the total figure of the Budget, but it proposes that we fix a ceiling for that total figure. When the French delegation proposed that the matter should be placed so early on the agenda, their argument was that we should avoid fixing a pro- gramme which would cost more than the Budget finally adopted. Well, this objective will be achieved if we agree now to fix the ceiling figure of the Budget ; and the Australian delegation is prepared to vote $ 8,000,000. The determination of the exact figure within that limit must, if we wish the Organi- zation to be efficient, be settled in the light of our detailed discussion of the programme and our consideration of any possible administrative econo- mies. I therefore move my amendment, which I shall read once more : The Conference resolves that the Budgetfor the year 1948 shall not exceed $ 8,000,000; and that the Programme and Budget Commission, after considering the Programme which it decides to recommend, and any relevant recommen- dations of the Administrative and External Relations Com- mission shall recommend a detailed budget within this limit. — 114 —    M. ROLFCHRISTENSEN (Norway) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates; So far the Norwegian delegation has requested permission to speak only twice — and to make extremely brief remarks. We are still anxious to take as little as possible of your valuable time, but we are under specific instructions from our Government to do our utmost to keep down expenses in the operation of Unesco. That 1s why I have to ask for your attention for a few more minutes. My previous suggestion as to the total budget for Unesco for 1948 is the lowest one yet made, namely 6 1/2 million dollars. It was not seconded, and it seemed yesterday as though a budget $ 8,000,000 might be adopted. That will probably mean an increase of about 30 per cent. in everybody's contribution to Unesco. There are two points I wish to bring forth. One concerning the position of my own country, the other regarding Unesco itself. It is Norway's aim to shift for herself, if possible, without asking the help of Unesco — or any other international organization. After five years of oceu- pation by a ruthless enemy, who sank 50 per cent. of our ships, burnt our villages, tortured and killed many, laid one-fifth of our country in ruins, deprived the population of food and clothing and even stole our bed-covers, we do not make excuses for our plight, nor are we ashamed that economy must be the topmost item on our programme for some time to come. We are not asking for sympathy, for we know that other countries have fared worse; and keenly aware of this, Norway has already contributed mil- lions of kroners’ worth of food and other necessities to such unfortunate countries — and is doing more. But we do ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to realize that the world has gone through the worst cataclysm in the history of mankind, and that it cannot be brought back to its old productivity and earning power in the course of two years. It is true that we have been fortunate in making considerable progress these two years, but we have still very far to go. Thousands of families are still without homes, severe restrictions are in force, all kinds of material are still needed in great quantities, for which top prices must be paid; machinery is run down and our merchant marine must be rebuilt. But apart from all this we have a Unesco programme of our own. For five years our schools, our univer- sity and other institutions of learning have been grossly neglected. They are now working overtime and at more than maximum capacity in order to recapture lost time for the thousands of youngters whose studies and education have been delayed. Hundreds and more hundreds of students have been sent abroad at great cost, many of them to the United States, where they have been splendidly received by that great nation, whose every move these days seems to be misinterpreted. It is in these circumstances that we shall probably be called upon to pay about 30 per cent more to the efforts of Unesco. Here is my second point. Fellow-delegates, I for one do not believe thatit is in the interest of Unesco to expand its activities at the present time, or perhaps even to go ahead with all the projects now in course of development. It may be unwise of Unesco at this time to ask for more blood-transfusion from a very sick, although very slowly recuperating, world. And it might be unwise of Unesco to leave the world unconvinced that it is exercising the strictest economy. For there are still a lot of people around who believe in economy, and there are some who seem to think that economy of approved standards will have to return some day. And since monetary matters are on the agenda to-day, let me say, as a novice in international con- ferences, although an admirer of eloquence, that it has been somewhat disconcerting to witness so many people, who have come from the very ends of the world, listening for days on end to speeches about education, culture and peace. I presume they are busy, too. If we are of one mind, we need no con- vincing; but if we need convincing, we have no business here. And we hear of gatherings, which take considerable time in discussing and deciding when to meet next, and even have to vote on the subject. The eyes of the world are upon us, and what we decide today and every day will be commented upon by people in all countries, by people whose money has been entrusted to Unesco, perhaps at consid- erable sacrifice. One question which they will quite naturally ask is whether modern methods of admini- stration and efficiency are being applied. If not, they may ask why experts in these disciplines are not used. Or, if they are unaware of the existence of such experts, they might even recommend the advice of ordinary government officials, who through a life time have learned to do very much with very little. Since economy is one of the fundamentals in all organizations, I venture to suggest that the question of the economic and efficient operation of Unesco be made subject to a special study in such manner as may seem advisable to the Executive Board, and that reports on these two subjects be submitted to the next General Conference; further, that a study be made of the most efficient working method of the General Conference itself, and that such method be applied at the next General Conference. — 115 —
8.      In making this suggestion, I venture to say that neither praise nor criticism voiced in this Assembly can be of any great value to the Director-General and the Secretariat and the other executive organs of Unesco,if they do not feel at the same time that this governing body is ready to govern, and ready to take such steps as might strengthen our organization and prepare it for the tremendous tasks which we hope that it will undertake in the future. The Norwegian delegation would like to make an amendment to the proposal by the Canadian delegate, that theceiling be fixed at $ 7,000,000. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : To continue the debate on the total figure, I would remind you that we have before us a proposal from Australia, which I will again read : The' Conference resolves that the Budget for the year
1948 shall not exceed $ 8,000,000, and that the Programme and Budget Commission, after considering the Programme which decides to recommend and any relevant recommen- dations of the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion, shall recommend a detailed budget within this limit. I should like to know if any delegation wishes to second or support this proposal from Australia. The delegate of France seconds the Australian motion. We have, too, the Norwegian proposal, which has also been mentioned by Denmark, for a figure of $ 7,000,000. If any delegations wish to second this proposal, will they signify the same? The delegate of the Netherlands seconds the Norwe- gian proposal. We can now discuss the proposed amendment on which a vote will be taken. I call upon the delegate of Brazil. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (brazil) (Translation from the French) : 1 wish to support the motion submitted by Australia, which is in accor- dance, I am sure, with the general spirit of our discussions,first in the Executive Board and then in the Programme and Budget Commission, on the necessity. of fixing, forthwith,a ceiling figure for the Budget. I spoke yesterday and said then that I had been very deeply impressed. Naturally, in the course of our discussions, we shall be able to get a satisfactory view of immediate requirements. These will become apparent when we have the whole Pro- gramme before us and discuss the full details of the work to be done. We hope that this ceiling figure will be sufficient for the fulfilment of Unesco’s work in 1948. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) Mr. President, fellow-delegates : I have much pleasure in supporting the proposal of the Australian delegate, which expresses much of what I would otherwise have had to say and expresses it much more force- fully. I do, however, want to ask whether he would not be prepared to add a proviso to his proposal, because I take it, Mr. President, that I would not be in order in proposing an amendment to an amend- ment. The proposal I wish to make is that we add the following proviso to the Australian proposal : «...provided that the total amount of the payments re- quired from Member States for 1948, including contributions to the Revolving Fund, shall not exceed $ 9,000,000.» I stated yesterday that my country was prepared to goito the full extent of the § 8,500,000, but when I did so I was not aware of the possibility of my country being asked to provide part of a further $2,000,000 for the Revolving Fund. That is purely a procedural matter : the Revolving Fund question is not before you to-day, and it will first be discussed in another committee. But I cannot escape the conclusion that, whatever we may call that fund, it represents part of the total contribution we shall be called upon to make and will go towards the running of this Organization. I am not one of those who would like to see un- limited funds putat the disposal of this Organization ; on the other hand, I do feel that we must provide adequate resources to allow the work which the Secretariat has been asked to do to be done effectively. The Director-General pointed out yesterday the dan- ger of trying to reduce this figure, at any rate below $ 7,750,000, which was the minimum required to maintain existing activities. That only goes to show, of course, how necessary it is to exercise caution before embarking on fresh ventures. If it is correct that we are going to alienate the sympathy of Member States by reducing expenditure on any head, then it means we must be doubly careful before we embark on such projects. Bul I feel very strongly that, even if it is at considerable sacrifice to Member States, we must at least maintain what we have undertaken, and I think we ought to allow for reasonable expansion. For that reason I am prepared to commit my country, without having the opportunity of going back for a revision of my mandate, to the extent of a further half million dollars over and above what we have already provided for, namely $ 8,500,000. I would therefore ask whether it is possible for my colleague from Australia to accept that. It amounts, in other words, to this : that we will undertake here and now not to demand more than §1,000,000 towards the Revolving Fund, and I would move that the proviso be added : ...provided that the total amount of the payments re- quired from Member States for 1948, including contributions to the Revolving Fund, shall not exceed § 9,000,000. — 116 —    The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I should be glad to know whether the Australian delegate will accept the modification proposed by ‘the South African delegate. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : I am quite prepared, for my part, to accept the addition to my amendment proposed by the South African delegate. I cannot ,without time for conversation, say whether the seconders of my amendment would also admit that addition. I think we might also ask the Director-General whether the Secretariat would see any very grave objection to our imposing that limit at this time. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : For my part there is no objection to this addition. I hope that it will be incorporated in the amendment. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I would ask the Conference whether the proposal is seconded in the terms in which it was explained by the delegate of South Africa? The French delegation seconds the proposal. In accordance with the list of those who wish to speak, the next speaker will be the delegate of the Lebanon. M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) [Translation from the French) : Mr President,in spite of the modest contribution made by the Lebanon to the general budget of Unesco, a contribution which is in confor- mity with our small budgetary possibilities, the Lebanon wishes to second the proposal of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, I must add, how- ever, that the countries of the Near East, and in particular the Arab near eastern countries, are very poorly represented in the main services of Unesco. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I now call upon the delegate of Czechoslovakia. Dr. Jan OPOCENSKY (Czechoslovakia) (Transla- tion from the French) : Mr. President, colleagues, Czechoslovakia fully supports the proposal made by the French delegation, as we did yesterday; we also support the Australian proposal. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : There are no other speakers on the list. I should like to know if any of the remaining delegates wishes to speak? The delegate of the Netherlands. Dr. J. C. KIELSTRA (Netherlands) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates; I only want to say a few words to the meeting to propose a sub-amendment to the Norwegian amendment. It is this. I believe in his proposals for a ceiling of $ 7.000.000 it was not taken into consideration that there was also a further sum necessary. I would make a sub- amendmentin this way : that the ceiling should be $ 6.000.000 exclusive of those amounts which are necessary to the Revolving Fund. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Do any of the delegations second the Netherlands amendmentto the Norwegian proposal of seven mil- lion dollars, exclusive of the amounts necessary for the Revolving Fund? Norway seconds that proposal. Does any of the remaining delegates wish to speak? The delegate of Bolivia. Sr. Roberto BILBAO LA VIEJA (Bolivia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : It is my duty to declare, on behalf of the Bolivian delagation, that in view of the necessity of continuing the important work begun in 1947, particularly work of reconstruction in the war-devastated countries and work in fundamental education, our delegation believes that the total figure of $ 8.000.000 proposed by the French delegation and approved by the Programme and Budget Commission should be maintained. With regard to the possibility of reducing the administra- tive costs, we believe that, ¡f such a reduction should be achieved, it should not be reflected in the total figure, because every reduction in administrative expenses will allow us to give more attention to the fundamental education programme, which we hope will be approved by the Programme and Budget Commission and the Conference. To sum up, we in Bolivia believe in Unesco, and in the results which it should achieve in the interests of peace, fundamental education and international understanding. Being convinced ofthe great achie- vements to be expected from Unesco, webelieve that the cost involved in the development of the Organi- zation is a small price to pay for them.
20. Vote on the Total Budget Figure. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does any other delegate wish to speak? To recapitulate, there are three proposals in regard to the Budget. The first — that is, the proposal submitted by the Programme and Budget Commis- sion, is that the figure of $ 8,000,000 should be be fixed as the total. Secondly, we have the proposal of Australia, with the South African addition — namely, a proposal for $ 8,000,000 on the understanding that the Programme and Budget Commission,after consider- ing the Programme which it decides to recommend and any relevant recommendations of the Admini- strative and External Relations Commission, shall recommend a detailed budget within that limit. To — 117 —      this proposal an addition was made by the delegate of South Africa to the effect that the total amount of the payments required from Member States for
1948, including contributions to the Revolving Fund, should not exceed $ 9,000,000. Thirdly, there is the Norwegian proposal for a figure of $ 7,000,000, with the addition of the amounts necessary for the Revolving Fund. In order to proceed to a vote on these proposals, I should like to have the opinion of the meeting on the order in which it desires these proposals to be put to a vote. We will commence by voting on the Norwegian proposal, which is for the lowest figure $ 7,000,000 plus the additionnal sums necessary for the Revolv- ing Fund. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted infavour : China, Denmark, Norway, Nether- lands, United Kingdom. Voted against : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Philip- pines, Poland, Turkey, Union of South Africa, Uru- guay, Venezuela. Abstained : United States of America. Absent : Ecuador, Liberia, Luxemburg, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Norwegian proposal has been defeated by a vote of 25 against, 5 in favour, 1 abstention and 5 absent. Weshall therefore proceed to vote upon the Aus- tralian proposal, as amended by the delegation of South Africa. The Director-General asks us to read once more the terms in which the proposal has been drafted : The Conference resolves that the Budget for the year
1948 shall not exceed $ 6,000,000 and that the Programme and Budget Commission, safter considering the Programme which it decides to recommend, and any other relevant recom- mendations of the Administrative and External Relations Com- mission, shall recommend a detailed budget within this limit. With the proposal of South Africa : Provided that the total amount of the payements required from Member States for 1948, including contributions to the Revolving Fund, shall not exceed § 9,000,000. This is the proposal on which we are about to vote. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted inque : Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Philip- pines, Poland, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. Voted against : Belgium. Absent : Liberia, Luxemburg, Saudi Arabia, Syria). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Australian proposal with the addition made to it by the South African delegation, has been accepted by a vote of 31 in favour, 1 against and 4 absent. The Chair would like to congratulate those dele- gations which voted for this proposal, even though they were not in agreement with it beforehand. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : As a matter of form, Mr. President, I suggest that we have voted on the amendment, but not on the amendment as a motion. May I ask you, on behalf of the Australian delegation, to submit the amendment just carried as a substantive motion? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Gentlemen, as we have already taken a vote and are now proceeding on a matter of order, I ask you to allow me to take the vote by show of hands. Will those in favour, kindly raise their hands? (The amendment, now esented as a substantive motion, was carried by show of hands). ) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) The delegate of Belgium wishes to speak. M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) “Translation from the French): Ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian delegation was the only one to vote against this proposal. This was because, for the first time in our parliamentary history, we reversed the proceedings. We should have begun with the highest figure so as to allow everybody to give his opinion — at least that is what we do in continental Europe. We did not have an opportunity of voting on the proposal submitted by the Secretariat, because of the way in which we proceeded. I want you to know that, if we had known beforehand of the systera on which the vote was to be taken, we would have voted « Yes». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does any other delegate wish to speak? Then I declare the meeting closed. The meeting rose at 12.20 p. m. © Resolution X 15 vol. II, page 62. — 118 —