Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico), reported that the list had been presented merely as suggestions to the members. The Executive Board had felt that the work of its Committee was necessary to co-ordinate matters and take all pertinent facts into considera- tion. This precaution was necessary to ensure some measure of geographical distribution within the Committees. The delegate of INDIA announced that he was leaving Mexico on 19 November. He asked there- fore whether it would be possible for him to cede his Vice-Chairmanship of the Working Party on Philo- sophy and Humanities, and for another member of his delegation, Mr. Ashfaque Husain, to be appointed to the Working Party on Education for International Understanding. The delegate of DENMARK announced that M. Ma- “niche, a memberof his delegation, proposed for one of the offices, would not be able to fill it, as he would have to leave Mexico before the end of the Confe- rence. It was decided that Mr. Ashfaque Husain would be proposed as Vice-Chairman of the Working Party on Education for International Understanding, Dr. Robbins becoming its Rapporteur. Dr. BOOR (Czechoslovakia) having declined to serve as Rapporteur in the Working Party on Libra- ries and Documentation, the post was left vacant for decision by the Working Party itself. Dr. Rudzinski (Poland) was substituted for M. Drohojowski (Poland) in the Working Party on Copyright. Prof. Carneiro Leao (Brazil) was substituted for Professor P. de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil) in the Working Party on Social Sciences. With these amendments, the motion of Sir John Maud was adopted, and it was decided to transmit the list, as amended, to the Commissions and Working Parties concerned. It was decided that the posts left open in accordance with the above amendments would be filled 'by the Working Parties concerned. The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m. THIRD MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947, at 6 p.m. Chairman : Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada). The CHAIRMAN said that the business before the Committee was to proceed to the no- mination of seven candidates for the Executive Board, to fill the post left vacant by the resi- gnation of the Hon. A. Macleish (United States of America) and six outgoing members. The election was governed by Article V of the Constitution and by Rules 68, 69, 70 and 71 of the Rules of Proce- dure of the General Conference (these were read aloud by the secretary on the request of the dele- gate of Brazil). Sr. GUELL (Cuba) pointed out that, as Unesco was essentially a democratic institution, respecting the principle of equality between nations, the study of the questions with which it was concerned and preli- minary information regarding those questions should not be reserved to a privileged group, lest the future action of the Organization be prejudiced. Many countries had done excellent work for Unesco but were not represented on the Executive Board. While he paid tribute to the good work of the candidates for re-election, nothing should be done to prevent delegates of other nations from filling posts which allow them to become fully acquainted with whole of the Organization’s work. The CHAIRMANrecalled that, under the Rule of Procedure, all members of the Executive Board were eligible on the same terms as other candidates. He suggested that, in conformity with Rule 71, they should proceed to the scrutiny of candidates to replace the member whose resignation they regretted ; he called on the delegate of the United States of America. M. BENTON (United States of America) was sure he spoke for them all in expressing their keen regret at the resignation of Mr. MacLeish. Dr. Milton Eisenhower was not prepared to take his place and this was matter for regret, too, for the present stage of Unesco’s work demanded continuity of — #617 —      direction. However, he was happy to propose a candidate for Mr. MacLeish's place : Dr. George Stod- dard, President of the University of Illinois, one of the five American delegates to the Paris Con- ference and a member of the American delegation at the present Conference. Dr. Stoddard was a psy- chelogist eminent in the field of education and Pre- sident of one of the greatest American universities. This proposal was seconded and unanimously approved. Mr. Benton added that it was Dr. Stoddard’s intention to be present at all meetings of the Execu- tive Board; it was important that members should attend in person. The CHAIRMAN proposed that they should exa- mine candidatures for the six vacancies on the Execu- tive Board, and pointed out that the six candidates could be nominated all together or individually. Sr. GUELL (Cuba) suggested that each country should indicate in writing the six countries or dele- gates it proposed. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that nominations must be made on an individual and not a national basis. The Cuban delegate accepted this ruling. Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) thought that, before deciding the procedure for election, it would be desirable to hear the delegations’ proposals, with short biographical notes about their candidates; it would be difficult to vote for unknown persons. Dr. JONES PARRA (Venezula) thouhht that the headsof the delegations to which the outgoing mem- bers belonged should state whether the latter were or were not candidates for re-election. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) recalled that under the Constitution the prime consideration was to ensure the widest possible geographical repre- sentation on the Board. Considerations of personal qualities also came into the question and were the source of the greatest difficulties. Dr. JONES PARRA (Venezuela) drew attention to the conditions to which the members of the Execu- tive Board must conform under the terms of the Constitution. Article V said that they should be competent in the arts, the humanities, the sciences, education and the diffusion of ideas, and be qualified by their experience and ‘capacity to fulfil the admini- strative and executive duties of the Board. In electing these members, the Conference was also required to have regard to the diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical distribution. He pointed out that these conditions must be applied to all the candidates. The CHAIRMAN proposed that a list of eligible candidates should be drawn up; after this was received they could proceed to a vote. The list could include outgoing members. The Cuban delegate supported this proposal. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) thought they must comply with the Constitution, under whichthe Gene- ral Conference, and not the Nominations Committee, was responsible for ensuring a balanced geographical distribution. The task of the Nominations Commit- tee was to propose names, and not only could the heads of delegations propose members of their own delegations, but the delegates themselves could propose a candidate of a country other than their own. Before voting on the Chairman’s motion Mr. BEN- TON wished to propose an alternative procedure. He recalled that at the Paris Conference he had been the first to protest against the lack of balance on the Executive Board; of the nine European Members of Unesco, eight were represented on the Executive Board, which was unfair to Asia and South Ame- rica. The representatives of the Netherlands, Mexico, the United Kingdom, China, Australia and Poland were due to retire. Clearly, to ensure continuity of work. and in view of the excellent work they had done, Sir John Maud, Dr. Chen Yuan and Dr. Walker ought to be re-elected, and so should Dr. Martinez Baez, subject to his being able to attend the meetings in Paris. Prof. AUGER (France) remarked that the United States delegate had raised two points: (1) a question of principles, namely a balanced Executive Board; (2) the question of the countries whose representatives la be retained on the Board, not only because they belonged to great countries, but because they had personally rendered great service to Unesco. On the first point, he regretted that he disagreed with the previous speakers; the balance established at the first Conference was adequate and should be preserved ; four European countries were on the point ofratifying the Constitution and becoming Members of Unesco : Switzerland, Italy, Hungary and Austria; thus the numbers of seats reserved for Europe on the Board was not excessive. With regard to the indi- viduals named by the United States delegate, he appreciated their work at its true worth and admitted without reserve that they should retain their seats; he would like to add, however, that Poland also, which had suffered so greatly in the war, should re- main on the Board. Dr. OPOCENSKY (Czechoslovakia) entirely agreed with the French delegate, but pointed out that the Polish representative, M. Marian Falski, had been obliged to resign from the Board and could not offer himself for re-election. He accordingly proposed the — 618 —    name of Prof. Stanislaw Arnold and read a short biographical notice of him. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) recalled that the object of the present meeting was to avoid prolonged discussion at a plenary meeting of the Conference. Much time had already been lost with- out their even beginning the consideration of vitally important principles. He himself wished to speak in somedetail on questions of principle, but, in view of the lateness of the hour, requested that the meet- ing be closed, and the discussion continued on the following day. The motion of adjournment was supported by the delegate of the United Kingdom and adopted. The next meeting was fixed for the following day at 6 p. m. and members were asked to bring lists of candidates. The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Tuesday, 18 November 1947, at 6 p. m. Chairman : Mr. S, D. PIERCE (Canada). The CHAIRMAN suggested that the delegate of the Union of South Africa should speak and that the general discussion should then be closed.  Nomi- nations would next be sought, and then they would proceed to vote by secret ballot. This procedure was seconded by Sr, GUELL (Cuba) and was approved. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) had felt since the last Conference that the present method of appointing the Executive Board was inadequate, as the principles applied were conflicting. They tried to provide for good individuals and yet assure geo- graphical distribution ; theytried to obtain continuity and yet wanted to provide room for different cultures and different parts of the world. Owing to the sys- tem by which membersof the Board were allowed to appoint substitutes, they were not even sure of the service of individuals. He pleaded the cause of South Africa and the Philippines, both of which countries represented large numbers of people; South Africa had 12, 1/2 million inhabitants, and the Philippines,
18 million, and together they represented European, African and Asiatic cultures. Each of them was iso- lated and unable to have its view put before the Exe- cutive Board. As regards the question of re-election, he submitted that it was no argument that because a man had served well on the Board he should be re-elected ; he was sure that each country could find at least one good man to represent it on the Board, and he urged that if the meeting went on to the selection of candi- dates, distant and isolated countries should be repre- sented and also cultures which had as yet no voice on the Board. On the other hand, Unesco must have the support of large nations and be partially con- trolled by them, and the Executive Board must there- fore include representatives of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, India and China. In view of all these considerations, he bad a new pro- cedure to propose which he thought was the best they could achieve without amending the Constitu- tion — which,as a matter of fact, he thought should be amended. His proposal was as follows :
1. The six Member States making the largest contribution shall each provide one member who shall hold office until replaced by another by the State concerned;
2. The Latin American States shall provide three members to be elected by themselves, and to hold office for such period, not exceeding three years, as they may decide;
3. The remaining nine seats shall be filled as vacancies occur by the States not included in (1) and (2) above, in cycle order, following a list arranged according to the date of deposit of ratification of the Constitution of Unesco. Such appointments shall be for a period of one year. He explained that the Conference could not con- stitute a proper Executive Board unless there was ade- quate provision made for the Latin American group. The proposal did not provide for as large a measure of continuity as he would have desired, but he thought it would ensure the co-operation of men as good as those who could have been obtained by other methods, The CHAIRMAN said that if this was a formal motion, he regretted that he would have to rule it — 619 —