taken would be positive and concrete, giving the Board and the Secretariat all necessary information. Delegations should present draft resolutions in this. form. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) felt this reply did not meet the wholeof his question. He wanted to know whether any particular item which was not moved and seconded by any delegation would lapse, or whether the Executive Board wished to put forward each of the items as proposed and seconded by it. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) thought the position was clear : the Executive Board had finished its work when it presented the draft programme to the General Conference. It submitted the draft, not as a motion, but as a document for discussion and examination. It could be assumed that any point in the draft programme which was not the subject of a resolution, was not in the programme for 1948. It was the responsibility of the Chair- man of the Programme and Budget Commission to take what steps he deemed advisable to ensure that the will ‘of the Commission was expressed in resolutions to go before the General Conference: Mr. PIERCE (Canada) agreed with the delegate of the United Kingdom, and said that, if there were no champion for a certain item, he would be glad to see it dropped, as he felt that a sufficient number of items would in any case be sponsored. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL hoped that members of the Executive Board would consult with the Chair- man of the Programme and Budget Commission and with delegations to see that no item in the draft programme was left out of consideration. The meeting ross at 11 a. m. SIXTH MEETING Thursday, 13 November 1947 et 10 a. m. Chairman : Proposal by the French delegation. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) propo- sed that a French representative should be invited to sit with the Committee, as they were to discuss the proposal of the French delegation. He was seconded by the delegate ofNEW ZEALAND. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN welcomed M. Roger Seydoux, the delegate of France, and recalled that France had ceded its place on the Committee to Brazil. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) wished the subject of the examination of the Unesco Consti- tution to be added to the agenda, as there might be some changes to be made and other procedures introduced after one year’s experience. He was seconded by Mr. HARDMAN. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was in entire agree- ment, but suggested that the discussion should be postponed for a day or so, as there were many points to raise. To this Mr. BENTON (United States of America) replied that he hoped that it would not be postponed for too long, as he planned to sug- gest that the result of their discussions on the sub- M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) L ject should be passed to the Procedure Committee, and the latter must have sufficient time to consider the questions raised before its meeting on Monday, Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) observed that the Procedure Committee had created a small sub- committee to examine the rules and it was not to start work until it had received amendments from delegations, to be submitted within two days. Any suggestions of the present Committee should there- fore be communicated to it before Monday morning. The suggestions of the General Committee did not have to go to the Plenary Conference before being submitted to the sub-committee. The CHAIRMAN called on the delegate of France to speak on the French proposal. M. SEYDOUX (France) recalled that the Head of the French delegation had presented a motion the previous day, tending to associate the work of the Working Parties more closely with that of the Programme and Budget Commission. There was a feeling of discontent among the French delegates regarding the conditions under which — 251 —       the Working Parties had to work; it was felt that the results of their work would be academic rather than practical. The organization of their work was governed by document 2C/BUR/1, which had been adopted by the plenary meeting the previous afternoon. Consideration of this docu- ment had not appeared on the agenda and delega- tions had been called upon to vote on it at the end of the debate, many of them being taken by sur- prise. If the French delegation had known before hand, it would have voted against the document. Asit was a key document, it was felt that the proce- dure had been incorrect. It might be said that the Executive Board had approved the document, but Professor Auger had told him that this was not the conclusion of the Executive Board. The Board desired Working Parties to submit their reports and resolutions, if any, to the Programme and Bud- get Commission, which would take their opinions into account. In the time-table annexed to the document, it appeared that Working Parties could not transmit their opinions on given subjects to the Programme and Budget Commission until after the latter had adopted motions on those sub- ects. The work of the Programme and Budget Gommis- sion was based on the programme book (document
20/3). The French delegation did not approve of this document, feeling that it was too vague and general, and that Unesco’s main projects did not stand out sufficiently. There was some misun- derstanding, as the Executive Board had not given its opinion on the document. The presentation of the Programme was general, whereas the Work- ing Parties were organized to discuss specialized subjects. The result was that there was no liaison between them and the Programme and Budget Commission. Finally, it was felt that the number of Working Parties and Commissions was too great, which meant that small delegations could not be repre- sented at all of them and they were, therefore, nei- ther international nor democratic. In view of the above considerations, the French delegation made the following proposals :
(1) that the number of Commissions and Working Parties should be reduced;
(2) that Working Parties should meet before the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission;
(3) that the Programme and Budget Commission should use as a basis of work not document 20/3, but the documents prepared by Heads of Sections and document 20/2, The French delegation realized, however, that the Conference was already in its second week of work and therefore it would not press these points but put forward the following motion :
1. "No decision shall be taken by the Programme and Budget Commission until the competent Working Party has presented its conclusion upon the matter under discussion.
2. If the developmentof the discussion in the Programme and Budget Commission does not allow for the receipt of the opinion of the competent Working Party on any project, the Programme and Budget Commission shall adjourn its debates on that project until the competent Working Party has pre- sented its conclusions,
3. In the event of the competent Working Party being unable to presentits conclusions in time, the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission may invite the Chairman or Rapporteurof the competent Working Party to take part in the work of the Commission and, at the meeting before the decision in question, to make known any available views of the Working Party.
4. In order to associate the Working Parties as closely as possible with the work of the Programme Commission, the latter expressly requests the Working Parties to give, their virws, as a matter of priority, on the projects to be examined by the Programme Commission, and then to consider pro- blems of a general character and the means of implementing the projects already examined by the Conference. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, referring to the point whether the Programme was simply tabled by the Executive Board or proposed by it, recalled that, in accordance with Article IV B, Paragraph 2 of the Constitution, the General Conference took decisions on the programme drawn up by the Executive Board. It was definitely the Executive Board's programme. With regard to the suggestion that the number of Working Parties should be reduced, this was a delicate matter, as all specialists, as well as sections in the Secretariat, wanted specific problems discus- sed by competent specialists, and the number had already been reduced to a minimum; if it were further reduced, many subjects would not be dis- cussed at all. As regards the document to be used as a basis for work, the Programme and Budget Commission could not baseits discussions on the Budget rather than the Programme, as suggested by the French delegate. The Budget was only a translation of the Programme into financial terms made by the Secretariat. Professor Auger had not been wholly correct in stating that the Executive Board desired Working Parties to send reports and resolutions to the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, which would take them into account. The decision of the Board was that, wherever possible, reports and resolutions, if any, of Working Parties were to be transmitted to the Programme and Budget Commission. But the whole intention in creating Working Parties instead ‘of sub-commissions was to avoid what had happened at the previous year's Conference, when details of the Programme were examined by sub- commissions of specialists who reported to the Programme Commission. The latter did not
52 —   synthesize the reports, but put them together and submitted them, with a general introduction, as its own report. At the present Conference, the whole Programme was to be considered by the Programme and Budget Commission. The Working Parties had been assigned two functions : (1) to prepare the ground for the consideration of a sub- ject by the Programme and Budget Commission, their opinion being made known before any deci- sion was taken by the Commission; (2) to examine decisions already taken by the Programme and Budget Commission, translating them into working terms. The Director-General thought it would be impos- sible, without prolonging the Conference, to adopt the French suggestion that only the first function should be delegated to the Working Parties. As regards the suggestion that the Chairman and Rapporteur might be invited to join in: the discussions of the Programme and Budget’ Commis- sion, he thought this might be considered. As far as the fourth point of the French delega- tion’s motion was concerned, he thought they were all agreed that priority should be given in discus- sions of Working Parties to projects to be submit- ted to the Programme and Budget Commission. As it was time to adjourn for the Plenary Meeting and several members had asked to speak, the Chair- man proposed that the Committee should meet again directly after the plenary. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) observed [that the Programme and Budget Commission was sche- duled to meet directly after the Plenary Meeting and was to discuss Chapter I of the Programme, where the whole question came to a head. He thought it advisable that the General Committee should make up its mind before the Programme and Budget Commission began its work, and there- fore moved that the meeting ‘of the Programme and Budget Commission be postponed until 4 p. m. Agreed. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. SEVENTH MEETING Thursday, 13 November 1947 at 6 p. m. Chairman : M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) Proposal by the French delegation (conti- nuation.) The CHAIRMAN stated that the draft resolution presented by Mr. Seydoux during the previous meeting was open for further discussion. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) said that he did not wish either to prolong or to shorten the Conference, as it was necessary to have as complete a picture as possible of the work accomplished; he therefore supported the French proposal as a whole. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) stated that both Professor Auger and himself, as Vice-Chairmen of the Executive Board, had decided to convene the Board to ascertain its attitude towards the Programme and the last report of the Financial Committee. Personally, Dr. Martinez Baez suppor- ted the French proposal. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) noted that several Working Parties had already finished their work (Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, Reconstruction, etc.) and would submit their reports to the Programme and Budget Com- mission; other groups, however, such as the Work- ing Party on Natural Sciences, had not reached that stage. The same chances of discussion in Working Parties should be accorded to all sections of the Programme before they were dealt with by the Programme and Budget Commission.  More- over, the Working Parties should be useful rather than decorative; as a matter of fact, delegates who were technical experts were constantly being appro- priated by the Working Parties, when they should be present at the Programme and Budget Commis- sion to advise the heads of their delegations. Con- sequently, either the Working Parties were necessary and the French proposal should be adopted, or they — 253 —