of Procedure should be presented to the plenary meeting on Monday morning. Agreed. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, announced that the Budget Sub-Commission had the rough form of its report ready, and the Programme Commission was fixing the final form of its report during the day. The Drafting Committee had had to wait to see the report of the Budget Sub-Commission, but its final report would be in the hands of delegates on Monday ‘morning. The Programme and Budget Commission hoped to meet on Monday afternoon to receive the reports of the Budget Sub-Commission, and would be able to present its final report to the plenary meeting the next day. It was therefore decided that the plenary meeting should be postponed until Tuesday and that the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission should meet on Monday afternoon and evening. The report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission would be submitted to the plenary meeting on Tues- day morning. Request of the Drafting Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission. At the proposal of the delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM, the request was approved. Proposal regarding the use of Spanish as a working language. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the item be refer- red to the Procedure Committee, which could then decide whether to refer it to the Executive Board for longer study. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) observed that the Procedure Committee would be presenting its report to the plenary meeting on Monday morning and therefore the General Conference would decide on the matter of the use of Spanish as a working language. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) [returned to the question of the closing date of the Conference and asked if 3 December was to be maintained. The CHAIRMAN announced that the President of Mexico was probably offering a dinner instead of a lunch on 2 December, so that it would be possible to work in the afternoon. It was agreed that, in order to end the Conference by Wednesday night, 3 December, it would be neces- sary to hold evening meetings on Monday and Wed- nesday. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked that the General Committee should empower deletion of the reference to the Procedure Committee at the foot of page 174 of the Journal. Agreed. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. SEVENTEENTH MEETING Monday, 1 December 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Mr William BENTON (United States of America) The CHAIRMAN called on the Ghinese delegate who had a statement to make. Dr. HAN (China) had a matter to raise regard ing the Philippines delegation, which he wished to have entered on the agenda of the plenary meeting. He recalled that the Philippines dele- gation had been upset by the fact that Dr. Alzona had not been elected to the Executive Board by the General Conference, but he thought thespirit in which they had taken the decision should be admired. He wished therefore to express the regret of the Chinese delegation that another country from the Far East was not to be represented on the Executive Board and the hope that, in the future, womanhood would be represented there. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) wondered whe- ther the Committee as a whole could not ex- press its sympathy towards the Philippines dele- gation. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) saw certain ob- jections to the expression of sympathy by the Committee, which might create a dangerous prece- dent. There was no reason why they should not also express sympathy to Cuba and the Netherlands, whose representatives had failed to be elected. — 270 — = =   = = It was agreed that the delegate of China should make his statement to the plenary meeting on behalf of the Chinese delegation only. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), Chairman of the Committee on Procedure, wished, on behalf of that Committee, to seek guidance from the General Committee. He said that the Committee on Procedure would not be able to finish its study of the Draft Rules of Procedure during the present conference, as many controversial questions had been raised by the Procedure Sub-Committee. He asked if the Report could not be sent, as it stood, for the consideration of the Executive Board. The latter might appoint three jurists, representing the three working languages, to go through the Rules and prepare correct translations. He asked if the General Committee would approve this procedure. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) asked whether it was intended that delegations not represented on the Executive Board should be represented when the document was discussed, or, if not, that they should be able to present their comments in writing. M. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) replied in the negative : his suggestion wast hat the document should be considered in detail by legal experts appointed by the Executive Board and that it should then be presented to the next General Conference for all Member States to discuss. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the General Committee should recommend that, when the document was presented to the Plenary Meeting, the latter should pass a resolution referring it to the Executive Board. The document should be considered by the Executive Board in the light of the jurists’ opinion and of any written statements which Member Governments might care to make. The Executive Board would then present a report for the approval of the first Plenary Meeting of the next Conference, so that the Rules could serve for that conference. The CHAIRMAN assumed from previous remarks that the document would be sent to all Member States so that they could present their views. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) thought it important that this opportunity should be given, as it would mean less work at the next General Conference. The procedure suggested by the Director-General was approved. The SECRETARY suggested that a short meeting of the General Committee might be held the next morning at 9.30 a. m. to discuss any questions which might have arisen. The CHAIRMAN thought this undesirable, but suggested that they should authorize the Secretary to call a meeting if any important matter came up. Agreed. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought it most important that the General Commit- tee should take the initiative of proposing to the last Plenary Meeting a motion of thanks to the Mexi- can Government, the Press and cultural organiza- tions and that it would be desirable to designate two or three members of the General Committee to present this motion to the General Conference. Agreed. M. ABOUKATER (Lebanon) expressed the thanks of his Government to the Director-General for the acceptance of the Lebanese invitation to hold the next conference in Lebanon. The CHAIRMAN returned to the matter of the disappointment of the Philippines delegation at the non-election of Dr. Alzona to the Executive Board. They had been especially disappointed because she had been elected with an absolute majority by the Nominations Committee. He recalled that the Philippines had no embassy in Paris and had therefore no represenfative to transmit their views to the Director-General between General Confe- rences. The Philippines Government felt it was inadequately represented on the Secretariat and was also disappointed that in Unesco’s publication on reconstruction in war-devastated countries, only two pages had been devoted to the Philippines. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that only two pages on the Philippines had been included in the reconstruction document, because information from the Philippines had not been received by the Secretariat in time to be inserted. As regards representation on the Secretariat, he recalled that Dr. Arnaldo from the Philippines was head of the New York office. The CHAIRMAN expressed the thanks of the United States delegation to the Director-General for his courage and leadership. It was felt that the General Committee and the Conference had some- times refused to accept his leadership when it would have been wiser to do so, and, when attri- buting defects to the Secretariat, it had been for- gotten that these defects were often due to the fact that his leadership had not been followed. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was deeply moved by the tribute. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) added his con- gratulations to the secretarial staff of the General Committee. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. — 271 —