SECOND PLENARY MEETING Friday, 7 November 1947, at 11. 15 a, m. CONTENTS
3. Report of the Credentials Committee
4, Adoption of the Agenda, ...
5. Report of the Procedure Committee............ Cuade
6, Repent of the Nominations Committee and Election of President and Vice- POI ‎حجا : = . Address by the Representative of the United Nations President : M. Jacques MARITAIN (France), later Sr, Manuel GUAL VIDAL(Mexico).
3. Report of the Credentials Committee. The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the French) : I call upon the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to present his report. M. UZGOREN (Turkey) (Chairman of the Creden- tials Committee) : The Credentials Committee, appointed by the Second Session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educa- tional, Scientific and Cultural Organization at its meeting held on 6 November 1947, met on the same day. It consisted of the following Member States : China, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Haiti, Mexico, the Philippines, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom. II. The Committee examined the documents received from thirty Member States, which were submitted to it by the Director-General of the Organization. It found that the credentials issued to the representatives of nineteen Govern- ments of Member States fully satisfied the requirements of Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure for the General Conference. This applies to the following States, which have delegates accredited by documents issued by the Head of the State or the Minister of Foreign Affairs : Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, Philippines, the Union of South Africa, Venezuela. III. Provisional credentials were submitted for the repre- sentatives of eleven Governments in the formof letters, cables or documents issued by other Ministers of their respective countries or by Heads of Diplomatic Missions. These States are : Australia, Bolivia, China, Cuba, Denmark, the Lebanon, Norway, Poland, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States. IV. No credentials have so far heen received from the follow= ing Member States : Liberia, Saudi Arabia, Syria. V. The Committee will examine in due course the original credentials of the representatives of the Governments men- tioned above who have submitted provisional credentials or whose credentials are on their way, and proposes that they shall, in the meantime, be seated provisionally with the same rights as the other delegations of Member States. VI. The Committee considered a communication from the permanent representative of Mexico to Unesco, advising the Organization that the Government of Luxembourg had re- quested that the Belgian delegation be authorized to ensure the representation of Luxembourg at the Second Session ofthe General Conference and to participate in the deliberations of the Conference with voting powers on behalf of that Govern- ment. The Committee has considered this application with sympathy, recalling the loyal contribution made by the Government of Luxembourg to the Conference of Allied Minis- ters of Education and to the work of establishing Unesco, but they have concluded with regret that, in their opinion, it was not possible to reconcile it with the Constitution of Unesco. The Committee further considered that acceptance by Unesco of the proposal submitted by the Government of Luxembourg e ML      В c i s s e might create a precedent liable to embarrass other organs of the United Nations, On these grounds the Committee con- sidered the application to be inadmissible. The Committee further considered that the General Conference may wish to revise the Rules of Procedure for the General Conference so as to give a clear ruling upon the inadmissibility of voting by proxy on behalf of any Member State not present at the General Conference. VII. The Committee considered the official communication from the Government of El Salvador to the Director-General of the Organization, informing him that El Salvador had signed and subsequently ratified the Constitution of Unesco. The Committee further took note of a communication from the Embassy of El Salvador in México, informing the Director- General that the instrument of acceptance of the Constitution of Unesco by the Governmentof El Salvador was already on its way to be deposited with the Government of the United Kingdom. The Committee therefore proposes that the Conference recognize the right to vote of the delegation of El Salvador. VIII. The Committee has further considered the documents accrediting observers from the following States, which are not Members of the Organization : Austria, Guatemala, Hungary, Iraq, Italy, Monaco, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Siam, Sweden, Switzerland, Uruguay. The Committee proposes that the observers from the above mentioned States be admitted in this capacity to the Second Session of the General Conference » The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Has any delegation any remarks to make on this report? As there are no remarks, I take it that the report is adopted. (1)
4. Adoption of the Agenda. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now come to the nextitem — the adoption of the agenda. I would ask delegates to look at doeu- ment 20/1. There is a motion from the French delegation with regard to this item, and I shall ask the French delegate, M. Seydoux, to address the Conference. I see that the Polish and Australian delegations also wish to speak. I call upon M. Seydoux. M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation wishes to propose a change in the agenda as set out in document
26/1. Our proposal is as follows. We should like the Conference to decide on a total figure for the budget, not towards the end of the session, but as soon as possible. Those of us — and there are many — ® Resolution I; vol. II, page 5. who were present at the General Conference in Paris last year will remember, I am sure, that our experience there was conclusive. The Programme Commissions discussed for more than two weeks a series of proposals which led to the adoption of a programme. The Budget Commission met Te at the end of the session. — I think it was the day before the end or the last day — and voted a figure for the budget which did not allow, by a long way, of the programme conceived by the competent commissions being fulfilled. This resulted in loss of time, of which delegates have rightly complained. It also resulted in the Conference not discharging its task, since it separated without having made a final decision on the programme. There was also the very grave disadvantage that the Secretariat and the Executive Board had to reconstruct the programmein terms of the reduced budget adopted at the end of the session, and this is not the job of either of them. In the end this meant a delay of three or four months and, as you all know, the Or- ganization was not really able to get to work until the end of the session of the Executive Board last April. The French delegation proposes that the vote should take place, if possible, immediately after the discussion of the Director-General's Report. Certain delegations — and not the least important — have thought over this matter and have pointed out that it was difficult to vote upon a budget without the programme having first been examined. To this we might reply that the vote on the budget obviously depends on the suggestions made by the Programme Commission, but it depends to a much greater extent on the possibilities of payment of Member States who, in this respect, receive — and I believe already have received — definite instructions from their respective Governments. I may add,too, that we are not alone in submitting this proposal. The most qualified authority of this Conference,that is the Executive Board, during its last meeting on 3 November favoured this proce- dure. It considered that, after discussion on the Report of the Director-General, the Programme and Budget Commission might hold one or two meetings, after which we could vote upon a total figure for the Budget. Consequently, the French delegation has the honour to submit to the Conference a new draft agenda, which is now being distributed to the delegations. I will point out that, in comparison with document 2C/1, the previous draft, the changes are as follows : there is no change in the first seven items, but Items 12 and 13 become Items
8 and 9 in our draft, and the former Items 8, 9,
10 and 11 become respectively 10, 11, 12 and 13. — 35 —   After Item 13, the French delegation proposes the introduction of a new Item 14, which we will call, if you like, “Vote on the Total Figure for the Bud- get”. The former Item 14 now becomes Item 15 and is called ‘Examination of the Reports of the Commissions and Adoption of the Programme”, with no mention of the budget. Finally, Items 15,
16 and 17 are unchanged except to become 16,
17 and 18 respectively. This, gentlemen,is the proposal which the French delegation has the honour to submit for your consideration. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the representative of Poland. The delegate of POLAND : Mr. President, fellow- delegates, the Polish delegation has given the most careful consideration to the agenda submitted to us. We feel that the adoption of amendments to this agenda is one of the chief functions of this meeting. We wish to call particular attention to Item 11. We are called upon to elect seven new members of the Executive Board. According to the Constitution of our Organization, the members of the Executive Board must have very special com- petence and very special qualifications. Let me read to you, to refresh your memory, paragraph 2 of Article V : In electing the members of the Executive Board, the Gen- eral Conference shall endeavour to include persons com- petent in the arts, the humanities, the sciences, education and the diffusion of ideas, and qualified by their experience and capacity to fulfil the administrative and executive duties of Board... Perhaps the French text is even more explicit : En procédant à l’élection des membres du Conseil exécutif, la Conférence générale s’efforcera d’y faire figurer des person- nalités compétentes dans le domaine des arts, des lettres, des sciences, de l’éducationetde la diffusion de la pensée, et ayant l’expérience et la compétence nécessaires pour remplir les fonctions administratives et exécutives qui incombent au Conseil. I also call your attention to Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which stresses, among other things, the great importance of the Executive Board. Now, we of the Polish delegation wish to see our discussions completed by the present meeting, for only when they are completed shall we be able to take decisions which will allow us to vote for one or another candidate. We feel that at this stage of our deliberations our voting would be purely mechanical. From our experience of similar gatherings, we believe the Executive Board should watch over the deliberations and discussions of the General Conference, and I have no doubt that the Executive Board will meet during the Conference. The Executive Board, in orderto fulfil its duties, must have a great degree of experience, and we feel that the present members of the Board have already that degree of experience. If, at an early stage in our deliberations, we were to introduce seven new members into the Board, we feel that the efficiency of the Board would be dimi- nished. For this reason the Polish delegation proposes that Item 11 of the agenda be postponed to a later period of our General Conference and, specifically, after we have dealt with Item 14, as listed in the agenda. We feel that this change would increase the efficiency of our deliberations in conjunction with the deliberations of the Board, if we have occasion to call upon them, and wefeel that the adoption of our proposal would entail no risk but only advantages for our Organization and our present General Conference. The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA (Translation from the French) : 1 will be very brief, gentlemen. I just wish to mention that Czechoslovakia fully supports the Polish proposal. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen : I wish to say a word about voting on the proposals that have been put before us. With regard to the proposal of the French dele- gation, the Australian delegation is not one of those which has been instructed to determine the total figure of the budget in accordance with directions from its Government. According to the Australian delegation, and I knowit is the approach of some other delegations, the proper procedure is to consider first the activities which should be undertaken this year and then to estimate their cost, and it is the view of the Australian delegation that we shall be able to support the figure of the budget necessary to carry out the programme likely to be approved. I make that statement in order to make it clear that we are not approaching this problem of determining the future work of Unesco purely from a financial viewpoint. We are not beginning by saying that we want to fix the upper limit of the amount to be spent this year; and it will be remembered that, whereas last year we were one of the delegations which pressed for a lower budget figure than that proposed by the Preparatory Commission, we nevertheless have always followed the policy of saying that the first thing is to determine the activities and the next thing is to decide how much money the Member Governments should contribute for carrying out this work. Nevertheless, I do not desire to oppose this resolu- tion, which undoubtedly has the backing of certain  —30ب     S e s e   س س س س delegations with firm instructions from their Governments on this point; I only wish to make clear the position of my own delegation. On the matter raised by the delegate of Poland I wouldlike to add a point or two by way of explanation. The order of the items on the agenda was proposed by the Executive Board and on that Board I have the duty of serving as Chairman of the Programme Committee, which first considered this matter. We took account of the following points : the present Executive Board has worked throughout the year. It has prepared a programme of work, which will be submitted for this Conference to consider. It has also done its best to execute the programme in accordance with the terms of the Constitution and it has submitted to this Conference a proposed programme for Unesco for the coming year. It seemed to us that after the Conference had received the Report of the Director-General and had discussed it, was the natural point at which the Conference would consider the composition of the Executive Board for the coming year. In other words, the Executive Board, in effect, brings to the Conference the result of the year’s work in the form of the Director-General's Report, and brings to the Con- ference its own proposals as to how the Conference should be organized and what the programme for the new year should contain, and then, it seemed to us, a stage had been reached at which this Confe- rence might desire to elect the seven new members of the Executive Board. One further point, which is purely a constitutional one : the membersof the Board are elected for three, two and one years. It is stated quite definitely in the Constitution that the term ofoffice is one year. That means that the mandate of the seven members of the Board who retire at this Conference expires on
23 November and, at whatever time the election may take place, it must be scheduled before 23 November. Unless the seven new members are elected before
23 November, we may be faced with a position in which the Board has to meet and cannot meet with a full number of members. So, whatever the Confe- rence decides, it must, in my opinion, decide to hold its election of the seven new members before 23 No- vember, that being the date on which the full year of office will come to an end. It will therefore be necessary, if we adopt the Polish proposal, to provide in the plan of the work of the Conference a Plenary Meeting before 23 November in order that the elections may take place in due time. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, gentle- men, | wish in the name of my delegation to support the motion presented by the French delegation. a Jd 7 The experience we have all had very cleariy proves that we are working in a vacuum if we do not have a total budget figure already fixed. I also share the reservations made by the Australian delegation as to the necessity of having some information about the programme to be carried out, but it seems to me that that information has already been given by the Secretariat in the proposed programme it has sub- mitted. If we take this into account, we can get a general view which, though it might not be final in all its details, would provide a sufficient guide for the work of the Commissions and Sub-Commissions. You all know, gentlemen,that, because of the econo- mic difficulties of many countries, the budget of Unesco is based mainly on the contributions of two countries, which, between them, contribute about sixty per cent of the total. We must know their point of view as quickly as possible so that we can define and direct our work. On principle, I shall vote for the proposal pre- sented by the French delegation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Has anyone any further remarks to make? M. Arthur BONHOMME (Haiti) (Translation from the French) : In the name of the Republic of Haiti I support the proposal by the French delegation. The Government of Haiti has a special case to put before this General Conference of Unesco. We are particularly concerned for the Haiti pilot-project, and it so happens that in the discussions which took place last year it was agreed that this project would be financed by the local government. The dele- gation of the Haitian Government believes that this lands us in a vicious circle, because if Unesco seeks to help the highly developed peoples which already have fundamental education, it is even more natural that countries having a high percentage ofilliterates, and which are often poor countries, should be helped by Unesco. Therefore some means must be found to finance these projects where poor countries are concerned. Unesco has planned that, for the devastated regions, funds will be collected and distributed, and this system 1s already in operation. In our opinion funds should similarly be found to finance the execution of the pilot-projects. In its previous decisions Unesco has provided that its budget shall be specially devoted to construc- tive work. Funds have been obtained to finance the reconstruction of the devastated countries, but no provisión has been made for the financing of funda- mental education. This is an omission and we must both present our case and suggest a solution. For SA   the China pilot-project, the Nanking Regional Con- ference drafted a proposal requesting that interna- tional funds should be collected by an International Commission. I believe it would be premature to fix a total budget figure before these proposals of the Nanking and Mexico Regional Conferences have been submitted to the appropriate commission and to the plenary conference. The delegate of the NETHERLANDS (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, the Netherlands delegation will be very brief. We wish only to say a few words regarding the contribution of the Netherlands to Unesco’s budget, which will be a very heavy burden on the budget of the country, and Her Majesty’s Government can only justify such a contribution on the assurance that Unesco’s economy is wisely planned and that expenditure is limited to the financing of such plans as will secure the most immediate results, Conse- quently, the Netherlands delegation regrets that the whole programme of Unesco cannot be drawn up at once, and considers that a draft programme should be formulated as early as possible in our discussions. It will therefore support the French proposal. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I think we can now vote on the French proposal. At the request of the French delegation the vote will be by roll-call. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, (Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Greece, India, the Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Turkey, Union of South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Venezuela. Voted against : Ecuador, Haiti. Abstained : Australia, Colombia. Absent : Bolivia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Libe- ria, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The motion is adopted by à majority of 24 in favour,
2 against, and 2 abstentions. We shall vote now on the motion presented by the Polish delegation. But first Poland wishes to speak. M. Jan DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : After hearing the remarks of the representative of Australia, the Polish delegation is willing to modify its proposal and agree that the election of the new members of the Executive Board be made before 23 November. As far as the rest of the motion is concerned, the Polish delegation main- tains its original proposal. Sr. Alberto Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Trans- lation from the Spanish) : The delegation of Ecuador fully supports the motion of the Polish delegation with the modification that the election should take place before 23 November. M. A. NAGUIB HASHIM (Egypt) (Translation from the French) : I only wish to clarify the meaning of holding the election before 23 November. Is it to be to-day? To-day is before 23 November; is it to be
22 November? I think we should keep as close as possible to 23 November, for example, 22 November. Sr. Emilio ABELLO (Philippines) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : Fellow-delegates, the Philippine dele- gation supports the proposal on the agenda before the Conference. We believe that the election of seven members to the Executive Board should take place as early as is practicable, for the reasons given by the delegate of Poland. We believe thatthe seven new members of the Executive Board should be in- itiated into the proposals concerning the programme to be undertaken during the coming year of Unesco. These seven new members should be enabled to study carefully the development of this programme, so that when they are called upon to put it into execution, they will be wholly familiar with its con- tents and the way in which it is to be put into operation. As one delegate has stated, an election before
23 November does not mean anything, it could be to-morrow or the day after. So, if we proceed to the election of the seven new members of the Exe- cutive Board as proposed in the draft agenda sub- mitted to the Conference, we shall advance the Conference’s work and make it more orderly. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) -: Does anyone wish to make any further remarks? Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Pres:- dent, I just wish to comment on the proposal of the delegate of Egypt. He suggested we should specify the particular day on which to hold the elec- tions. I would draw attention to the fact that the Conference will go into recess on 20 November for three or four days, when no work will be done. My understanding of the Polish motion would be that the election should take place before that recess, not later than 19 November, and on that assumption I am quite prepared to vote for the Polish motion. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I believe we can now all agree that the election of    the seven new members should take place as late as possible before 23 November, and that we can leave the General Committee to fix the date. Do you agree, gentlemen? Agreed. M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : In spite of the unanimous vote just now on the French proposal, we should like to make this matter a little more precise in order to satis certam of our colleagues who might still have doubts. I propose that we deal with Item 14 in the follow- ing fashion. As it stands at present, it involves a vote on the total figure for the budget. I should be satisfied if you would add the following words: «Vote on the total figure on the report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission». We make it quite clear then that this vote could only be taken after careful and detailed discussion by the Program- me and Budget Commission. The PRESIDENT (Translation Jrom the French) : There is one further point to be added to the agenda, namely the request for the admission of Monaco as an observer. Are there any objections? Approved. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I should like to ask the Conference to make the following changes in the agenda. The first change relates to Item 10, Reports of Member States. . [ ask you to transfer this item and to place it after Item 15. The reason is that many of these reports have not yet come in, and therefore we cannot deal with them early in the programme. The second point is more urgent. We hope that you will agree to place Item 13, Establishment of Working Parties, earlier in the agenda, immediately after Item 8. The reason is in order that the Wor- king Parties may start work early next week. Naturally we will provide you with an agenda amended in the light of the alterations that are made here this morning. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Are there any observations on thé two proposals which have been submitted by Dr. Huxley? M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : T fully support Dr. Huxley’s proposals. M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : The draft agenda proposed by the French delegation has been adopted and we must now abide by it. The agenda we proposed was a com- plete one and therefore the vote on the agenda as a whole has been taken. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The agenda is therefore finally adopted.
5. Report of the Procedure Committee. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now come to the Report of the Procedure Com- mittee. I call upon Mr. Hardman, Chairman of the Committee. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) (Chair- man of the Procedure Committee) : This report, happily, is a very brief one. The Procedure Com- mittee met yesterday, 6 November 1947, and consi- dered the rules of procedure for the General Confe- rence. It was agreed that the rules as printed in docu- ment C/26 remain in force until report is made of amendments likely to be proposed at future meet- ings. In addition, certain draft amendments to Rules 6 and 48 concerning the rights of repre- sentatives of Specialized Agencies and observers were discussed and provisionally adopted. The Committee then agreed 'to meet again for a fuller examination of the rules of procedure and these draft amendments at a meeting called for Monday next, 10 November 1947, at 10 a. m. I beg, Mr. President, that the Report be received. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Are there any observations? If not, I take it that the Report is approved. Approved.
6. Report of the Nominations Committee and Election of President and Vice-presidents. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now come to the next item on our agenda : Report of the Nominations Committee. I call upon Mr. Pierce, Chairman of the Committee. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) : As Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee, I beg to report that the Com- mittee has decided unanimously to submit to the Second General Conference the following nomi- nations : For the office of President of the Second General Conference : Mexico. Fortheoffice ofVice-Presidentsof the Second Gene- ral Conference : Belgium, France, India, the Le- banon, Peru, Poland, the United States of America. Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Procedure Committee decided yesterday o adopt er 59 — ЗА.    provisionally, provides that each Commission shall elect its Chairman, Vice-Chairman and, if necessary, Rapporteur. The Nominations Committee will sub- mit the following proposals to the Programme and Budget Commission and to the Administrative and External Relations Commission : For the office of Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission : Dr. C. E. Beeby (NewZealand). Forthe office of Chairman of the Budget Sub-Com- mission : Dr. J. C. Kielstra (Netherlands). For the office of Chairman of the Administrative and External Relations Commission : Dr. Han Lih-Wu (China). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon M. Seydoux, who has asked to speak. M. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : 1 am sorry to have to speak again, but this is a very delicate matter on which we should like to make a suggestion. The Nominations Committee yesterday decided upon the matter of the President and the Vice-Pre- sidents. I may say that the suggestions which were made to us have been carefully prepared by a highly competent group of the Executive Board and wefully support them. Nevertheless, the French and other delegations were somewhat embarrassed by the choice they hau to make for the seventh post of Vice-President, for which two great and friendly countries, Brazil and Peru, were both candidates. The delegate of Mexico, Dr. Martinez Baez, said yesterday that for a Latin- American country the choice between these two countries, with both of which they were equally friendly, was almost an impossibility. France fully agrees with that remark and feels the same reluctance and hesitation. I should like to add, on behalf of my country, that the choice which has been made is excellent. Peru is a great country, which France holds in high esteem and admiration. We have the pleasure and honour of having with us here the Minister of Education of Peru, who is singularly qualified to represent his country here as a delegate. But, while we congra- tulate ourselves on his distinguished presence, we nevertheless deplore the very much felt absence of Brazil. We cannot forget the eminent role she has played since the beginning of Unesco’s work and even earlier because, if I remember rightly, Brazil was present at the London Conference. Nor can we ever forget the constant andactive participation of Brazil in the work of our Committees and Commis- sions. Gentlemen, the French delegation wishes to submit a proposal which will salve its conscience and we hope, satisfy everybody. France withdrawsits candidature for the post of Vice-President and proposes thatthis post be given to Brazil. Our motive for this action is this : In Unesco, as the delegate of India, Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, said, there are no donor cultures and recipient cultures, there are only nations which are all on the same footing and, above all, there are men of goodwill, seeking to ensure the success of our Organization. I may add that, here in Mexico, we are in one of the great political and cultural centres of Latin-America, and we of the French delegation believe, and I think many other delegations also believe, that, with regard to the participation of the Latin-American countries in the work of the Conference, as well as in the Secretariat, an insufficient place is given to them; they must be given greater prominence. Finally, let me add, we do not ask the Nomina- tions Committee to start all over again with the delicate task of distributing the posts of Ghairmen and Vice-Chairmen of Committees. We leave this Vice-Presidency without any anxiety because we know full well that we have many good friends and, where Brazil is present, there will also be a part of France. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) I call upon the representative of Brazil. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Translation from the French) : Mr. President, gent- lemen, I would like to express in the name of my delegation our twofold joy; joy at seeing Peru as a Vice-President of this Conference, so bearing witness to the solidarity of the Latin-American world in face of the problems confronting Unesco; and our very great joy, our deep emotion at this fraternal gesture made by the French delegation. In greeting the presence of Peru as Vice-President of this Assembly we make a gesture of continental solidarity, in thanking France we express our unre- served cultural gratitude and untarnished loyalty. If the Conference so wills it, we shall be, in the post offered us, the representative of America and of Europe, the representative of universal culture, which France has entrusted to us. “The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The representative of Peru wishes to speak. Dr. Luis E. VALCARCEL (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, ladies and gent- lemen : On behalf of the delegation of Peru, I wish to express the profound gratitude of my coun- try for the noble and gallant attitude of France, which allows two South American countries to appear as Vice-Presidents of this assembly. Brazil and Peru are two nations which through- out their political life have maintained the most = #0 -—        friendly and cordial relations. There never has been, there never could have been, any contlict between our two countries, much less could there be any such conflict in the midst of this assembly. Therefore, I thank France for its noble gesture, and I congratulate Brazil upon sharing with us this honour. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I propose the adoption of the report made before us here, with the modification made by the French delegation. |Adopted. I will now ask the various delegations, and first, the delegation of Mexico, to name the persons ap- pointed to represent them in the different posts. Without committing any indiscretion, I believe 1 can say that it is H.E. Sr, Gual Vidal who has been designated bv Mexico for the Presidency. Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, gentlemen, on behalf of the Mexican delegation, I have grea pleasure, in the first place, in thanking you most cordially for the kindness you have shown in ap- pointing the delegation of my country to occupy the President’s seat at this Second Session of the General Conference, and I wish to announce in the name of my country that the head of our deie- gation, the Minister of Public Education, H.E.Sr. Gual Vidal, will be the President of this Conference. The Chair was taken by H.E.Sr. Manuel Gual Vidal. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) On behalf of my country, since it is really on her that you have conferred this high honour, I wish to thank you most sincerely. The Vice-Presidents have still to be designated, so I ask the countries concerned, if they are in a position to do so, to make known their choice. The Vice-Presidents will be designated in the following order : Belgium, Brazil, India, the Lebanon, Peru, Poland and the United States of America. Can the Belgian delegation inform us of its nomi- nation ? The delegate of BELGIUM (Translation from the French) : In the name of the Belgian delegation, I propose as Vice-President the head of our dele- gation, M. Camille Huysmans. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) * The Brazilian delegation. The delegate of BRAZIL (Translation from the Spanish) : In the name of the Brazilian delegation T have the honour to propose the name of Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegation of India. The delegateof INDIA : On behalf of the Indian delegation, we nominate the leader of the delega- tion, Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegation of the Lebanon. The delegate of the LEBANON (Translation from the French) : The delegation of the Lebanon proposes the name of M. Joseph Aboukater, Minister Pleni- potentiary to Mexico. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Peruvian delegation. The delegate of PERU (Translation from the Spa- nish) : On behalf of the Peruvian delegation I have the honour to propose Dr. Luis Valcarcel, the head of our delegation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Polish delegation. The delegate of POLAND (Translation from the French) : In the name of the Polish delegation I have the honourto propose M. Stefan Wierblowski, Ambassador of Poland and head of our delegation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegation of the United States of America. The delegate of the] UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : The delegation of the United States has great pleasure in proposing as its repre- sentative the Honorable William Benton.
7. Address by the Representative of the Uni- ted Nations. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I have pleasure in welcoming the delegation of the United Nations headed by Dr. Bryant Mumford. Collaboration between the United Nations and Unesco has already shown that it is of the highest value to both Organizations and we hope that in the future this co-operation will be strengthened and expanded. Dr. MUMFORD (United Nations) : Mr. President and fellow-delegates, it is my privilege to address you on behalf of Mr. Trygve Lie, Secretary-General of the United Nations, and on behalf of all those Departments of the Secretariat of the United Nations whose work is related to that of Unesco, and to reply to the welcome your President has extended to the United Nations delegation. In this address == ЦВ = ج م د   I feel I should include two messages, inspired by the deliberations of the meeting of the General Assembly in New York, from attendance at which I have just come. First, the world and the United Nations are looking forward with hope to the deliberations of Unesco here in Mexico City. The peoples every- where are desperately seeking ways of developing mutual understanding in order that they may recover from the aftermath of war and find peace. In this state of mind they remember the wording of the Constitution of Unesco, and its opening phrase that, since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed. Never was there a greater need for the develop- ment of mutual understanding between nations — not merely to know, but also to understand the aspirations of others, their féars and problems. The needs of the world, in its struggles to recover from the aftermath of war, and to. create conditions where hope may take the place of fear, and where enough may take the place of want, go, of course, beyond that of merely understanding each other's needs, though such is a pre-requisite of their solu- tion. Thus, my second message is to emphasize that it is a vital necessity for the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations to co-ordinate and integrate their programmes designed to meet world needs, so that maximum results can be achieved, bearing in mind that almost every Member Nation in these critical days must conserve its limited resources, particulary in currencies other than its own. Great attention has been given to these points in the plenary sessions, and in Committees of the General Assembly of the United Nations in New York and, to meet them, close team-work and subjugation of sectional interests must be ac- ved. During the past year, much has been done towards working together, by exchanges of personnel in the fields of administration and programme plan- ning, in post-war reconstruction and in many gene- ral problems. In the coming year it is essential that co-ordina- tion shall be developed further. As practical examples of the need for co-ordination of activities and division of responsibilities, I would refer to the relations between Unesco and the Department of Public Information of the United Nations. In a general sense, it may be said that the special field of Unesco is the development of international understanding through cultural, educational and scientific exchange — exchange of national ideas for better mutual understanding — and it may be said that the responsibility of the Department of Public Information of the United Nations is to encourage the spread of knowledge about United Nations activities — its own and those of the Spe- cialized Agencies as a whole — so that the peoples of the world may understand international, as dis- tinct from national, aims and activities. As, however, such a particular distinction can be stated only in principle, it should at once be recog- nized that in day-to-day activities, the one is likely to spread over into the other. Only by team-work and subjugation of divisional interests can the best results be achieved and wastage of resources be avoided. The Department of Public Information of the United Nations has developed and is developing public information centres throughout the world. They are designed to perform excellent information services for the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, as a whole, in the interests of peace and the betterment of conditions of life for mankind. Unesco has, and is developing, networks of Nation- al Co-operating Bodies or Commissions and cen- tres for journalists throughout the world with parallel objectives. Clearly, the resources of each must be placed at the disposal of the other, and the plans integrated, if maximum results are to be achieved with minimum wastage. As another example, I would like to draw your attention to the need for help from Unesco with regard to the forthcoming United Nations Confe- rence on Freedom of Information, to be held in Geneva in the Spring of 1948. In this connexion your attention is particulary called to the meeting, in January of the Sub-Commission of the Economic and Social Council, which is concerned with the prepa for this Conference. It is hoped that nesco will have a real contribution to make in the preparations and, as a start in this direction, I would like to congratulate Unesco on the valuable Report which they have prepared on the technical needs of press, radio and films. Other examples are the interests of the Depart- ment of Trusteeship of the United Nations in the proposals of Unesco for the study of problems of fundamental education; and that of the depart- ment of Unesco which declares its interest in the Commission on Human Rights and in international research centres; the Department of Economie Affairsis also interested in certain aspects of mutual concern in the field of the common conservation and utilization of resources, and so on. Returning to my main theme, it is my hope that in these brief phrases I have illustrated that the present needs of a devastated world with limited resources for recovery, rightly insist that we work together. — 68 —    It is also essential to the success of the objectives themselves (objectives concerned with the better- ment of man’s background and conditions of life, which are infinitely complex) that, if they are to succeed, their direction must be inspired by con- tinuous counsel from far-flung fields, and their op- erations must be based on integrated action by many agencies. Behind all these objectives, large or small, set at the request of the peoples of the world through their representatives at this or other United Nations meetings, the full energies and facilities of the United Nations and of the Specialized Agencies must be marshalled. Such is true at all times. It is especially true today, when resources are limited and needs are great. To conclude on behalf of the United Nations as a whole and on behalf of my delegation in particular, may I again thank you for your welcome and wish every success to this Second Session of the Unesco Conference. The world and the United Nations will await with hope the results of your delibera- tions. It needs your help and your inspiration. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I propose that we close the meeting now and return at 3.30 to consider Item 7 of the Agenda. The meeting rose at 12.55 p. m. THIRD PLENARY MEETING Friday, 7 November 1947, at 3.30 p. m. CONTENTS
8. Consideration of Recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of new Members :
9. Establishment of the Programme and Budget Commission and Adminis- trative and External Relations Commission
10. Establishment of Working Parties
11. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of Observers from Non-Governmental International Orga- nisations to the Conference President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon Dr. Martinez Baez to report on the de- cisions of the General Committee. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) (Chairman of the General Committee) (Translation Jrom the Spanish) : At its first meeting held to-day, 7 November, at
1 p. m., the General Committee decided to make the following recommendations to the General Confe- rence : a) In conformity with recommendations submitted to this effect by the Executive Board, the General Committee recom- mendsthat the representatives of the Republican Government of Spain should be invited to attend the meetings of the Conference in an unofficial capacity. b) Upon the request of the Principality of Monaco, the General Committee recommends that a representative of В