document 2C/22 was submitted to the Commission. The delegate of CHINA formally proposed the draft resolution. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) se- conded the motion, but expressed certain reserva- tions in connexion with Unesco’s aid to affiliated unions. At the previous Conference it had been agreed that these unions should retain their inde- pendence and identity and that the aid granted to them by Unesco should be subject to restrictive conditions. During the past year grants had been distributed very liberally and in excess of the pro- gramme agreed upon (for example, the travel ex- penses of certain members ofthese unions to attend meetings of the Executive Committee of the Council had been paid). He asked that the sub-committee should give attention to this fact. The CHAIRMAN assured the United States dele- gate that this would be done. Dr. NEEDHAM (Secretariat) pointed out that on page 2 of document 2C/65 (which had been sub- mitted to the Natural Sciences Working Party) it was said that relations with non-governmental orga- nizations would be subject to certain rules and that the funds available for grants-in-aid would be allo- cated in accordance with Unesco’s desire to assist certain scientific organizations. A detailed programme had been drawn up by the Executive Board, laying down what part of their expenses would be borne by the beneficiary organizations themselves. &ка With regard to the remark made by the United States delegate, he pointed out that in document
20/65, where the procedure for the making of grants-in-aid was described, three general principles were stated :
(1) that financial aid should only be given in exceptional circumstances ; (ii) that in the past requests for grants-in-aid had often been refused (particularly with regard to Con- gresses where the expenses should be borne by the host-government) ; (iii) that per diem allowances would not be gran- ted to scientists receiving travelling expenses. The draft resolution was put to the vote and adopted. ©) M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) stated that the draft resolution concerning relations with the International Studies Conference was in similar terms to that with the International Council of Scientific Unions and appeared on page 3 of document 20/22. The resolution was formally proposed by the dele- gate of EGYPT, seconded by the delegate of FRANGE and approved. (5) The meeting rose at 3 p.m.
(1) Resolution IX, Annex VII (17); vol. II, page 58. ®) Resolution IX, Annex VII (16); vol. TI, page (58. TWENTY-FIRST MEETING Thursday, 27 November 1947, at 11,a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). The CHAIRMANcalled on the Secretary to report on a letter received from the delegation of Urugauy. The SECRETARY read the letter received from Dr. Nogueira, head of the Uruguayan delegation, in which he wished to clarify the position of his country with regard to the vote taken at the pre- vious meeting on the French proposal concerning the organization of the General Conference. He had baen called away and on his return found that a vote had already been taken; had he been there, he would have voted in favour of the French pro- posal, in view of the necessity for organizing the Third General Conference on a rational basis. To avoid disorder, he considered that the Executive Board should study a permanent plan with regard to the number and functions of the Commissions, Working Parties; etc, and similar details. He wished to request the Chairman to have ‘this declaration included in the records of the meeting. Item 12 of the Agenda : Other business. The SECRETARYread a resolution transmitted to the Commission fromWorking Party A-Reconstruction — 60 -    concerning aid to Spanish children and stu- dents, which was moved by Poland and seconded by Greece. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) stated that, while his country wished to see all pos- sible aid extended to Spanish children, the resolution as it stood was not sufficiently explicit, and he there- fore recommended that it should be referred to the Executive Board for study and action. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) agreed on the desira- bility of helping young Spaniards, but saw two difficulties : it had been accepted as a general prin- ciple that reconstruction benefits should not be given to Non-MemberStates ; and it was not apparent where groups of Spanish children were to be found. He, therefore, proposed that the text should be amended to read : That Member States should include the needs of Spanish children and students in exile in their country when consider- ing distribution offunds from their educational reconstruction campaigns. This amendment was seconded by Mr. DUNBABIN (Australia). M. ABRAHAM (France) believed there would be no opposition to the proposal for assisting these children; the argument presented by the United Kingdom delegate with regard to Non-Member States had not been considered in respect of displaced persons and did not seem to him to be appli- cable in this case either. The resolution should be referred to the Executive Board with the favour- able recommendation of the Commission. The RAPPORTEUR proposed that a clause to this effect should be added to the text, since it was too late for the Commission to work out practical details. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) emphasized the needs of the Spanish people, who were «devastated» in as true a sense as any war-devastated country, but considered that, since the Executive Board had in any case its Reconstruction Committee, the resolution might be voted on as it stood. Dr.KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) believed there was no disagreement on principle and the question was purely one of procedure. He proposed that the text should be amended oy the addition of the words «and that the matter be referred to the Executive Board for further study and action». The United States amendment was seconded and the resolution so amended was approved. (V © Resolution IX, Annex VII (18);3vol. II, page 61. — 604 — Uruguayan Communication concerning Spanish Nationals. The SECRETARY read a letter from the delegation of Uruguay referring to the Gonference’s decisions on co-operation with Germany and with Japan and pointing out that, if Unesco was to pe universal, it could not afford to exclude so important a part of world civilization Similarly, the culture of Spain was totally excluded from one document .There fore, it proposed the following resolution : «The Exe- cutive Board and the Director-General may, accor- ding to resolutions and to the normal ways of action of Unesco, call on Spanish citizens identified with the aims of the United Nations and of Unesco to be members of expert committees or of the Secre- tariat. » Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) stated that his delegation would abstain from voting on this matter because they considered that it was already sufficiently covered by other decisions of the Conference. While it had been clear that there were to be no relations with Franco Spain, the Di- rector-General was free under certain conditions to employ Spanish nationals, and he noted that twelve such were actually included in the Secretariat ; no doubt proper precautions had been taken to ensure that these persons were in no way tainted by what was abhorrent in the Franco regime and, pro- viding similar precautions were always taken, there was nothing in the regulations to prevent Unesco inviting Spanish experts to serve on committees. A special resolution was therefore superfluous. The motion was seconded by M. ABRAHAM (France). Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) referred to the difficulty of distinguishing which Spaniards were «identified with the aims of the United Nations and of Unesco». Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) agreed that there was no need to vote on the resolutions: the question of Spanish nationals in the Secretariat had already been settled, and they would have a further oppor- tunity to vote on the question of the inclusion of Spanish experts in committees when they dealt with the Report on non-governmental Organiza- tions, which included a clause permitting co-opera- tion with Spanish organizations of a clearly humani- tarian character. He, therefore, moved that no vote should be taken. Mr. DUNBABIN (Australia) enquired whether re-educational activities similar to those planned in Germany and Japan were contemplated for Franco Spain.    Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) said his chief aim, of clarifying and specifying the general and vague provisions of previous resolutions, had been achieved by the discussion, which had also shown that there was a clear distinction in the minds of delegates between Franco Spain and non-Franco Spain ; he was, therefore, prepared to withdraw his motion on the under- standing that the statements made during the discussion would appear in the minutes of the meeting. Report of the Draiting Committee on External Relations. Mr. DILWORTH (Canada), Rapporteur of the Drafting Committee on External Relations, presented his report on the request of the Chairman. The Committee had met the previous day and, in the unavoidable absence of the representatives of France and Mexico, the delegates of Canada, China and the United Kingdom had considered (1) relations with Japan and (2) the privileges and immunities of the Specialized Agencies. With regard to Japan, the Committee had agreed that the resolution be brought into line with those already approved on Germany, bearing in mind the difference in local conditions and the fact that more was known about the position in Germany with regard to education and more study had been made of it. They had, therefore, agreed to submit the following resolution : The General Conference resolves that the Director-General be asked to consult the appropriate Allied Authorities in order to collect information on Japanese educational trends and tendencies and to ascertain ways in which the objectives of Unesco might be implemented in Japan. The Director- General would be authorized to incur reasonable expenditure in 1948 in respect of such activities approved by the Executive Board, always provided these activities were undertaken in agreement with the appropriate Allied Authorities. This resolution was approved. (2) Continuing on the second point, privileges and immunities, the RAPPORTEUR presented the following resolution, agreed to by the Drafting Committee : The General Conference resolves that the Director-General be instructed to submit the text of the proposed Convention for consideration by all MemberStates, with the request that they shouid take steps to implement its provisions pending Sal acceptance by the Third Session of the General Con- erence, With an amendment to read : «The Convention adopted by the United Nations», the resolution was approved. (3)
(2) Resolution IX, Annex VII (8); volume II, page 55.
(3) Resolution IX, Annex VII (11); volume II, page 57. Report of the Sub-Committee to examine the Executive Board's Report on the Financial Administration of the Organization and the Auditors Report. The RAPPORTEUR, the delegate of India, pre- sented the Sub-Committee’s Report, on the request of the Chairman. In introduction, he referred to the extensiveness of the Committee’s task, and the difficulties in obtaining all the information required because of the fact that certain documents were not available in Mexico. However, they had decided to proceed and submit a report so that Item 4 of the agenda might be disposed of; they had not conceived their function be to conduct a post-mortem, but to ensure that the financial administration would be more satisfactory in future. They had fully appre- ciated the difficulties which had faced the Secre- tariat and the officials of the Preparatory Commission. Finally, he wished to express the Committee's appre- ciation of the ready co-operation and full infor- mation given them by the Comptroller. The text of the Report was then read (document 2C/130, Annex IL, 5, Appendix 1 and 11). (9 The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to comment on two paragraphs. The Sub-Committee had stated that it understood that Miss Wood had expressed the desire to relinquish her appointment from 28 December and they would, therefore, make no comment. He wished to state that there had never been any question of Miss Wood's inte- grity or devotion to the Organization ; she had acted entirely under instructions from her superiors, and her decision to resign had no relation to the Audi- tors Report. Secondly, with regard to the appointment as accountant of Mr. Harper Smith, he had previously been employed by the auditors appointed by the Executive Board. In view of the necessity of securing the best possible accountant familiar with the accounts and work of the Organization and after careful consideration of all the available candidates, he had been selected. This procedure was by no means uncommon in the commercial world. The CHAIRMAN suggested that formal approval of the Report should be postponed until the text had been circulated, but that, meanwhile, there should be opportunity for free discussion of its contents. & Dr. WALKER (Australia), as a member of the Finance Committee of the Executive Board which had first examined the Auditor’s Report, stated that the Finance Committee agreed that there was no (©) Resolution IX, Annex II (5); vol. II, page 40. — 605 —    reflection on Miss Wood. She bad been authorized by superiors (whom it was difficult to identify at the present stage) to make advances of salary to mem- bers of the staff. This was not a sound practice, and the situation had now been completely rectified. The Board and its Finance Committee would, of course, be prepared to give full consideration to any additional information which might, as sug- gested in the Report, be placed before them by the Comptroller, but he would not like the impres- sion to be given that they had not already studied the whole matter with the greatest care. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) explained that the Sub-Committee had not intended to cast any reflection on the integrity of any individual. They had been concerned exclusively with efficiency and, since Miss Wood’s transactions had not been satis- factory financial practice, they had considered it necessary to make a reference to her. In the case of Mr. Harper Smith, there was again no suggestion of dishonesty; they merely wished to call attention to a fact which might give rise to misgivings and criticisms. They fully accepted that the appoint- ment had been made on justifiable grounds of efficiency and the urgent needs of the situation. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), in view of these declarations, moved that the paragraph concerning Miss Wood and Mr. Harper Smith should be deleted. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) stressed the absolute need for having full information andthe text available for study before any decision could be taken on this very important matter. It was essential that the Commission should be able to examine every item fully. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) moved that, in accor- dance with Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the discussion should be closed until the appropriate documents were available. The CHAIRMAN said there would be no vote until the next meeting, and the United Kingdom motion would be tabled for discussion then. Relations with Non-Governmental Organiza- tions and Grants-in-Aid : Report on United Kingdom and United States Proposals. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Committee set up to examine this question, stated that the Committee had considered the Report and amendments on relations with non-governmental organizations and the United Kingdom proposal, and had enjoyed the advice of the Secretariat, and of Prof. Auger, Chairman of the relevant committee of the Executive Board. They had produced two documents, which were not yet available for distri- bution and, in view of the need for careful study of the differences between their report and that of the Executive Board’s committee, he would prefer that consideration of the Report should be postponed until the next meeting. Scale of Contributions : Report by the Draît- ing Committee on Administration and Finance. At the request of the Chairman, M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) explained that, in considering the French resolution concerning the scale of contri- butions for 1947 of new Members and also the position of the countries admitted during the Second Session of the General Conference, the Committee had consulted representatives of countries concerned. Austria and Hungary had requested that the contri- bution recommended in document 26/C2/1 should be reduced by half. Accordingly, the amount to be received from new members had been diminished and the difference distributed in proportion on the
1947 scale to all 1947 members. The resulting scale of contributions differed from that given in
2C/C2/1, chiefly in respect to the United States of America. The Committee’s report (1) explained how the new scale had been arrived at (2) gave the scale and (3) explained how the scale for new members in 1948 was to be assessed. The adoption of the Report was moved by the delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA and seconded by the delegate of GREECE. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) asked whether the foot-note on page 2 concerning India and Pakistan meant that if Pakistan did not adhere to Unesco before 1 January 1948 the whole contribution would be borne by India. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) commented that, since contributions from Member States were fixed bycertain principles, it would be very odd if the United States was to pay less than it ought and India more. M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) explained that it had been expected that the United Nations would have taken a decision on this matter, in which case the whole sum would be assigned to India, since Pa- kistan was not a member of Unesco. Since no decision had been taken, it had been left to the two Governments to decide between themselves, it being understood that the Government of India was responsible for the whole. Some re-adjustment of India’s contributions would then be necessary and — 606 —    this would unbalance the scale ; however, since there was no other figure avarlable but that shown, the course taken seemed to be the only possible one. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) understood that the foot-note meant that the contributions of India and Pakistan would be decided later. If this belief was not correct, he would make a formal motion to that effect. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) considered that Pakistan should be treated in the same way as any other state which was a member of the United Nations, but not of Unesco; the scale should there- fore be completed without including Pakistan. Any other course would be unjust to India. The RAPPORTEURsuggested that, in view of the division of the former State of India, the position of Pakistan was not exactly as described by the delegate of Egypt. The foot-note should be left unchanged. On the motion of INDIA, seconded by Egypt, it was approved that the contribution for India should be considered subject to such readjustment as might be necessary ; if Pakistan joined Unesco, the 4.60 per cent would represent their joint contribution and would be distributed between them in accordance with the action taken by the United Nations. In the unlikely event of Pakistan not joining, it would be open to India to raise the question of revision in its favour in accordance with the principles of the scale of contributions. A vote was then taken on the scale of contribu- tions contained in the Committee’s report and it was approved. (©)
(5) Resolution IX, Annex II (1); volume II, page 38. The CHAIRMAN recalled that Hungary had also raised the question of its quota for 1947. The decision they had reached applied to 1948 but its principle might also be applied to 1947. M. FERENCZI (Hungary) said that, since he understood that a reduction had been made in the scale for the four new Members, he would not press the question of his country’s percentage for 1947. However, he could not accept the contribution assigned to Hungary as a definitive estimate. The CHAIRMAN said that the scale had already been voted upon and approved and the delegate of Hungary had not submitted any motion to change it. Report of the Commission to the General Conference. In introducing the draft of the Commission’s Report, the RAPPORTEUR made two reservations :
(1) the numbers of annexes referred to in the text might need to be changed ; and (2) provisional state- ments had been made on the one or two questions whicn were still outstanding. Thetext of the report was thenread ; its adoption was moved by the Rapporteur and seconded by the United States. The delegates of EGYPT and FRANCE moved that no votes be taken until a definitive text had beenestablished. Since no delegates wished to present criticisms for inclusion in this definitive text, the CHAIRMAN moved the adjournment. The meeting rose at 1.10 p. m. TWENTY-THIRD MEETING “ Friday, 28 November 1947, at 11 a. m. Chairman : Dr. Howard WILSON (United States of America). Resolution on a consolidated United Nations : Unesco Budget. The CHAIRMAN said that the United Nations representative had pointed out that, although consi- deration of item 9 (b) of the agenda had included a discussion of document 2C/76, addendum 1 and the revision of this addendum, no resolution had
0) The twenty-second meeting, scheduled for Thursday,
27 November 1947 at 3 p. m., was cancelled. — 607 been passed. The United Nations representative would welcome the passing by the Commission of a resolution on a consolidated United Nations Unesco Budgetsimilar to that passed by the General Assem- bly. The following resolution to this effect was before the meeting : The General Conference :
(1) Calls upon members to take measures to ensure on the national level a co-ordinated policy oftheir delegations to Unesco, the United Nations and the different Specialized