TENTH MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947, at 4 p.m. CONTENTS Chapter II. B. 3. — Modern Techniques of Presentation Chairman : Dr. С. Е. BEEBY (New Zealand). The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Australia has asked to speak. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Before pro- ceeding with the work of this Commission in detail the Australian delegation desires to make a decla- ration and move a general motion. We and a number of other small delegations are profoundly dissatisfied with the way in which this Commission is progressing or carrying on with the duties entrusted to it. The Australian delegation is not a member of the General Committee, otherwise we should have opposed the procedure which is now being followed. We regret that a method has been adopted which attributes undue importance to the voice of Working Parties, on which a number of delegations are not represented, and on which, if they are represented, they can merely be represented by members of the delegation who happen to be free. The Working Parties consequently do not reflect the voice of any but the large delegations, which are to a great extent able to turn on a sufficient number of experts to cover all these Parties. The Executive Board never intended that the Working Parties should be sub-commissions of the Conference. They were to provide opportunity for the experts to exchange their views; the Confer- ence would take notice of these views, which would be available to inform the Board and the Director- General in carrying out the Programme approved by the Conference, but it is this Commission which recommends the programme to be followed, asitis in this Commission that the debates, compromises, agreements should take place. Moreover, we find that the procedure being fol- lowed makes it impossible for this Commission to proceed in a systematic way, and to examine the pro- gramme which, in accordance with the Constitution, has been drawn up and submitted to us by the Executive Board. Wefind ourselves instead jumping from Chapter to Chapter and following the Reports of those other bodies, the Working Parties, which were originally intended to provide merely oppor- tunity for exchange of views among experts. We also draw attention to the fact that the result of this procedure has mainly been to add to the Programme submitted by the Executive Board, instead of selecting from the proposals put in front of us. The Executive Board itself and many dele- gations in the plenary meeting urged on us the utmost importance, if this Organization is to survive, of selecting our Programme carefully, having regard to the world situation and what could be most urgently and most usefully done. Personally, we are in agreement with some of the items that have been added; nevertheless I would note that point, that so far our examination of the Programme has expanded it. Therefore, I wish first of all to explain that the Australian delegation in the rest of these debates will frequently be opposing strongly proposals which it thinks are good and would like to see adop- ted if conditions were different, because, as we have already stated, we are determined to do everything in our power to see that this Organization has a reasonably limited programme, within the capacity of its budget, and within the competence of its Secre- tariat and of the Member States. I must add also that, although we came here pre- pared to vote a Budget of $ 8,000,000, or even more if it is supported by a sound programme and there is no inflation of costs, we are not prepared to vote that Budget if it is one we think will be unrealistic and unpractical in the course of this year. — 1378 -—    I would also draw the attention of the Commis- sion to the importance of not drawing up a pro- gramme which will completely exhaust every cent we have available in the Budget. It is well known that the cost of living in Paris has risen by about
50 per cent in the course of this year and we shall need to provide for the contingency of a further rise. This Organization will need to take account of the probable danger of further rises in the cost of operation in Paris, due to conditions over which the Secretariat and the Organization certainly have no control. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that this Commission should take formal note of the views expressed by the Executive Board regarding the need for selection within this programme, and also of the declaration which so many leaders of delegations made in their opening statements, and we should request the Drafting Committee and the Budget Sub-Commission to work to the same objective of a more limited programme. I beg to read and to propose, on behalf of the delegation of Australia, the following resolution :
1. The Programme and Budget Commission has taken note of the views of the Executive Board, as expressed by the Chairman when presenting the Report of the Director-General, relating to the need for this Conference to continue the process of selecting, from among the many things that Unesco could do, those that are most important and urgent; and, in view of the evidences of growing international tension, to examine the proposed programme in order to concentrate Unesco’s resources upon those activities that are most closely related to Unesco's purpose as laid down in Article T of the Constitu- tion. These were the words in which the Director-Gene- ral's report was presented.
2. The Commission has also taken note of the declara- tions made by leaders of delegations in the plenary meetings of the Conference, many of which attributed many of the difficulties of the past year to the adoption of too broad and diffuse a programme, and urged the Conference to approve for 1948 a programme concentrated upon a more limited number of projects. One after another, leaders of delegations made declarations of this sort.
3. While the Commission will itself attempt to apply these principles, it requests the Drafting Committee and the Budget Sub-Commission also to keep them firmly in mind in the revision of the Commission’s resolutions and in prepar- ing financial estimates.
4. The Commission requests the General Committee to agree to the Commissions proceeding with the programme proposed by the Executive Board, and utilizing only such Working Party Reports as are available. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the resolution moved by the Australian delegation. Does anyone wish to second it ? Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : We are compelled with deep regret, to acknowledge that there is great disorder in the work of this Commission. I must say that, if this situation continues, it will not be possible to count on our presence to form a quorum. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion which has been moved and seconded. If you like, I will take it in separate parts. Dr. Adolf HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia) (Trans- lation from the French) : Dr. Walker of Australia mentioned that the Working Parties consist of experts. I consider that it is very important to have these experts’ opinions and I, therefore, cannot agree with him that the Working Parties are not essential to the discussions held here. I think we should haveall the necessary documents before us, but I cannot agree with the point of view that we should more or less rule out the advice of the Working Parties, as, if I understood it correctly, Dr. Walkers's motion suggests. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : I must say that I am rather surprised at hearing the delegate of Australia speak, at the beginning of this meeting, about our general proce- dure, as I thought that question had already been settled and that this afternoon we should simply continue our discussions on the section concerned with mass communication. Dr. Walker rightly remarked that there was some uncertainty about our procedure at the beginning of this Conference, and on this point I entirely agree with him. Harsher words were spoken some time ago by a member of this Commission, who has had long experience of parliamentary procedure. I refer to M. Huysmans, who, this morning, made some very apt remarks which we fully support. May I suggest to the delegate of Australia, however, that if our methods are poor,it is possibly not the fault of the Conference, which has indeed done all it could to improve them. We may think that our work might have been better prepared and that the influence of the experts — which, in our opinion, is necessary and indeed essential — might have been exercised in a more satisfactory fashion. The dele- gate of Czechoslovakia brought out this point very clearly, and I can only endorse what he said. In conclusion, I would like to know whether the delegate of Australia agrees with the resolution, proposed by the General Committee, and unani- mously adopted by the Programme and Budget Commission, which appears in document 2C/BUR/3, and lays down the conditions under which the Work- ing Parties may — and indeed must — be associated with the work of our own Commission. — 379 — e e e T r a c a ا ل م هتاو ت د ه ت السلاتار د ا ‎ a س ك ت ‎ a a I T S   S T R e n    The CHAIRMAN : Does anyoneelse wish to speak ? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom): Personally, I think that the intervention by our Australian friend will prove to have helped us to do the job which this Programme and Budget Commission has set itself to do as well as we know that it can be done. I wish myself that he had not included some of the things in his motion which he has included, and I do not entirely rule out the possibility that he might consider leaving out certain parts of it, or at any rate enable us to vote separately — if we cometo a vote — on the various parts of it; there seem to me to be two quite distinct questions here. The first is : should we not at this moment take stock of the work that we have been doing these last few days and see whether we are carrying out our wishes as delegates of Unesco and making a first-rate, concise, manageable programme of work for 1948 ? I think it is a healthy thing that we should use these few moments in order to take stock; and when I try to take stock myself, I think there is substance in the view which the Australian delegate has suggested : that we have been at times a little carried away by our temporary interest in a particular project and also — let us be quite frank — by the right and comradely desire not to oppose particular projects which we hear individual delegates putting forward with eloquence and enthusiasm. I think perhaps we have not been quite tough enough with ourselves in applying the hard test; is this something which Unesco must do in 1948 and in the world in which we find ourselves, where there is such vital work which we all agree Unesco must do ? My own feeling is that it is healthy to make up our mindsthat in future we will try to be even more responsible in the decisions we take in this Pro- gramme and Budget Commission than we have been. And I think it is quite healthy, too, that we should go on record as noting the need, which was expres- sed both by the Executive Board and by very many leaders of delegations, for us to set ourselves to the process of concentration. I think it would be helpful to the Drafting Gom- mittee of the Programme and Budget Commission — and here I speak with some personal interest — and to our Budget Sub-Commission, for this full meeting to go on record as asking those instruments of our will to bear these views in mind. I do hope, however, that Dr. Walker, the delegate of Australia, will withdraw the word «revision» in the third paragraph of his resolution and substitute the word «review». Neither the Drafting Committee, which has already started its work, nor the Budget Sub-Commission is a revising instrument. We can revise our own work when the reports come here. I am very grateful to the delegate of Australia for indicating assent that the word «review» should be substituted, in the English text of his motion, for the word «revision». We should then request the Drafting Committee and the Budget Sub-Commission to keep these views firmly in mind in doing their work of review. That is the first point : that we should take stock of our job and try to be more ruthless. The second proposal, which is incorporated in the fourth paragraph of the motion that has been raised, I think is much better not adopted at this stage in our work. This is Monday and we go into recess on Thursday. We have therefore only to-day, Tuesday and Wednesday, and as many days as we need after the recess, of course, to complete the work of going through this programme in the Green Book. I think we have made extremely good progress so far, and the difficulties, which seemed at one time insur- mountable, of reconciling the feelings of dissatis- faction with the work of this body which were felt by our friends in the Working Parties, with the feeling of dissatisfaction in this body with the pre- tensions of some members of the Working Parties, have now nearly disappeared. I think that, if the delegate of Australia had been here this morning he might have felt that, after a very shaky start, the Commission had made some progress in using the work done by those members of the Conference who have been working in those Parties, and that the Commission recognized at least some value in their labours. That is merely a personal opinion, but even if I am quite wrong and even if we have not nearly succeeded in reconciling the claims of this body and the claims of the Working Parties, I do not think that to ask the General Committee to re-discuss to-morrow morning this whole problem of the rela- tionship between the Working Parties and this body, would do any good. We debated it at great length in the General Committee, and we reached what, quite frankly, was a compromise, a unanimous recommendation which was referred to by ourfriend from France. We then debated at great length in this body how we of the Programme and Budget Commission were to interpret that advice from the General Committee and after that debate we reached what I still feel (and I think perhaps all of us feel) was one of the wisest decisions we have reached at Mexico City — to trust our admirable Chairman. I would very much like to see that trust and confi- dence in the Chair carried one stage further by the delegate of Australia’s reconsidering, and if possible, not presenting, the fourth section of his resolution and moving only the first three paragraphs. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone else who wishes — 380 —    to speak ? The delegate of Australia will reply when everyone else has spoken. M. Arthur BONHOMME (Haiti) (Translation from the French) : I also am notin favour of the Australian proposal. Criticism was voiced at the beginning of this Conference and the Conference gave a decision on certain alterations in the Programme of Unesco and in the budget. The only way we could express our opinions was through the Working Parties and the discussions in the Programme and Budget Commission, the composition of which is practically the same as that of the plenary conference. The results of our work therefore reflect the general opi- nion of the members of Unesco, and I think that the adoption of this Australian resolution would involve the abandonment of the principles on which we have already voted. As we have a Budget Sub-Commission, which will consider all the problems we have discussed and submit a report, our duty is to harmonize the pro- gramme with the budget. I think the Australian proposal tends to alter our democratic system here, which of course, has certain faults; there is this tendency in any democratic system, for there are many who advocate benevolent despotism. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates,it is a little difficult for me to deal specifically with the proposal of my colleague from Australia, because I have not got the text before me, but I want to support very strongly what I believe lies behind this proposal. The delegate of the United Kingdom suggested that we should be «more responsible », but my whole difficulty is that we cannot be responsible because the machinery which has beencreated — whether by the Secretariat or the Executive Board or the General Committee — does not allow us to be. There are a numberofdelegations here, including the delegation of France, and the delegations of New Zealand, Australia and South Africa, which have expressed in very strong terms our feeling that this machinery is not giving us the opportunity of doing our work. The difficulty which was raised by Dr. Walker about the increase in the programme is purely due to my own intervention, and it well illustrates what I mean. I moved that certain proposals be not dropped, because they were of value to my country and I did so because I did not know what was going on within the Secretariat. I have since had the opportunity of discussing with a member of the Secretariat the effect of this proposal, and I found that by some of the resolutions we are continually piling work on an already overworked Secretariat. I was unable to discuss it with the members of my own delegation who are experts, because theyare tied up elsewhere. To-day, when I look at the programme, I realise thatit is impossible for us to do our work adequately. I would rather do only half the programme and do it adequately. I feel I have not the right to come here day after day and speak on subjects of which I know little, when I have experts in my delegation, but those experts are busy on other committees — this afternoon we have five meetings going on. We cannot do our work in that way, and I agree most whole-heartedly with Dr. Walker when he says that, although the theory was excellent, in practice it amounts to nothing more or less than a few countries who have brought experts with them putting forth their views; we are getting the benefit of some good advice, but it is benefit of advice from a few experts from a few countries, and those of us who, at great sacrifice to our own countries, brought the best experts we could, find ourselves unable to make use of them. In spite of the protests of those countries I have mentioned, I have had no indication whatever from the Secretariat of any attempt to improve the situation or any explanation why it cannot be im- proved, and if I understand Dr. Walker's motion cor- rectly, and the short remarks of my colleague from Greece, they are inspired by the fact that we feel that we are not doing our job and it would be better to put an end to this meeting and leave the whole matter to the Working Parties to consider. We are wasting our energies and straining our nervous systems without feeling we are making any pro- gress. I personally feel we have madeverylittle progress; from the first I never felt that we could get any further than the excellent little Green Book. That is why I regret that I have not had an opportunity of studying the text of Dr. Walker’s motion, but if it is going to have the effect of allowing us to concentrate on a smaller programme and do our work properly, then I am whole-heartedly in favour of it. If it 1s going to have the effect of allowing the delegates to make better use of their experts and if I need not abandon all hope of making contributions in the Working Parties, and contributions in this Committee — if a smaller programme will have this effect, then I am completely in favour of it. It is possible that it is too late to do anything at this stage, but I do want to suggest that, so far from its being an introduction of undemocratic ideas,it is the very opposite. It is because we are trying to preserve the democratic idea that we are trying to give the small delegations like Haiti and mine the opportunity of making their contribution at the proper time and where it can be of mostvalue, and that we wantto alter the present procedure by adding — 381 —    to it something that will allow us to make our contributions. I am sorry I cannot say, Sir, whether I can vote. I shall have to wait until I hear the specific resolu- tions read out again. But I do want us to be able to do something to produce a practical programme which it will be within the powers of the Secretariat to put into operation. The CHAIRMAN : If no one else wishes to speak to this motion, I will call upon the delegate of Australia to reply. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Chair- man, I am prepared to agree to the taking of this motion in two parts, the first three paragraphs first and then the fourth paragraph. Before thus dividing it, let me say first of all that I apologize for not having it distributed to everybody in three languages. The decision to propose this resolution was taken by our delegation in principle this morning, following our review, over the week- end, of the work of this Commission to Saturday night. When we arrived here this morning and the Commission started work, we thought we would wait and see how things went. When we saw how things went this morning, we were more determined than ever that we would take this stand this afternoon. That explains why the resolution was not drafted in time to be distributed — to do that, I would have had to foresee all this three days ago. That is why I have brought it forward now. We accepted the resolution passed unanimously the other day in the General Gommittee. But we were not in the General Committee; the General Committee is a limited group. When the resolution came before this Commission, I came to this tribune and said I was worried over it, and the Chairman promised to do his best, and I think he has done his best. My motion does not indicate any lack of confidence in the Chairman, but the Chairman must have some sort of indication from the Commission as to how tough he can be in handling these matters. I am not opposed to experts, or to taking the advice of experts (the Czech delegation raised this). I am paid and I earn my living as an expert, and I know something of the expert's point of view. I have also been in the position where I have had to employ experts, and the rôle of the expert is to pro- vide expert advice, and what I object to, Mr. Chair- man, very definitely, as leader of my delegation, is that the rôle of expert advice should ever be altered into that of a pressure group on this responsible body. I think those two things are wrapped up together. That is one reason why this Commission is not doing very well — and I do not share Sir John Maud’s satisfaction at the way it has been going this morning or recently, though I approve of many ofthe proposals adopted. One reason why it is not working too well is that some of the delegations, such as my own (the medium-sized delegations), have to deploy their forces and try to have representatives on all these expert bodies, so that their voice can be heard — and sometimes they are not as expert as we should like. We have had our experts go over the Executive Board’s proposals in detail. We have come here armed with the views of our experts in Australia, and we have brought as many experts as we could afford to assist us in carrying out our work at this Confer- ence. By all means Jet us take account of the experts, but do notlet us hold up the work of this Commission and jump about from subject to subject, until no- one knows where they are and, as a result, fail to do justice to the very important tasks ahead of us. Mr. Chairman, we are deeply conscious of our responsibility. We know that the way we vote at this Commission may determine the very future of Unesco, may determine whether, in the course of this year,it is going to be a failure or to move towards being a success. I do not think my motion really mixes up two entirely different things and, before the voting takes place, I would like, on behalf of my own delegation — and, I know, of others — to make a plea for forbearance, both on the part of delegations and of the experts meeting in the experts’ committees to which I regret I can so rarely go myself. We all have certain interests of our own that are very close to us and which we would like to see Unesco adopt. If we merely proceed on a basis of compromise — «If we get your part of the programme in, will you agree to another part going in ?» — if that is done in the Working Parties or here, we shall ruin Unesco. We must at this time decide what are the most important things for Unesco to concentrate on, and, unless we do that responsibly, we are going to fail; and we can only do it responsibly if we exercise forbearance as far as pushing our own interests is concerned, whether those interests be economic, scientific, or anything else. I would agree, therefore, to the taking of my reso- lution in two parts; I think it would be a very good idea. Perhaps the Secretariat would read first of all the first three paragraphs and a vote could be taken on those, and then the fourth paragraph could be taken separately. The CHAIRMAN : I will ask the Secretary to read the first part of the Australian motion. The SECRETARY :
1. The Programme and Budget Commission has taken note of the views of the Executive Board, as expressed by the — 382 —    Chairman when presenting the Report of the Director-General, relating to the need for this Conference to continue the process of selecting, from among the many things that Unesco could do, those that are most important and urgent; and, in view ofthe evidences of growing international tension, to examine the proposed programme in order to concentrate Unesco's resources upon those activites that are most closely related to Unesco’s purpose as laid down in Article I of the Constitu- tion.
2. The Commission has also taken note of the deelara- tions made by leaders of delegations in the plenary meetings of the Conference, many of which attributed many of the difficulties of the past year to the adoption of too broad and diffuse a programme, and urged the Conference to approve for 1948 a programme concentrated upon a more limited number of projects.
3. While the Commission will itself attempt to apply these principles, it requests the Drafting Committee and the Budget Sub-Cortmission also to keep them firmly in mind in the review of the Commission’s Resolutions and in preparing financial estimates. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion read. I now put the first part of the Australian delega- tion’s motion to the meeting. Will those in favour kindly hold up their right hand? Those against? The resolution is passed. The second part of the motionis : That the Commission requests the General Committee to agree to the Commission’s proceeding with the programme proposed by the Executive Board and utilizing only such Working Party reports as are available. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : I asked a question which has not been answered. Perhaps the Chairman of the Commis- sion would be kind enough to answer now. If the fourth paragraph of the Australian delegate’s resolution should be approved (France, I hasten to say, will abstain {from voting on it) what will happen to document 2C/BUR/3, on which in the General Committee of the Conference we arrived, with great difficulty, at unanimity, and which, as Sir John Maud mentioned just now, was subsequently approved by this Commission? The CHAIRMAN : The General Committee will be asked to review it. If the General Committee did agree to the Commission’s proceeding without wailing for Working Party reports, if not available, then the General Committee would have to revise that particular document. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : M. Seydoux did ask me what was myattitude towardsthat; at the time I expressed certain doubts about it, but did not vote against it; but in the light of our experience since it was approved, I think it is high time it was revised. — 38 Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : The Brazilian delega- tion does not consideritself responsible (and does not think any delegation can be) for this unfortunate system of having the Working Parties meeting simul- taneously with our Commission. The Brazilian delegation, however, does not think it is possible to consider the matters, proposals and recommenda- tions contained in the Green Book until they have been discussed by the competent experts in the Bra- zilian delegation. The conditions in which we are working — with this system of simultaneous interpretation, the rapidity with which the votes have to be taken, and the whole environment — make it impossible for us adequately to analyse the important drafts and to vote for or against them here. We therefore think it is absolutely essential to obtain the opinion of the Working Parties beforehand. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : I speak in support of the remarks of the delegate of the United King- dom. TI thought what he said was sound common sense. I certainly cannot define our present method as a system. It is a rough-and-ready compromise, a working solution, which we hammered out after hours of discussion. It is working about as well as, I think, anything could work that we could decide on at this present time. I do not think it is good enough for next year, but we are here now in the middle of a programme, and we have been covering the ground reasonably well under the circumstances. It appears to me that the merit of a resolution moved on this floor does not depend so much upon its authorship as upon its intrinsic value. We have had suggestions from Working Parties and they have been no use at all; the Reports themselves have been inaccurate, and have been disavowed by three or four delegations. We have had other Reports from Working Parties that seemed excellent, and that contained only the best resolutions that could be moved. Now it is true that, in a case where the Working Party Report was of the latter character, we treated the Working Party almost as if it had been a Sub- Commission. In the other cases, where the Reports were of no value, we treated the Working Party as if it had been a discussion group, with no status. This may not have been a very logical way of doing it, but it seems to me it has the merit of being the system with which we are now familiar and which we think does rough justice and is about the best we can do at the moment. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to speak to this?       If not, I put the motion. Will all those in favour of the motion proposed by the delegate of Australia please hold up their hands? The motion is lost. If there is no further general business, I would ask the Secretary if he would inform you what the pre- sent position is with regard to the Reports of Working Parties — the Reports we have had in which will enable you to make up your minds about this after- noon’s work. The SECRETARY : The Chairman suggests that I mention that thirty-four of the scheduled forty- six meetings of Working Parties have already taken place. I think one of our embarrassmentsis that the drafting of the Rapporteur’s report and agreement on it, its translation into two languages and dupli- cation in three languages sometimes call for a lag of two or three days from the time the Working Party met. Nevertheless, the greater proportion of these meetings has already taken place. We are nowin this position : this morning we deferred Chapter I. C. 7, in the Green Book (Govern- ment Support and Encouragement of the Arts), because we were awaiting the Report of a Working Party. That document has now been distributed in three languages. It is document 2C/1/3. Itis therefore for the Commission to decide whether, having received the Report of the Working Party, it wishes to dispose of Chapter I. C. 7, in the Pro- gramme for 1948, document 2C/3. This morning in the discussion of IL. B., we de- ferred Chapter II. B. 1 (dealing with Channels for Ideas), item e, dealing with inter-governmental agreements for the infernational exchange of publi- cations. We also deferred Chapter IL B. 1.f, dealing with a scheme of book coupons. Both these items have been reported to us by the Working Party on Libraries and Documentation in document 2C/H/6. The request was made this morning by the delegate of Canada that those subjects be deferred pending the distribution of 2C/H/9, which is a general review by the Libraries Working Party after the conclusion of all its meetings, in which it undertook to fix priori- ties among the several proposals affecting libraries. That document, 2C/H/9, has been distributed in English only. The question before you, therefore, is whether you wish to dispose of these two items. Document
9C/H/6 was distributed several days ago; document
2C/H/9 was distributed to-day at noon. The CHAIRMAN : I understand that at your meeting this morning you were discussing item IL B. 2. a, for which the papers are in process but not yet prepared. I understand some difficulty arose because you did not have these papers, and I want to know whether you wouldlike to finish that report, or to go back to the two items mentioned by the Secretary for which the papers are before you, in the hope that the papers on the bigger matter of this morning will be ready later. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, may I draw the attention of the Commission to thefact that M. Joxe and Mr. Lloyd Free, who have been dealing with the question of Mass Communication, are due to leave Mexico City to-morrow morning. I think it would be desirable that the Budget Sub-Commission should be instruc- ted to take full account, apart from the motions intro- duced by delegations which are in conformity with the programme, of the report of the Working Party on Mass Communication. I would also mention that on Saturday the French delegation submitted four motions which, for reasons unknown to me, were not distributed in time. In view of the recommendations adopted this morning, two of these motions are withdrawn. There are still two more, however, which should be with the Secre- tariat and I should be grateful if they could be read to the Commission. The CHAIRMAN : I understand two French mo- tions were submitted on Saturday morning concern- ing IL B. 3 and IL C., which at present are going through the machines. If they are not prepared by the time we reach these items on the programme, the French delegation will no doubt raise them here. However, the Secretariat thinks they will be ready by the time these items are reached. You have heard the position, which is that you were dealing this morning with a certain matter concerned with Mass Communication. If no one moves that we pass to other business, I will continue with the busi- ness of this morning. I take it, then, that you wish to go ahead with the oral report on Mass Media. If we becometoo bogged down in it, because we have no papers, we may have to review our decision. Have you a copy of the resolutions passed this morning? The SECRETARY : Two oral reports were pre- sented this morning from the Working Party on Mass Communication. The first dealt only with the problems of the Commission on Technical Needs. That report put forward certain recommendations, several of which were adopted this morning as resolu- tions dealing with the subject-matter of Chapter II. B. 2. a, in the Green Book — the Commission on Technical Needs. A resolution was adopted this morning that the Director-General seek to create an assistance fund to be constituted by donations from private — 381 —      organizations, public institutions and private indivi- duals to help those countries which cannot entirely face the expenses of the reconstruction of their technical facilities for communication. A further resolution was adopted dealing with Chapter IL B. 2. a, that the Director-General call on the advice of a restricted Commission of financial experts to report, within three months, to the Execu- tive Board, on the feasibility (I am abbreviating here) of a cultural loan or ofassistance, with a provision for direct compensation, based on cultural and profes- sional needs, to overcome difficulties of currency exchange. The last item of business before adjournment was the adoption of a resolution that the survey work of the Commission on Technical Needs be continued in 1948. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to move an item contained in the Report of the Working Party on item ILB. 2. 2? The Working Party on paragraph ¢ has not yet met. Paragraph d concerns the Working Party on Li- braries, I am told. Has anybody anything to move on paragraphs e, ЛД вок №? Has anybody anything to move on Section II. B. 2 as a whole? Dr. Luther H. EVANS (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, I was working under the assumption that the delegate of Australia, Mr. Metcalfe, who was Chairman of the Working Party on Libraries, would make a report and move certain resolutions on items €, d, f, g and h. Is Mr. Metcalfe here? Mr. J. W. METCALFE (Australia) : If that is the wish of the meeting, I can proceed with these items now. The CHAIRMAN : The positionis that the Work- ing Party on Mass Communication is not covered in one report. Are you quite clear on the position? May I remind you that I have a general instruction from this Commission to use the items in the Green Book as an agenda and to take these items in the order in which they occur by Chapter and by item. I now understand that there is some desire in the Commission to alter the procedure in this particular case and to follow the items in the order in which they are given in the Working Party paper on Mass Communication. Unfortunately, you have not got that paper before you, but I can tell you that the next item will be concerned with IL B. 3. That would mean skipping into a new subchapter, and coming back to Chapter I. A. and II. B. I am in this posi- tion : that unless somebody moves that I alter the order of the agenda in the Green Book, I shall go ahead in’that order and shall deal with the first item for which working papers exist. If, on the other hand, you want me to follow a different order, some- body must move that. Mr. A. D. DUNTON (Canada) : We should like to move now that we proceed with the consideration of IL. B. 3, the items which are covered by the Report of the Working Party this morning. The CHATRMAN : It has been moved by the dele- gate of Canada and seconded by the delegate of France that we leave Chapter II. B. 2 and move on to IL. B. 3 to the extent that it is covered by the Report of the Working Party presented this morning, but not yet distributed. Will all those in favour of the motion please hold up their hands? The motion is carried. We are now dealing with II. B. 3 in the Green Book. I am prepared to receive any motions con- tained in a Report of aWorking Party on thatsection. Chapter II. B. 3. — Modern Techniques of Presentation. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French): Mr. Chairman, the motion I would like to introduce, and which I think is in the hands of the General Committee, aims at supplementing the preamble to IL B. 3. It runs as follows: Unesco will welcome any opportunities for making inter- national broadcasts which may be offered to the Organization by the United Nations radio network, having regard to all its commitments in the realm of broadcasting. For financial reasons, and because ofits obligations in other departments of broadcasting, Unesco’s part in the preparation of education- al, scientific and cultural programmes for transmission over the United Nations network will necessarily be limited. If the United Nations should abandon the idea of establishing a worldwide network, Unesco will have to reconsider the possi- bility of establishing such a network itself. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second that mo- tion? If no one secondsit, it will lapse. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Just having heard the motion and not having it in writing, it seems reasonable enough, provided the word «limi- ted » is not misinterpreted. The word «limited» of course, is somewhat vague, but if this proposal is that our participation in the United Nations broad- casts and the preparation of material, should be on a reasonable figure, I am in agreement. If that is the sense in which the word «limited» is used, Australia would be prepared to second this motion. The CHAIRMAN : Seconded by Australia. The delegate of the United States of America. — 385 —
25        Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) fn general I am thoroughly in accord with the resolu- tion suggested by the French delegation. There are, however, a couple of motions needed in terms of the agreement that was reached by the Committee of Experts at the Radio Network and Programme Conference held in Paris in August. I find, looking in the French resolution, two points that were unanimously agreed to by the experts assembled there. “In document 2C/10, at the end, under recommendations, in the section dealing with an international radio network, there are these two points :
1. The Committee recognizes the potential value to Unesco of a world radio network. I do not believe that partis included in the French resolution. The second point recommended by the experts is included in the French resolution. It is as follows :
2. Unesco should, therefore, welcome the availability of facilities for international broadcasting which would be afforded by a United Nations Radio Network. That is all right. Recommendation 3 of the experts, however, (and I believe that the first part of this is lacking in the French resolution), is as follows :
3. If such a United Nations Network is established, Unesco should consider it indispensable to co-operate with the network by accepting membership of the proposed Radio Board, which will govern its programme policies, and by participating in the programming of the network with educa- tional, scientific and cultural material. The first part of that recommendation, I believe, is lacking in the French text. I, frankly, also like the language used by the experts in the rest of the paragraph I have just read better than I do the lan- guage in the French text. It is as follows : The Committee suggests, however, that, in the early stages at least, such participation must be sparing in view of Unesco's limited budget, the high cost involved in taking on regular and heavy programme commitments, and the claims of other projects in thefield of radio. There are those two points. It is very difficult to move textual amendments to a resolution which we do not have before us, so that I am not quite sure how to proceed. Would it be possible to ask whether the French delegation would see that those two points were inserted ? The CHAIRMAN : That is the easiest way to do it, if the French delegation is in agreement. It is not just textual. It involves new material. It is for the French delegation to say whether they will accept it. There are two items which the United States delegation mentioned. The French delega- tion is willing to have those inserted. Would the — 386 —    seconder, the delegate of Australia, be equally willing ? He agrees. The matter is now open for discussion. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to this motion put forward by France ? Mgr. Jean MAROUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : Unesco is an international institution and, unfortunately, has no machinery for reaching the masses among whom the Organization should work. This means that the Member States must co-operate in its work, but most frequently such co-operation is practically non-existent. For this reason, Unesco’s activities in the field of radio should be as far-reaching as possible. We therefore heart- ily support the French proposal, but we are sorry that any limitation is mentioned in that motion. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to this French resolution ? If not, [will put the motion. The CHAIRMAN : The resolution is carried. “) The French delegation now has another motion. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : I am sorry that the document has not been distributed, as the French motion is rather lengthy. The following text shall be substituted for para- graph 3 of Chapter II.B.3 : As regards broadcasting, Unesco’s main activities will for the present be directed to securing the widest possible co- ERNA with national broadcasting organizations. For this purpose : (a) a Standing Programme Committee shall be set up, to meet once a yearat the headquarters of Unesco, consisting of : (i) twelve experts on broadcasting programmes from Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, the United States of America, France, Mexico, Poland, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Czechoslovakia; (it) six experts chosen annually by the Secretariat from six other countries; a smaller Sub-Committee, consisting of eight members of the main Committee appointed for one year, three of whom shall not be eligible for immediate re-election, shall meet twice a year. (b) The Radio Sub-Section shall recruit staff to form ‘roving teams’, consisting partly of qualified experts employed on a temporary basis and partly of permanentstaff, to form a link between Unesco and the national broadcasting organi» zations, and to encourage, in every way possible, the produc- tion by those organizations of educational, scientific and cultu- = programmes in line with the fundamental objects of nesco. I break off to ask whether the Commission wishes me to continue reading or whether you would prefer to take a decision on these first paragraphs.
(1) In final form : Resolutions 2.2.3. 3.3, 2.2.3.3.4.
2.2.3.3.5 and 2.2.3.3.7 ; vol. II, page1 4.    The CHAIRMAN : I should imagine, myself, that it would have to be dealt with paragraph by pare- graph. It is quite impossible to hold it all in one's mind. Would the meeting agree with that ? Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) Mr. Chairman, I am very loath to hold up proceed- ings, but it really is quite impossible to deal with business in this way. This seems to me to be a new matter which requires twenty-four hours notice. It is quite impossible for us to deal with a resolution which takes about five or ten minutes to read and which concerns all sorts of resolutions. I move that this be duplicated and circulated and dealt with to-morrow. The CHAIRMAN : That is a point of procedure. Is that the wish of the meeting ? Seconded by the delegate of the United States of America. It is a reversal of the decision made half an hour ago, in the light of our experience since. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to this ? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : May I inform the delegate of South Africa that this motion was duly given in time to be distributed to delegates ? The CHAIRMAN : It was handed in twenty-four hours ago. Does anyone wish to speak to that motion ? Dr. Enrique PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : As it is most important that all the regions of the world should take part in these Unesco programmes, and that the Organiza- tion’s influence should thus spread throughout the world, I would suggest that a South American should be included among the members of the Committee, The CHAIRMAN: At the moment weare discussing whether this procedure is a possible one or whether it is not. I have allowed this motion to cut across others, because obviously it will merely get us into a com- plete state of frustration if we have to deal with material we do not understand. The delegate of Brazil wishes to speak to the motion by the Union of South Africa. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans- lation from the French) : 1 think that the discussion should be adjourned until to-morrow. I am sorry that the Secretariat was unable to distribute the documents in time. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Brazil has seconded the adjournment, which, of course, has priority over every other motion. It has-been moved that we postpone consideration of this further resolution until the copies have been roneoed and distributed. Mr. A. D. DUNTON (Canada) : I would like to move that this Commission takes as its general findings on Chapter ILB. 3, Section B of the Report of the Working Party as read this morning. The CHAIRMAN : Section B, I think, dealt with II.B.3, which is now before us. Mr. A. D. DUNTON (Canada) : Is was understood this morning we would proceed with it. The CHAIRMAN : I do not know what the sense of the meeting is, but as Chairman I feel very strongly that T cannot get into another situation where we are going to deal with material which is not before you in the form of a motion. It has been moved and seconded that we adjourn. Before you take a vote on that, I would point out that we had some reports which I mentioned at the beginning of the meeting, on other material. However, the motion that we adjourn is now before this Commission. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? Very well, we adjourn until 11 o’clock to-morrow morning. The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m.