have to do the job, not just stimulate. You may tell me that our budget is limited; that if we spend more on fundamental education, we must cut some- where else. I accept that. If we believe that fun- damental education is more important than some other things, we must spend more on that and sacri- fice the others. In a day or two we may be asked to face a reduced budget. If so, what do we do? Do we do the same things, only more sketchily? Do we cover the same ground more thinly? That, I think, would be fatal. If we do that, I predict that Unesco will not last many years. I know we must have compromises. We cannot all get our own way here. We must compromise, but in so doing do not let us just give everybody a little less of everything. New Zealand is willing to back a small number of projects — we do not agree with all of them, but we support them because this is, after all, a democracy. We are not willing to back a large number of projects, even if we agree with every one of them. These words imply that we may be forced, not simply to pare a little here and there but even to perform major surgical ope- rations. That implication I also accept. At this point, I suggest in fairness that, whatever we do in the re-grouping ofstaff, in the way of absorb- ing one Section into another, the people we keep on — whom we want in this Organization — must be given tenure. It is not fair to the personnel of the Secretariat that we should keep them dragging on month after month without tenure. The Director- General has had no alternative, and, I am sure, will agree on this. In the future we must give them that certainty. Finally, I ask you to believe that, in pressing for a smaller programme, the New Zealand delegation has no desire whatever to be destructive. We have this ob at heart, and there is nothing we want more than its success. All we, as a small delegation from a small country, can do to help, we shall be glad to do, both at this Conference and in our home country. And if we can go home to our country with a pro- grammethatis clear, practical and limited, I predict th t New Zeal nd :s a whole wil be behind the Unesco organization asit is already behind the Unesco idea. The meeting rose at 12.35 p. m. SIXTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 10 November 1947, at 4 p. m. GONTENTS
15. Second Report of the Credentials Committee
16. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation): Speeches by delegates of China, Australia, Uruguay and Peru President : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium).
15. Second Report of the Credentials Com- mittee. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Before starting on our agenda this afternoon, I have to call uponthe Chairman of the Credentials Gommit- tee, who will present a report on certain questions raised by a number of governments represented here. I call upon M. Uzgoren. М. UZGOREN (Chairman of the Credentials Gom- mittee) : The Credentials Committee, appointed at the Second Session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, held its second meeting on 10 No- vember, 1947, to consider certain urgent commu- nications from the States taking part in the Con- ference. _— B —    R E } E N N ب ‎
(1) The Committee considered a notification from the Chargé d’Affaires of Uruguay in Mexico, informing the Organization that the Government of that country had now ratified the Constitution of Unesco, and had deposited its Instrument of Acceptance with the Government of the United Kingdom. The Committee, therefore, proposes that, pend- ing receipt of the official communication from the Government of the United Kingdom, the delegation of Uruguay should be admitted to the Conference with voting powers.
(2) The Committee further considered commu- nications from the Governments of Bolivia, Cuba and Denmark, constituting regular credentials for these countries in accordance with the requirements of Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure for the General Conference.
(3) Finally, the Committee considered commu- nications from the Governments of Chile and Iran, accrediting observers from those States to the Second Session of the General Conference The Committee proposes that the observers from Chile and Iran be admitted in this capacity to the Second Session of the General Conference. (!)
16. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation.) Dr, HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. President and fel- low-delegates; two months ago the Chinese Govern- ment, in co-operation with Unesco, had the honour ofcalling the first regional conference on Fundamen- tal Education. The Mexican member of the Unesco mission, who wasalso there to observe the workings of the conference, warmly praised what he termed oriental hospitality. Now we are enjoying Mexican hospitality on a grand scale, and, on behalf of the Chinese delegation, I wish to express our hearty appreciation to the Mexican Government for all their courtesies and kindnesses. Most of us are visiting Mexico for the first time, and the visits we have paid to some of the educational and cultural institutions here have deeply impressed us by their praisewor- thy efforts and achievements. I have listened with great interest and admiration to the oral report of the Director-General and have read his written report on the work of Unesco for the year. I should like, however, to approach the question of the objectives of Unesco, immediate and long- term, from a broad and general point of view. The purposes and functions of Unesco, as set out in the
(0 Resolution I ; vol. II, page 5. — 83 Constitution, are grand and comprehensive. In pursuance of the purposes, and in execution of the functions, the Director-General has brought into being a Secretariat with various sections and ser- vices. Steps are being taken and plans being formed for the carrying out of work under different categories. But, amid the multitude of activities and claimsfor action, especially during theinitial stagesof an organization that, in the words of the Director- General, «is of necessity multiform and various», constant vigilance is required to avoid rapid growth without solid foundation, and to ensure the best use of funds and personnel. We must be constantly alive, first, to the immediate and long-range objec- tives in view, and second, to the ways and means of realizing these objectives. The immediate objective of Unesco is to help in the reconstruction of educa- tion, science and culture, especially in the war de- vastated countries. I need not repeat what I under- stand was amply said at last year’s Conference regard- ing the damage and destruction caused by war to education, science and culture over large areas of the world. Nor do I need to point out here the stupendous task of rehabilitation facing these coun- tries, their pressing needs and the great efforts they have made and are making to this end.  With- out full and prompt rehabilitation of education, science and culture in these countries, there can be no hope oftheir making their best contributions to the purposes of Unesco. I am aware of what Unesco has achieved in this direction, but it is hoped that substantial contributions, especially in the form of books and equipment, will reach the needy countries speedily, so that the work of rehabilita- tion may be accelerated. In this counexion,the efforts of numerous nation- al voluntary agencies in the United States of America, as mentioned by Mr. Benton, deserve special praise for their interest in, and support of, this urgent task. Unesco rightly stresses in the Programme, under the heading of Reconstruction, «the principle of exchange of services by way of roaid between nations». — Owing to war and difficulties of communications, the free flow and exchange of publications and materials pertaining to education, science and culture were greatly disrup- ted. To remedy the situation and to enable a return to normal, so to speak, each country should be able to make its due contribution to the common pool. For the attainment of this immediate objective, which does not call for any permanent institution, what are required are the promotion, co-ordination and organization of all efforts. Above all, the ele- ment of urgency has to be considered ; in due course the priority and necessity of the task will diminish.     | |1 |
7 || | Е     There are two long-term objectives for Unesco. Thefirst is peace, both in the negative sense of remov- ing and preventing causes of friction and in the positive sense of promoting mutual understanding and harmonious living between peoples. This is really the foundation on which the success of the United Nations ultimately rests. In connexion with this objective, I would cite as important such activi- ties and functions as interchange between cultures, the collection and dissemination of data, the exchange of persons, and education for world citizenship. In the interchange between cultures, I may point out that the learning and absorption of western culture, in the broadest sense, have been eagerly pursued and widespread among the peoples of the east. I shall be happy to see Unesco facilitate and promote the study of eastern cultures by the west. Is it too much to hope that, after more extensive and intensive study and contact between eastern and western cultures, some new culture and outlook on life will emerge? As was well said by Spinoza, «I have come not to criticize nor to detest, but to learn and understand». There are in this hall so many philosophers of distinction. May we call on them to take a lead in the furtherance of international understanding? The other long-term objective of Unesco is, to my mind, democracy and more democracy. The democratic way of life involves the political right of making a free and intelligent contribution to the common good, the economic right of making a decent living and the right to a minimum basis of education and enjoyment of culture. While we must concede that political democracy has been attained to a varying extent in many countries, a great deal remains to be achieved. In this, as well as in economic and cultural democracy, the activities of Unesco in the promotion of fundamental education and in the raising of the standards of education in general, in the dissemination and advanceofscientific knowledge, both natural and social, and in the popularization and encouragement of philosophy and humanistic studies, as well as of arts and letters, are pertinent. To facilitate the efforts and to work for the attainment of these two long-term objectives of Unesco, modern media of mass communication should be utilized to the fullest extent. It is my opinion that we should keep these ob- jectives constantly in view and maintain a balanced and co-ordinated development of the various acti- vities that are essential to their attainment. Con- sideration must also be given to the time factor, as rightly stressed by the British delegation : certain things can only be accomplished over a period of time and, with limited staff and funds, it cannot be expected that all things should be attended to at one and the same time. Withparticular reference to the present Organization, I should like to question, for instance, the necessity for such an expansion and increase of departments and divisional services. Again, with reference to another point which the delegate of India has already raised, I hope that the Director-General will see to it, as he said in his report, that «every attempt is being made to remedy the faulty geographical distribution» of the staff of the Secretariat. After all has been said, I wouldlike to congratulate our Director-General on the fine piece of work he has done in setting up a workable Secretariat and in putting Unesco into action in the short period of time since its inception. Credit must be given in the fields of natural sciences and fundamental edu- cation, where remarkable headway has been made. But I do wish to submit to the consideration of the Conference and to our Director-General that the time is now ripe, following such a rapid growth in organization and personnel, to review the situation on the basis of the experience of the past year in order to ensure the utmost efficiency and the most fruitful use of funds. On this point it seems to me that co-ordination of efforts and integration of acti- vities should go along with the division of functions and services. China, suffering from the political and economic consequences of the unprecedented struggle (which lasted longest of all for her), finds it no light respon- sibility to make her contribution to the maintenance of Unesco, but we do it gladly and willingly, for we have a long cultural tradition in which world unity and harmony are exalted. «Tien hsia wei kung, «one world for all» is the ideal of China, of all» peace loving peoples and of Unesco. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Pre- sident, ladies and gentlemen, the Australian dele- gation desires to associate itself with those who have already expressed their appreciation of the hospitality of the Government and people of Mexico. Our relations with Mexico have always been friendly and we have often found ourselves joining forces with Mexican representatives— at the United Nations and other international conferences — butrelatively few Australians have had the opportunity of visiting this magnificent country. The Australian dele- gation has been most impressed by the warm wel- come which the Government and people of Mexico have expressed in so many ways, and whichis proving so important a factor in the creation of that spirit of mutual understanding necessary for the success of our Conference. When the membersof the dele- gation return to Australia, it will be our privilege to tell of what we have seen and experienced, and to establish new links of goodwill and ‘understanding > Bl — i ii     between this country and our own. Like all dele- gations, we are specially grateful for the excellent facilities provided by the Mexican Government for the work for the Conference, and for the oppor- tunities given to the delegations to become acquain- ted at first hand with Mexican endeavour in the fields of education, science, and culture, which will be an inspiration to this Organization in its future work. I also desire to congratulate the Secretariat of Unesco on the arrangements it has made for the running of the Conference. Despite all the difficulties en- gendered by the problems of distance and trans- portation, the administrative arrangements have been carefully planned and, as a result, the Conference has got off to a good start. Those delegations who have had occasion to visit the small factory, which the Secretariat modestly calls «the Documents Room», have been impressed by the systematic way in which the Secretariat has tackled the problems involved in supplying a mass of documentation which, though it sometimes threatens to overwhelm us, is so essential to the work of the Conference. In speaking on the Director-General’s Report, my principal task is to outline briefly the position of the Australian delegation in relation to the major policy issues before this Conference. We shall find 1t necessary to refer to some of the weaknesses in the Organization’s record over the past year, in order to assist the Conference to take such de- cisions as will pave the way for greater progress in the years ahead. The Australian Government and the Australian people believe in Unesco and are determined to do everything in their power to make it succeed. Those who were present at the first General Conference in Paris, or those who have read the proceedings so recently published, will recognize that the observations we shall make at this Conference are the logical development of the position adopted by our delegation in Paris and of our experience of the past year’s work. Australia was one of the first countries to accept the Constitution of Unesco, and support of this Organization remains one of the cardinal points in Australia’s foreign policy. There are two reasons why the Australian Government and Australian peo- ple desire most earnestly to assist Unesco towardsthe successful accomplishment of the tasks laid down for it by the Constitution. The first reason is that Unesco is part of the international structure which the United Nationsis building to advance the objec- tives of peace and the common welfare of mankind. Australian foreign policy is based upon whole- hearted support of the United Nations and all the Specialized Agencies, including Unesco. The second reason why Australia desires to assist Unesco is because,ofall the Specialized Agencies, Unesco is the one which in its constitutional structure provides machinery reaching back through governments to the peoples of the MemberStates. If full advantage is taken of the National Commissions and National Co-operating Bodies provided for in Unesco’s Consti- tution and if, at the same time, Unesco is able to make proper use of the modern instruments of mass communication, this Organization can be a most powerful factor in the establishment of peace and security. The Chairman of the Executive Board and several other speakers have already referred to the necessity for continued emphasis on the purpose of the Orga- nization as defined in the Constitution, and the Aus- tralian delegation welcomes this. We cannot remind ourselves too frequently of Unesco’s major tasks. But it is also necessary to emphasize continually the structure of Unesco and the machinery through which it can operate. Unesco consists of its Mem- bers, that is, the States, both large and small, whose Governments or Parliaments, acting on behalf of their peoples, have accepted its Constitution and assumed the responsibilities of membership. When we speak of Unesco, therefore, we should think not only of its Secretariat, but also of all the Mem- ber Governments, their National Commissions, Co- operating Bodies, and other national agencies, and of the Conference and Executive Board. In the words of the Programme for 1948, drawn up by the Executive Board for consideration by the confe- rence, «as a mere secretariat lodged in a building Unesco would be powerless; as a world organization of governments and peoples, it can act on a broad front». Again, in the Director-General’s Report, page 74, we read, «Unesco’s programme is not a series of operations centrally directed and executed by the Secretariat in Paris, but a combined effort to which each country can contribute». Now, the fact that it is administratively convenient to place the responsibility for many of the Secretariat's commu- nications with Member Governments and Member States in the same Section ofthe Secretariat as deals with relations with Non-Member States and with other international organizations, should not lead us into the habit of thinking of our Member States as being external to Unesco. We must beware, even in Unesco, of the tyranny of words. To the Australian delegation it comes as something of a shock to find that the Director- General's Report on the Activities of the Organiza- tion in 1947 discusses membership, and the chan- nels of communications with Member States, under the heading of «External Relations». All Sections of the Secretariat must recognize that their relations with the Member States are really internal relations between different parts of Unesco. The Australian Een us бл    A s t l H e ‏ ا = د د ه     delegation cannot resist the conclusion that in the Conference decisions last year much more stress might have been laid upon this conception of the Organization as a whole and upon activities which would have brought the Secretariat into closer work- ing relationship with the Member States. This, in our opinion, is one of the weaknesses which must be remedied in the coming year, both in the decisions of the Conference and the Executive Board and in the spirit and methods of work of the Secretariat. This conclusion is based not merely on our study of the documents emerging from the Secretariat, but primarily on our experience in Australia as we have attempted to carry out some of our obligations as a Member State of this Organization. Following the First General Conference in Paris a year ago, the Australian Government has taken steps, in accordance with the Constitution of Unesco, to establish a series of National Go-operating Bodies in several branches of education, science and cul- ture, together with a Co-ordinating Committee, which brings together the work of the several Nation- al Co-operating Bodies. The significance of this step can be better appreciated when it is remembered that Australia has a federal system of government, in which the main responsibility for the develop- ment of education, science and culture has rested, in the past, with the States rather than the Central Government. The establishment of National Co- operating Bodies, bringing together from all over Australia representatives of the people who are concerned with particular branches of education, science and culture with the express purpose of organizing collaboration with the peoples of other countries, may prove to be a factor of the greatest importance in Australia’s cultural development. Our National Go-operating Bodies are still in their infancy and we look forward in this Conference, and in the course of the coming year, to learning much from the experience of other Member States which have also National Commissions or National Co-operating Bodies. Even in the relatively short period since their establishment, the Australian National Co-operating Bodies have already begun to play effectively the rôle assigned to them under the Unesco Constitu- tion. They have advised the Australian Government on the selection of the delegation to this Conference and are strongly represented in the membership of our delegation. In addition, they have examined in detail the Programme for 1948 proposed for the consideration of the Conference by the Execu- tive Board, and they have advised the Australian Government on the policy to be followed by our delegation at this Conference. The Australian Government has also taken seri- ously its responsibilities in connexion with Unesco’s plans for educational reconstruction in devastated countries. The Australian Parliament recently voted a substantial sum for post-UNRRA relief. Although the greater part of this money is ear-marked to assist the International Refugee Organization and the International Children’s Emergency Fund, anamount several times the size of our annual contribution to Unesco will be available to assist reconstruction acti- vities sponsored by Unesco in war-devastated coun- tries, especially in the Pacific area. An advanced stage of preparation has already been reached in our plans to provide fellowships and other forms of assistance. All this is evidence that Australia’s membership of Uunesco is no empty gesture, but a responsibihty which the Australian Government and the Australian people take very seriously. It is all the more disappointing, therefore, that those who have been concerned in Australia with developing the machinery and making the plans for Australia’s participation in the work of Unesco are obliged to report that their work has been made extremely difficult by the limited information trans- mitted by the Secretariat regarding the activities of the Organization. Apart from the provisional report submitted by the Director-General to the Economic and Social Council, which we received through our Mission to the United Nations and had already distributed to our National Co-operating Bodies before we re- ceived a copy from Unesco, we have not received sufficient information about the major projects of the 1947 programme to enable us to discuss their development with the National Co-operating Bodies. Our impression has been that very little real pro- gress has been made with such important Unesco projects as, for instance, Fundamental Education, and Education for International Understanding, al- though staff has been found for other activities to which the First General Conference may have given a lower degree of priority. In the field of Recon- struction, useful work has undoubtedly been done, but we have not succeeded in obtaining from the Secretariat the information we considered necessary before we could organize voluntary assistance in Australia. This situation is most disturbing, for, unless National Commissions and Co-operating Bo- dies are kept informed on the work of the Organi- zation, and are enabled to contribute to it, they will stagnate ; and all the wisdom embodied in Unesco's constitutional provisions for these bodies will have no practical outlet whatever. Nor can we report that Unesco has made any significant impact upon Australia in the fields of mass communication and public information. With- in the secretariat which has been established in Australia to serve the National Co-operating Bodies, — ll -—   provision has been made to publicize the work of the Organization and we have found that the Aus- tralian press and broadcasting systems are prepared to feature information about Unesco’s work and development. Unfortunately, the information we have received this year has been so meagre as to make it quite impossible to bring before the Austra- lian people an adequate picture of the work which we hoped the Organization was doing. At this very moment, throughout Australia, an ambitious «Unesco Month» programme is being carried out in accordance with the decisions of the First General Conference. Our fear is that the paucity of precise information available in Australia on the work of the Organization may prevent us from exploiting the resources of goodwill at our disposal, and may even prejudice the possibility of conducting a Unesco Month Programme in Australia again next year. Another weakness in Unesco’s work this year, which has been observed by Australia, is in relation to the association of Unesco with the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies. It is true that agreements have been negotiated and that members of the Secretariat have attended various meetings of the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies. Nevertheless, Australian representatives in these other Organizations have gained the impression that, so far, Unesco’s participation in their work has not been very effective and that Unesco's colla- boration with them in practice tends to be formal rather than substantial. Here, too, we regard it as essential that the coming year should see more careful planning and more vigorous and effective action by Unesco. We know, of course, that a start has been made with work relating to such projects as the Rights of Man, and also the translation of the classics, and we hope that this will be the preface to still more positive forms of collaboration in 1948. We believe, in Australia, that the National Co-operating Bodies working under the auspices of Unesco can help not only this Organization, but also all agencies of the United Nations, by spreading a better under- standing of the whole framework of international collaboration that has been built up since the war. This is one of the matters which this Conference might consider. After examining the Director-General's Report, the Australian delegation has gathered the impression that a major source of these and other weaknesses in Unesco’s work in 1947 has been the attempt to hurry on with too many disparate activities simultaneously. This has involved some dissipation of the time and energies of the Secretariat and has led to the launching of projects without a sufficiently clear conception of what Uneseo was trying to achieve. At the sametime, the problem of recruiting and managing the Secretariat has been rendered more difficult than it need have been if the 1947 programme had been more modest and more firmly controlled. The responsibility for this situation rests largely with the First General Conference, which adopted too comprehensive a programme and did not make sufficiently clear the relative priorities to be accorded to the many activities of which it approved. The leader of the Australian delegation in Paris was one of those who urged the Conference to approve only wa definite list of urgent and important projects and activities»; and the Programme Com- mission, at the beginning of its work, received a ge from Mr. Archibald Mac Leish, of the nited States delegation, that certain criteria should be followed, namely, that all projects to be adopted must :
1. conform to Article 1 of the Constitution;
2. form a coherent whole;
3. not exceed Unesco’s financial means;
4. take account of the small available staff. Mr. MacLeish also suggested that plans should be restricted to a few projects of crucial importance and obvious benefit. These criteria were approved by the Programme Commission, but time did not permit the Commission to apply them systematically in its review of the reports of the Sub-Commissions. Nevertheless, the Programme Commission did submit to the Conference, in addition to the pro- gramme proposals of the sub-commissions, a special report by Mr. MacLeish making an over-all selection from the many projects listed in terms of their immediate significance. While this selection was not intended to eliminate any item recommended by any sub-commission and approved by the Pro- gramme Commission, nevertheless, the selection of projects contained in Mr. MacLeish's report was designed to emphasize «those of the projects of- fered by the Sub-Commissions which outline most clearly the character which Unesco will take on when it moves from the preparatory and planning stage to the stage of action». The report went on to say : «lt is clearly the responsibility of the Director- General to determine — within the limits of the funds made available to him, and in consultation with the Executive Board — which of the many projects proposed by the Sub-Commissions and approved by the Programme Commission and the General Conference he will undertake». In view of the limitation imposed by the Budget however, the First General Conference placed the final responsibility for determining the programme see BF en
64.      for 1947 with the Executive Board, to which the Director-General was requested to submit proposals. Consequently, the programme approved by the Board in April of this year was inevitably a selection from the many projects listed by the Sub-Commis- sions of the Conference. In the light of subsequent experience it now appears to the Australian delegation that a more rigorous selection of projects might have enabled the Organization to make more rapid progress in 1947 and would certainly have simplified the problem of recruiting and managing the Secre- tariat. The Australian delegation, therefore, welcomes the invitation of the Executive Board to examine critically the programme proposed for 1948 with a view to concentrating Unesco’s resources upon those acti- vities most closely related to its purpose as laid down in the Constitution. In this examination we shall be guided by the views expressed by our National Co-operating Bodies, following their appreciation of the programme submitted for consideration by the Executive Board. We have also taken note of the observations of the Finance Committee of the Executive Board on the Director-General’s budget proposals and with parti- cular reference to the problems of recruitment and management that will arise if this Conference authorizes the expansion in staff which the Director- General considers necessary to implement the pro- gramme proposals before the Conference. It would be difficult enough to staff the Secreta- riat if our only concern were to secure first-class specialists in all the various subjects of the pro- gramme, while maintaining an adequate geographical and cultural distribution. But Unesco requires for its Secretariat people who are experts, or who are capable of becoming expert, in an almost entirely new field of creative work, namely, that of stimulating, organizing and assisting collaboration among the nations in education, in science and in culture. This work requires not only professional competence in particular branches of education, science and culture; and not only a sincere devotion to Unesco’s purpose; but also special techniques, which, to judge from the present state of the world, are not widely known and must be further developed if international collaboration is to be achieved on a large scale. The Australian delegation does not under-estimate the difficulties encountered by the Director-General in his attempt to recruit and train officials of this type, but it is beyond dispute that his task will be rendered still more difficult if a further expansion of some 25 per cent. is envisaged for 1948. The success of Unesco will depend very largely on the calibre of its Secretariat, and better results may be achieved if too rapid an expansion is avoided. More- over, the larger the Secretariat, and the more diffuse the activities of the Organization, the heavier are the purely managerial problems confronting the Director-General and his principal assistants, and the greater the danger that their attention may be continually distracted from the central issues by a multitude of detail. Finally, substantial economies will be effected in the Budget if the 1948 recruit- ment programme is more modest. In the exami- nation of the programme proposals and the work of the Organization,all delegations will have a contri- bution to make, and the Australian delegation looks forward with special pleasure to working with the delegations from the new Members which have joined the Organization since the Paris Conference, andparticularly the delegations of the four countries which this Conference has now agreed to admit to member ship. We hope that the programme and work of the Organization this year will attract many new Members before the next General Conference. The main points, therefore, which the Australian delegation desires to make at this stage are our appreciation of the hospitality of the Government and people of Mexico, which has made it possible to hold the Second Conference in this beautiful city; our thanks to the Director-General, and indeed to the entire Secretariat, for the contribution they have already madeto the smooth progress of our delibera- tions, and finally our own views as to the topics which must engage our main attention during the Conference. These topics include, firstly, the con- tribution which Member States can make to the work of the Organization during 1948 through their National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies; secondly, the need for further development of Unesco’s association with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies; thirdly, the importance of the Conference making clear its wishes as to the Programme to be carried out in 1948; and, fourthly, the development of the Secretariat in relation to the programme which the Conference lays down. Weare confident, Mr. President, that the Gonfe- rence will be a success from every point of view, so that the national delegations and the Secretariat alike will be inspired to carry on with increased faith and courage the task of developing this Orga- nization. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I now call upon the delegate of Uruguay. Dr. Julian NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : Mr. President, until this morning the Uruguayan delegation had been unable to exer- cise its full rights, as it had only the title of obser- ver. For that reason I had insistently requested the appropriate officials of the Secretariat not to = $8 ==   call me to this platform until the juridical position of the Uruguayan delegation had been settled. But, knowing since the day before yesterday that there has been a telegram from my Government informing Unesco that the ratification had been deposited with the Foreign Office on the 6th of this month, and that on 30 October my Government had tele- graphed to the Director-General at the permanent headquarters of Unesco in Paris, I can now say that I should have been in a position to speak, with full title, four days ago. I regret that, for reasons so far unknown to me, my country should have been placed in an inferior position with respect to the other Member States, especially in the organizational tasks of the Conference and in the nomination of its officials. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization has here representatives from countries materially small and countries materially great, all of them classed as democratic in the international society, which fact gives them all moral and legal equality without privileged vetoes incom- patible with it. Unesco probably, more than any other international institution, can only be effective, and so live, if none of its members underrates or is ignorant about any of the others. Just as there can be eminent men in any country, since genius is uni- versal and knows no frontiers, so in the international community there may be certain large countries which are less organized than certain other small countries; and these latter may be described as morally great countries for the same reason as a misguided great country may be called morally small. This and other very common truths which I shall state later in a general way have been forgotten to an unfortunate extent and far too frequently in a world which is morally, legally and politically unset- tled, and it is for this reason that I reiterate them before this assembly. Although it is only relatively free, since it is inevi- tably influenced by centuries of civilization, thought is the greatest element of freedom possessed by man. It is, thus, in the field of education,science and culture that man can best assert his desire for independence. Accordingly, since nations are the sum of a number of men with more or less similar characteristics, we must suppose that nations can better assert their desires for independence in and through Unesco than in and through other inter- national institutions. It has been said that thought knows no frontiers. If this be true, the great powers which seek domina- tion and zones ofideological political and economic influence should show more prudence and take better defensive precautions; they should avoid any kind of pressure in an international atmosphere like that of Unesco, where «the rebellion of the masses » would be easier, since the forces of thought are uni- versal, widespread, without frontiers and therefore more easily used internationally and outside the power of zones of influence. The respect of the strong for the weak is in direct relation to the capacity for collective resistance of the weak against the strong, taken individually. Hence the «rebellion of the masses» in the international field is less difficult than imperialists are wont to think at first sight, and its consequences could be very consider- able from the moment that the weak countries, wearied of pressure of various kinds, direct or indi- rect, conscious or unconscious, by various strong countries, realize the power of the collective weapon which they have at their disposal. For their own interest the strong countries will find ways of avoid- ing it. y There are, however, in great countries with admir- able democratic and anti-totalitarian systems, men of talent who in their words and in their writings defend equality between individuals and between nations, but who in their personal and even official actions are dictatorial and somewhat totalitarian, almost always because they know little or nothing about other peoples — an understandable ignorance which Unesco, 1f it accomplishes its mission, will dispel. The remarks I have made so far are directed particularly to these men, who often unintentionally cause imperialist tendencies to be imputed to their country, when in many cases their attitude is nothing more than personal and momentary. It could be very dangerous to the existence of an organ- ization like Unesco, if, whether rightly or not, the idea spread in certain circles and regions that there was a desire to influence the organization in favour of this or that nationality. During his journey a few months ago through various Latin-American countries, the Director-General cannot fail to have noticed a certain scepticism, with which the problem I have just stated is not unconnected. The happiest solution of this problem is to be found in mutual respect without distinction between great or small, in mutual knowledge without geographical prejudices and in the selection of men satisfying at least two conditions of the effective spiritual and administra- tive direction of Unesco, from the General Conference and the Executive Board down to the Technical Commissions and the Secretariat. Educationists, writers in every branch of culture, artists in general and scientists are the principal builders of this great edifice, Unesco; but at their sides there is a whole chain of unseen helpers, no less important and, at times decisive, who prepare the building materials and shape them, who mould them, and who constitute the administrative army
89 —    Unesco could accomplish nothing without the close and loyal co-operation of both groups, and these would be impotent, they would be sterile, if they did not share a universal human concept, in which national or individual ideas, free of all taint and to some degree synthesized, offer to all human beings, great and small, near of far, without distinction of race, party or religion, the possibility of living together harmoniously. When we discussed in the Preparatory Gommission in Paris the organization of the Unesco Secretariat and when the Commissions of the First General Conference dealt with the subject again, we were above all concerned with the observance of the principle of universality, and that the officials should be freed from the snares of nationalism and be able to devote themselves to the essential problem of making an administrative contribution to the organization of a culture without official stamp, a free expression of the intelligence. At the first attempt it was difficult to settle the matter fully. Thus, I remember that we could not avoid interna- tional officials being authorized to receive honorary distinctions and governmental decorations for acts performed after they joined the Secretariat, which is in contradiction to and in conflict with the spirit of the Staff Regulations : up to the present the staff is only forbidden, and that implicitly, to receive pecuniary rewards, which are more difficult to give and sometimes less sought after than decorations. It will be thought that, for an international body, there are few precautions against the secular and sectarian sentiments of nationalism, such as the present-day absolutisms in the social order which are so prejudicial to international organization. The integration and organization of the Secretariat constitute a fundamental problem. I am aware that the Director-General has had to struggle against financial difficulties in this first fiscal year of the Organization’s life, and I hope that the situation in this respect will improve and enable him, after careful study, to organize the services on a permanent basis. A small committee of specialists in admini- stration, representing no unilateral body and appointed by this Conference or by the Executive Board, could assist the Director-General in the large and difficult task of organization on a rational basis, taking into account the experience gained from the work already accomplished in the first year by each of these services and its probable development, as also the areas in which some of them should more particularly act. The factor of geographical distri- bution in the selection of officials, as far as is com- patible with the requirements of the work, should be studied without prejudice to great or small, poor or rich, but rather in such a way that every part of the world may be adequately represented and also so that, as far as is possible, a balance shall be struck between the two working languages, with neither enjoying any arbitrary predominance, and other languages being permanently employed for specific questions, according to circumstances. I should very much like Spanish to be a third working language. The arguments in its favour, are strong not only on grounds of culture, but because of the number of countries in which it is spoken. But I also realize the financial expense which this would involve, apart from possible claims on behalf of other languages, which would only aggravate the financial and political problem. For this and other reasons, I should prefer there to be a single working language instead of two. For the same reason, I confine myself for the present to suggesting that Spanish-speaking countries might receive in their own language at least the essential documents and everything of value for the dissemination of information and education among their peoples. The meetings of the Executive Board have shown that it is not easy to assemble all its members, since many of them live away from Paris, the headquarters of the organization, and some who do live there are prevented by other causes from attending. Its members are appointed on a personal basis, but there is no doubt whatever that the General Conference bears in mind a geographical, as well as a national, distribution. It occurs to me that the General Conference might appoint the eighteen members as well as their alternates, who need not in all cases be of the same nationality as the members for whom they deputize, thus enabling : first, the deputies also to have the approval of the General Conference; second, the maximum attendance to be obtained always or almost always; and, third, several more regions and nationalities could share in the man- agement of Unesco’s affairs on a high level. This is not a proposal, for this is not the time or the place for making proposals. I have only sought to give, by one or two examples, some idea of how the Uruguayan delegation views some of the basic problems which the General Conference may consider in order to facilitate Unesco’s day-to-day existence and to make its work effective. Either Unesco will be a free expression of world thought without rival aspirants for domination over others; or Unesco will not be able to achieve the aims for which it was created. Dr. Carlos MONGE (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, gentlemen, my first words will be addressed to this noble nation which has received us with a warmth that makes us all feel at = 00 —-    E E E   home. After 50 years I have realized one of the ambitions of my life and have had an opportunity to admire this country more than ever before. On behalf of the Peruvian delegation, I wishto express to the Mexican Government and their country our most profound appreciation of the generousreception accorded us. Gentlemen, it is my hope that the problems we shall deal with in Unesco will have the diversity that will seize the attention of all countries in the world. Peru, for geographical and other particular reas- ons, is a nation in which importance is given to man in general in relation to his environment. The Peruvian delegation, in regard to its activities with Unesco, directs me to tell you how Peru understands man in relation to his surroundings, geographical, anthropological, racial, social and economical; and it believes that most of these factors have been neglected by human learning. We in Peru attempt to contemplate life in terms of millions of men; there are hundreds of thousands in the Rocky Moun- taine, fifteen or twenty millions in Mexico, twenty to twenty-five millions in South America, and nobody knows how many in Afghanistan, India, China, Turkestan and Tibet, who live above 2,000 and 3,000 metres altitude, and have physiological and anthropological characteristics different from those who live at sea level. For the sake of brevity, I shall give only one example. At sea level we live in an atmosphere which contains 150 millimetres of pressure of oxy- gen; in high plateau country, as in Peru, Bolivia and Tibet, the quantity of oxygen is two-thirds or half of the above figure. Since man is a product of heredity and environment, in order that the human equation may be maintained, his constitution, if there is a change in his environment, must be modi- fied correspondingly. Forthis reason, high-altitude man is stronger than sea-level man. You may be surprised to know that within one hour from La Paz people go up 16,000 feet to ski. We must remember also, that, as a consequence of war-time regulations, pilots were forced to wear oxygen masks. In Peru and Bolivia our airmen fly up to 22,000 feet without oxygen masks. This could be equally true of millions of men living at these altitudes. What is more important, more- over, men live, work, die and reproduce at these altitudes. Therefore, it is easy to understand that from a physiological point of view Andean man is typical of high-altitude man. Research on the reac- tions of airmen in low-pressure test chambers repro- ducing high-altitude conditions cannot contribute to the knowledge of the problem of acclimatization, because these conditions are totally different from those which exist in the Andes. Millions of dollars are spent in studies in these low-pressure chambers, when investigators could avail themselves of the natural pressure chambers which exist on the Andes or the Rocky Mountains. Thus, man is one with his environment. This is not a matter of physiological interest only, for that alone would not suffice for Unesco. There is a new high-altitude anthropology, I mean a physio- logical anthropology, which deals with differences not of colour or size, but rather of chemical and physiological make-up, and altogether different matter. Man is totally related to his tellural environ- ment. In addition, we have to bear in mind that sea-level men have not always become acclimatized to other altitudes, and this confronts us with a problem of racial pathology. I was once curious to ascertain when the first child of Spanish stock was born at these altitudes. It occurred at Potosi at
13,000 feet altitude, 50 years after the Spanish invasion of the high plateaus. Previously, the Span- iards had not reproduced in these parts; it had taken 50 years for men from lower altitudes to become acclimatized and to be able to go up to Potosi and reproduce. Similarly, the Natural Science Bulletins about the expedition to Lbassa show that dogs from Calcutta could not reproduce at that height. Research on animals carried out by Peruvian members of the Institute of Andean Biology in Morocucha, situated at 15,000 feet, shows that white mice lose their germinal epithelium and cannot reproduce. In the case of man, this phenomenon is not so marked after a period of adaptation; acclimatization is the rule. As is proved by the highland life of South America, man is able to live at 17,000 feet, according to Bowman's findings. This brings us to other considerations of a social order. It is not correct to say that social condi- tions in these countries are the same as in others. Man its intimately and indissolubly bound to his surroundings. When people descend from the highlands to the plains, account must be taken of their needs as individuals, so that they may be helped to avoid the climatic traumata of sea-level surroundings. Highlanders differ from people living at sea-level ; their blood is of a different composition ; they are adjusted to their atmosphere, and they have a different physiological experience from that of sea-level people. When we study work done in the field of biology or history, we find highly interesting social altitude behaviour. When men of the highlands fought with people at sea level, it was the former who lost. To counteract this, the Inca Empire, in establishing a society based on different climatic conditions, —l   changed its armies every three months, sending them down to sea level. On the other hand, it may be remembered that Alexander the Great was defeated in India by altitude, after passing Indu- Kush. The Argentine armies tried to invade the high American plateaus, but were unable to cross the highlands ofPeru and were three times defeated. The Peruvian delegation presents these matters for the consideration of the Conference. From the educational point of view, text-books in all countries indicate that man has certain particular character- istics. However, these characteristics cannot truth- fully be applied to the millions who inhabit highlands all over the world. In geography we continue to draw horizontal maps, when actually within the tropies vertical maps are required. We find, for example, three planes of climatic conditions : tro- pical, sub-tropical andglacial regions, in one vertical plane. lt is this combination of climates which go to make up a single biological phenomenon. We of the Peruvian delegation do not consider that these features of the problem have been given sufficient attention. We have accomplished an enormous amount with a small budget. We have been at work for 25 years, and the contribution we have made is important. We have established an institute for the study of high-altitude biology and laboratories at 15,000 feet, 13,000 feet and
11,000 feet. We invite research workers and all men of goodwill who wish to do so to work in them. Wedo not ask for research funds. What we wantis the interest of scientists. We want to emphasize that geographers, biologists and historians, in focusing their attention on these problems, should take into account the fact that Andean man is a human type with special characteristics and, if any knowledge can be obtained from these sources, we must make use of it. In India and China we find characteristics similar to those of the South American nations, and we hope that people of such high civili- zations will find in their archives enough data to contribute to the knowledge of this problem. We do not wish to deal with these problemsin a special manner or in a special organization, but rather through a co-ordinating organization. Let me finish by saying that if, as Unesco pre- supposes, there are certain universal problems, it seems to me that this question of man’s environment is one to which we should all direct our attention. Peru is a small country, and our workers suffer hard conditions. We hope that scientists will visit us and that extensive studies will be made in the labo- ratories of countries where similar conditions prevail. This is a general problem of an economic nature,as is proved by the economic losses experienced by high- plateau farmers, whose animals, imported from sea level lands, became sterile as a result of the change in altitude. Although Dr. Huxley’s words in his report may not be applied strictly to this matter, I shall conclude by quoting them : «The objective of basic education should be to enable men to lead a happier and fuller life in a changed medium, to enable them to domi- nate their physical and social environment, in order that they may attain the objective of maintaining peace through mutual understanding and through the general raising of human welfare within a world economy ». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretariat has asked me to remind you that we must finish the discussion on the Director-General’s report by 1 p. m. to-morrow. The list of speakers for to-morrow is as follows : Czechoslovakia, Union of South Africa, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt and Mexico. I do not know whether any other delegations wish to take part in the dis- cussion. If so, I would ask them to speak now, because I do not think there will be time to-morrow morning if we are to abide by the decision we have already taken. Ecuador has just been added to the list. If no other delegations wish to speak, the meeting will be adjourned. The meeting rose at 5.35 p. m.