Parties tried to serve special interests that could not be satisfied in any other way. Point 7 was adopted. Annex 1 of document 2C/19A was then read, discussed and adopted point by point. Points 1, 2 and 3 were adopted. Point’ 4. A proposal by Dr. KOTSCHNIG (replacing Mr. Benton) United States of America) that the word «five» in line 10 of Point 4 should be deleted was adopted. Points 5 and 6 were adopted. Point 7 : Noting ofproposals. Dr. WALKER (Australia) interpreted Point 7 to mean that there were three categories of projects :
(1) those completely rejected by the Programme Com- mission, (2) those with a limited sphere ofinterest, on which nothing would be done this year, and (3) those on which work would be authorized for this year. When Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) expres- sed surprise at the interpretation that Point 7 implied projects on which nothing would be done but which were not ruled out for future consideration, a!pro- posal was adopted to add the phrase «as falling within Unesco’s sphere of interest» after the word «pro- posal» in Point 7. In response to a question by Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) whether [the Secretariat or the national delegations would present resolutions to the Confe- rence, Dr. WALKER (Australia) replied that the na- tional delegations would do so, but that the Secre- tariat might present supplementary proposals. The meeting rose at 2.20 p. m. SECOND MEETING Saturday, 8 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Sr. GUAL VIDAL (President of the Conference) declared the meeting open and requested Professor P. Carneiro, in the absence of M. Camille Huysmans, to take the chair. The CHAIRMAN then announced that the agenda had been slightly modified. The Report of the Director-General would be presented by the Chair- man of the Executive Board, followed by an open discussion by the delegates. After this, Dr. Martinez Baez would speak on behalf of the Executive Board, followed by Dr. Huxley and the delegates of those countries which had already notified their desire to speak. At the present time, only three countries, Brazil, the Netherlands and India, had notified their intention to speak on Saturday and the Chair- man felt that an announcement should be made by the President in the Plenary Conference asking if any other countries would like to speak on Satur- day. If not, there would be no necessity for a plenary meeting that afternoon. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that it might be an excellent idea for delegates to have this chance to rest, in view of their recent arrival and the necessity of habituating themselves to the altitude of Mexico City. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked if it might be possible for the Director-General to comment on the Report after its presentation by the Executive Board, but before the open discussion. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) re- marked that the American delegation would be most grateful for a short break in the meetings, as several were already under the doctor. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the meeting that this of course would leave less time for discus- sion of the Report. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) referring to his suggestion, asked if it was accepted. The CHAIRMAN said that the meeting was agreed on this point. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) also asked whether the Nominations Committee scheduled for
4 p. m. that afternoon would still take place at that time, in view of there being no plenary meet- ing beforehand. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Nominations Committee should meet immediately after the morn- ing plenary meeting, but the DIRECTOR-GENE- RAL reminded the Committee that this might not rise until 1.30 p. m., or even later. DI —v    [t was therefore decided to announce the time of the Nominations Committee meeting at the end of the Plenary Meeting, when it would be easier to decide on this point. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) announced that a small Committee of the Executive Board had prepared a list of suggested names for consideration by the Nominations Committee. He then read this list to the meeting. The CHAIRMANexplained that this list had been prepared purely for information and would be submitted to the Nominations Committee. Copies would be distributed to delegates in the afternoon. Procedure of Working Parties. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) felt that extremely rigid rules of procedure would have to be laid down for the Working Parties, to avoid confusion, and suggested that it would be wise to appoint a second Vice-Chairman to the Programme and Budget Commission to assist Mr. Beeby in doing this. He also had a petition requesting that Working Parties 1b, 1c and 3 should combine their meetings and expected other suggestions of this kind. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought that the points raised by Mr. Benton were covered, to a great extent, by the document on Working Parties in front of them. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL supported Mr. Hard- man’s statement and explained further that it was hoped the Working Parties would not want to vote on resolutions. Their most useful task would be to present merely a general report. If they did wish to pass resolutions, as an exception, he suggested that they should then go to the Pro- gramme Commission. He also wished to correct the impression he had given that the Chairman, Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the Working Parties would be chosen by the General Conference. Suggestions would be put by the Conference to the Working Parties, who would make the final choice themselves. The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that Mr. Benton had made two proposals and asked if anyone wished to speak on them. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) felt that the Working Parties would wish to pass resolutions, in spite of the hope expressed by the Director-General that they would concentrate on presenting a report, and thought it would be necessary to appoint a second Vice-Chairman to assist Mr. Beeby in clarify- ing the rules of procedure and regulations for the Working Parties. The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that they had only 15 minutesleft in which to discuss Mr. Ben- ton’s proposals and also approve document 2C/19 for presentation to the Plenary Meeting. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) remarked that he was in sympathy with Mr. Benton's proposals and that the Procedure Committee had, in fact, already agreed to discuss this at their meeting on Monday. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) said he would be willing to leave the question to the Procedure Committee. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to make it clear that they were anxious not to en- courage the Working Parties to pass large numbers of resolutions. They wished, rather, to avoid the mistakes of last year, when the resolutions submit- ted by the Commissions and Sub-Commissions greatly complicated the work of the Plenary Meet- ings at the end of the Conference. The CHAIRMAN then asked the meeting to consi- der document 2C/19 and asked for comments thereon. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) felt that the method of appointing the nine members of the small Budget Sub-Commission should be carefully considered. They would require delegates with the necessary technical knowledge, but must also bear in mind the question of geographical distribution. Mr. HARDMAN(United Kingdom) said he would like to see a copy of Annex 1 referred to. He wished to point out that a Plenary Meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission was scheduled for 10 November, a date which was already occupied with other meetings. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that this was an error. The Plenary Meetings of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission would be held on the afternoon of 11 and morning of 12 November. Annex 1 had already been printed and would be distributed. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked whe- ther the meeting, if it approved document 20/19, with Annex I, would allow the Secretariat licence to make minor changes if they became necessary from time to time. The CHAIRMANasked the opinion of the meeting, which was in agreement on this point. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) asked if it would be possible for the Secretariat to distribute documents of this nature longer in — Qu —     advance of the meeting, in order that delegates should not have to make decisions without sufficient study of the document. He also raised the question of a draft resolution from the American delegation, which he had read to the meeting the day before and wondered if this had been overlooked, as it did not appear in the Report before them. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERALreplied that the Secretariat had the American delegation’s resolution very much in mind in preparing the Report, but felt that the task of the Budget Sub- Commission could be divided into three parts :
(1) a technical analysis of monies spent; (1) discus- sion and approval of financial resolutions passed by the Programme Commission (and it would be impossible to foretell how frequently the Sub- Commission would require to meet for this task), and (mm) as soon as the Programme Commission had completed its: work, the Sub-Commission would be in continual session, in accordance with the suggestion of Mr. Benton. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) pro- posed two minor changes in the text of the document before the meeting : (1) the insertion of the word «proposals» in the third line of the second page between «programme» and «reso- lutions»; (2) the elimination of the word « technical » in the fourth line of the second page, or the re- placement of this word by the word «budgetary». The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed that these alterations would make the text more general. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) explained that he had been responsible for the word «technical», as he had not wanted the General Conference to feel that the Budget Sub-Commission, consisting of only nine members, was tackling too wide a field. The CHAIRMAN asked the opinion of the meeting concerning the two alterations proposed by Mr. Ben- ton and these were agreed upon. He then asked if the meeting approved the document with these amendments and this approval was given. The meeting rose at 11 a. me THIRD MEETING Monday, 10 November 1947 at 10 a. m. M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium)Chairman : The CHAIRMAN read a telegram from the Ambas- sador of Iran regretting that the delegate of Iran was unable to attend the Conference. He then called on the delegate of Canada to report to the General Committee on the meeting of the Nomina- tions Committee which had been held on Saturday. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) said that the Nomi- nations Committee had agreed unanimously on
49 out of the 51 names listed in document
2 G/Nom./12. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed that they should take note of the list and pass straight on to the next item, as he understood that it was not the intention of the Committee to discuss the list again. Agreed. The SECRETARY drew attention to the pro- gramme for the day, as set out in the Conference Journal No. 4. He observed that the Seventh Plenary Meeting of the General Conference would be held at 4 p. m., and not at 3.30, as stated in the Journal. He also announced that the document on the Organization of Work, which had been approved on Saturday, would be ready with its Annex at the beginning of the afternoon, and he therefore suggested that it should be presented to the Plenary Conference during the afternoon meeting. Agreed. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked the Secretariat to see that the Schedule of Meetings, which they had not seen on Saturday, should be attached to the document as Annex A. The Secretariat replied that the necessary steps would be taken. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) referring to document
2C/BUR/1 dated 8 November noted that the Budget Sub-Commission was scheduled to meet only when all other meetings had stopped. As it was now suggested that the Budget Sub-Gommission should be a small select party, he wondered whether it was necessary to stop other meetings. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) recalled that the General Committee had expressed the opinion that meetings should be held concurrently, in order that the Conference might end on 29 November, but the Secretariat did not seem to have paid attention to this recommendation. The SECRETARYreplied that they had looked into the matter verycarefully indeed and had decided — 245 —