THIRD MEETING Tuesday, 18 November 1947, at 6.30 p. m. Chairman : Esther C, BRUNAUER (United Statee of America). In the absence of the delegates of Cuba and Vene- zuela, the meeting first considered various items in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ashfaque HUSAIN (India) proposed a new draft of Rule 2, which was noted for consideration. With regard to Rule 16, the CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Sub-Committee was to endeavour to define the terms «commissions» and «committees ». It should also determine in what instances meetings should be public, restricted or private. With regard to Rule 25, the Chairman indicated that the meeting would have to decide how alternates should be chosen,if they were needed ; the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Conference might be allowedto be represented occasionally by members of their delegations, while the Chairmen of committees might be replaced only by the Vice-Chairmen of their committees. Mr. Ashfaque HUSAIN (India) drew attention to an ambiguity in Rule 26, and the meeting decided to substitute the words «Order of Business» for the word « Agenda »; the French and Spanish texts would be modified accordingly. In Rule 27, Mr. Husain suggested the addition of the words «for its consideration ». M. de VISSCHER (Belgium) considered that the wording of Rule 29 was not quite correct and sug- gested two small verbal changes in the French text. Regarding Rule 31, the delegate of the United Kingdom, Mr. W. D. PILE, stressed the fact that the subsidiary bodies of the Conference required the services of the Secretariat. As the delegates of Cuba and Venezuela had ar- rived, the Sub-Committee passed on to the question of working languages (Rules 32 and 33). Certain delegates expressed doubt whether the Sub-Committee was empowered to deal with this matter, but the CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Sub-Committee had been duly instructed to consider the Rules of Procedure as a whole and to submit a report to the Committee itself on this subject. The Chairman therefore thought that the question of lan- guages should be discussed and that the results of the discussion should appear in that report. The Chairman then called upon the representative of the Dominican Republic. The representative of the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC read a document asking for the adoption of Spanish as a working language of Unesco on an equal basis with French and English. Dr. GHEDIAK (Cuba) supported this proposal ; he believed that the adoption of Spanish as a working language would be in accordance with the principles of Unesco; furthermore, it was a question of courtesy toward the country which had so generously wel- comed Unesco that year. Finally he read a document drafted by the Colombian delegation and supported by all Spanish-speaking delegations. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) was not opposed to the adoption of Spanish, but he believed that there was need of guidance in this matter : there were a great number of widely spoken languages, such as Hindustani, and it was difficult to determine at first sight what criterion should be observed in deciding to adopt one language rather than another as a working language. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) pointed out that, in pratice, during the present conference, Spanish was constan- ly being used on a par with French and English. He also thought that Unesco should try gradually to increase the number of its working languages; this would help to remove obstacles to the free flow of ideas. Before calling on M. Montagnier of the Secretariat, to speak, the CHAIRMAN wished to give some details about the practice in other organizations : in the United Nations it was possible, with simultaneous interpretation, to use the five official languages in the plenary meetings of the Assembly : in the Eco- nomic and Social Council, the working languages were French and English; every speaker was at — 634 —        liberty, however, to use any one of the official lan- guages if he provided his own interpreter : most of the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations had only one working language. The Chairman mentioned that she herself had been very much concerned with this question of working languages when she belonged to an orga- nization responsible for establishing international contacts between universities. She was therefore familiar with all the difficulties raised by this pro- blem and it was always extremely difficult to reach a satisfactory solution forit. M. MONTAGNIER(Secretariat) considered that it was for the General Conference to decide the ques- tion. He wished, however, to draw the attention of the Sub-Committee to the financial aspect of the problem. The budget estimates drawn up for 1948 made no provision for the adoption of a third working lan- guage; M. Montagnier himself had prepared an estimate of the cost of adopting such a third lan- guage. If Spanish became a working language, it would be necessary to provide for the following additional staff :
3 minute-writers, About 10 translators,
1 head of typing service,
5 shorthand typists,
15 typists. An annual expenditure of $ 110,000 would be involved. It would also be necessary to provide additional staff for the Duplication and Distribution Services (at a cost of $ 22,000). In many cases such staff would have to be recruited in Latin America and this would involve the payment of travel and subsistence allowances amounting to approximately $ 79,700, at the present rates. Allowance must also be made for $ 30,000 worth of miscellaneous supplies and equipment. The total annual expenditure would amount to some s 242,000. In addition, in those years when the Conference was held outside Europe in a non-Spanish-speaking country, it would be necessary to allow for additional expenditure, amounting to $ 100,000, on the staff involved. M. Montagnier also mentioned the difficulties which would be encountered in obtaining the necessary staff. Furthermore, work would certainly be slowed up; it was scarcely possible to use simul- taneous interpretation in Sub-Gommittees and work- king parties, and much time was necessary to trans- late, 1n consecutive interpretation, each speech into two languages. Lastly, it was very probable that even the distribution of documents would be slowed up. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) considered that a group of great nations had every rightto ask for their language to be adopted as a working language; no other arguments than those which M. Montagnier had just put forward could be advanced against such arequest. He therefore proposed that, in its report to the Committee on Procedure, the Sub-Committee should treat the request from the representative of the Dominican Republic as favourably as possible, merely stating the financial objections advanced by M. Montagnier and mentioning, without stressing the point, that the adoption of Spanish might perhaps be an inconvenient precedent. The Sub-Committee asked the Chairman to prepare a draft dealing with the questionof languages, which, after approval by the full Sub-Committee, could be included in the report, The meeting rose at 8.30 p. m. — 635 —