order to create a sub-committee оз five to study all the changes and amendments proposed and to draft a report for submission to the plenary meeting : he added that he was concerned only for the sense of his proposal and not for the terms in which it was expressed. The delegate of INDIA pointed out that the sense of his proposal was this : that the delegates present should express to the Chairman their wish to form a sub-committee and that the Chairman should sub- mit this request in the form of a report to the after- noon meeting of the Conference. The delegate of VENEZUELA observed that he had noticed many mistakes in the official Spanish translation of the Rules and asked for a new and accurate translation from French into Spanish of each of the articles they had been discussing. He thought that the mistakes he had found were due to the hurried and imperfect drafting of Unesco’s Constitution. The CHAIRMAN proposed that they should revert to the question under discussion, namely the vote on the setting up of a sub-committee on Procedure. The proposal was adopted. The CHAIRMAN then suggested that the size of this committee should be increased to seven and suggested that the following countries should be represented : Belgium, Brazil, Cuba, India, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States of America. The delegates of NEW ZEALAND and BRAZIL declined this proposal so far as they were concerned ; it would mean too much work. After a discussion the committee agreed upon the following countries : Belgium, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, India, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela. This proposal was adopted. The CHAIRMAN emphasized that the delegates present that morning would representtheir countries on the Sub-Committee and that the latter should submit its report to the Procedure Committee on
24 November. He thought that they should give the Sub-Committee enough time to do its work properly and announced that amendments should be forwarded to it in writing before 15 November; this should appear in the Journal. Thefirst meeting of the Sub-Committee was fixed for 17 November at
10 a. m. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. THIRD MEETING Saturday, 29 November 1947, at 9.30 a. m. Chairman : Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom). Although there was no quorum, the CHAIRMAN announced that they would proceed with their work and that Dr. Brunauer would present the Report of the Sub-Committee on Procedure. Dr. BRUNAUER (United States of America) (Rapporteur of the Sub-Committee on Procedure) said that she would start with the annex to the report, document 2C/PRO/2. Some of the sections had been rearranged and she would point out the most important changes made by the Sub-Committee in the document « Rules of Procedure for the General Conference ». Section I (Rules 1 to 7). — Sessions. She pointed out that the only important change was in Rule 2, which had already been discussed by the General Conference. She moved the adoption of the Section. Dr. JONES PARRA (Venezuela), although a mem- ber of the Sub-Committee which had gone through the Rules one by one, thought some of them had not been properly studied, and some gaps remained. For example, regular sessions and special sessions needed to be more clearly defined. Rule 2 did not state who was to convene the regular sessions, and Rule 3 said that the Executive Board was to convene special sessions. It must be made clear who should convene regular sessions and who should convene special sessions. Dr. BRUNAUER (Rapporteur) observed that these were editorial suggestions which should be noted but not discussed at present. After the Committee — 85
40   had examined the substance of the revised Rules, an Editorial Sub-Committee of three members could be created, one member for each working language, and all editorial questions should be referred to them, The CHAIRMAN begged the meeting only to examine matters of principle. The delegate of VEN SZUELA had submitted cer- tain suggestions and corrections to the Sub-Com- mittee on Procedure in writing, but they had not been taken into consideration in the Report. On the suggestion of the delegate of FRANCE, it was agreed that any corrections of form which members might wishto make should be submitted in writing to the Editorial Sub-Committee of three. Rules 1 to 7 were approved. Section 11 (Rules 8 to 12) — Agenda. Dr. BRUNAUER (Rapporteur) said there were no significant changes and moved the adoption of the section. Approved. Section 111 (Rules 13 to 16) and Credentials. Dr. BRUNAUER(Rapporteur) observed that Rule
13 was a substitution for the provision that each Member State might have as many alternates as it wished. The present Rule provided for not more than five. Rule 16 was in a new place, part ofif having formerly been Rule 58. It represented an attemptto clarify the role, rights and privileges of members of delegations and involyed no change of policy. Section [II was approved. Delegations Section IV (Rule 17). — Organization of the Conference. The RAPPORTEUR said Rule 17 was not entire- ly new, but a synthesis ofseveral rules. It merely recorded the structure of the Conference in practice and no newideas were introduced. Section IV was approved. CommitteesSection V (Rules 18-24). - ofthe Conference. Dr. BRUNAUER (Rapporteur) remarked that Rule 21 was new, as the Committee on Procedure had not so far been defined. In the Draft it was proposed that it should not only revise Rules of Procedure but should also consider procedure pro- blems during the Conference. She was not sure that this was a practical provision, as it was difficult to assemble the Committee during the Conference. Rule 22 was an embodiment of the proposal that, in the absence of the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the General Committee, a representative of his own delegation could take his place, butthe Chair- man of a committee or commission must be replaced on the General Committee by the Vice-Chairman or Rapporteur ofhis Committee or Commission. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) shared Dr. Bru- nauer’s doubts regarding Rule 21, and suggested that only procedure questions of general import should be referred to the Procedure Committee, which was what was happening at the present Confe- rence. He thenreferred to Rule 24 (formerly Rule 27). Some members of the Sub-Committee had felt that the old Rule gave too much power to the General Committee and so the words «for its consideration» had been added, to enable the Conference to see that the General Committee was not exceeding its powers. The delegate of SOUTH AFRICA supported the delegate of India on both points, but asked for the substitution of «may» for «shall» in the fifth line of Rule 21. Miss McPHEE (NewZealand), referring to Rule 21, thought that, in view of the difficulty they had ex- perienced in obtaining a quorum, the Procedure Com- mittee should consist of nine members only, selected by the General Conference. The delegate of DENMARK recalled that Article V.A. 1 of the Constitution provided that the Pre- sident of the Conference should be present at meetings of the Executive Board, and he thought a similar provision should exist to the effect that the Chairman of the Executive Board should be present at meetings of the General Committee. He therefore moved the following resolution, to be inserted at the end of Rule 22 : The Chairman of the Executive Board, or his represen- tative, shall be present at meetingsof the General Committee, without right of vote. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) regretted to differ from the delegate of New Zealand but dis- agreed with her amendment of Rule 21. The Pro- cedure Committee was extremely important and no Member States should be excluded from it. To avoid the difficulty of a lack of a quorum, he suggested two solutions : (1) The Procedure Committee might be empowered to appoint a smaller Sub-Committee from amongst its members; or (2) the quorum rule should be changed. Personally, he was in favour of the latter suggestion. The meeting rose at 11 a. m.