The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion which has been moved and seconded. Is there any discussion ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (8) The meeting stands adjourned until 11 a.m. to-morrow. The meeting rose at 11.40 a. m. (®) In final form : Resolution 5.2. ; vol. II, page 25. FIFTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 November 1947, at 11 a.m. CONTENTS Chapter II. D. 2. — Philosophy and Humanistic Studies (continuation) Chairman : The CHAIRMAN : I have to make an announce- ment. The General Committee at its meeting this morning made a very strong request to this Commis- sion that we attemptto finish our first consideration of the programme by Monday night. That will involve a night sitting on Monday, which I am calling for 9 o'clock. We shall have three sittings on Monday. Unless we finish by then, the Budget Sub-Commission cannot possibly do its work, and the whole Conference cannot end by 3 December. The Section of the Green Book that we are consi- dering this morning is Chapter IT.D.2 — Philosophy and Humanities. The relevant papers are 2C/J/2 and 2C/J/4. The delegate of France was speaking when we adjourned, so I call upon M. Maritain to continue. Chapter II. D. 2. — Philosophy and Humanis- tic Studies. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : The last point we were dealing with was Resolution No. IV, submitted by the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. With your permission, I shall read the first paragraph and then the other two. Here is the first paragraph : Taking into consideration the suggestions made by the experts who met in Paris in September and the conclusions reached at the Round Table Discussions on Philosophy in Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). Mexico, the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies proposes :
(1) that in order to offer a solution for problems con- nected with international bibliography and documentation, Unesco should complete the working agreement with the International Institute of Philosophy récommended by the experts. Here we have an amendment submitted by the United States delegation, which was accepted by the Working Party, and which you can find in document
2С/1/4. It relates to the first paragraph. I have not this document on my table and I would be very grateful to Dr. McKeon if he would be kind enough to read the text of his amendment to the first para- graph of this resolution. Dean Richard McKEON (United States of Ame- rica) : The amendment to which Prof. Maritain refers generalizes the original motion to include three pilot-projects, which are mentioned in document
20/36. The amended form of the first paragraph of the resolution is therefore :
(1) That in order to offer a solution for problems connected with international bibliography and documentation in philo- sophy, history and linguistics, Unesco should complete the working agreement with appropriate international organiza- tions recommended bythe experts. The effect, therefore, is to extend bibliographies in philosophy to linguistics and history.    The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion, ladies and gentlemen. Any discussion ? Then we shall take the vote. All in favour kindly hold up their hands. Against? The motion is carried.) M. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : I shall read the second part of Resolu- ton IV
(2) that Round Table Discussions dealing with topics proposed in the final resolution of the Round Table Discus- sions in Mexico be organized by Unesco in 1948, in con- junction with the Amsterdam International Congress of Phi- losophy;
(3) that Unesco make arrangements with a number of philosophical reviews, or general cultural reviews, of a high order and of international circulation, so that these may devote special issues to symposia dealing with these topics. À suit- able number of copies of such issues would be distributed by Unesco in connexion with the Discussions referred to in No. 2. The CHATRMAN : The motion is seconded by the delegate of the United States. It is a little difficult for the meeting to discuss these matters. For instance, No. 2, Round Table Discussions, deals with «topics» but we do not know what those topics are These resolutions, i. e. Nos. 2 and 3 of Resolu- tion IV, are now open for discussion. If there is no discussion, will all those in favour of the resolution kindly hold up their hands. Resolutions 2 and 3 are carried, consequently Resolution IV as a whole is carried. (2) M. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, with your permission we can nowturn to Resolution V, reading : The Working Party on Translations, in the light of the Report on Translations (Doe. 2C/41) and its deliberations thereon, resolves as follows :
(1) In view of the importance of translations of classics of various countries for international understanding, Unesco will in 1948 put into effect the measures set forth in docu- ment 20/41 for the translation of classics.
(2) The Director-General is therefore instructed in accor- dance with the resolution of the Economic and Social Council: (a) in the light of the work of the Conference of Allied Ministers of Education, to take measures necessary for the preparation of a co-ordinated plan for the translation of classics, for submission to the Economic and Social Council by 1 June 1948, and keep the Council informed of progress of work on this project, seeking in turn all possible aid for the project from the United Nations Organization; (b) to prepare plans for ensuring adequate translation of:
(1) the great works of classic reputation to which the Economic and Social Council refers; (u) contemporary works not only in the field of literature, but also in those of philosophy and of social and natural science, the diffusion of which is of extreme importance for international understanding; () In final form : Resolutions 2.3.3.4. ; vol. II, page 16 and 4.3.2.2. : page 21.
(2) In final form : Resolutions 4.3.1.1. ; vol. II, page 23 and 4.3.1.2. : page 24. (¢) lo summon an International Committee of Experts to review recommendations from Member States and other sources, and prepare the finallist and proposals and to report; (d) To examine and seek means by which to assist smaller countries in their participation in this project.
(3) The General Conference recommends to Member States that, through their National Commissions, they set u each a Committee of Experts to preparelists of literary, phil- sophic and scientific works with a view to eventual translation, and co-operate with Unesco through the various stages of the project. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second this ? It is seconded by the delegate of the United States. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? The delegate of Canada. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : I would like to make the same point that has been made before, where mention is made of National Commissions. The point is that not all countries have National Gommissions, and therefore paragraph 3 should be amended to cover the case of countries which have no National Commissions. It might be amended by saying «through their National Commissions where they exist», or using the words which we used on another occasion, «that, where possible, through their National Commissions... » The CHATRMAN: I take it the mover of the motion would have no objection to the words «where pos- sible» being introduced into the second line of paragraph 3 ? Is there anyone now who wishes to speak to this Resolution V ? If not, I will put it to the vote. All in favour ? Against ? The resolution is passed. (3) While we are on this particular point I must now again give the opportunity to anyone else who wants to raise a matter concerned with Translation. If there is none, we have finished the whole of that section on Translation in Chapter ILD.1. There 1s still «Language» in IL.D.1., which has not yet been touched. The delegate of France. M. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, there is no other formal proposal arising from the discussions of the Working Party to submit as a resolution. I only want to remark that there is a general motion, in the seventh part, page 11 of the English text, which approves as a whole a number of basic documents submitted by the Secretariat. I do not think, however, this need be submitted to the pre- sent Gommission, since it was elaborated and drafted
(3) In final form: Resolution 4.2. ; vol. IT, page 23.    at a time when the Working Party was not fully aware of the procedure followed. The same applies to Resolution VI. As to Resolution VII, it is rather important. It recommends that priorities should not be granted to certain parts of the programme at the expense of other equally important parts. The CHAIRMAN : Do you wish to raise anything specifically on priorities? There is no need to, of course. Dean McKEON (United States of America) : In connexion with the discussion on Relations with Non-Governmental International Organizations, which appears in document 2C/J/2, pages 8 and 9 there is a resolution which was introduced by the American delegation and which appears in document
20/J/4, page 3; it 18 concerned with the desirability of setting up a federation of humanistic and philoso- phical organizations, similar to the International Council of Scientific Unions. The resolution, which I should like to move, is as follows : The Director-General is instructed to assist in promoting the organization of an international council of humanistic and philosophic societies similar to the International Council of Scientific Unions. The CHAIRMAN : Do you wishto bring this under Chapter IL.D.2, or Chapter V? Dean McKEON (United States of America) : It would be more appropriate in this place, Mr. Chair- man, since many of the projects recommended by the Working Party as pilot-projets would take more definite form in the stimulation of international organizations, if this federation existed. The CHAIRMAN : Then it shall be brought under ne. You have heard the motion. It is seconded by the delegate of Denmark, and supported by the delegate of France. Is there any discussion on this? If not, I put the motion to the meeting. All those in favour kindly raise their hands. All those against? The motion is carried. (4) Are there any other matters concerned with Chap- ter II.D.2 that anyone wishes to raise? The delegate of China. Dr. CHAO Yuan Ren (China): Mr. Chairman,I beg to move a resolution as follows :
(1) In order to centralize and disseminate cultural data relative to certain zones of the world whose contribution is of special importance to a better international understanding,
(4) In final form : Resolution 4.3.2.1. ; vol. TI, page 24. and to ensure better cultural connexions within these zones, Unesco shall establish regional posts of cultural liaison.
(2) In conformity with the recommendations of the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, a pilot experiment shall be started in 1948 in the Near East, as indicated in the plans laid out in document 2C/36, second part, III. A.
(3) The Secretariat shall study the possibility of similar experiments in other regions of the world, particularly in China and India. The CHAIRMAN : This resolution is concerned with matter in the Working Party report. That being so, it cannot be regarded entirely as a new matter, andtherefore we do not need the 24 hours’ notice. Dean McKEON (United States of America) Mr. Chairman, I believe that, in the confusion of documents before us, it does have an official status. It is a fuller statement of the resolution contained in document 2C/J/4, resolution 4 at the bottom of the page :
(4) Take steps toward the establishment of regional centres for the collection and dissemination of information concerning the Humanities and Philosophy, bearing in mind the peculiar importance of the establishment of such a centre in the Near East. All the points contained in the resolution from the delegate of China are here, but he presents them in a more concrete and detailed form. I believe it could, therefore, be considered an amendment of the resolution, which I would have introduced myself if the microphone had come to me first. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. This is seconded by the delegate of the United States. The delegate of Australia wishes to speak. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I am not clear, Mr. Chairman, as to the exact meaning. Does it mean Unesco should set up a pilot-project in the field of philosophy parallel with the Science Co- operation Field Office? Does it mean that staff should be appointed to operate there, and, if so, how much will it cost? The CHAIRMAN : Two questions have been addres- sed by the delegate of Australiato either the delegate of China or the delegate of France. Dr. CHAO (China) : As to the relation between othercentres, I should think in general thatit would be advisable to leave some discretion to the Secre- tariat to effect such savings as may be possible when co-operation can be arranged between related acti- vities in nearby centres. As to the amount of expen- diture, that is understood to be considered by the Budget Sub-Commission. jb —    The CHAIRMAN : In order that the Budget Sub- Commission may be able to make any judgment of the cost of these things, we must, I think, be as specific as we possibly can. Is the idea that we should have an actual office with one, two, or whatever it may be, full-time men engaged in it? Whatlevel of men are we to have, and in general what type of salary? Dean McKEON (United States of American) Mr. Chairman, there was no full discussion of this question, but in document 2C/36 there is a budge- tary appendix, which was prepared for a more modest enterprise. Item (c), under temporary posts, con- tains anallocation for an expert in charge of enquiry on cultural zones. For six months the estimate would be one-halfof the sumallocated,1. e. $ 3,300. The Working Party, however, voted for the establish- ment of a post, which in my understanding was to be held by a manto be sentto the Near East with whatever secretarial assistance was required. I should thinka figure of $ 10,000 would be adequate to cover the item. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Does anyone wish to discuss it? M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman,since we are speaking of the Near East, allow me to draw attention to the following points. Fist of all, the Near East is represented in name in Unesco, but Unesco is non-existent in the Near East. That is to say, there is no regional centre there and consequently no effective link between Unesco and the Near East. Then, Unesco has one aim throughoutthe world : peace, based on intellectual solidarity between nations. Such solidarity exists between the Near East and the West, but we wantit to be increasingly strengthened. That is why the presence of Unesco, or a regional centre of Unesco, in our country is abso- lutely necessary, and will be warmly welcomed by the local governments. As far as expense is concerned, it seems to me that $ 10,000 would be ample for the expert in charge of an investigation in this region. I know the stan- dard ofliving and the cost of living in the Near East, and I know that the dollar represents something. A thousand dollars a month is a considerable sum, and I do not believe there should be any serious difficulty in setting up a regional centre in the Near East. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, this looks like a proposal to add to our budget an amount of at least $ 7,000, which represents a multiplication by three of the cost of this part of the programme. We are not competent to speak on the necessity for the proposal. It appears to the Australian delega- tion that exploratory work in the course of 1948 might be desirable before this centre is set up. The second point is that there is already, we understand, a field science co-operation station, which presumably has an office and some furniture, as well as facilities for running an oifice organization. It may be very desirable to de-centralize part of the staff of Unesco, but,if so, can we have some attempt at co-ordination, rather than approve this at the pre- sent moment? The Australian delegation feels that it might be possible to ask for further consideration, with a view to setting up this establishment,if it is to be set up, in relation to existing establishments or the existing establishment. We feel, however, that our budget, which was fixed at not more than $ 8,000,000, is fast exceeding that, and we should review projects of this kind very carefully at the present stage. It may be that National Commissions can themselves arrange for the kind of work whichit is proposed should be undertaken this year by this particular office. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. Chairman, I would like to support the remarks of the delegate of Australia. I am worried about this project, as I have been worried about the course of our last few meetings. When we opened our proceedings, the consensus of opinion seemed to be that we should eliminate anything that could possibly be postponed, that we should exercise the greatest care in incurring new expenditures. That, at least, was very strongly the feeling of the Canadian delegation. In our last few meetings we have been considering the type of project that is eventually desirable, but not immediate- ly essential, and we have heard a number of dele- gates speak in support of them, as, indeed, we would all like to speak in support of them. It is difficult to speak against them. But I do not think they meet the task we were setting ourselves — to do this year what is absolutely essential and to regard the eight million figure as a ceiling. And we do not need to bump our heads on the ceiling. The farther away we get from the ceiling, the better, particularly as practically all our own representatives at other inter- national organizations have been pressing for a reduction in budgets. They have achieved very substantial reductions. I think the budget of the United Nations was very substantially reduced as well as that of FAO. Indeed, there was in one of the discussions in another organization some insistence that we reduce our budget. We have not — UN —
284      done so. We have increased it by a great deal. I do not knowif there is lack of co-ordination in national delegations, or if the views expressed by delegates in other United Nations organizations are not the views the delegates are supposed to express here. Butit is all very puzzling to me, and I think we are drifting from our purpose and ought to get back to it. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of the United Kingdom. Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man : It is, [ suppose, a fairly common experience for people on working commiitees, who are quite enthusiastic about their own proposals in their own specific concerns, to have their ideas adjusted in gatherings such as this. I may say that the argu- ments which have been brought forward by the delegates of Australia and Canada seem to us to have very considerable force. I am wondering whether the adoption of a resolution such as the following may meet the case : That the Secretariat should study the possibility of esta- blishing a pilot-project for a regional centre for cultural liaison in the Near Kast, and should bring proposals to the Executive Board in the course of 1948, either for action in 1948 or for consideration by the next General Conference.
1 would move that as a resolution, adding that we are not in the least averse to having the enquiry in the Near East if it is so desired. The CHAIRMAN : That has been moved as an amendment. Is there anyone who wishes to second that amend- ment? Seconded by the delegate of the Nether- lands. Anyone who wishes to speak to it? You have heard the amendment. If no one wishes to speak to it I shall put it to the meeting. The vote was taken by show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The amendment is carried. I now put the amendment as a substantive motion. Will all those in favour kindly hold up their hands? Will those against kindly hold up their hands? The motion is carried. 5) MayI say at this stage that I have been very worried during the last two days, at the ease with which this meeting is going. I feel that, as Chairman, I have some responsibility to see that we carry out the obviously expressed intention of the Plenary Conference; and the ideas expressed by the delegate of Canada have certainly been running through my own head. Is there any further matter concerning Philosophy and Humanities? The delegate of the United States.
6) In final form : Resolution 4.3.3 ; vol. II, page 24. Dean R. McKEON (United States of America) : I wish to move the one remaining resolution from document 2C/J/4 which has not yet been considered. It bears on two enquiries, mentioned in greater detail in the paper which was set before the Working Party, 20/36. During the year Unesco has undertaken an enquiry into the problem of the international publication of information concerning the progress of work in the humanities ; andthere exists an international journal, which is not, in the opinion of the experts in the field, satisfactory. I believe that the Director-General should be instructed — and this was, as I recall it, the sense of the Working Party — to continue these enquiries. The resolution, which appears on page 3 of 20/J/4, is as follows : The Director-General is instructed to take steps to en- courage the publication ofa general review of information concerning work in philosophy and the humanities. This task will not reach completion, in all proba- bility, before the establishment of a federation of humanistic and philosophic international organiza- tions, but it would be well to continue the enquiry until that time. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Does anyone second it? The motion is seconded by the delegate of Mexico and supported by the delegate of France. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to it further? If not, may I put the motion? The vote was taken by show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried, 6) Senator E. H. BROOKES (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman, I have a modest motion to lay before you, arising out of the documents under discussion; I do not think it will arouse the same criticism as was expressed a few minutes ago, since it entails an existing institution, and the total expenditure that may be involved is not likely to exceed one thousand dollars. I will read my motion : In order to study the international aspects of indigenous African culture and measures to be taken in connexion with their evolution, Unesco shall in 1948 suggest to the Interna- tional African Institute a service contract, according to which that organization shall submit to Unesco a report on the ques- tion, with special regard to its implications for international standing. ‘The action of the Secretariat shall conform to the plans indicated in document 20/36, second part, 3 (b), approved by the Working Party on Philosophy and Huma- nistic Studies. Mr. Chairman, the International African Institute was founded by Lord Lugard. a manlike Marshalt, whose fame is known far beyond his own country. The Institute has during the past twenty-one years
(6) In final form : Resolution 2.3.3.6.2 ; vol. II, page 16. — 438 —      done research work on matters particularly within the field of languages, which is one of Africa’s greatest problems. As you know, there are few areas of the world where there are so many languages spoken by small groups of people. I need hardly say how very important the study of African languages and of African social anthropology is to the working-out of any projects of fundamental education which we have in mind for Africa. The International African Institute is truly inter- national. It works in collaboration both with the French and the British Colonial Governments, and indeed also with the Belgian Government, so far as the Congo is concerned. It has the support of groups of scientists, Belgian, French, British and South Africa. In my own country seven University Institutions are at present engaged in the study of African life and languages, and research work of very great value has been carried out by South Africans in almost the whole of South East Africa. It is therefore a particular privilege for me to introduce this resolution. In the field of scientific work with regard to African life, there are no political barriers. We need each other’s experience. The proposal before us is that a most successful and truly international institution should be assisted by a small grant to prepare the kind of report which will make Unesco’s work in Africa easier. I beg to move that, Mr. Chairman. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Is there anyone who wishes to second it ? It is seconded by the delegate of the United Kingdom, supported by the delegate of France. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to it ? Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, the Administrative and External Relations Commission, of which Senator Brookes is a member,is spending a great deal of time in studying specifically the policies and procedures that should govern relations with other organizations, and the thing that bothers me about this motion is that the Programme and Budget Commission should take such specific action with respect to a single organi- zation, which, I believe, is within the competence of the other Commission. Iam not speaking against the motion. I am just raising a question with regard to our taking such definite action about rela- tions with an organization without referring to the other Commission. The CHAIRMAN : This is a matter which we are going to strike, of course, whenever we come to Grants-in-Aid. The delegate of the United Kingdom, I believe, wishes to speak to this point. Mr. F.R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, it seems to me although I hope Iam wrong — that there is some confusion here. The proposal before us at the moment is not more, I think, than to approve a sum of $ 1,000, which figures in the Budgetfor the Philosophy and Humanities Section along with other small sums in aid of other inter- national bodies in this field of philosophy and huma- nities. The question raised by the delegate of the United States is, of course, very important, but, subject to correction, I think I am right in saying quite definitely that all that the Administrative and External Relations Commission will do is to pass judgment on the form and the nature of the arrangements being made by the Director-General with these international organisations. I do not think it will in any way judge the propriety or other wise of supporting any particular one of them, but merely lay down general principles for the guidance of the Director-General in the merely administrative aspect of the matter. The CHAIRMAN : That is the relationship of the two Commissions, as I understood it from a short discussion which took place in the General Committee this morning — that the Administrative and External Relations Commission does not deal with details of programmes, but is concerned with the constitutional relationship between Unesco and various organiza-p tions. It is not concerned with the appropriations which are necessary to carry out our programme through some of those organizations. Dr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : Well, if the other Commission approves principles which would encompass this organization, then we are all right; but supposing they vote principles which would exclude this organisation ? The CHAIRMAN : In that case, the two reports would come before the Plenary Meeting of the Conference, and it would be pointed out that the principles adopted by the Administrative and Exter- nal Relations Commission would make this particular grant impossible. It would then be for the General Conference to say whether it agreed with that prin- ciple or not. If it agreed, anything we have passed here automatically becomes null and void with regard to that body. If each waits for the other to act, I think neither of us will act on this matter of grants. Senator BROOKES (Union of South Africa) Mr. Chairman, on the specific point which has been raised, I am, of course, Rapporteur of the Adminis- trative and External Relations Commission, but not its prophet. However, as far as I can see, in view — 439 —    of the ruling which the Chairman of our Gommission gave on this subject yesterday morning, and in view of the content of the only document we are likely to discuss, I think it is unlikely in the extreme that any decision will be taken which will affect a project of this kind. The CHAIRMAN: Is there any further discussion on this project ? Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, you mentioned earlier the necessity for precision in our directions to the Director-General. I do not wish to speak for or against this motion, because I just do not understand what it means. I do not know what Unesco can do about the evolution of African cultures, which is the thing which, as far as I can see, is to arise from this report. I do not know what kind of a report is involved and I do not know what the objective is, — that is, I do not know from the reso- lution itself. I can think of a number of objectives, most of which would be quite desirable. I do not think that motion is in a form which gives any direction whatever to the Director-General or to his staff. It may be that there is a definite intention and that it is perfectly understood by the Secretariat what is to be done, but I do not think it is in the motion and I should be very glad of your views on the matter, Mr. Chairman. The CHAIRMAN : I would be willing to give my views on it, but, quite frankly, I do not know what it means. Perhaps the mover of the motion could help us in this, or might be able to re-word it? The delegate of South Africa. Senator BROOKES (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman, my feeling is that the wording of the resolution in document 2C/36, second part, conforms fairly closely to the general wording of the resolution here presented, and I do not myself think that it should be very difficult to understand. At the same time I agree that it calls, perhaps, for a fuller explanation than I gave. I was attempting to be brief when I spoke; not only is it of first-rate and obvious value to have a scheme of education, particularly fundamental edu- cation, in Africa, to combine the experiences and the knowledge which we have of the different African territories, but it is also extremely important, from the point of view of international understand- ing and goodwill, that we in Africa — and remember that Africa is divided into a very large number of colonial territories and protectorates as well as of new self-governing States — should understand what we are doing and why we are doing it. Now to understand them, the one common factor in tropical and southern Africa is the exis- tence of the indigenous African population. It is peculiar — thatis, peculiar in the sense of a spe- cial way of life; there are points in common and also points of difference, and the different colonial and other administrations which have been enlightening African peoples have differed in their methods of handling them. It is impossible and probably undesirable to in- troduce complete uniformity in this respect; but sometime ago His Holiness the Pope said with regard to African education that anything which enables African administrators to understand and to be accepted by one another will make for the peace, order and welfare of Africa. That, Mr. Chairman,I venture to suggest, is a very considerable gain to be obtained by the expenditure of $ 1,000. The CHAIRMAN : I now see the purpose, which I may say I did not before; but I still do not unders- tand the method, whatthe $ 1,000 is to be spenton, and what kind of a report we are going to get from the Institute, except a report suggesting that some particular research may be undertaken. iy The delegate of Australia. Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) : You have got a little past me, Mr. Chairman. I still cannot understand, and I wonder if it would help the delegate of South Africa if we agreed to leave this motion for some time, so that he could re-draft it in a way which cer- tainly the Australian delegation and, perhaps, others would find easier to understand. The CHAIRMAN : May I read the reference in document 2C/36 — the relevant portion on page 8 — «That Unesco will make contact with international organizations specializing in the study of a particular cultural and ethnical zone, such as the International African Institute. Unesco will ask them to present plans for research on the international or critical aspects of the cultural evolution of those areas. » Senator BROOKES(Union of South Africa) : I apolo- gize for speaking again and for the apparent obscu- rity of this resolution. I think it is elucidated by the reference on page 8 of the report. In other words, we are asking the one existing body — and it has covered all these areas for 20 years — to give Unesco guidance as to those aspects of African life which need further research, and with regard to which Unesco can help to promote international understanding and the general cultural develop- ment of Africa. I am really anxious to meet the Australian dele- gation’s wishes, if I can see how to do it. There are factors here which make for necessary and also unnecessary disparity of policies ; here is contact with
440 —    research institution that has been at work for 20 years and more giving information, Here is Unesco anxious, presumably, to get a lead as to what it can best do on work in Africa. It is now asking this Institution to prepare a statement. In the words of the Report, «Unesco will ask them to present plans for research on the international or critical aspects of the cultural evo- lution of those areas», in Africa. Now that is the proposal, Mr. Chairman — I should be willing to consider any amendment to make it clearer, but I must confess the wording seems to me clear. Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) : Could I raise another point, Mr. Chairman. I think I am clear on the project now, although I still cannot see that the motion as it stands is precisely related to the pro- posal; but we now have, it appears, an Institute which has been working for 20 years and presu- mably has a large number of ideas and a large amount of information on this, and we have Unesco anxious to develop it further. If in Australia we referred to our Committee on Research in the Social Sciences a proposal of this kind, we should not think of offer- ing them any money at all. Is it necessary to give a grant of $ 1,000 to secure this advice? Pre- sumably the Institute that has had a large experience of 20 years intensive work in this field could advise us quite readily and quite easily. Would the mover and seconder agree that the Director-General or the Organization invite this Institute to make sug- gestions to us? The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of the United Kingdom. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) : I should like, if T could, to come to the rescue of the proposer of this Motion, but I think he has already extricated himself quite successfully. It is a fact, of course, that Unesco is already engaged in African projects, as for example the Fundamental Education project, and we do not need to do more, I think, than enlist the interest of this international organization ‘to help usin this and other ways. Would it help the meeting if we re-worded the re- solution now before us, something on the following lines : That the International African Institute should be asked to submit a report to Unesco on plansfor research which should be undertaken in orderto increase international understanding and to further the cultural evolution of Afriea on sound lines? That is not much more than a paraphrase of the original resolution but may perhaps makeit clearer to some people present. The CHAIRMAN : Does the delegate for South Africa regard that as satisfactory? Senator BROOKES (Union of South Africa) : If it will make it easier for this body as a whole to approve the project, I have no objection to it and I'am very grateful for the help of the United Kingdom delegate. But I must say, with as much courtesy as 1 can summon, that I do not think it is any improvement on the original resolution. I think, therefore, that it is in the hands of the meeting. If the meeting prefers this resolution, I have no intention whatever of fighting a last-ditch fight over it, but it must be remembered that, whichever wording you adopt, there will be a certain amount of expense involved. The comparison with Aus- tralia is far from a complete one. You are dealin there with one federal government, whereas in Africa you are dealing with some 20 to 30 different administrations under four or five large powers, and in these circumstances there is no one govern- ment which can be asked to bear the cost of such an investigation. I want to be helpful in this meeting and, if the resolution of the United Kingdom is considered better, I am prepared to accept this wording. But I still prefer the original motion. The CHAIRMAN : I think if the delegate of South Africa prefers his original wording he may keep it. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. Chairman I spoke just now against drift, but now we have dropped anchor and that is even worse. It seems to me there is no difference of opinion on the substance of the resolution. Why not take a vote on the South African motion and refer it and the resolution of the United Kingdom delega- tion to the Drafting Committee? The CHAIRMAN : Is there any further discussion on this? If not, I put the original resolution to the vote on the understanding that it and the United Kingdom resolution will be referred to the Drafting Committee. The vote was taken by show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. Is there anyfurther matter concerning Philosophy and Humanities? The delegate of France. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I wouldlike to submit to the assembly a resolution relating to document
20/J/2, page 9, No. III, «Free Access to Archaeo- logical Sites». This text has already been deposited with the General Committee. I think after the many interesting explanations we have just heard on the subject of the South African proposal, there will — 441 —      be no doubt or misunderstanding about the resolu- tion I intend to submit. This is the text of my pro- posal : In order to stimulate in all countries free access to archaeo- logical sites and the free diffusion of the results of archaeo- logical research, Unesco will request the International Council of Museums in 1948 to prepare a report on this question. A contract to this effect will be drawn up between Unesco and the International Council of Museums in confor- mity with the provisions contained in document 20/36, second part, III. C., and approved by Working Party J, in accordance with document 2C/J/2, fifth part, IIL. Let me add that this proposal refers to UD? in the Green Book, but concerns also TLB.2.g. T think it will be better, however, to deal with it now. The CHATRMAN : You have heard the resolution. Does anyone second it? The delegate of the United Kingdom seconds it. Does anyone wish to speak to it? Are you ready to vote on it? In that case, will all those in favour please raise their hands. Will all those against please raise their hands. The motion is carried. (7) That finishes II.B.2. and IL.D.2. The next item is the section on Language. You should have before
(7) In final form : Resolution 4.5 ; vol. II, page 24. you a short document, 2C/G/4, report of the Edu- cation Working Party No. 3 on Languages. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman,the delegate of South Africa who dealt with this work asked me specially to let him know when this matter came up so that he could move a resolution, butthere was no indication that it would be dealt with to day. I was wondering whether it would be possible for this item to stand over, whether we could take up some other work until I can get him out of another meeting. The CHAIRMAN : I certainly think we should wait for youto find him. Whether we can hold the matter over until this afternoon will depend upon the amount of work before us; we have also been asked to hold over science grants-in-aid. We will go into the question of Copyright and in the mean- time you can be considering where you stand in this matter. Weare now dealing with ILB.1.e., page 12 in the English text of the Green Book. The relevant do- cuments are 2C/E/4 and 2C/E/5. [am now told that the document of the Working Party on Copyright has not yet been distributed. I therefore move the adjournment of this meeting. The meeting rose at 12‚65 р. т. SIXTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 November 1947, at 3.30 p.m. CONTENTS Chapter II. D. 1. b. Chapter II. B. 1. e. Chapter II. D. 4. — Language — Copyright — Social Sciences Chapter IV. C.1 — 3. — Town and Country Planning Chairman: Chapter II. D. 1. b. — Language. The CHAIRMAN : We are dealing first at this meeting with Chapter II. D. 1 of the Green Book, paragraph b : Language, and the corresponding Report of the Working Parties C, B and J, docu- ment 2C/C/4. Does anyone wish to move a motion contained in this Report? Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). Dr. W. de VOS MALAN (Union of South Africa) Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have very great pleasure in moving the proposal contained in the last paragraph of the Report of the third meeting of the Working Party, No. 3, document 2C/G 4 : The Working Party approves the paper 2C/67 dated
13 October 1947, except that it recommends that the pro- posal relating to the preparation of bibliographies should — 442 —