a a States; and we do not forget that it is this cultural integrity which breathes even in the ruins of all ourcivilizations. We congratulate ourselves upon having been the founders of the basic idea of cultural reconstruction, which is an essential condition of all cultural pro- gress. We shall always be proud to have waged a long struggle for this idea to govern Unesco's acti- vities; but does cultural reconstruction mean only material and economic reconstruction? How this inspiring idea ofcultural reconstruction has expanded and been completed since the first Conference in 1945 and how much it has been responsible for in the spiritual and psychological fields! Wise measures which have been taken, — well known to all of us within these walls — encourage us to take part in this Conference with more faith, more faith in a cultural democracy of the nations, on the condition that we are all unceasingly active in pro- moting the true, the beautiful, the good, which are the only foundations of any culture worthy of the name, the human and humane pillars of the temple of peace. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Since there are no more speakers on my list, the meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 1.30 p. m. FIFTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 10 November 1947, at 11. 20 а. т. CONTENTS Pages.
14. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation) Speeches by delegates of Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom, United States of America, the Lebanon and New Zealand. ................... 67 President : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium).
14. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen : Up to now, I have on my list of speakers the following countries : Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, New Zealand, Australia, Lebanon and China. Czechoslovakia and the Union of South Africa have also asked to be put on the list. We shall now continue our debate and I call upon the delegate of Brazil. Prof. P. De BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, gentle- men : Two years ago the Constitution of Unesco was signed. The ratifications which followed have imposed on all of us a noble and important task, a task laid upon us by all the peoples of the world, a task which has been given for the first time to an international organization, that of establishing, through the united efforts of all peoples, peaceful relationships between men, The Preamble to our Constitution tells us that, since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed; and it follows that, to enable us to achieve our task, peace must be founded on the intellectual and moral soli- darity of the human mind. This is not the peace of armies, nor the peace of economic agreements. It is the peace of the mind and heart. How shall we bring about this intellectual and moral solidarity so that we can base our peace upon it? What is the technique to apply in the world of to-day, in a world divided in all its aspects, a world where there is no common faith, no common language, no common policy and no common eco- nomy? If we examine the statistics, what do we find? In the field of religious faith, about ten different creeds are opposed one to the other; the minds and — 6; —
5.   hearts of men divided — Catholics 19 per cent, Protestants 12 per cent, Orthodox 8 per cent,, Moslems 12 per cent, Hindus 14 per cent., Buddhists 8 per cent, Confucianists 18 per cent, Shintoists 1 per cent, Israelites 1 per cent, and a large percentage of primitives — in the different countries of the world. Turning to languages, what do we find? About sixteen big linguistic groups, forming similar fences and barriers to shut men off from one another. Then there are the political divergencies, which have been known to develop into ideological con- flicts greater than any of the religious wars of the past. We have totalitarian countries on the one side and democratic countries on the other, each striving for the temporal domination of the world. In the domain of culture, 50 per cent of the world’s population is illiterate. How can these people speak to one another when they are separated by such barriers? The problem facing peace is to find this funda- mental unity of feelings, of thought and of action, this homogeneity which can create a public opinion capable of directing constructive efforts. Peace can only be the consequence of a union of previously co-ordinated forces; it cannot materialize at the wave of a magic wand or simply because we wish it. It is difficult of attainment and we must review the steps which we are obliged to take. The first of these steps, I believe, is the creation of this unity of thought, feeling and action, the base of a public opinion able to co-ordinate all the efforts being made. But this problem is one and indivisible; all the concurrent factors must be taken into account; there can be no partial synthesis, everything must be taken into account and, in order to achieve this unity and homogeneity, we must consider the impor- tance of those feelings which are the basis of our whole existence. “The crux of the whole matter is to give supre- macy to the noblest sentiments, subordinating egoism to the feelings which must be co-ordinated and unified. It is in the minds of men that war is born, and it is also in the minds of men that peace must be born; it is in the minds of men that virtue is born and it is in the minds of men that crime is born. We must, then, be able to act upon the mind in order to create this unity of feeling, action and thought, and to bring about this subordination of individual and collective egotism to human altruism. The supremacy of moral considerations is the first condition for the triumph of the forces of peace. The assistance we come here to seek from science, the support we seek from art in Unesco’s work, are nothing but means to strengthen this supre- macy of moral considerations. We do not seek science for science’s sake nor art for art’s sake, but as means of attaining this essential pre-eminence of moral forces over the secondary and brutish forces of the human race. Once this subordination is admitted, we must recognize that science is not destructive; during the thousands of years which have led up to the present age, science has given us all the arms of victory; it is science which has guided us through uncharted seas; science has rid us of the great scourges which for centuries have enslaved us to an often hostile Nature. It is science which has given us the weapons of Pasteur to free us from epidemics; it is science which gives us to-day the psychological knowledge necessary to direct the human mind and control its actions. And it is science which in the very nature of things will rid us of the supreme scourge of war. I put my whole trust in science, on the condition that science itself accepts this supremacy of the moral, this supremacy of the collective human interest. Art is no more than the idealization of a combination of the conditions of human and cosmic existence. And it is through this idealization that we are going to fortify all our good inclinations, all our human acts of generosity. We do not seek art merely to embellish a reality outside of ourselves, but in a feeling of greater worship and respect for our race and the world around us. Thus, within Unesco, art and science are weapons of peace and it is as such that we should cultivate them in a spirit of co-ordinated action between the two. But to attain this unity between the instru- ments of peace, to achieve this intellectual and moral solidarity which is a prerequisite of peace, we must be assured of absolute and entire freedom, and this condition is imposed upon us by our Constitution. We cannot regulate the human forces conducive to peace save by establishing above purely political authorities a spiritual force common to all peoples. The Middle Ages have given us a great example when the Roman world was dividing and peoples were split by all kinds of factors and were seeking in vain for a new voice. The Papacy established that admirable power which gave the Middle Ages its spiritual impetus and created that remarkable human unity which the western world knew for centuries. To-day, in this new world which stretches out before us, we, too, must find new spiritual forces able to subdue worldly conflicts and create unity of action. Where shall we find this spiritual force capable of guiding us out of this situation, which has divided the world into so many conflicting ideo- logies? Where shall we find this unity of direction, save in the very alliance of all these ideologies and in a minimum programme which we can all accept = 68 — s m     in common? Let us make here a call to all religious forces, ideological forces, to all peoples to unite and propose common paths to us. Wehave to find this common ground, this meeting point of all the spiritual forces which have formerly been vainly opposed, but which must find their common grounds for co-operation in this way. There is no real conflict between religion and science ; there are no conflicts betweenreligious doc- trines and those concerned with the problem of man’s salvation. We are all aware that there have come together in this building great Arab leaders, great Hindu leaders, great Catholic leaders and leaders of many Protestant churches who wield such great power in the modern world. This is the cradle of laws and we, in the name of all men, in the , name of all sects however they may differ, can work in common for peace. How shall Unesco recruit the men it must seek for its threefold task of safeguarding liberty, estab- lishing unity and securing peace? This is certainly one of the most difficult tasks of the Secretariat, because it is not through bureaucratic routine that we shall find new missionaries. It must not be by rigid formulae that we mobilize this spiritual army — for Unesco is above all a militant democracy. No, what we must do is to test the hearts and the spirits of men of genius willing to give themselves to us entirely; we cannot allow a net to be woven around Unesco. We must go out and seek where they are to be found, scientists, artists, men of letters, to bring them into lasting co-operation with the central seed. If we must stop and reflect, we must also have a movement at once from the heart, from the interior to the exterior and from the exterior to the interior. Unesco must not become another inactive international bureaucracy; it must have a body of men of superior talents in permanent collaboration with it, but who must be spread throughout the whole world, to be found where they are needed, a network of advisers, local executives who can be relied upon to achieve genuine results. The central seed should be a hub from which radiate sugges- tions, and the work done on the perimeter must never lose contact with the centre. Let us decen- tralize this organization as much as we can; let us not allow men’s hopes to fade away one by one. We must fashion this living, powerful network; we must recruit the best men to co-operate in their own countries in our task, and they should perform in their own lands the function of Unesco’s agents in the modern world. This is not the place to discuss the details of the
1948 programme. In the Working Parties, the Budget and Programme Commissions, we shall have the opportunity to study this matter in detail. Allow me briefly to remind you of the urgent necessity for bearing in mind the spirit of our work as a whole, when we examine this programme, which sometimes seems too full, sometimes too dis- parate. We must keep firmly in mind that what- ever we do in any branch of our work will be of value only so far as it contributes to the solution of the fundamental problem of this Organization. Let us avoid losing ourselves in detail; let us concentrate upon the spirit of our work as a whole. In this pro- gramme, we find questions which must be studied thoroughly, longterm questions on which will depend- sooner or later, the solution of the fundamental problems of education, science, philosophy and art. We shall consider these questions with care, wilh zeal and with love. They cannot be dismissed casually, and we must be very persistent in our efforts to solve them. But side by side with these long-term questions, we find a number of immediate problems we shall have to solve. We cannot wait until the world has reduced itself to ruins before we raise the standard of Unesco. We must act in time, so as to prevent all these conflicts which are around us and prevent all the men in China, Indo- China, India and Palestine who are attacking one another, all these men who are menacing one another in the two hemispheres, from turning the world in which Unesco must work into a tomb of despair and misery. If we do not act in time, if we do not fulfil immediately the vast duties entrusted to us, if we do not attain the objects for which our charter was accepted by all nations, if we go into the arena unarmed, we shall have brought despair into the hearts of the people. Gentlemen, let us act! The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the delegate of Canada. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, gentlemen, in order to remind you of the dual culture of my country, I ven- ture to introduce the remarks of the Canadian dele- gation in the French language. First of all, I wish to express in all sincerity, Mr. President, the deep satisfaction we feel at your occupying the responsible place of President. I also wish to express to the Mexican Government our appreciation of the reception given to us in this historic capital, and of the full and generous col- laboration which is enabling us to carry out our work in a most favourable atmosphere. Weshall work, I am convinced, with all the more fervour in such an atmosphere of cordiality. Gentlemen, we have here the report of the Director- General. This document testifies to the awareness and breadth of vision of those who drew it up. ltis very encouraging and shows us the efforts made to
00 — БА    start the work of the Organisation in spite of manifold difficulties. The rest of the speech was delivered in English. But, while we take encouragement from the record of the past, we see in the prospects for the future no reason for complacency. On the contrary, we see reason to believe that this is a critical moment in the life of Unesco. It is critical, first, because the political climate of the world is inclement. Since a political quarrel can be picked anywhere, Unescois not necessarily immune from the storms which rage in other quarters. Happily, Unesco does not suffer from all the poli- tical compulsions and disabilities which hamper other international organizations. There is no veto to paralyse our efforts. There 1s sufficient common ground, badly in need of tilling, to keep us use- fully employed. If only we can display in this Confe- rence a reasonable measure of forbearance, we should be able to avoid the dissensions that frus- trate other efforts toward international collabo- ration. The momentis critical also because many nations of the world to-day are struggling with desperate economic difficulties. And yet these nations are none the less willing to make substantial and often onerous contributions to the cause of international collaboration for peace. This makes it more impera- tive than ever that the Conference should exercise the greatest care in using the resources of Unesco. This makes all the more compelling the obligation of this Conference to see that the course which Unesco is to follow shall be chosen in a thoroughly hard-headed and practical manner. The Canadian delegation urges that, when the choice is being made, the rule shall be : the immediately essential must take priority over the eventually desirable. Unesco’s activities should be of immediate and recognizable benefit to the peoples of the world, There has been great insistence, as is right and proper, that Unesco’s activities should be related to the aims of the Constitution, but the Constitution offers a vast expanse in which there is a great temptation to meander, and keeping within the Con- stitution we may still mark out too large a field. Webelieve this danger can be met by interpreting the Constitution in the light of the trying condi- tions of to-day. And if we so interpret it, we shall clearly recognize the stern need for allocating prio- rity and preference to those activities which most directly contribute towards peace in 1948 and most clearly lay the foundations for peace in the years to come. The Canadian delegation is thus led to the firm conviction that the needs of reconstruction in coun- tries devastated by war must be given the strongest possible emphasis. For, until the intellectual, cul- tural and educational powers of these devastated countries are brought into play, the activities of Unesco in otherfields must inevitably lag. And when. the vast cultural power of these countries of Europe and Asia is again fully developed, the other pur- poses of Unesco will be the nearer fulfilment. At the same time, the Canadian delegation recog- nizes the value of the interest of the peoples of the world in the many projects of Unesco. We think, however, that there are few men of goodwill and understanding, whatever their special interests, who would wish us at this time to prejudice urgent and important tasks by permitting Unesco to spread its limited resources too wide. Many will regret that necessity imposes limits on ouractivities, but this is the hard truth of our posi- tion — we cannot afford to dash off in all directions. It may, of course, prove that Unesco will ultima- tely be the more useful for the limitation imposed upon it in these early years. It should be remem- bered that Unesco did not develop as did the great economic and political systems of the world. The Unesco Constitution is not the product of the cen- turies clarified by jurisprudence, re-shaped by trial and error, enriched by experience. The Consti- tution sprang into existence, if not fully armed, at least fully provisioned, and the scope of the Consti- tution may prove to be a pair of «seven-league boots» that are, for a while, too big for us. It may be better to proceed slowly and surely until we grow into our boots, rather than trip over them in our haste. If we find here in this Conference the wisdom to be sure-footed, it is also to be hoped that we shall find the wisdom to keep in step with the people, that we shall recognize the need of speaking pe common language, the need of making the aims and activities of Unesco always readily comprehensible, not only to the chosen few but to the great masses of the people of the world. I know that many have already urged the neces- sity of making Unesco’s activities popular. We do not think this means that we are first to agree here upon a programme and then to popularize it. We believe rather that Unesco must choose a course of action which from the very beginning is assured of popular support because it is popularly recognized as valuable and timely. Such a course would not harm Unesco. There is plenty in the suggested programme to keep usfully occupied; and if the field is to be broadened, let us first demonstrate to public opinion that more needs doing. So, as the publichorizon broad- ens, the scope of Unesco’s activities will expand, = 90 —    and we shall build a lasting structure on the foun- dation of firm public support. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr Pro- sident, in my first words I must express the gratifi- cation of the British delegation at finding themselves once again among so many friends and fellow- workers in the cause of Unesco. We are stimulated also by these new and magnificent surroundings. Unesco did well to accept the invitation of our Mexican hosts. We thank Mexico in all sincerity for the warmth and colour of its welcome, for the care its people have taken for our welfare and, above ail, for the opportunity its Government has thereby given us to see something of this inspiring cradle- land of civilization in the western hemisphere. As for the capital city, it combines a devotion to its historic past with a vigorous awareness of an even more historic future. I can imagine only one better time to see this city than now — to see it on some March day, ten years from now, its build- ings completed and the jacaranda trees in bloom. As regards Mexico's interest in education, I can only say as a Minister in the Government of the United Kingdom with responsibilities towards the — education of the children of England and ales, how I respect (nay envy) my colleagues in the Mexican Federal Department of Education, whose annual budget now (and for many years past) exceeds that of any other Mexican Department of State. Fellow-delegates, there are many in the British Isles who would wish to be with us to-day. I give you especially the greetings of the members of our National Co-operating Bodies. Of these we now have nine and they include some 250 leading figures and representatives of every aspect of education, science and culture in the British Isles. The Minister of Education, Mr. George Tomlinson, has faith in Unesco (as I have faith myself) and he has asked me to convey his warm greetings to you all. Early this year, as will be remembered, Mr. Tomlinson took the place in the British Cabinet made vacant by the death of Miss Ellen Wilkinson. Tributes to the memory of Miss Wilkinson have been paid in many places, but I am sure that all of you here who remember her hard work and eager enthusiasm for Unesco, over whose Preparatory Commission she presided with such energy and skill, will wish to remember her to-day with affection and gratitude and to grievewith us at her passing. Our purpose here is to take stock of what has happened since the Paris Conference of 1946. Unesco during the past year, in spite of inevitable difficulties, has done a og job. Mr. President, we of the United Kingdom dele- gation, wish to pay tribute to the work of the Direc- tor-General and the Secrefariat, and I believe, fellow-delegates, that I speak for all honourable members here when I acknowledge our debt to those in high and low positions on our staff who have had to struggle with the problems and adver- sities attending Unesco’s first year of life. The achievement of Unesco in 1947 is this : it has laid the foundation for the building which we all wish to see completed. And that is what any organization should seek to do in the first year of its life. Unesco is at this moment in action. In the field of reconstruction, for example, Unesco this very morning, is making it easier for men of goodwill to help their fellow-men across national frontiers The report of the Commission ou Technical Needs has been published; and deficiencies in the fields of press, films and boadcasting in devastated countries are now more likely to be made good. The scheme for visits and exchanges 1s bringing indivi- dual men of many nations together in hospitable association, to the great advantage both of hosts and guests. Again, in the field of fundamental education, Unesco is beginning to find methods of operation whereby experience gained in one continent can be made available to another. Certainly the Govern- ment of a British Colonial territory such as Nyasaland is welcoming all the help that Unesco can give in this field, and we in Britain are glad to think that our long experience of colonial problems has here played some useful part in shaping the philosophy and programme of Unesco. There have been encouraging examples of good work that Unesco can do by bringing together for particular purposes men of many nations who share a common concern. The Teachers’ Seminar at Sévres, the Conference at Belem which explored the prospects of establishing an International Insti- tute for the Hylean Amazon, the Paris conference on the project of an International Theatre Institute — these, I suggest, are only three examples of a technique which Unesco has used in 1947 with promising results and can hope to improve and apply still more effectively to other problems in
1948. The work of this kind that has been done indirectly, through help given by Unesco to the International Council of Scientific Unions,is another example of good work done in 1947. In the United Kingdom we have gone some way to help in our national part of the world programme of work which all of us in Unesco are concerned to accomplish together. We have exerted ourselves during the difficult days of 1947 in the fields of education, science and culture. When, for example, Я — Da.        this year, in the teeth of an economic blizzard, we raised the age to which British children must remain at school from 14 to 15 years of age, we showed our determination to further a cause which, I suggest, is Unesco’s cause. So, too, we have built up a great new training scheme for teachers; in 1948 we shall trainnearly four times as many teachers as we trained in1938. In this way, and in others I could mention, suchas the long years of work in the British colonies in furtherance of fundamental education, we are doing what we can to accelerate the raising of stan- dards — and in so doing welike to think of ourselves as bearing our share in Unesco’s work. But in this, as we have been reminded in the last speech to which we listened, in this and in all fields of social progress, politics is theart of the possible. Both in our national efforts and in Unesco we must recognize the limits imposed by the present dearth of our resources — resources so harshly reduced by the devastation and havoc of a long and cruel war. How great a ruin, and not merely, I suggest, a material ruin, that disaster has caused, cannot easily be imagined in this continent. That is one of the facts that we must recognize at this moment when we take stock of our position and ask ourselves how Unesco stands to-day. Another is the unfortunate period of uncertainty and delay which followed the General Conference last year. On that occasion, and we must face it, we failed to match our programme with our budget. In consequence we left an intolerable burden on the shoulders of the Executive Board and the Secre- tariat, and we should chiefly blame ourselves if we feel disappointed at lack of progress in some directions and if we think that energies have been dispersed over too wide a field. We must not repeat that mistake this year. In 1948 our pro- gramme and our budget must be one and its terms must be unmistakable. When we consider the structure of the Secre-, tariat that has been built up during this first year there are questions that again we must seriously ask ourselves :
1. Are we creating an organization with an atmos- phere in which men of ideas can work with enthu- siasm? That that should be the atmosphere of the Secretariat is the first condition of Unesco’s success.
2. Is it or is it not true, as the leader of the Indian delegation said in his distinguished speech on Saturday, that there is in the Secretariat a dispro- portionate number of people from western civili- zations? Frankly, I think the accusation is justified, and it is our business to redress the balance as soon as possible.
3. Have we Member States found for the service of Unesco people of calibre and prestige? Are we prepared to release our best minds for what is, after all, fundamental United Nations work? Perhaps Governments want some fundamental education themselves in this respect. All reasonable men and women, Mr. President, recognized last year that to create an organization, especially an international organization, with such wide and novel purposes as Unesco would take time. That was all right twelve months ago. The world will demand results of a different kind in 1948. What sort of results? First and foremost in the coming months we have got to solve the problem of making Unesco live in the minds of ordinary men. Let us be frank — we have failed, in many countries, to reach the minds even of teachers and educationoists. As for the ordinary citizen, any public opinion poll would show that there is a profound ignorance even of the simple fact that Unesco is part of the United Nations. This means, in our view, that from now on we must concentrate on projects through which Unesco can make an immediate contribution to the major needs of the world to-day. However good, however valuable to future generations, certain projects may be, we must challenge our time with the impact of our achievements. The greatest age to be alive in is the age in which we live, and Unesco must accept the challenge of to-day. Naturally, we must then ask ourselves what this means. It means that, in constructing the programme, we have to bear in mind not a few intellectual groups here and there but the whole mass of bewildered and frusira- ted peoples throughout the world. I am not suggesting, ladies and gentlemen, that all that matters is short-term achievement. I know that we must survey, imaginatively, the wider fields where Unesco will, in good time, become effective. The analogy might well be that of a mining company (if there is no objection to a British delegate referring to a mining company) — a mining company where a decision is made fo concentrate on hacking coal from the half-dozen most promising seams to meet the needs of the hour. It may well be reasonable at the same time to prospect and survey the adjoining countryside, where development work will begin when funds permit and when experience of work in the known seams has been acquired. But I repeat, as has been said by other delegates in speeches at this Conference, the emphasis in
1948 must be on immediate achievements to bring Unesco excitingly into the hearts and before the minds of men. Ina phrase, let us streamline this programme and give it wings. Mr. President, since we met in Paris a year ago, a new urgeney has been given to the tasks of Unesco,   a new challenge is being offered to us all. The ordinary people everywhere feel bewildered ‘and betrayed. They want to believe the best of each other and, let us face it, they are being told the worst. The instruments of common understanding — the press, radio and films — are being used to confound and confuse. All that the ordinary man can learn about the deliberations of the United Nations is of their quarrels and suspicions. Can the ordinary man or woman be blamed for supposing that in 1947 the commonest form of international action is abuse? Do not let us look this way or that to find the blame; let us look nearer home and examine our own shortcomings, in each and every nation. The greatest service which Unesco can do for the common peoples is to use these vast new instru- ments of mass communication to revive hope, temper pessimism, and restore faith in the ordinary decencies and common values. We must light up the imaginations of people with a belief in themselves and in each other. Unesco is the trustee of a heritage of cultures. As an organization it is inter-governmental; in the realm of ideas it is above nations. Unesco’s sacred charge is to convince peoples that they are part of one community, indispensable to each other. Mr. President, there is a world society. The fact that we are here is testimony to that. In the work of Unesco during the past year, men and women have come together in their own fields to speak not only in different languages but in the common idiom of their func- tions. To light up men’s minds, we need illuminating ideas. Now all of us here realize that there already exist what we might call citizens of the world, men and women who are accepted everywhere as citizens of all nations and of none. Let us recognize them. Let us make the rank of citizen of the world the highest honour mankind can confer, an honour to which all men and women of goodwill can aspire. Let us suggest that there should be conferred upon such citizens the freedom of the world. Probably all of us at this moment are thinking of a few whom, regardless of nationality, every nation would be proud to honour, men and women who have contributed to the welfare and enlightenment of mankind, men and women who are an inspiration to us all — an Einstein, a Toscanini, a Helen Keller, a Bernard Shaw. Thus I suggest, Mr. President, that in some such fashion as this, we can make immediately a narrow breach in the high walls of ignorance, prejudice and intolerance, so that the time may come when two thousand million people may look round and find that these walls have vanished. It is not : « Let us eat and drink for to-morrow we die», but rather : «Let us join hands and help, for this day we are alive ». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) I now call upon the delegate of the United States of America. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President and fellow-delegates, this is the third November that I have been with Unesco, and this happens to be my third visit to this beau- tiful city. I have felt that Mexico was a happy choice for this Conference for a great many reasons, one of which is that Mexico, during the past thirty- five years, has been trying to give real meaning to democracy through her economic and social reforms. I am speaking to-day not only on behalf of the United States delegation, but also for the hundreds of thousands of people of the United States of America who are eager to contribute, through Unesco, to the peace and security of the world. For nine years before I joined the State Department my principal work was in the field of education. Thus it is natural that in my new capacity, as a pri- vate citizen and as a special consultant to the Depart- ment of State, my interests continue to include Unesco. The hope of the people of the United States of America for this Organization and its work has spread throughout our entire national life. I have here a telegram from President Truman expres- sing this deep interest. The telegram is adressed to me as Head of the United States delegation. It reads : I am confident that this second General Conference of Unesco will be able to strenghten the principle of free enquiry free expression and free collaboration as a sound foundation for a lasting peace. The full support and best wishes of the American people are with you in Mexico City. Harry S. Truman, President of the United States. Mr. President, the Conference is now discussing «the activities of the Organization». May I begin by saying that Unesco activities in the United States of America are proving the wisdom of that section of Unesco’s Constitution which provides for the establishment of National Commissions in each country. These Commissions, you will remember, were designed to marshal the forces of education, science and culture. I shall give you one illustration of these activities within the United States of America. I hope this illustration will suffice to show why the United States delegation advocated the setting up of a Working Party, in this Conference, to foster the development of National Commissions in Member Countries. „= 78 <=    Let me describe to you one of our so-called local meetings, which was held in Denver last May. Nine- teen hundred people met in the city of Denver, at the foot of the Rocky Mountains. They represented organizations and institutions in hundreds of local communities. They came from a territory as large as western Europe. For three days they worked, in thirty-six meetings, and listened to twelve speeches. They examined in detail the suggested programme of Unesco. They debated its aims and methods and made recommendations of considerable importance to our delegation here in Mexico. Fellow-delegates, you would have been impressed by the spirit of humility in which these 1,900 people went about their work — Unesco’s work. They were deeply aware, as all of us must be, of the progress still to be made in their own communities. Certainly there was no feeling among them that they were im- mune themselves from the damage of war. True, the cities of the United States of America were not laid waste, nor were our political institutions shat- tered. But in the things of the mind and the spirit our people have suffered, along with yours. The things of the mind that concerned the Denver meet- ting are of universal concern at this moment in our history : fear, ignorance and prejudice. Thus at Denver the States of the Great Plains and of the Rocky Mountains tackled the problems of rebuilding human relations shattered by war. The 1,900 delegates recognized, too, the need of developing the world’s many and diverse cultures, and earnestly sought better means of understanding them. Many of these cultures have contributed generously to our own. Against these same Rocky Mountains lapped the tide of Spanish civilization, which also brought so much of lasting value to this valley of Mexico. The names of many of the streets of Denver are familiar names in Mexico City : Du- rango, Santa Fé, Trinidad. When the 1,900 Denver delegates went home to their hundreds of communities — to their schools, churches, factories, farms and offices — they took with them the information and, more important than that, the determination that they needed to make Unesco come alive to their own local commu- nities and constituencies. They knew why and how to collect money to help rebuild the educational systems devastated by the war. They established scholarships for international understanding. They organized information centres and special classes. They petitioned their local newspapers and radio stations to devote more time and energy to the de- velopment of understanding as a foundation for peace. They encouragedracial and religious tolerance. Their continued and passionate devotion to Unesco is shown by the fact that they have sent twenty observers here to this Conference. One small Colo- rado town with a population of only 10,000 appro- priated $ 3,000 of public school funds to financeits observers here, both students and teachers. Thus what we do here in Mexico is being fol- lowed with active interest by Colorado and Nebraska, by Kansas and Montana, and by all the other 44 United States and, we can at least hope, by all the world’s people as well. Our observers want to know : Do we mean what we say here? They are asking us : What are we prepared to do now? All of you will recognize, now that I have given this one illustration of Unesco activities within the United States of America — and this is only onr illustration — that there is a significance here far beyond the meeting of 1,900 people in a city of the West. In this illustration of mine is the unfolding of the great hope and the great danger of Unesco. In London in 1945 and in Paris in 1946 we, as delegates, tried to raise the expectations of the peo- ples of the world. Now we have them raised, and here in Mexico in 1947 I hope we shall have the courage to try to live up to those expectations. Eighteen months ago there were forty organizations in the United States of America contributing funds and materials for educational reconstruction. Now there are three hundred. In the eighteen months reported up to July, they had collected more than $ 104,000,000 for educational reconstruction. As Mr. Hardman and I came to this meeting, I read him a cable given to me 15 minutes before the meet- ing convened. This cable is signed by the Chair- man of the International Relations Committee of the American Association of Dental Schools, and it is a good illustration of the hopes we have raised : «The 65,000 members of the American Dental Association and 40 Dental Colleges are interested in the educational reconstruction of countries devas- tated by war in Europe». And Mr. Hardman admitted to me that there are even countries not devastated by war that may be interested in American dentistry. The Committee ask me to notify them by cable how American dentistry can aid : first, in providing educa- tional and scientific materials and equipment for the European countries; second (they have already mentioned Latin America), in providing professional and scientific books and periodicals; third, schol- arships; fourth, educational missions to dental schools; fifth, educational projects to help rebuild shattered dental institutions. «Dentistry is one of the most important health services», this cable continues. «Please advise how we can assist and co-operate in your programme in the field of educa- tional reconstruction». I quote this as an instance of the expectations that we have raised in our own short period of history. HR       If the American people, deeply moved by their new-found opportunity to contribute to a lasting peace, should now become disillusioned by Unesco, and their hopes again turned to ashes, I need hardly remind you how profoundly affected American fo- reign policy might be. True, Unesco cannot now make foreign policy for any country. But, already, Unesco can potentially destroy. These are indeed big stakes for which we are playing here in this Confe- rence, and they are stakes for the hands of statesmen. I ask you whether we here in Mexico can achieve statemanship. I earnestly appeal to this Conference to think first and foremost of the welfare of Unesco and of the hopeit has given to the people of the world. I appeal for a constructive yet critical examination of the work of Unesco. Let us see if we have made the progress rightly expected of us. If we have not, let us courageously find out why. Let us make sure that the structure and programme of this Organiza- tion give the promise of rendering the things. we expect of them. It was I who referred — as those of you who were in Paris a year ago will remember — to the year 1947 as Unesco’s fledgling year. We must be generous in our appraisal of what has been done by a fledgling, under all the trying circumstances of establishing a new organization. But we must none the less make the appraisal. We must, for example, in examining the Director-General’s report, distinguish between what has actually been done and is being done, and what is projected for the future. I think it is most unfortunate that the Executive Board, which has been closest to the Organization and the programme, in its report of Saturday to the General Conference — and I quote from that report — «decided not to offer any comments on the contents of the (Director-General’s) Report». It does not seem to me that this is the kind of guidance this Conference needs. The delegates — and there are many now here with no background on Unesco — should be given the guidance of their Executive Board. They are entitled to the views of the eight- een men who have the most intimate experience with Unesco. The United States delegation last week unani- mously passed a resolution asking for the comments of the Executive Board on this report. I suggest that this Conference tell its Executive Board in future that it desires such comment. [ have another suggestion affecting the Executive Board. I know of its many outstanding members, who have worked hard and loyally. All of us here are indebted to them. But is it not suitable to suggest that its operation should now be reviewed, in the light of our year of experience? Is the Board too large? Do too few men do too much of the work? How can men of top talent be continuously attracted to it? Should its members, as provided in the Constitution, act and vote as individuals, or are there times when they should openly act and vote as representatives of their governments? The American delegation will welcome the views of other delegations on the operation of the Executive Board, and I hope this Conference, acting either through the heads of delegations or through the Procedure Committee, or, it seems to me, ideally through a combination of both, will take steps to co-operate with the Executive Board in an examination of itself. Thus, I hope we can pause and take stock of our- selves here in Unesco before we freeze into a pattern. The United States delegation, perforce, has de- cided to refrain from a detailed discussion of the Director-General’s Report in the plenary meetings. Its hope is that in the Programme and Budget Commission a constructive programme for 1948 will evolve, co-ordinated precisely to a budget which will carry the programme. Mr. Pierce very wisely commented — and Mr. Hardman amplified this point even more effectively in the talk you have just lis- tened to — on the problem set for the Secretariat when it is tormented, as it has been in Paris, with a sky’s-the-limit programme and a $ 6,000,000 Bud- get. I agree with Mr. Hardman that this is undesi- rable. As regards Mr. Pierce's comment, the Ame- rican delegation hopes, too, that the programme will not dash off in all directions. We take exception to the concluding page or two of the Report, in which the statement is made that «the range of our activi- ties, as previously indicated, ought to be as compre- hensive as possible». This, too, seems to the Ame- rican delegation, as to Mr. Pierce, too wide a grasp and too long a reach ,although the purpose brought out by the Director-General is most admirable «to secure the support of the various “interest groups’ concerned». The United States delegation looks forward to an exchange of views with other delegations on the programme and budget for 1948. We are most anxious to co-operate with all others on the financial and organizational problems which should be brought up during the Conference. Rather than try to deal with these now, however, I should like to mention a few far-reaching issues which will be of great concern to our delegation and, I hope, to all of us here. There are some, and some here, who contend that the world’s fine old cultures must necessarily be overwhelmed — or even swept away — as com- munications between peoples develop. Does not that assume that there is something fragile and de- fenceless in these individual cultures? The Basque culture seems to have survived a good many centuries    in spite of Spanish nationalism. Scottish culture has not given way to the English, and, indeed, the Scottish way of speaking does not grate on Oxford ears. Have centuries of attack and oppres- sion succeeded in extinguishing the Polish way of life? What is so fragile about these cultures that they cannot now withstand the impact of modern methods of communication? Do they really need to fear the cross-word puzzle and the detective story? Has the culture of Sophocles been damaged by the printing press? Certainly Shakespeare and Cer- vantes are not less vital because they can be bought in low-cost editions in all the languages of the world. Do not Bach and Handel have a firmer place in the world’s cultural heritage since the invention of the record and the radio? It should indeed be Unesco's task to learn how the printing-press and the radio and films may best be used for Unesco's purposes. Modern means of communication must be dedi- cated to the cause of peace. Words and pictures, the very stuff of everydaylife, move millions of people now with the speed oflight. In the broadcasting field, for example, fifty-five individual nations with individual aspirations are to-day beaming 4,275 hours weekly across their frontiers to other peoples. Think of it — almost 200 twenty-four hour days each week being beamed by fifty-five individual And shall Unesco, which has been given anations. mandate to use educational facilities to contribute to peace,fail to utilize this great modern medium for Unesco's larger purpose? Until now, it seems to me, Unesco has been laggard indeed in this sphere. Dr. Abello, the Philippines delegate, told us on Saturday that Unesco must reach the masses of the people or perish. «It is doomed », I think, was his phrase. And I welcomed Mr. Hardman’s statement in this Conference, when he said that Unesco’s sacred charge was to convince the peoples of the world that they were members of one community. And this is perhaps the most important statement in this domain that we have had. I welcome it the more because it has been said that the United States of America alone is preoccupied with fostering that clause in Unesco's Constitution which enjoins us «to col laborate in the work of advancing the mutual know- ledge and understanding of peoples, through all the means of mass communication». Mr. Hardman had another phrase that I reiterate. He said the peoples of the world want to believe the best and they are being told the worst. Here, indeed, is a challenge for Unesco. It is my personal conviction that it is Unesco's responsibility to encourage the United Nations to establish a world-wide radio system at once and on a very vast scale, and that Unesco must take the leadership in its programme. If a suitable network
1s not established by the United Nations at once and on a vast scale, Unesco should consider, at its next General Conference, how to assume leadership in international broadcasting on behalf of all the peo- ples of the world. If this is a naive and enthusiastic way to look at Unesco’s opportunities and responsibilities, then I am one who believes that Unesco’s challenge to history here, as in London and Paris, must be the challenge of the naive and the enthusiastic. A key member of the Unesco Secretariat has called such ideas «blue-eyed idealism». To that I say — if it is blue-eyed, so be it — or, better yet, let us be starry-eyed. In offering to join with other peoples of the world in the challenging enterprise we call Unesco, the people of the United States of America proffer their services as partners. We do not wish to dominate, nor shall we shirk our responsibility. This is in part our answer to the threat of a two-world sys- tem. Unesco offers a universal citizenship of the mind, the conscience and the spirit — a citizenship open to everybody everywhere. Citizenship, of course, implies responsibilities. These responsibilities in this‘ and future Conferences, must be defined. There can be no coercion here, nor any restraint upon men’s minds. There must be no area of taboo. We of Unesco welcome all our neighbours to this free citizenship — not merely in the narrow sense of Member Governments but, more signifi- cantly, as peoples joined together in this common endeavour, in their challenge to history. Thus, it seems to us of the United States delegation that our opportunities are great, if we will but seize them. [It is true that the darkness we attack 18 formidable. But it is also true that the reserves of the human spirit are aimost limitless. We hope that as soon as possible Unesco will become truly representative — universal. Even to-day Unesco is not, and certainly should not be, an Anglo-American monopoly. In that I agree with the Indian delegate who spoke on Saturday. We in the United of America do not wishit to be such. Only 8 1/9 per cent of the whole Secretariat are United States citizens, although the percentage is higher in the upper brackets. Unesco cannot be the monopoly of any one culture, lest it defeat its pur- pose. Too many of the Secretariat are now drawn from too few countries, and I would expect Mr. Hard- manto agree with that, as he has just gone on record and as I too am just going on record. The United States of America believes in equitable geographical distribution of manpower, and we know how impor- tant that is. How can we reach out for the men and women we need? How can we bring into Unesco — 76 —        leaders of the capacity of Gandhi and Nehru, for example? A handful of great men giving their efforts to Unesco’s purpose might inspire all peoples. In Paris last year, Dr. Beeby of New Zealand said he would wish, as the greatest gift for Unesco, that the Organization in its first year might attractto itself ten men of great stature. But, even posing as a fairy- godmother, Dr. Beeby allowed that he would settle for five. The Lord promised to spare the city of Sodom if ten righteous men could be found there. I think Dr. Beeby's five will save Unesco. And these five should be sought everywhere. There are leaders now in Unesco, and faithful servants. We need more. It will take many men and women many years to consummate the work we are projecth- ing here. We cannot let the contemplation of these needs and these years, however, serve us now as an alibi. We have made a beginning. We must now expand that beginning as rapidly as possible. Our goal, it seems to the United States delegation, is ey marked out for us. This Conference must chart the course. Our work is urgent, and it seems to us there is no time but now. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I should like to remind you that the present discus- sion should be completed to-morrow, Tuesday, by one o'clock, so as to allow the Programme and Budget Commission to meet in the afternoon. I therefore request delegations who still wish to speak to send in their names at the earliest possible mo- ment. I now call upon the delegate of the Lebanon. M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation fron the French) : Mr. President, ladies and gent- lemen : my colleague will shortly give you the opinion of the Lebanon on the judicious and constructive observations made in the Report of the Director-General of Unesco. Before Dr. Huxley, we listened with greatinter- est to the humane words of such significance, echoing within these walls like a cry of alarm, spoken by the eminent head of the French delegation, M. Jacques Maritain, whose name is known and respected throughout the world. Since, then, several of our colleagues have brought the greetings of their countries to this great assembly and their wishes for complete success in our work. Perhaps this is the moment for you to hear the voice of the Lebanon and of the whole Arabic Near Eastern world, for I am sure that in what I am going to say I shall be the interpreter of my col- leagues from Egypt, Saudi Arabia Iraq and Syria. With all these countries the Lebanon forms the Arab League, and the League intends to make its most active and effective contribution to the e- stablishment of peace, as well as to that real rappro- chement of minds longed for by the whole world after the terrible torture from which it has just emerged, without, alas, the certainty that it will never happen again. Much more than on the United Nations Assembly, where insatiable ambitions and interests are con- tinually in conflict, where we seem to hear again the clash of weapons, where violent discussion and a tense atmosphere carry us back, as the distinguish- ed delegate of India said on Saturday, to the troubled times of 1939; much more than on that organization which is in danger of proving vain, the eyes of the whole world are turned upon this Conference, confident that it will sow the seeds of a real and lasting peace — a peace which can only be one of heart and spirit. You have heard from this rostrum about small countries with declining populations. Now it is my turn to speak to you of a smaller country still, which, throughout its history, has contributed with all the strength of its soul to the development of culture and the progress of humanity. Situated at the cross-roads of East and West, heir to the Phenician traditions as well as to Arab civilization and culture, imbued with the Latin spirit, so much admired by Barrés, the Lebanon, standing ou the enchanting shores of the Mediterranean, the mother of all civilizations, has always considered itself the country of the mind. It has always been able to merge the different currents which since the Feliz Julia of Roman times and its prosperous law school, made its capital, Beirut, the leading university town of the whole Middle and Near Eastern world. Quite recently a corner of the Lebanon was the site of a cultural congress grouping representatives of all the Arab countries, where two essentially compatible conceptions were finally reconciled. Before stepping down from this rostrum, where I have endeavoured to be as brief as possible in order to give way to my colleague, I wish, in repeat- ing the good wishes of the Lebanon, to express our thanks to this great country of Mexico. It is more than thanks, it is, for us Lebanese, a very pleasant duty to tell Mexico of our gratitude and our affection. For scores of years thousands of our citizens have lived in this country, enjoying hospi- tality which reminds them of the old and perma- nent traditions of the Orient. Between Mexico and Lebanon, between Mexico and the Arab world there are numerous bonds which have their origin in the pages of history. we ij] aa   The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Since the speech you have just heard is only by way of introduction, I now call on the second dele- gate of the Lebanon. Mgr. Jean MAROUN “(Lebanon)” (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, fellow delegates : the observations I have the honour to present to you require neither preamble nor introduction. ~All I will say is that they are a living witness on the two points which concern Unesco — education and culture. These comments come from a coun- try which has its own particular traditions, to which it holds firmly because it believes that they are the legitimate expression of its personality. The Lebanon is a country all of whose citizens are deeply attached to their religious faith, a faith which penetrates institutions as well as the life of the citizens themselves. It is also a country of the most respectful tolerance between members of very widely differing spiritual families. Without hiding their beliefs, without observing a colourless neutra- lity, Christians and Moslems are faithful to their creeds, while seeking to co-operate in every possible field — for between people of goodwill the grounds for understanding are unlimited. In spite of the diversity of faiths, and because of this respectful and friendly tolerance, the Lebanon has achieved much for the fusion of minds in a living and organic national unity. The precise and profound distine- tion which Bergson made between «closed» and «open» societies is well known. Allow me to say, without vanity, that the Lebanon is the typical realization in the Near East of the «open society» of which Bergson spoke. Without renouncing its own nature, but by making its contribution to the common heritage, the Lebanon has consented to en- ter into a more universal social body, thus putting into practice the words of Pascal : «The succession of men, throughout the centuries, must be consi- dered as one man who exists for all time and who continually learns.» The Lebanon's contribution in the fields of education and culture is marked by three particular features : the absolute supremacy of the spirit, affirmed in all our institutions and especially in the schools; an active tolerance, with its absolute respect for the human personality; a loyal and devoted kinship with the human family as the expression of the ultimate progress of our race. Firstly, in the field of education among modern nations, the sharpest conflicts have concerned the schools. Each spiritual family, each social autho- rity, dreams of being able to print its seal on the virgin wax of a child’s mind. This awakening consciousness is exposed to all interests, all passions, all beliefs. Under the pretext of unifying a whole people in a single faith and a single will, certain countries have been led to advocate a system of education where spiritual diversities are reduced to one official catechism, imposing upon the nation a mass view of man and of the world. «One education, one youth, one faith» — those are the three links in the chain that makes of man a galley-slave, the more enslaved often because he is no longer aware of his chains, but accepts his position fully and is content to pull his oar and sing at the order of one of Caesar’s officers. The Lebanon, which has always voted for the spirit against matter and for man against the State, is happy to declare, before this assembly, that in all its acts, and especially in the field of education, she renounces entirely any Machiavellian system which would purchase collective power at the price of the dignity of free men. Nevertheless,if the Lebanon rejectstotalitarianism in any form, it also rejects that so-called liberal education by which the State limits itself to dispens- ing ideas in the scientific and technical fields and observes the strictest neutrality in the fields of faith and morals. That is an error which the countries of the Near Fast in general, and the Lebanon in particular, cannot admit. If it is true, as the Director-General declared last Saturday, that the human mind is one and indivisible and that all divided activities bring about the degeneration of the mind itself, then liberalism in education, however logical in theory, is practically unrealizable, because it does not take account of the non-intellectual manifestations of the spirit, such as moral sense and religious sense. Our need to-day, for all of us, is an education which is comprehensive and exhaustive, which will bring together in one loyalty all activities of the mind, those of reason as well as of the emotions, those of knowledge as well as those of conscience, of learning and of wisdom. This exhaustive system is called to day «pluralist education». It is similar to liberal education in that it respects the diversity of cultures and leaves each spiritual family to develop its values in the light of its particular vocation. However, it combines all these diversities in the idea that the nation is an organized body which can only have life and vigour through the unity of its soul and conscience. It is this system which the Lebanon has finally adopted in the training of its children. We have set up as a dogma the fundamental distinction between man as an individual, the political creature, whose acts and even whose conscience are subject to the control of the State, and man as a person,a spiritual being whose eternal vocation is fully respected and — UNO  ‎يب   positively guaranteed by the public authori- ties. Many people might say that this is a theoretical distinction, an attitude of mind. But it is more than that. This theoretical acceptance is transla- ted by efficient public action in the work of educa- tion and teaching in my country. Without speaking of private teaching, national as well as foreign, where all free religious impulses are scrupulously respected, official teaching, by its very structure, gives a large place to religious instruction,varied according to the different spiritual families which go to make up the Lebanese State. Allow me, before concluding this section of my speech on education, to inform you of the resolution unanimously adopted by the Cultural Congress of the Arab League at its first session held in the Lebanon last September. By the terms of this resolution, religious teaching must figure in the curricula on the same footing as civic teaching. The resolution says that there can be no true edu- cation which is not aimed entirely at the welfare of the human being. It follows that education must be based upon spiritual and religious values; at the same time it must be national, aiming to give the child a living awareness of the strong bonds which bind it to the great national family of which it is a part. I apologize for dwelling upon these ideas, which are so old for the western world, but which for the countries of the Near East remain closely assoeia- ted with spiritual values, fundamental guiding ideas which, if they are learned and followed, will cement the union of all in the same national and human fellowship. But this union of minds depends only in part upon education, even religious education. The re-uniting of the different spiritual families of which my country is composed, rests finally upon a community of culture, upon a humanism, modern- ized in its historical aspects, certainly, but never- theless faithful to its permanent inspiration and s'eady upward movement. There again the Lebanon bears witness to a culture of which it is proud and of which I take the liberty to sketch the outlines. Two main data are the bases of our humanism. First, a unique geographical position, allowing us to be at once a barrier and a link, according to circumstances, between East and West; and, secon- dly, a long cultural past, enriched throughout the centuries by diverse influences and always open to penetrations and exchanges from the outside. A simple enumeration of these contributions allows us to glimpse the factors of our present humanism and its possible future development and expansion throughout the Near Fast. First there are the elements of Hellenic culture, with the translation of Greek philosophers; the direct in- fluence of Christian Byzantine and Syrian culture; Roman law and its political organization. With the Arab invasion elements of oriental culture, especially Persian, have become deeply ingrained in our Mediterranean consciousness. After having experienced under the Ottoman régime centuries of torpor, our culture and the humanism in which it was expressed, experienced a marvellous re-birth, thanks to very close contact with western civilization and more directly still with French cul- ture. Perspectives rich with promise are open in my country to the culture and the world humanism which Unesco seeks to spread throughout the planet. Our readiness to assimilate knows no bounds. But Unesco must concern itself with ths corner of the East and establish there a centre of research and cultural exchanges on the model of those which are being set up for the natural sciences. This centre must lay the foundations for to-morrow’s fraternal work, in which the countries of Arab culture and the West will develop and enrich their own particular brands of humanism, the more because they will have worked together to realize the hoped-for world humanism. But one condition is necessary to the success of this task of collaboration : that the Christian West follow throughout the world the policy of eiviliza tion. There is a grievous gulf between occidental policy and occidental civilisation. There is a civilization which the West itself created and which embodies spiritual principles and material assets which can civilise the rest of the world and create world fellowship. Unfortunately the countries which pos- sess these assets and this civilization do not base their policies upon the values they themselves have elaborated. « Peace is only possible», said Valéry, «on condi- tion that the policy of the West is based uponits thought». Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) : Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, may I first, on behalf of the New Zealand delegation, express our great pleasure at meeting in this lovely and exciting country and experiencing the hospitality of the Mexican people, which is already well known, but which, I think, when we return to our homes, will be world-famous. I must in all honesty admit that the New Zealand delegation has always been opposed to the idea of holding the meeting of the General Conference away from the headquarters of Unesco. But I and my colleagues are most grateful that on this occasion, at me TJ  ‎مح   least, we have been overruled. Never have we had such a delightful defeat. May I also, if you will excuse me, say how happy we, as delegates of a very small and very distant country, have been at the warmth of the reception from all friends both in the Secretariat and in the delegations. To return to Unesco after a year has given us something of the feeling we have experienced when we have gone back to our own country after a long absence. I wonderif it is too much to think that perhaps this is the first and most important fruit of Unesco’s work : a kind of international good feeling and goodwill, that is not political, not doc- trinal, but something warm and personal and friendly — the beginnings of a rudimentary sense that one has a second country, which is not a country, butan idea in the minds of friends throughout the world. A year ago I said in Paris that the New Zealand delegation has deep faith in the ideas for which Unesco stands. That is even truer today than it was then. I also said at that time that the great mass of the people, even in my own little country, had still to be sold the idea. admit, 1s still largely true. Since we last met, we in New Zealand have formed a National Commission, and delegates who attended the Paris Conference, and others, have talked; we have written and argued Unesco up and down our That also, I mus. small country, and we have found several things. We have found, first of all, in some people, a faith in Unesco and what it stands for that is touching and even frightening when we realize our own in- adequacies. We have found, admittedly, again, some who are cynics and always will be cynics about the United Nations; but they get their pleasure that way, and we can ignore them. We have also found another group, whom we cannot ignore — a group of people, fair and critically minded, who have a deep faith in the Unesco ideal, but who are still open- minded about the United Nations as an organization. That applies, I think, probably to all of our coun- tries; and I have been sitting here asking myself, as you are, Г have no doubt, what it is that these people — and amongst them some of the most influential people in our countries — expect us to take back. In the first place I am sure that in my country, at least, they are not expecting miracles. They are not expecting us to go back with statistics of the number of children taught to read and write as the result of our fundamental education programme. But they are expecting certain things. They know the difficulties of an organization of this sort; they know the stupendous problems that the Director- General and the staff must have met; but they will ask us, I think, three things. First of all, have we an organization that is efficient and a nucleus of really first-rate people? Secondly, they will ask us (and I know that this is very close to their hearts) what we have done for our most urgent problem of all — the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the countries devastated by war. They want facts on that, which I hope we can give them. I am not going to deal with either of these things, because the most important thing that they will ask is whe- ther we have a programme which is crisp, concise, practical, in the sense that it deals in terms of ways and means and not just in terms of desirable things — a programme, above all, which is limited in scope and is within the powers of an immature organiza- tion to carry out. Now I must admit that we in the New Zealand delegation cannot feel that as yet Unesco has such a programme. I would not wish to be dogmatic. Any of us who in the quiet of our studies have sat down, in order to clarify our minds, and tried to think out what we would have as a programme for Unesco, have come back, I think, from a somewhat chastening experience. In making its programme, an organization of this sort has to face up to all the possibilities and limi- tations. I had to go with another delegate to our New Zealand National Commission, and to place this programme before them; and there was, I think, among the members of that Commission, grave concern. Let me hasten to make myself clear. We all think that all the projects needed to produce a first-rate programme are there in the programme as it exists. We all think that there is no need to go beyond that programme for a first-rate job for Unesco. But there were certain criticisms. It was felt that some parts of the programme were beyond our field. It was felt that some were perhaps impracticable. It was felt that there were some on which we could pass no Judgement because of the way in which, quite naturally I suppose, they were expressed. We found some difficulty in determining what to do with all these projects to promote, encourage and stimulate any cause. We thought they were good projects, but from the programme it was obviously necessary to see if ways and means could be found; and we thought that too many projects were put forward, however good they be indivi- dually. We felt that the greatest danger that this Organization faces at the momentis that it will try to cover too much ground too thinly. That has been said better than I can say it by my colleagues this morning. #We believe, and we say it, that Unesco will show its wisdom and strength, not by the number of projects it can think of to carry out in these first two jor three years, but by the number it can comento NA en    E T L t ] ; O C R E ‎جب steadfastly leave untouched because it has more important ones to do. I should like to mention, as the United States delegate has already done, a statement appearing in the Director-General's Report, because 1t caused us also some concern. On page 94 it says «The most interesting projects for 1948, however, are those which are quite new, and intended to fill some of the gaps in our programme; for the range of our activities, as previously indicated, ought to be as comprehensive as possible in order to secure the support of the various ‘interest groups’ con- cerned.» I know it has been said before that, in Paris, we left the Director-General an impossible task by the number of things we gave him to do, and so we drove him in this particular direction. I know also that there is room for differences of opin- ion. But, even from our own very limited expe- rience in New Zealand, we find ourselves unable to agree with that statement in the report. We think that the important thing for Unesco is to do a few jobs and to do them superlatively well. We feel that we mayattract friends into Unesco because they think we are going to cover their activities, their specific interests, but they will be very short-time friends unless we can give then something more than a promise that their activities will be one of our interest and one of ourfields of endeavour. I should like to make myself clear once more. New Zealand’s object in asking for a cutting of the programme is not financial. Like all small coun- tries, of course, we feel the strain of a large number of financial commitments and a large drain on our personnel; but it is not for financial reasons that we ask this. May I read — since the reading of telegrams seems to be the order of the day — a telegram which I received two days ago from our Prime Minister, who says : « Cabinet has approved in principle a grant of £ 15,000 for Unesco fellowships and bursaries and you are authorized to inform the Conference of this contribution to Unesco Recon- struction Scheme. » This is a very small sum because ours is a very small country, but the amount does happen to be about £ 2,000 more than our annual contribution to Unesco. The only point I wish to make is that it is not just a shortage of money that makes us press for a cut in the programme. Our reasons are largely administrative, and I have to say now practically what I said in Paris. The limiting factor for Unesco’s programme of activities over the next two or three years will not be money. The limiting factors will be the energy, the time, the mental grasp of the Director-General and his half- dozen closest colleagues in unifying our programmes into one programme. Those are the important things. We cannot drive the energy of our Director- General. His energy is immense, as we all know, but even so it is limited; and his time is no more than yours or mine. If he and his few colleagues, who are Unesco for the greater part of the year, are to carry out this programme, we cannot drive them beyond a certain speed. The solution is neither more staff at the lower levels nor more money. By appointing more staff at lower levels you may put a greater and greater strain on the people at the top,till they find they have to let things go by, and things will be coming through a number of diverse channels. We have a part to play in this as delegates. We have to make a special effort not to lead the Secre- tariat to feel that they must turn out quick results on all projects, whether they are ripe or not. We want results, but we must not give the Secretariat the sense of pressure which will lead to third-rate material. It 1s easier and quicker to write ten bad memos than one good one, and quick results in that sense will induce a kind of intellectual deflation as the material is turned out. That is what we should avoid. We in New Zealand feel that we must do a few jobs well and cut the rest. I hope you do not mind my talking for a while on the programme. I have had the honour to be elected to the Chairmanship of the Programme Commission and I have no ideas on programmes whatever. I shall not say much in the Commis- sion, so I hope you will give me a moment for a word or two now. May I take one example — Fundamental Education. I chooseit, not because I consider the example better or worse than any other, but because it is one of our main projects and one which I personally from my own experience have deeply at heart. Now I say, with some hesitation, that in the field of fundamental education we are merely playing with the problems. We have, as you see in our report, 90 per cent of the human race illiterate, and we send on our programme one man to China, probably one to East Africa, and perhaps one to Mexico. We have on our staff two or three professional men, helped by two or three colleagues, dealing with this pro- blem of fundamental education. In grants-in-aid and fellowships, we have $ 6,000 for our project. In the Natural Sciences we have $ 300,000 — fifty times as much. You cannot stimulate or romote or encourage education of the human race on $ 6,000 of grants-in-aid. I am responsible for fundamental education in Western Samoa, which comes under the Tahitian Government. We have already a number of people there, but two days before I left, I got our Prime Minister to agree to send 15 more people from New Zealand to work in that tiny area, and I still have not enoagh. We
1 تن   have to do the job, not just stimulate. You may tell me that our budget is limited; that if we spend more on fundamental education, we must cut some- where else. I accept that. If we believe that fun- damental education is more important than some other things, we must spend more on that and sacri- fice the others. In a day or two we may be asked to face a reduced budget. If so, what do we do? Do we do the same things, only more sketchily? Do we cover the same ground more thinly? That, I think, would be fatal. If we do that, I predict that Unesco will not last many years. I know we must have compromises. We cannot all get our own way here. We must compromise, but in so doing do not let us just give everybody a little less of everything. New Zealand is willing to back a small number of projects — we do not agree with all of them, but we support them because this is, after all, a democracy. We are not willing to back a large number of projects, even if we agree with every one of them. These words imply that we may be forced, not simply to pare a little here and there but even to perform major surgical ope- rations. That implication I also accept. At this point, I suggest in fairness that, whatever we do in the re-grouping ofstaff, in the way of absorb- ing one Section into another, the people we keep on — whom we want in this Organization — must be given tenure. It is not fair to the personnel of the Secretariat that we should keep them dragging on month after month without tenure. The Director- General has had no alternative, and, I am sure, will agree on this. In the future we must give them that certainty. Finally, I ask you to believe that, in pressing for a smaller programme, the New Zealand delegation has no desire whatever to be destructive. We have this ob at heart, and there is nothing we want more than its success. All we, as a small delegation from a small country, can do to help, we shall be glad to do, both at this Conference and in our home country. And if we can go home to our country with a pro- grammethatis clear, practical and limited, I predict th t New Zeal nd :s a whole wil be behind the Unesco organization asit is already behind the Unesco idea. The meeting rose at 12.35 p. m. SIXTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 10 November 1947, at 4 p. m. GONTENTS
15. Second Report of the Credentials Committee
16. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation): Speeches by delegates of China, Australia, Uruguay and Peru President : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium).
15. Second Report of the Credentials Com- mittee. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Before starting on our agenda this afternoon, I have to call uponthe Chairman of the Credentials Gommit- tee, who will present a report on certain questions raised by a number of governments represented here. I call upon M. Uzgoren. М. UZGOREN (Chairman of the Credentials Gom- mittee) : The Credentials Committee, appointed at the Second Session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, held its second meeting on 10 No- vember, 1947, to consider certain urgent commu- nications from the States taking part in the Con- ference. _— B —