Dr. WALKER had no objection, but added that the Executive Board had given some considerationto the question whether such a body would be use- ful. Under the Constitution, the Executive Board was responsible for the execution of the Programme, consulting whom it liked, and it had been thought that the effect of setting up an independent body would be to discharge the Executive Board of some of its duties under the Constitution. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) saw inconvenience in giving two quite different tasks to the Committee : that of examining accounts and books and that of examining legal and administrative questions, He thought it better to refer the matter of the Standing Committee to the Executive Board, which was to meet the following day. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) observed that his pro- posal would certainly not be accepted by the Exe- cutive Board as they had already decided against creating an independent body. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) asked the delegate of Uruguay not to insist on the point without knowing what the United Nations had decided in this con- nexion at Lake Success, as its decisions affected all Specialized Agencies. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) acceded to the sugges- tion of the delegate of Greece. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Saturday, 15 November 1947, at 11.30 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) The CHAIRMAN called attention to the fact that there were only three more full days (17,18 and 19 November), to consider all the items on the agenda. He stated that he had received a communication in the form of a letter from the delegate of Uruguay, who had asked that it should be distributed as soon as possible. Since this document had not yet been translated and mimeographed,it was decided to post- pone discussion on it. The Chairman also said that the recommendation of the Director-General not to discuss any document which was not available in all three working languages would prevent the Commission from discussing any financial questions, r. WILSON (United States of America) appealed to the Commission to continue with the agenda, at least in this instance, in order not to delay the Con- ference further, Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) agreedto this procedure on condition that it was recognized as exceptional. Item 4 (c) of the Agenda : Review of Financial Statement for 1947. ‚ Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) asked for the immediate distribution of the document «Budget Estimates for the Financial Year 19485 (Annexes D and E); it was explained that the document had been distributed at the Fourth Session of the Execu- tive Board and first meeting of the Commission. Dr. WILSON (United States of America) paid tri- bute to this document as an excellent technical achievement, especially in comparison with previous financial statements. He moved a resolution to - accept the document, commending the Secretariat for it, and said that he would submit a second resolution, with the object of improving the docu- ment for future use. He proposed that : To assure necessary record keeping during the currentyear, on the basis of which a more adequate Financial Statement can be developed for 1948, the Chairman of the Commission shall request the Director-General to arrange for the maintenance of Records and the development of Financial Statements for future years to indicate Encumbrances and Expenditures by Programmes, Projects and Quarters of each financial year, and in accordance with the Headings of the Budget Document. Mr PILE (United Kingdom) joined in commending the Financial Statement for 1947. He said that he was slightly perplexed because Table I of this document had already been presented in another document. The latter was based on un-audited in- comes but it was not too different from the re-audited — 561 —
36    account. He considered that it would be very useful in discussing the 1948 budget to get an esti- mate of the last quarter of the fiscal year. He also observed that the estimated figure of unspent bal- ance was not included, although it had been noted in another connexion." The delegate of the United Kingdom then asked the delegate of the United States to accept an amendment as a second paragraph of the latter’s resolution, but in its final form, the proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom was treated as a separate resolu- tion. It proposed : F That in order to assist Member States to formulate their advice on the budget for the following year, the Director- General shall submit to Member States a statement, by Chaptersof the Budget and by Headings of the Budget Docu- ment, of expenditures and obligations incurred during the first three quarters of each fiscal year, or as soon as these are prepared; and that at the same time, a simple statement by Chapters of the Budget and Headings of the Budget shall be submitted to Member States, giving an estimate for the last quarter of the year, assuming that the General Confe- rence is held in that quarter. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) suggested that members in arrears should be treated according to Article 19 of the Rules of the United Nations. The CHAIRMAN said that this point would be dealt with in the review of financial regulations. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) declared, in clarifi- cation of his amendment, that he was very anxious to get the details required in the United States resolution. He asked the Secretariat whether it would be possible to break down the Budget in terms of programmes and projects without undue difficulty. M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) saw no difficulty in pro- viding the information desired by the delegate of the United Kingdom. There was an essential difference, however, between the financial statement, based on figures existing in the record books, and an estimate, which could not be based on actual figures. He thought that it was not desirable to add the esti- mate to the existing tables, but rather to make a new Annexfor the fourth quarter of the year. This would be quite simple because Unesco followed the procedure of the United Nations. He considered it dangerous, however, to give an estimate of more than one quarter in advance, because otherwise there would be too much guess-work. Asked by Mr DUNTON (Canada) to comment on the United States resolution, M. PEISSEL (Secreta- riat) went on to say that he had absolutely no objec- tion to it. He welcomed any increase of control of the General Conference over the finances of the Or- ganization, as well as any increase of control of the Secretariat on finances. Mr. DUNTON (Canada) seconded the proposals of both the United States and the United Kingdom. It was difficult at present to estimate what any given programme or project would cost, This should be possible in the Organization’s second year. He EA whether it would be possible at this onference to obtain some form of estimate of the position at the end of this year. A suggestion from the delegate of the United States of America that the amendment of the delegate of the United Kingdom should be considered separa- tely, because the subject was fairly complex, was adopted. M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) enquired whether there was any distinction in meaning in the words « Head- ings» and «Chapters» in the United Kingdom reso- lution, since the French word for both was identical. Dr. WILSON (United States of America) said that he was not opposed to the United Kingdom resolution but there was some doubt in his mind whether these additional statements were necessary. If the United States resolution was carried out, requests of the delegate of the United Kingdom would be satisfied. He did notfully understandthe meaning ofthe United Kingdom's resolution, owing to difficulties in termi- nology. He therefore proposed that the Drafting Committee should determine the precise text. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) responded that he did not entirely agree that the two resolutions over- lapped, since his resolution was primarily concerned with the time factor, but he accepted the proposal that his motion should be referred to the Drafting Committee, which was then adopted. Item 4 (e) of the Agenda : Currency of Contri- butions. Dr. WILSON (United States of America) moved the resolution appearing on pages 10-11 (docu- ment 2C/C 2/4). He declared that he would consi- der with great sympathy any request by any country which desired to be transferred from one group to another. Miss Mc PHEE (New Zealand) expressed her re- servations about the Revolving Fund. The experience of New Zealand showed that it was just as easy to pay contributions as to pay to the Revolving Fund. There was no real necessity to have a Revolving Fund of $2,000,000in 1948. She was willing, however, to support the resolution of the United States if the question of the Revolving Fund were postponed. — 562 —    Dr. WILSON (United States of America) considered that there was no necessity to omit the reference to the Revolving Fund because that was the respon- sibility of the Programme and Budget Gommission. It was best to vote for the resolution in its present form in order to avoid the necessity for another resolution. SIXTH The GHAIRMAN also pointed out that the resolu- tion dealt only with types of currency and not the amounts. With the approval of the delegate of New Zealand, the resolution was adopted. The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m. MEETING Saturday, 15 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Item 4 (f) of the Agenda : Amendments pro- posed by the Executive Board to the Financial Regulations (document 2C/C2/2). In the absence of a quorum, an informal discussion of this item took place. A quorum being present, the CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and announced that, during the informal exchange of opinion, delegates had approved the texts of Regulations 1, 2 and 3. He asked for fur- ther comments and, there being none, declared these Regulations formally adopted. With regard to the general part of Regulation 4, he said that it had been decided informally to refer this item to the Drafting Committee. The latter was to secure the technical advice of the Budget Sub-Commisssion, which was, at present considering this question. This proposal was formally agreed and sections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Regulation were approved without discussion. With regard to section ({), the delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA pointed out that the revised text was entirely different from the origi- nal and asked for an explanation. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the United States delegate was quite right in his obser- vation, and explained that it was proposed to delete the original (f) from the Financial Regulations and insert it at a more appropriate place, possibly in the Staff Regulations. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA expressed his appreciation of this explanation, but suggested that an item relating to established posts, without mention of names, might be included in the Financial Regulations. He submitted the following proposed wording : A list of established posts, both filled and vacant, by organizational units, identified by title and grade and indi- cating the salaries and allowances payable, be confidentially circulated to Member States and the General Conference. Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) said that he had no ob- jection to the proposed new clause, but hoped, never- theless, that the list of names of Unesco personnel, at present being prepared for the General Conference, would still be circulated and that this would be done in the future. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that it was hoped to distribute this list within a few days and suggested that the Commission, at an appro- priate point on its agenda, should pass a resolution asking that this point be inserted in the Staff Regu- lations in order that this list of names might be pre- pared for the use of delegates before each General Conference. He also referred to the United States resolution passed at the previous meeting of the Com- mission and suggested that a date might be inserted in this. He reminded the meeting that the Secre- tariat normally circulated the Budget figures to Member States at the end of June and it would be impossible to foretell at that time what posts would be vacant at the beginning of the new financial year. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OFAMERICA agreed to include the words «at 30 June» in his draft resolution. The United States proposal for the inclusion of a new clause in the Financial Regulations was then se- conded by France, and adopted by the meeting as section (g) of Regulation 4. The meeting then passed to the consideration of Regulation 5 and Mr, PILE (United Kingdom) asked — 563 —