of selecting staff were sufficiently impersonal and careful. With regard to the remarks of the Deputy Director-General on the difficulty of blending into one team staffs of different nationalities, the dele- gate of India insisted this difficulty had to be over- come : the staff must reflect the membership of the Organization. In order to reduce the suspense which might result from the introduction of the resolutions of the Commission, he urged that the review of the staff be carried out quickly. For all these reasons he urged support of the three resolu- tions to be submitted by the delegates of the United States of America, Mexico and himself asking for an improved balance in the geographical repre- sentation on thestaff and a review of the qualifications of the staff. He suggested that a small sub-com- mittee of the Executive Board be formed to help the Director-General give effect to these resolutions. The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m. TWELFTH MEETING Wednesday, 19 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman: Item 5 (c) ofjthe Agenda : Review of Salary and Allowance Policy and Structure (con- tinuation). The meeting continued the discussion of the pre- vious meeting. Seven speakers were scheduled to speak on the statement delivered by the Deputy Director-General. Dr. WALKER (Australia) said his delegation had fully appreciated the grave difficulties encountered in setting up a permanent Organization and the excel- lent work done in the Secretariat. The procedure followed-carrying on with the staff assembled for the Preparatory Commission in London and building the permanent structure on these foundations - was entirely correct. However, it would be necessary to gather not only personnel who were experts in their own speciality, but who were also experts at working in the international field. This would require careful direction by the management and systematic training of staff. The Australian delegation fully appreciated the difficulties of working in Paris and hoped that the French Government would help in attacking the difficulties met by the staff of the Organization. The Australian delegation therefore submitted the following resolution : The Administrative and External Relations Commission, having heard a statement by the Deputy Director-General on the problems encountered in organizing and staffing the Secretariat in 1947.
1. Requests that the text of the statement be circulated to all delegations for their information;
9. Urges the Programme and Budget Commission to give dae weight to these considerations in the selection of Dr. Howard E. WILSON (United States of America) projects for 1948, bearing in mind the crucial importance of not imposing on the Secretariat an unduly extensive pro- gramme,
3. In view of the problems involved in recruitment, training and managementof the staff, the Commission recom- mends in particular that the Programme and Budget to be approved by the Conference should not provide for any expansion over the next twelve months in the total number of positions in the Secretariat as at the present date. It was the general feeling of the Australian dele- gation that senior officials of the Secretariat would find, upon reviewing the present personnel, that it would be necessary to have more people in the Programme Sections, and fewer persons on the administrative side. If the Secretariat were to be increased by 25 per cent or so, there would be a serious danger of a breakdown in the coming year. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) recommended that Dr. Laves’ report should be given the broadest distribution in the three working languages. Professor de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) explained that Unesco’s experiment was without precedent. It could not be compared to any of the existing international organizations. The tasks of the Secretariat were not clearly defined; some coun- tries thought of the Organization as a power house of ideas; others saw it as a permanent round table for discussions of the sciences, education and culture. In fact, Unesco’s Secretariat was crushed by its daily administrative routine, and the problem facing the delegates had to be seen against this background. The Brazilian delegation did not consider the salaries of the Secretariat too high, particularly — 577 —
37           in view of the high cost of living in Paris, short- term contracts and the instability resulting therefrom. It was necessary for the Secretariat to admit the greatest flexibility in its technique and in its direc- tives. There was a danger of compromising the initiative of the creative sections by allowing an oversized administrative section of the Organization to remain. It should be clearly understood that the Administrative Bureaux were to function at the service of the creative Sections. The Administrative Sections should not be superimposed upon the others. Paris was the ideal centre for the headquarters of the Organization, but, when that city had been selected, it had been understood that the French Government would give Unesco every facility for easy development. That Government had indeed made efforts for which the Conference was grateful ; however, the Brazilian delegation would urge the Administrative and External Relations Commission to recommend to the Conference that the Director- General should initiate further negotiations with the French Government to obtain duty-free facilities for imports of food and living commodities. Mr. ROSENTHAL (United States of America) regretted that there was some feeling that the United States delegation was being harsh with the Secretariat. The contrary was true; the remarks of Senator Brookes and the Deputy Director-General had made a great impression and the difficulties of the Secretariat were fully appreciated. Never- theless, in the process of hasty recruiting, mistakes had been unavoidable. The United States dele- gation was therefore offering a resolution which was meantto rectify them, and which read asfollows : The Administrative and External Relations Commission resolves : That the General Conference instruct the Director-General to include, in the review of qualifications of personnel of the Secretariat, a consideration of the salary and classification of each incumbent and to effect at the earliest possible moment the necessary reclassification where indicated. A number of the speakers had stressed that one of the major difficulties was that there was very little security. The United States delegation favoured the granting of a greater number of permanent contracts. This would certainly help morale. More- over, Unesco might develop certain facilities which would be infinitely more useful for the Secre- tariat than a rise in salary or in living allowances. The development of a really efficient Commissary would be much more important in improving the conditions of the Secretariat than any other single factor, Such a Commissary should contain such foods and commodities as would make it unnecessary for the staff to resort to the black market. The Brazilian delegate’s suggestion regarding customs facilities should be followed through. Another way in which living conditions of staff members could be improved and instability mini- mized would be to create a housing service in Unesco, the function of which would be to assist Unesco personnel in obtaining adequate living quarters. There was at least one other international o mization with headquarters in Paris which had no diplomatic immunity and which had been given facilities to exchange hard currency at a rate higher than the official rate. Had the Administration taken any steps to discuss a similar arrangement for the Unesco Secretariat with the French Government? Thus it was in the general spirit of helping to create such living conditions as would improve the efficiency of the Secretariat that the United States delegation was presenting its second resolution concerning a review of residence and living allowance: The Administrative and External Relations Commission : Considering the recommendations of the Advisory Commit- tee on Administration and Finance of the United Nations that Unesco should examine closely the necessity for payment of residence allowances on a continuing basis; and. In view of the heavy cost to the Organization of a continuing system of residence and living allowances, Recommends to the Budget Sub-Commission that, in developing the Budget for 1948, it give special attention to the desirability and feasibility of reducing or eliminating, as far as possible, these allowances, it being understood that the members of the staff must be assured an adequate standard ofliving and conditions conducive to high working morale. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) expressed support for the second United States resolution and for the resolution of the Australian delegation. The Deputy Director-General’s remarks had been greatly appre- ciated, but they had dealt mainly with the salary scale. It was important that the Administrative and External Relations Commission should avoid being bogged down with details, and that it should confine its activity to laying down clear rules and settling general principles and policy. In this spirit, the United Kingdom delegation submitted the following draft resolution : The Administrative and External Relations Commission : Considering the fundamental importance of the size, struc- ture and functions of the staff of the Secretariat; Considering the large percentage of the total Budget for
1948 which is at present devoted to personnel services under Chapter 1I of the Budget Estimates, and the details of the appointments presented in document 2C/92; Considering that the main function of the Secretariat is to carry out the Programme approved by the General Conference and that the number of the staff directly engaged in carrying out the Programme of Unesco appears unduly small in relation to the total personnel employed ; Resolves (1) that a substantial reduction in the funds pro- posed under Chapter II of the Budgetis possible and should be made. =— 8 —
(2) That certain changes in the structure and functions of the Secretariat must be effected, without making additional appointments, to ensure the greatest concentration of funds and personnel on Programme work; Requests the Budget Sub-Commission to consider the above Resolution in the light of general budgetary considerations and in the light of the following factors :
1. That a long-term appointment policy is likely to be approved by the General Gonference;
2. That the General Conference is resolved to reconsider the geographical distribution of the staff of the Secretariat ;
3. That the Director-General is to be asked to consider the gradual reclassification of staff according to qualifications for the posts in question;
4. That the programme adopted by the General Confe- rence will inevitably affect the size, structure and functions of the Secretariat in 1948, Sr. EVANGELISTA (Philippines) found it difficult to understand why only one out of 600 Secretariat members was from the Philippines. There was no question of selfish national reasons but a belief that the principle of geographic distribution of personnel must be followed if Unesco was to stand faithfully for international ideals and represent the cultures and education of all nations. No cristicism of the present situation was implied but to accept it was one thing, to allow it to continue was another. The Philippine delegation felt that correction of the present inequitable geographical distribution must be given the highest priority in the consideration of the matter before the Com- mission. The Rapporteur had prepared a draft resolution representing the consensus of opinions expressed by the delegates at previous meetings. His draft was distributed to the members of the Commission. The CHAIRMAN ruled that, as it was necessary to adjourn the meeting immediately so that dele- gates might attend a plenary meeting, no action should be taken on the resolution presented by the delegates of Australia, the United States of America and the United Kingdom until the meeting on Friday morning, when the remaining speakers would also be heard. The meeting rose at 6 p. m. THIRTEENTH MEETING Friday, 21 November 1947, at 9.30 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). The CHAIRMAN had two reports to make : he had received a letter from Dr. Walker, conveying the thanks of the Australian delegation for the sympathy of the Commission at the death of Mr. Medworth. Secondly, the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission had requested that the Admi- nistrative and External Relations Commission should consider the question of grants-in-aid as soon as possible, so that its opinion could be taken into account when drawing up the 1948 Programme and Budget. With the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, he had decided to submit the matter to the General Committee, which would indicate which part of the grants-in-aid programme the present Commission should discuss, Dr. WALKER (Australia) had no doubt that the Chairman’s procedure was correct, but wished to mention that the Executive Board had drawn up proposals, contained in document 2C/75, to be sub- mitted to the General Conference, concerning rela- tions with Non-Governmental organizations to whom grants-in-aid had been made. The Budget Sub- Commission would not wish the Commission te decide on the size of the grants, as these would be in the nature of payments for work carried out in connexion with Unesco’s programme. If the Com- mission approved this principle, the Budget Sub- Committee would then only consider specific grants- in-aid within that category. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the dele- gate of Australia and thought they should finish with the question of principle. The CHAIRMAN said that that was what he and the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Committee had intended to recommend. item Bc of the Agenda : Revision of Salary and Allowance Policy and Structure (con- tinuation.) Mr. CHRISTENSEN (Norway) observed that the Commission had been considering document 2C/92 — 579 —