ELEVENTH MEETING Tuesday, 18 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) The CHAIRMAN recalled that there were very urgent problems before the Committee, which had to consider the progress of work of the Conference, and he therefore asked speakers to be as brief as possible. Draît Resolution of the delegation of Poland (continuation). M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) reminded the meeting that the delegate of Canada had, the pre- vious day, moved that the resolution, which had been referred to the Committee by the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, was ultra vires of the Conference. He submitted that the assumptions of the Canadian delegate were based on premises irrelevant to the problem. He wished to reply to certain points brought up by several dele- gates : (1) that the Constitution prevented Unesco from interfering in matters within the domestic jurisdiction of Member States. Many of Unesco’s recommendations were in some way an intervention in internal affairs, for example, in questions of racial equality, and Member States had agreed to inter- vention by joining the Organization. Article I, paragraph 2 ¢, of the Constitution laid down that Unesco should assure the conservation and protection of the world’s inheritance of books, works of art and monuments of history and science and, in approving the Polish resolution, it would fulfil this obligation.
(2) Several delegations had stressed that the courts in Anglo-Saxon countries were independent of the executive. He agreed fully and said that Poland also respected this principles.
(3) It had been suggested that it would be a waste of precious time to transmit the proposal to another body of the Conference. He submitted that precious time had been wasted on more trifling matters. The delegate of Canada had said that the question of the property of the Polish Government was a mat- ter for the Canadian courts, but he had in his pos- session a paper which proved that the Canadian dele- gate’s speech was based on misleading information. During the whole course of the negotiations between the Canadian and Polish Governments, at no time had a suggestion been made to the Polish Govern- ment that the matter should be referred to the Cana- dian courts. The treasures were contained in thirty- two trunks and a chest, which could not be located. The Canadian Government had suggested that those in possession of the treasures would surrender them if the Canadian Government would act as custodian for five years and not surrender them to any govern- ment whatsoever. In the meantime, they would be exhibited in Canada. At the end of the five years, the Canadian Government would surrender them to the Polish Government. The Polish Government refused this offer categorically. Negotiations had been going on for eighteen or nineteen months and the matter had been considered by the Canadian Departments of Justice, National Revenue, and External Affairs. On 23 September, conversations had taken place between the Polish Ambassador, M. Modzelewski, and M. St. Laurent. On 29 September, the Polish Chargé d’affaires had made a démarche in Ottawa and on 2 October, M. St. Laurent had promised to reconsider the mat- ter. He repeated that at no time had it been sug- gested that the matter should be submitted to the Canadian courts. If negotiations were in progress, Unesco should not interfere, but he claimed that negotiations were being protracted and no reply had been received to the Polish démarche of 29 September. The trea- sures, which had been removed from the Convent of Ste Anne in Quebec, were stored somewhere and might be deteriorating. Several delegates had expressed the hope that the treasures would soon be restored to the Royal Castle in Cracow and the Polish delegation felt that the official expression of such a wish, without in any way blaming the Canadian Government, would give some sort of satisfaction. Further, the Unesco co-operating body in Canada might help by expressing a desire to the Canadian Government that negotiations should be accele- rated. Finally, he submitted that the motion for dismis- sal should be rejected and that the Committee should — 261 —
17 A   direct the proposal to any body within the Confe- rence which it deemed fit. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) thought it unnecessary to refer the matter back to the Canadian Govern- ment; the Polish delegate had agreed to the facts the previous day and was not contradicting them at present. He repeated that the Canadian Govern- ment had not been asked to assume responsibility for the treasures, had never been responsible for them and, further, it had never possessed them, did not possess them at present and did not know where they were. It had, however, repeatedly offered to help the Polish Government and was still willing to do all it could under the laws of Canada. More it could not do, and to infer that it could would be ill- advised. The Polish Government knew quite well that recourse to the courts was open to them. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) felt it was obvious that during the discussions, there had been a friendly feeling towards the Polish claim, but the Committee did not know the full facts. His delegation felt that the matter was one for the domestic jurisdiction of Canada and, endeavouring to take an objective view, suggested to the Polish delegation the following resolution : The General Committee has considered the question referred to it by the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, namely the Draft Resolution concerning the resto- ration of certain objets d’art to the Royal Castle in Cracow, submitted to the Chaiaman of the Commission by the dele- gate of Poland. It has not discussed the merits of the case raised in that Draft Resolution, but has heard from the representatives of Poland and of Canada their account of the facts of the case. In the light of these facts, it is of the opinion that the Resolution is not one that can properly be moved in the General Conference, and advises the President of the Confe- rence accordingly. Mr. PIERCE (Canada), upon being assured that the resolution fulfilled the same purpose as his own and believing thatit was less harsh in wording, withdrew his motion in favour ofit. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) did not concur with the resolution and raised the following two points :
1) in spite of what he had said the previous day, the Committee had discussed the merits; 2) he was grateful for the expressions of sympathy from the United Kindgom delegate, but was surprised they had not been embodied in his resolution. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) replied that they could express sympathy with Poland at the loss of the treasures, but could not express in the resolution anything which might be interpreted as an attempt to influence the law. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) agreed with the United Kingdom proposal, but suggested adding at the end of the second paragraph of the United Kingdom resolution after «facts of the case» the words «and expresses the hope that a friendly settlement between the two States will be reached in this matter. « His proposal was seconded by the delegate of Peru. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) proposed, «an early solu- tion» instead of «friendly settlement», as any settle- ment between two friendly governments would necessarily be friendly and the word «settlement» implied a difference and therefore «solution» was better. Agreed. M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) was surprised at the Polish proposal because such cases were numerous in countries bordering on Germany, but had not been brought before the General Conference of Unesco. The United Kingdom resolution, as amended by the delegates of India and Canada, was adopted. Drait Resolution proposed by the delegation of Mexico. At the proposal of Mr. William BENTON (United States of America), seconded by M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland the item was referred to the Programme and Budget Commission. Review of Progress achieved by the Conference and its Commissions. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, as it was desirable that nothing should be considered by the Programme and Budget Commission until reports had arrived from the Working Parties, it appeared that certain bodies would have to continue work during the recess. He suggested that the Working Parties should meet on Thursday, 20 November, the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion on Thursday and Friday, 20 and 21 November, that the Budget Sub-Committee and the Drafting Committee should meet during at least three or Afour days. In this way, it was hoped that all Working Party documents would be ready by Monday 24 November. The Programme and Budget Commission, instead of holding one meeting after the recess, would have to meet on two or three days, but could sit at the same time as the Budget Sub- Committee and the Administrative and External Relations Commission. He asked for a resolution to affirm the desirability of giving absolute discretion to the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission and the Chairman of the Administrative and External Relations Commission in the handling of business. The CHAIRMAN understood the need for saving time, but recalled that 20 November was one of Mexico's four National holidays and no Mexican — 262 —      worked on that day. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had not realized this and asked for discretion to arrange the matter in that light, perhaps making Friday, Saturday and Sunday working days. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) congra- tulated the Director-General and said that the United States delegation gave him and his staff full authority to arrange the programme of work as they thought best. They would also co-operate with the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission and the Chairman of the Administrative and Exter- nal Relations Commission and accept their rulings. As regards the latter Commission,it had been stated that it had had difficulty in obtaining a quorum, and it would be even more difficult that afternoon when the Working Party on Germany was to meet. He therefore suggested that the Working Party on Ger- many should be abolished and that the question of relations with Germany should be referred direct- ly to the Administrative and External Relations Commission. The proposal was seconded by M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) and so agreed. The CHAIRMAN asked for approval of the Direc- tor-General’s suggestion that full discretion should be accorded to the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission and the Chairman of the Administrative and External Relations Commission in handling the business. Agreed. The meeting rose at 11.10 a. m. TWELFTH MEETING Wednesday, 19 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the programme of work over the holiday period, as set out on page
114 of the Journal. He recalled that there was a meeting of the Plenary Conference in the evening at
6p.m. He called upon the Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee to report on the meeting of the preceding evening. Mr. PIERCE (Canada), Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee, announced that Dr. Stoddard (United States of America) had been nominated to replace the Hon. A. MacLeish (United States of America), who had resigned before completing his term of office. The following had been nominated to occupy the places left vacant by the six members whose terms of office had expired : Dr. Encarnacion Alzona (Philippines); Dr. Stanislaw Arnold (Poland); Dr. Chen Yuan (China); Dr. Martinez Baez (Mexico); Sir John Maud (United Kingdom); Dr. E. Ronald Walker (Australia). It was decided that the list should be distributed to delegates before the plenary meeting. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) recall- ed that he had previously asked for a place on the agenda for a resolution regarding the Executive Board. He asked that it should be taken as the first item on the agenda. He was seconded by Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom). Agreed. Resolution of the United States delegation concerning the Executive Board. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) said that hehad prepared this resolution concerning the status of members of the Executive Board for the follow- ing reasons :
(1) there had been much criticism of members of the Executive Board, not only from the United States delegation, but from many others, for example, the speech made by Mr. Ro- berts (Union of South Africa) at the Nominations Committee;
(2) he had taken cognizance of certain aspects of this criticism in his opening speech to the Conference when ex- pressing surprise that the Executive Board had failed to com- ment on the report of the Director-General ;
(3) from the past year’s experience, things might have been learnt which would improve the functioning of the Exe- cutive Board and the general conduct of the Conference. He therefore read a proposed resolution. It was decided that the text of the resolution should be distributed and examined under Item I of the agenda of the mext meeting. Drait Resolution proposed by the delegation of Uruguay. The CHAIRMAN remarked that this was a question of procedure and therefore suggested it should be passed to the Procedure Committee. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) remarked that it was exactly the kind of question that should be dealt with by the Committee whose establishment he had just proposed to consider the functioning of the Executive Board. — 263 —