SECOND MEETING Tuesday, 15 November 1947, at 9 а. т. Chairman : Dr. Esther C. BRUNAUER (United States of America) The CHAIRMAN mentioned that she and M. Mon- tagnier had considered the various rules of procedure and the proposed amendments. Most of the pro- posed alterations affected the wording rather than the substance of the rules. The only amendments proposed to the substance of the Rules of Procedure were the following :
1. That dealing with the rights of observers, which had been adopted by the Committee on Pro- cedure.
2. The proposal that the general expression «the Conference Committees and subsidiary bodies » (in French, «les comités, commissions et organes auxi- liaires de la Conférence») should be used in every case where the Commissions, Committees and Wor- king Parties of the Conference were mentioned to- gether.
3. The amendments to be made to the terms of reference of the Nominations Committee. The Chairman then stated that some draft amend- ments submitted by the delegates of Venezuela and Cuba concerned the general conduct of the Organiza- tion (terms of reference of the Executive Board,etc.) rather than the Rules of Procedure for the Conference The General Committee of the Conference would possibly appoint a Committee to consider such mat- ters or might instruct the Committee on Procedure to do so. Forthe time being, however, the present Committee was not authorized to take decisions on such subjects. Finally, the Chairman said that the Committee would have to consider the amendment, proposed by the United Kingdom, that the order in which the various Rules of Procedure were placed should be altered. The Committee then considered, in order, the various individual Rules. Rule 1 : The amendment proposed by the delegation of the United States of America (document US.Del/84 Adm. Fin/11) was approved. Rule 2 : In connection with this rule it was agreed that, throughout the English version of the Rules of Pro- cedure, the words « Member State » should be used instead of the words «State Member. » Rule 3 : A draft amendment had been submitted by the delegation of the United States of America (document US./Del/84, Adm. Fin/11). After a short discussion, the Committee agreed on the following wording : «Special sessions of the General Conference may be convened by the Executive Board with the appro- val or on the request of a majority of the Member States. Special sessions shall be held at the head- quarters of the Organization unless the Executive Board finds it necessary to convene the meeting el- sewhere. » (In French : «La Conférence générale peut se réu- nir en session extraordinaire avec l’approbation ou sur la demande de la majorité des Etats Membres. Les sessions extraordinaires ont lieu au siège de l’Organisation, à moins que le Conseil exécutif ne juge nécessaire de désigner un autre lieu de réunion.») Rule 4 : No amendment. Rule 5 : No amendment. Rule 6 : An amendment had been suggested at the first meeting of the Committee on Procedure (see docu- ment 2C/PRO/1). As other amendments had been proposed, the Chairman asked the delegates of Venezuela, Cuba and Belgium to re-draft the Rule after the meeting. = 039 —    Rule 7 : An amendment had been proposed by the delega- tion of the United States of America — to replace the words «private international organizations» by the words «international non-governmental organiza- tions». This amendment was accepted. There was some discussion ‘regarding the final words of the Ruler. to specified sessions of the Conference or its commissions ». The CHAIRMAN thought that the problem in this case was to bring Rule 7 into line with the Constitu- tion (Article IV.13). She therefore considered that the best course would be to submit the neces- sa.y recommendations to those responsible for the revision of the Constitution of Unesco, and subse- quently, if necessary, consider re-drafting the Rule. This proposal was approved. Rule 6: An amendment had been proposed by the delega- tion of the United States of America (document US.Del/84, Adm.Fin/11). The delegate of VENEZUELA considered that this proposal was unjustified; m this connexion, he drew the attention of the members of the Committee to Articles V. 5 and VI. 3 of the Constitution, prescrib bing the procedure fo be followed in preparing the provisional agenda, The Committee concurred in this opinion and the amendment was rejected. At the suggestion ofthe delegate of VENEZUELA,it was decided to substitute the word «agenda » for the words «ordéndel dia» in the Spanish version. Rule 9 : No amendment. Rule 10 : The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to consider whether, in view of the provisions of Article V.5 of the Constitution, it was really necessary to retain paragraph (b). Several membersof the Committee were obliged to leave at this point and asked their colleagues to continue the work, so far as it concerned drafting amendments, in their absence. If more important matters were raised, they could later be submitted to the full Committee. The Chairman continued the consideration of the Rules of Procedure. Rule 11 : No amendment. Rule 12 : The delegate of VENEZUELA proposed a minor amendment of the Spanish version. Rule 13: The amendment proposed by the delegation of the United States of America (document US.Del/84, Adm.Fin/11) was approved. Rules 14 and 15 + No amendment. Rule 16 : The CHAIRMANsaid that, when all the members were present, the Committee should endeavour to evolve a more precise description of the Conference Committees and subsidiary bodies. It should then re-draft Rule 16 and various other rules, in accor- dance with its decision on this matter, The meeting rose at 11 a. m.