| Mexican people. We repeat the words of our Pre- sident that, in the land of the America of Bolivar, the purposes of Unesco find the most propitious atmos- phere, the warmest welcome, the greatest assurance of comprehension and the most fervent enthusiasm. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : As no other delegation wishes to speak on the Report of the Director-General, the meeting is adjourned. But, before leaving, I will ask you to examine the proposals submitted by the General Committee of the Conference to the General Conference. There is one dealing with the organization of the work of the Programme and Budget Commission, the Budget Sub-Commission and the Working Parties. This document, 2C/19A, has been distributed to all delegations. If you have no observations to make, I will ask you to approve the document. Document 2C/19A is approved. The meeting rose at 2 p. m. EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 12 November 1947, at 5.50 p. m. CONTENTS Pages.
18. Discussion of the Recommendations of the Programme and Budget Com- mission concerning the Total Budget Figure for 1948.............. 111 President : Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)
18. Discussion of the Recommendations of the Programme and Budget Commission con- cerning the Total Budget Figure for 1948. The PRESIDENT : This meeting of the General Conference is called to consider the recommendations of the Programme and Budget Commission on the total budget figure for the year 1948. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, fellow-delegates, I want to suggest to the meeting that, from the point of view of wisdom, it would be a good thing to adjourn. May I explain why I suggest this? It is not because the United Kingdom delegation wishes to make any attempt whatsoever to reverse a decision already taken. The democratic vote has been taken and the total figure is now known. But I do think, in fairness to many of the delegates, that we ought to bear in mind the programmeasit has been presented for to-day. The Programme and Budget Commission met at 11 o’clock, and we expected that by lunch time the total figure would have been carried. Instead of that, we have gone on until a quarter past five and then reached a decision, — and reached a decision, moreover, with as many as ten abstentions. But it has been demo- cratically taken and it has been carried, and every one hopes and wishes good for Unesco in so fine a budget figure. Then you will notice on the pro- gramme it says : The Eighth Plenary Meeting at 4 p.m, followed by the Programme and Budget Commission I appeal, ladies and gentlemen, not only to our commonsense but to our wisdom and prestige, and I suggest it might be wiser all round to adjourn now, and give everybody a fair chance of being here to vote in favour of the total figure. The PRESIDENT: Is the motion for adjournment seconded? Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : The United States delegation wishes to second this motion, As you know, we are prepared to support the budget figure, but we feel that all the delegations should be represented. If therefore the vote should Le taken to-night, in case this motion fails, we would abstain from voting. The PRESIDENT : Will those who are in favour of adjourning this meeting until to morrow morning at
11 o'clock indicate their desire by a show of hands? A vote was taken by show of hands. The PRESIDENT: The motion for adjournment is carried. We will meet to morrow at 11 a. m. The meeting rose at 5.55 p. m. — 111 —