THIRD MEETING Wednesday, 12 November 1947 at 4 р. т. CONTENTS Consideration of Total Budget Figure Chairman : Dr C, E. BEEBY (New Zealand). Consideration of Total Budget Figure. The CHAIRMAN : I call upon the delegate of the Netherlands. Dr. J. C. KIELSTRA (Netherlands) : As you observed at the end of this morning’s meeting, the moment has now come when we should reach a decision. It seems to me that there was no general trend this morning towards a definite amount. The lowest figure mentioned was $ 6,500,000 for the total budget. We ourselves mentioned $7,000,000 The British delegation also mentioned $7,000,000 I do not remember for the moment whether a higher figure was specifically men- tioned, but other delegations gave the impression at least that they were inclined to vote a higher amount. Nevertheless, a specific amount should be moved now. I believe the Netherlands delegation was the first to refer to a fixed amount this morning, andit is therefore my duty to move a figure now. Conse- quently, I propose this motion : That this Commission, considering the financial condition of many Member States; having in mind on the one hand the ideals of Unesco but on the other hand the necessity of keeping the 1948 budget within such limits as not to impose too heavy a burden on the budgets of Member States who are at present in difficult financial circumstances; Recommends to the General Conference that the total amount of the 1948 budget should be fixed at $ 7,000,000. Dr. CHEN Chih-Mai (China) : T second the motion. The CHAIRMAN : This motion has been seconded by the delegate of China and is open for discussion, support, amendment or any other treatment you like, so long as you are speaking on the budget figure. M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : According to our experience of budgets — and we have some experience — a budget figure is only a hypothetical figure. In reality $ 7,000,000 or $8,500,000 mean much the same thing, because those who are in favour of $ 7,000,000 will, if necessary, in the light of experience, accept certain increases, as they say themselves, and those like us, who accept the figure of $ 8,500,000, will also possibly, in the light of experience, agree to reductions. Experience alone will show which is right. Uy delegation has drafted a motion in the follow- ing terms :
1. Belgium gives her complete approval to the work undertaken by Unesco;
2. The Belgian contribution for 1947 has been accepted by the Belgian Parliament and the order to pay has been transmitted to the competent authorities;
3. Belgium moves as an amendment that a budget of $ 8,500,000 be approved, with the proviso that this maximum figure may be reduced, should there be a body of projects justifying this diminution. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the amendment and the proviso. Is there anyone who wishes to second that amendment? Dr. Z. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : The Polish delegation wishes to second the Belgian motion to increase the Unesco budget to $ 8,500,000. We have often criticized Unesco, but our criticism has always been constructive; we want Unesco to work and to develop for the benefit of all peoples throughout the world. The CHAIRMAN : We now have a motion for $ 7,000,000 and an amendment for $ 8,500,000. I understand that the French delegation has a further amendment to make. I think that the „= би
194.    simplest method ofhandling it wouldbe for the French delegation to give a notice of motion of this amend- ment so that we know what the further amendment will be and they can speak to. However, I am in the hands of the Meeting. If you wish to accept a number of amendments, giving the meeting a whole range of motions — from $ 6,000,000 to $ 10,000,000 — and feel that we should vote from the highest downwards, we can do so. I will accept other amendments for different sums. Then we shall know exactly where we are, and I shall take a vote on the amendment whichis farthest away from the original figure of $ 7,000,000, and we will move down towards the $ 7,000,000, if the higher one shouldfail. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : wish to submit an amendmentto the proposal of the Netherlands delegation. We are coming to a point in our debates where we must reach a decision. A number of figures have been submitted — the Netherlands delegation has just suggested $ 7,000,000; the British dele- gation previously suggested the same figure; Bel- gium and Poland have proposed a sum of $ 8,500,000. In suggesting a firm figure, the French delegation has in mind two basic elements : firstly the re- quirements of an organization which is in a stage of active development and whose initial budget was intentionally fixed at a rather low figure; secondly, the financial difficulties confronting all countries and the efforts required, particularly from small coun- tries, to take part in the activities of the increasing number of international organizations. The French delegation considers that a figure appreciably higher than last year’s should be adop- ted, for the following reasons : The increase in the cost of living in most countries is such that it would be necessary to provide for a budget increase of twenty per cent, merely to main- tain the activities of the Organization at last year’s level. In the second place, a number of new Members have joined Unesco, and their contributions allow some measure of reduction in those of the original Member States. Thirdly, Member States are entitled to pay in three different currencies. Lastly — and most important — it would be very unfortunate if we were to paralyze the development of this very promising, non-political organization, the failure of which would be a disaster for the whole civilized world. Consequently, the French delegation proposes that the Budget for Unesco for 1948 should be fixed at $ 8,000,000. In submitting this figure, which we hope will be approved, the French delegation puts forward the three following recommendations, dealing with matters which are exercising the minds of several delegations : firstly, efforts should be concentrated on concrete and immediately practicable projects; secondly, a larger proportion of the funds should be allocated for programme expenses and less to administrative costs which seem to be too heavy; thirdly, when we come to allocate sums among the different sections, it will be essential to ensure that certain sections hitherto overlooked, in particular, the Social Sciences Section and those concerned with Humanistic Studies and Arts and Letters, are given an allotment more related to their importance and the practical services which they can render to the cause of peace. The CHAIRMAN : We now have an amendment for $ 8,000,000, proposed by the delegate of France. Is there anyone who will second that? The delegate of Czechoslovakia seconds the amend- ment of France. We now have a substantive motion, therefore, for $ 7,000,000, two amendments, one for $ 8,500,000 and one for $ 8,000,000. M. Rolf A. CHRISTENSEN (Norway) : In conne- xion with my remarks this morning, I would like to propose an amendment for 6,500,000. I wish to point out the fact that this Organization, to which every government wants to be loyal, is really, by suggesting a large amount, interfering with the national budgets of all the countries. There are countries, small and large, which had a hard time during the war and are trying to get on their feet again. We would like to co-operate but there is a limit to what we can do. I do not knowifit is pro- per to voice as a possible suggestion that those countries which are able to pay more might contri- bute more if they wish. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate ofNorway has pro- posed a further amendment of $ 6,500,000. Is there anyone who wishes to second that? The proposal of the delegate of Norway lapses for want of a seconder. Is there anyone now who wishes to speak to the original motion or any of the amendments? The matter is now entirely open for discussion, so long as you speak to this budget figure. It is quite understood that we can at the same time speak to the Programme in relation to the budget figure. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : I have been asked to clarify the position of the United States Government on the subject we are now discussing. I think it will interest delegates — 296 —    if I read an excerpt from a cable I have received this morning from Washington. It relates to the re- port of the meeting of the Administrative and Financial Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations dated 10 November. I shall pick it up in the middle and only give you a few lines of it to show you the temper of the debate as conducted by this important Fifth Committee of the United Nations Assembly at Lake Success. Referring to the proposal of the United Kingdom, which noted the comparatively large Unesco budget and suggested a ‘considerable’ reduction, by 33 votes to 7, with 5 abstentions, the Committee accepted the amended United Kingdom paragraph as follows: « The General Assembly draws the attention of Unesco to the relatively large size ofits budget» (the phrase comparing it to other budgets of other United Na- tions activities was eliminated) «and the General Assembly recommends that every effort be made to secure a reduction in the budget». The word «considerable» was eliminated from this United Kingdom suggested draft. This proposal applies to the budget of $ 8,500,000 recommended by the Executive Board to this Conference. I may say, speaking for the United States, that we are prepared to support the $ 8,500,000 budget as recommended by the Executive Board. We shall abstain from all votes on the subject of the budget On the last vote, when we discoverexcept the last. the feelings of the majority of the delegations here, we shall hope to approve. I suggest, however, that the delegates, in figuring their proportionate share of the official budget, be conscious of the obli- gation on all of us to contribute our proportionate share to the Revolving Fund. In the current year, $ 1,000,000 was set up as a contribution to this Revolving Fund and, unless there is some change, another $ 1,000,000 will be set up in the forth- coming year as our additional contribution, in order to provide Unesco with sufficient working capital. May I remind those who were in Paris last year of my feeling that this first year of Unesco’s ope- ration should in fact be regarded as a fledgling year, a year of planning, a year of beginning. I was very happy, in my own appearance before the United States Congress on my return from Paris, to find a more ready acceptance forthe ideas underlying Unesco than I had any right to assure the delegates in Paris that I could expect. As a matter of fact, of the very many subjects and programmes for which I went to Congress for money, the Unesco Budget was the only Budget on which I had no trouble whatsoever; and I am sure that the American people, through their Congress, (in line with my report to you of the interest hroughout the United States in Unesco, on the part of the great private organizations and groups and mil- lions of our citizens) will be prepared to support the Unesco Budget in line with the judgment and majority decision of this group. Senator Vandenberg, however, in my contacts with him on this subject, has echoed to me, out of his experience in the United Nations, the fear expressed by the delegate of Norway and by others, that the sum total of the United Nations Budget for the various Specialized Agencies may grow too fast to a size larger than the financial ability of many member nations to carry. That, of course, would be bad for Unesco — bad for the entire United Nations structure — and from the standpoint of the United States and its support it would be calamitous, This must be regarded as a mutual undertaking, and Senator Vandenberg (who is the effective spokesman for the American people in this area of our policy in relation to the United Nations) properly voices Congressional and public opinionin his determination that the structure should grow only as rapidly as the various member countries and their budgets can support. I think that is an important part of the issue we are discussing here. Iamglad, therefore, to confess to my friends that some of my fears of working in line with American opinion and the attitude of the American Congress perhaps were somewhat ex- agerated. I am glad to report that the American people, acting through their delegation here, will support with enthusiasm, on behalf of Unesco and its activities, any decision reached by this Confe- rence. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : The delegate of Belgium said that all budgetestimates are hypothe- tical. That may be so, but our contributions are not hypothetical and, if we follow his reasoning, I think we would choose the lowest figure submitted and not the highest. However, I propose to break new ground. I see that everyone has been voting by jumps of half a million. We do not seem to be able to think in anything else than half a million, but I am going to propose an amendment that the budget be set at $ 7,700,000 for the following reasons. We see in the estimate provisions for con- tingencies throughout these budgets, which total $ 800,000. That is a provision for money which we may or may nothave to spend; and it is ourfeel- ing that those provisions should be eliminated. I do not think that will mean there will be in the budget of $ 7,700,000, if approved, no money for contingencies. The delegates of New Zealand, the United Kingdom and others have shown the Canadian delegation, at any rate, very clearly where we can cut down the present Programme without in
207.    any way harming the activities of Unesco. If we therefore reduce the Programme, the reduction will supply an amount for contingencies. I therefore would move the amendment that the budget be set at the figure of $ 7,700,000. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone who wishes to second that amendment? It is seconded by the delegate of Greece. The delegate of South Africa has sent me up a question, a perfectly legitimate thing to do at this moment. He asks. I understood Mr. Benton to say that Member States will be asked to provide another $ 1,000,000 for the Revolving Fund during 1948. I understood and told my Government that we would not be called upon to pay more than once into this Fund. This matter is of vital importance in our discussion. Could you make a statement on the subject ? Perhaps the Secretariat could answer that ques- tion. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : There is very little that needs to be said on this. In the Administrative and External Relations Commission, the question of a further call for the Revolving Fund will be on the agenda. There is a paper before the Administrative and External Relations Com- mission to call for an additional $ 2,000,000, in order to bring the total Revolving Fund up to $ 3,000,000, as originally contemplated. It is, of course, for that Commission to make that decision, but the decision comes up there, as an item of Finance, ratherthan in this Commission, which is concerned solely with the budget for 1948. The CHAIRMAN : Has the delegate of South Africa had his question answered? A request is being made to the other Commission to bring down the recommendations concerning the Revolv- ing Fund to an amount of $ 2,000,000 in the year. Is there anyone now who wishes to speak? Dr. Manuel SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) : The Mexican delegation is prepared for Mexico to pay her proportion of a total figure of $ 8,500,000, which has been proposed by the Executive Board. I wish to submit that, in view of the fact that the Executive Board has made a preliminary study of the budget on the basis of $ 8,500,000, and taking into account the fact that, althoughit is true that the more money Unesco has available for the realiza- tion of its projects, the better it can carry them out, this figure of $ 8,500,000 is adequate for the budget. We reserve the right, however, to return to the question of the distribution of this total sum and to onsider the individual appropriations of the budget when the time comes. The CHAIRMAN : I have a suggestion, ladies and gentlemen. I propose that when all speakers have finished, we ask the Director-General if he would care to make a statement, Afterwards you might favour half an hour’s recess, when you could discuss these figures among yourselves. Are there any further speakers? If not, may we take it that this debate as such is closed? Is it your wish we ask the Director-General to make a statement on the implications of these budget figures on his own Programme? Does anyone oppose that? The Director-General will speak. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I would like to make some points on the various proposals and comments laid before us yesterday and to-day. In the first place, I want to make it very clear that the budget figure of $ 8,500,000 is what we may describe as a price tag, which has been put by the Secretariat on the programme prepared by the Exe- cutive Board. We know that it cannot be accurate in every detail, but we claim that it is a reasonable budget figure, which gives the approximate price of the projects which the Executive Board proposes in its Programme for 1948. I should add, however, that there are certain supplementary matters which there was not time for the Executive Board to-include in its programme as set out in the Green Book, and of which the most important are the questions of Copyright — what we should do on copyright in
1948 — and what we should do in the sphere of Philosophy and Humanities. On this the last Con- ference instructed us to obtain expert advice. We have done this. There are other important matters in the field of radio and press, and how to utilize them for Unesco’s aid. If these were adopted in addition, they would absorb most of the $ 400,000 allocated to reserve. There may be other new matters suggested at this Conference. I want to stress what, I amglad to say, the delegate of New Zealand stressed this morning : that, if it is decided to cut down the budget figure, then it is really necessary for this Conference to take deci- sions as to which part of the Programme should be modified; whether it should be modified by cutting out whole activities or by a reduction of cer- tain activities. The Secretariat cannot do that — it is not within their power, for this is the Executive Board's Programme, and the Conference is the only ageney, the only body, which can override the Exe- cutive Board in this matter. In making further comments on these figures, I would like to bring up certain further points. One is the very rapidrise in the cost of living in France during the past year. We have just had a cable giving the official figures, and the official cost of Ge DOS ‎م     living figure has risen since April by 47.6 per cent. We shall certainly have to give some cost-of-living increase to our staff. Therefore, on this basis — if this is done — that again would take certainly a large chunk out of the reserve. We have, thus, already two possible claims on that. I entirely agree that it would be possible to make cuts in the present Programme and Budget. But we must remember, we must be on our guard against certain types of cuts. We must guard against cuts which would alienate important blocks of people and countries. May I give you one or two examples of what would happen in certain circumstances? Last year we decided to set up three Field Science Co-operation Offices, and to establish a fourth in India as soon as possible in 1948. On a reduced budget it would undoubtedly be impossible to set up that fourth Field Science Co-operation Office. In that case you would, temporarily at least, alienate scientific opinion in India. It would be possible to defer all action on the Hylean Amazon Institute during this year, but from my experience, when I was travelling around Latin America this summer, I should imagine that would alienate general opinion, not only scientific opinion, in those nine countries bordering on the Amazon. You could cut down, as the delegate of the Nether- lands said this morning, the amount of money spent on administering relief, but, if you did that, you would be alienating opinion in almost all the war-devastated countries, who regard the matter as urgent, as we know in ourexperience of last year’s work. If you cut down on fundamental education, you will alienate opinion, not only in those countries where pilot projects have been proposed, but also in those many other countries having a large propor- tion of illiterate people, who wish for aid from Unesco, educational or other, to solve this problem. It is perfectly true, as the delegate of the Nether- lands said, that we could cut down on personnel. But I would stress the point made bya later speaker that the way in which we think it is cheapest to ope- rate is by having good people, not necessarily administrative, but people in the programme capable of being in touch, to gather the information, to stimulate, to co-ordinate and to promote activities in their respective fields internationally. You could cut down, as the delegate of the United Kingdom suggested, for the time being,all activities in the very wide cultural field, but you would do so at the risk of alienating important sections of opinion interested in, for instance, philosophy and humanities, arts and letters, libraries, etc. We have had many expressions of opinion from philo- sophers and historians, to give you iust one example, complaining that Unesco is neglecting the humani- ties at the expense of the sciences. One final point : the delegate of New Zealand said we should not be active except when specifical- ly asked to be active, in projects where the United Nations had already taken the initiative. I want to makeit quite clear that we are not doing any more than we are asked to do. To take only two examples; for this very Conference on Freedom of Information we have been asked to help to prepare the agenda, and we hope you will agree that Unesco’s experience can be of particular importance in preparing that agenda and taking part in the Conference. The same is true of our share in the Human Rights pro- gramme. We have also cleared with the United Nations our respective fields of action and how to participate in questions like Town and Community Planning. 1 want to stress that we are not going beyond what we are asked in any case. I have felt very strongly, since the two meetings of the Co- ordinating Committee of the Specialized Agencies and the United Nations, of which I attended the first and Dr. Laves the second, that the cheapest way, to look at it only from that angle, as well as the most efficient way, of dealing with the various problems besetting the world at the momentis for the various United Nations agencies and organizations to co- operate on this problem. There is one other thing I would like to stress. I have been over the figures of our present rate of expenditure and of the cost of living and other relevant matters with the Deputy Director-General, and we have arrived at the following rather distressing conclusions : that we can only continue doing what we are now doing — that is to say, the full blast of the 1947 Programme and the continuation of it into 1948, without taking any account of new projects added by the Executive Board to be begun in
1948 — we can only continue these activities, in view of the increased cost of living, on a figure not less than approximately — it must be approxima- tely — $ 7,750,000. If you take any figure below that, you are really turning fromthe positive to the negative; you are turning from a programme in which you are undertaking more, to a programme where you are actually cutting down on what you are already doing. I would like, in conclusion, if I may be permitted one or two remarks, to say this. Many people in the past few days have referred to Unesco as a symbol of hope in the modern world andits confusion; and they have stressed the fact that here — I refer spe- cially to the inspiring speech of M. Maritain — we have had people from many diverse countries agreeing on a number of projects for what I may call positive peace, in contra-distinction to the disagreement — 299 — i e = — e ” I E E E     L E A T E E S     so often found in other international bodies. That, in my opinion, is entirely justified, if we con- tinue to operate on a reasonable scale and broaden our sphere of action at any rate in one or two fields, either quantitatively or qualitatively — not in too many fields, butin a few, in order to show that we are a growing and healthy organism. For that I am sure that a figure of $ 8,500,000, in spite of the increased cost of living, would be adequate, though I would remind you that this is, in one very real sense, a modest figure. It is less, I have been told by expert authority, than the annual cost of a single one of the least expensive atomic research laboratories in the United States. To take another example, it is less than the cost of the individual cultural relations services of several of the greater nations. I would stress that, if that figure is cut to a pitch at which the sign of the Organization’s activities becomes altered — at which it turns from positive to negative, as I have said — then it would appear to me at least that Unesco would become not a symbol of hope but a symbol of that lack of hope and general lack of faith in the possibilities of achievement in the present world situation which is so lamentable at the moment. This whole question is, of course, a matter entirely for the Conference to decide, but I think you will pardon me if I speak on behalf of the Secretariat and say that I do mostsincerely feel that it would be very discouraging for the Secretariat, which has worked with immense enthusiasm, has overworked itself throughout the present year to try to imple- ment this very difficult task of realizing a world programme in these unfamiliar fields, if the figure were really cut below a limit which would, as I say, provide for a positive as against a negative sign of the Organization's activities. Finally, T would like to remind you of certain historical facts. In 1946 the Budget Committee of the Preparatory Commission suggested a figure of $ 7,500,000 for the budget of the Organization for its first year ofexistence. That figure was provi- sionally adopted by the Programme Commission as the figure to which they would work. It was reduced at the end of the Conference to the figure of $ 6,000,000 for the current year’s operations, on the very salutary ground that Unesco was a young organization and had to learn to walk before it could run. Assurances were given from many sides, however, that if Unesco’s operations were satisfactory and promising in that first year, it would be reasonable at any rate to expect that it should grow both in the scale of its operations and there- fore in the budget available for those operations. The CHAIRMAN : The matter before us is still open for discussion or question. The delegate of Greece wishes to speak. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : It is very unfortunate that one of the members of the Finance Committee of the Executive Board — Dr. Walker — is not present. Our Chairman, M. Doré, was also unable to come to this Conference, so that I am, I believe, the only mem- ber of the Finance Committee present. I should like to remind you of some comments made by the Finance Committee concerning the budget you are now examining. These comments relate to Chapters II, IV and V. You have probably all read them, and I do not think it is necessary to stress them, except to say that the administrative services should not be increased to too great an extent. These are really the only comments which the Finance Committee considered it necessary to make. As regards the total expenditure necessary for next year, I supported the proposal made by Mr. Pierce, who has taken M. Doré’s place, and in my opinion the Finance Committee of the Executive Board would be quite willing to agree that the figure he submitted would be reasonable. The CHAIRMAN : Are there any further observa- tions? Does any member who has not yet spoken, wish to speak in this debate? If not, we shall pro- ceed to the taking of a vote. If no one further wishes to speak, I shall now put the amendment which is farthest removed from the substantive motion — that is the amendment of the Belgian delegation, seconded by the delegation of Poland. That amendment, together with a pro- viso, stated that : Belgium proposes a budget of $ 8,500,000 with the proviso that this maximum figure might be reduced, should there be a body of projects justifying this diminution. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Belgium, Brazil, Colombia, Cuba India, Mexico, Peru, Poland, Venezuela. Voted against : Bolivia, Canada, China, Czechoslo- vakia, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Greece, Lebanon, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom. Absent : Australia, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Haiti, Liberia, Luxemburg, Philippines, Saudi Ara- bia, Syria, Turkey. Abstained : United States of America.) The CHAIRMAN : The United States of America wishes to abstain from voting until a consensus of opinion has been arrived at, and then would wish to add its vote to that consensus. — 300 —    I am not sure of the procedure there. It seems to me that, by abstaining whenthe vote is taken, the United States cannot change its abstention later on. I thoroughly appreciate the United States’ motives, which I am sure are of the highest, but I do not see how in terms of procedure it can be done. I gather that I have some backing; the United Nations has also reached the same decision with regard to a similar sort of situation. It will, of course, be entirely open to the United States afterwards to say that they agree with that amount, but in the record it will show as an abstention. I amafraid I can do nothing further. The result of the voting is : 9 votes in favour,
15 against, 1 abstention and 10 absent. The amendment is lost. I now put the amendment moved by France, seconded by Czechoslovakia fora sum of $8,000,000. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted infavour : Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, France, Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Peru, Poland, United States of America. Voted against : Canada, China, Denmark, El Sal- vador, Greece, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, Venezuela. Absent : Australia, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Liberia, Luxemburg, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkey.) The CHAIRMAN : The result of the voting for the French amendment of $ 8,000,000 is : 15 votes in favour, 11 against, and 9 absent. That means the amendmentis carried. France's amendment now becomes the substantive motion : that the Plenary Meeting of the General Conference be recommended to pass a total sum of $ 8,000,000 for next year. You have your own wording, but that is the idea. We are only recom- mending,” you: understand, to the Plenary Confe- rence. Will all those in favour of the motion please say «Yes». Those against? If nobody calls for a roll-call, 1 declare the motion passed, and our formal business for to-day is over. The Secretariat has suggested to me that the Plenary Conference should meet at 5.45 to discuss this matter. We have no say in that. We cannot vote on it. If you do not Jike it, when the Plenary Conference meets, you can say that it should not have met, but I have no control over it. It was on the Order of the Day for 4 p. m. Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of Ame- rica) : I propose that we adjourn. The CHAIRMAN : There is a motion for the adjourn- ment, in which case there can be no further dis- cussion. If we adjourn now without any statement being made as to the Plenary Meeting, then the latter will not be held until to-morrow morning. Will all in favour of the motion that this meeting now adjourn say «Yes». We stand adjourned and the time of the next meeting will be announced. The meeting rose at 5.20 p. m.