worked on that day. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had not realized this and asked for discretion to arrange the matter in that light, perhaps making Friday, Saturday and Sunday working days. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) congra- tulated the Director-General and said that the United States delegation gave him and his staff full authority to arrange the programme of work as they thought best. They would also co-operate with the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission and the Chairman of the Administrative and Exter- nal Relations Commission and accept their rulings. As regards the latter Commission,it had been stated that it had had difficulty in obtaining a quorum, and it would be even more difficult that afternoon when the Working Party on Germany was to meet. He therefore suggested that the Working Party on Ger- many should be abolished and that the question of relations with Germany should be referred direct- ly to the Administrative and External Relations Commission. The proposal was seconded by M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) and so agreed. The CHAIRMAN asked for approval of the Direc- tor-General’s suggestion that full discretion should be accorded to the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission and the Chairman of the Administrative and External Relations Commission in handling the business. Agreed. The meeting rose at 11.10 a. m. TWELFTH MEETING Wednesday, 19 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the programme of work over the holiday period, as set out on page
114 of the Journal. He recalled that there was a meeting of the Plenary Conference in the evening at
6p.m. He called upon the Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee to report on the meeting of the preceding evening. Mr. PIERCE (Canada), Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee, announced that Dr. Stoddard (United States of America) had been nominated to replace the Hon. A. MacLeish (United States of America), who had resigned before completing his term of office. The following had been nominated to occupy the places left vacant by the six members whose terms of office had expired : Dr. Encarnacion Alzona (Philippines); Dr. Stanislaw Arnold (Poland); Dr. Chen Yuan (China); Dr. Martinez Baez (Mexico); Sir John Maud (United Kingdom); Dr. E. Ronald Walker (Australia). It was decided that the list should be distributed to delegates before the plenary meeting. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) recall- ed that he had previously asked for a place on the agenda for a resolution regarding the Executive Board. He asked that it should be taken as the first item on the agenda. He was seconded by Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom). Agreed. Resolution of the United States delegation concerning the Executive Board. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) said that hehad prepared this resolution concerning the status of members of the Executive Board for the follow- ing reasons :
(1) there had been much criticism of members of the Executive Board, not only from the United States delegation, but from many others, for example, the speech made by Mr. Ro- berts (Union of South Africa) at the Nominations Committee;
(2) he had taken cognizance of certain aspects of this criticism in his opening speech to the Conference when ex- pressing surprise that the Executive Board had failed to com- ment on the report of the Director-General ;
(3) from the past year’s experience, things might have been learnt which would improve the functioning of the Exe- cutive Board and the general conduct of the Conference. He therefore read a proposed resolution. It was decided that the text of the resolution should be distributed and examined under Item I of the agenda of the mext meeting. Drait Resolution proposed by the delegation of Uruguay. The CHAIRMAN remarked that this was a question of procedure and therefore suggested it should be passed to the Procedure Committee. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) remarked that it was exactly the kind of question that should be dealt with by the Committee whose establishment he had just proposed to consider the functioning of the Executive Board. — 263 —
17 z z S E ‏ ل . ل ل   Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) said that the Executive Board had already discussed the question of substitutes and was going to examine the question of its own organization. He therefore thought it should also be transferred to the Executive Board. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) sugges- ted that the Uruguayan proposal should be examined directly after the general discussion on the Draft Resolution of the United States delegate. He was seconded by M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) and the motion was adopted. Draft Resolution proposed by the delegation of Australia. After the CHAIRMAN had suggested submitting this resolution directly to the Plenary Meeting, Mr. BENTON (United States of America) observed that the same procedure should be applied to Item VII of the Agenda — Draft Resolution submitted by the delegations of Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United States of America. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) asked if the Aus- tralian proposal was intended to replace the Polish draft resolution. It was submitted in the draft reso- lution under Item VII that the resolution proposed by the several delegations was a substitute resolution in amendment of the Draft Resolutions submitted by the Polish delegation (2C/BUR/2), but there was no mention of this in the Australian proposal. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) replied that he assumed so from a conversation he had held with Dr. Walker, but he could not answer the question definitely. It was decided to transmit both resolutions to the Plenary Conference. Draft Resolutions proposed by the delegation of the Dominican Republic. At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, this item was referred to the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. Request by Hungary concerning payment of
1947 contribution by new Members (for- warded by the Administrative and External Relations Commission). The SECRETARY recalled the decision of the Executive Board that Members joining the Organiza- tion during the last quarter of 1947 should pay
25 per cent or 40 per cent of their contribution Hungary was asking for exemption from this rule. In reply to a question whether the General Com- mittee was competent to decide on this matter, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that he did not think so : the whole question of contributions had been delegated by the Conference to the Executive Board, which had taken the above decision because it was felt that Member States coming in late should take some share in the work done earlier in the year. He thought it was for the Administrative and External Relations Commission to see whether an exception could be made for Hungary and therefore proposed that the matter should be referred back to them. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) thought that Hungary's case should be viewed sympathe- tically ; new Members would be discouraged from joining if they had to pay 40 per cent of their contribution when they joined one month before the end of the year. He was seconded by M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland). Dr. HAN (China), who was Chairman of the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion, explained that when the question had come up before the Commission, it had been thought that their mandate was to examine only the scale of contributions for 1948, but, if it was decided that they should deal with the 1947 contributions, they would consider the matter. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) recalled that it was quite possible that Switzerland, Italy and Australia would make the same request and the Administrative and External Relations Commission should be em- powered to deal with their cases also. Agreed. Presentation to the General Conference of the Rules of Procedure of the Executive Board (document 2C/103). In accordance with Article V.B. paragraph 7 of the Constitution, the Executive Board, at its Fourth Session, had decided to place before the General Conference, for information, its Rules of Procedure as approved at the First Session of the General Conference and as amended during the course of
1947. These rules were contained in document
20/103. It was agreed that the document in question should be distributed to the General Conference for its information. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. — 264 —