Dr. CHIH (China) believed that, in view of the general sentiment expressed at the Conference favour- ring the re-education of ex-enemy States, it would be proper, at this time, to take some action to extend education for peace in Japan. Accordingly, he submitted a general resolution : The General Conference : Considering that the purpose of Unesco is to contribute to world peace and security through the advancement of edu- cation, science and culture, and the eradication of militarist aggressive ideas dangerous to the maintenance of peace; Considering that, to this end, Unesco should explore the possibilities of extending its activities to education for peace among the peoples in ex-enemystates, such as Japan; Considering that, at the present time, knowledge of condi- tions in Japan is notsufficient to warrant laying downa con- crete programme of action; and Considering that anystep taken by Unesco in this connexion should have the full co-operation of the Far Eastern Commis- sion, Resolves: that the Director-General be asked to consult with the Far Eastern Commission to collect information regarding Japanese education, its trends and tendencies, and to ascertain the ways and means by which Unesco, within its present programme and budget, may contribute to tha education for peace of the Japanese people in accordance with the principles of Unesco, and to submit a report of such findings to the Executive Board for consideration and action, Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) supported the principle of the Chinese resolution, but felt the Commission could not commit itself to definite action at this time. He therefore wished it to be referred to the Drafting Committee to determine whether action could be taken this year. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) wished to reserve his delegation’s opinion whether Unesco should consult with the Far Eastern Commis- sion or with the Allied Military Authority in Japan. The Commission approved the general principle outlined in the Chinese resolution and moved it be referred to the Drafting Committee (©). The meeting rose at 6.30 p. m.
6) Resolution IX, Annex VII (1); volume II, page 55. TWENTIETH MEETING Wednesday, 26 November 1947, at 11 a. m. ¡Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Item 40 of the Agenda : Relations with the Specialized Agencies (documents 2C/C2/8 and 2C/4, pages 79, 80). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) introduced the ques- tion and read the resolution proposed by the Director General. INTERNATIONAL FFICE expressed his satisfaction with the The representative of the LABOUR 0 agreement which had been concluded between Unesco and ILO. He quoted the Philadelphia Charter, which stated that human labour was not a commodity, poverty was a threat to реке and affir- med the equality of races and the right of every man to employment. The aims of ILO were capable of realization in company with those of Unesco. The Director-General's words, that there could be по lasting peace as long as a minority was exploiting a majority, could equally well have been spoken by a representative of ILO. Among the problems calling for a common solution were : the minimum age at which young people should begin work; the international exchange of social welfare workers ; the employment of workers’ leisure time; professional, agricultural and industrial training colleges. The speaker recalled that the Conference to be held at San Francisco in the coming year would be followed jointly by the two Organizations, Unesco and ILO working in common. ILO had been in existence for a quarter of a century and put its extensive and in- valuable documentation, assembled by experts, fat the disposal of Unesco. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) reminded the Com- mission that on 13 November a proposal had been madeto the Executive Board by the delegation of the United States of America that the Board should establish contact with the bodies concerned with displaced persons. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) stated that his delegation’s proposal was that the Director- General should enter into negotiations with the IRO with a view to that body setting up an educational service in camps for displaced persons. This pro- posal could be conceived as part ofthe reconstruction programme for war-devastated countries. — 600 —    Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) found this proposal unnecessary. The problem of displaced persons was only temporary and would disappear before Unesco's help could become effective. The camps were under the Allied authorities in Germany and schools already existed in them. When other coun- tries opened their frontiers to receive displaced persons, the camps would no longer be necessary, and the money allocated for these schools would have been lost to the funds available for assistance to war- devastated countries. Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) stated that he had no in- structions on this subject, but he had learned from an unofficial source that UNRRA and other Allied authorities had established schools in Austrian camps, which his country regarded as enjoying extra- territorial rights. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) be- lieved that the Polish delegate knew as well as he did that the problem of displaced persons would not be solved in one year. He maintained the importance of these educational centres within camps, and pointed out that there were war-devas- tated peoples as well as war-devastated countries. The American proposal was seconded by the delegate of GREECE. The delegate of POLAND proposed an amendment to the American resolution. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) was not prepared to accept the Polish amendment, since he considered that it would have the effect of de- laying aid to displaced persons. The Polish amendment was put to the vote and defeated : the American proposal was adopted (1), Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) made two further proposals to complement his first motion. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the first of these was not necessary, since the Executive Board had instructed the Secretariat to give Member States the information to which it referred. The second proposal, by which Unesco would enter into formal agreements with Specialized Agen- cies whose interests and activities were related to its purposes, was adopted. (1) Item 11 (a) of the Agenda : Consideration of the Director-General's Report on Existing Agreements with Inter-Governmental Inter- national Organizations (document 2C/33). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) read the Resolution adopted by the Executive Board providing that the
(1) Resolution IX, Annex VII (12); vol. II, page 57. pren agreement with the International Bureau of ducation should be extended for further twelve months. DrWALKER (Australia) supported the proposal and the surueys for which it provided. As president of the joint Unesco—IBE Conference at Geneva, he drew attention to the excellent work being done by the latter body and recalled that it had three sources of income : the sale of stamps issued by Switzerland for the benefit of IBE; the rents paid by Member States for space in the permanent educational exhi- bition maintained by IBE; and the sale of publica- tions. IBE was in no way a rival of Unesco, but rather it was able and eager to work in close colla- boration with Unesco. — Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) said that at the first joint converence with IBE it had been hoped that the two Organizations would be merged. He therefore proposed an amendment to the last paragraph of the resolution in this sense, emphasizing the desirability on grounds of efficiency and economy of such a merger. Dr. RODRIGUEZ (Cuba) seconded the American amendment. M. ABRAHAM (France) stressed that there was no question of overlapping between Unesco and IBE. IBE possessed excellent archives and had no equal in matters of educational terminology and the pre- WO of reports on educational matters. He oped that if the amendment was adopted its terms would be sufficiently wide to permit of Unesco benefiting by IBE’s resources without any question of rivalry. The delegate of SWITZERLAND stated that his country had expected IBE to be represented at the General Conference and asked that no decision should be taken on the American amendment until its opinion had been heard. The delegate of URUGUAY considered that it would be premature to adopt the American amend- ment. The American amendment was put to the vote and defeated; the original proposal was adopted without amendment. (2) M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) read the paragraph in document 2C/33 concerning the International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation and the liqui- dation of its debts. The proposed resolution a proved the steps which had been taken to put the question before the United Nations.
(1) Resolution IX, Annex VII (13); vol. II, page 58. — 601 —     The resolution was seconded by Czechoslovakia, supported by Cuba and adopted without amend- ment. (3) Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) proposed that Item 11 (c) of the Agenda — Future relations with non-governmental international organizations — should be considered before Item 11 (6) — Existing agreements with non-governmental organizations. The United Kingdom delegation had prepared a document containing several proposals on these questions. The main points at issue were : (i) Unesco’s relations with non-governmental or- ganizations ; (ii) assistance to be given to international non- governmental and semi-governmental organizations; (iii) the general question of grants-in-aid to international organizations. He added that his delegation was agreeable to these three matters being dealt with in one composite resolution. The CHAIRMAN said there were two documents before the Commission : (i) the document submitted by the United King- dom delegation (Gen. Conf. 47/64); (ii) the document distributed by the Secretariat
(26/4). Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) mentioned that the United States delegation had not been able to study the United Kingdom documentfully, but he under- stood that they would wantto propose several amend- ments. He therefore proposed that the question sould be postponed till a later meeting to enable the two delegations to agree on a final draft. The CHAIRMANproposed that a special committee of three should be set up to examine the proposed resolutions and any further amendments which might be submitted by delegations; this special committee would then submit a report which would facilitate the consideration of the question. He proposed that it should consist of the representatives of the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Belgium. Item 44 (c) of the Agenda : Future Relations with Non-Governmental International Orga- nizations (documents 2C/75 and 2C/C2/9). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) explained that the Execative Board had instructed the Director-General to submit to the General Conference a report on
(3) Resolution IX, Annex VII (14); vol. II, page 58. — 602 — the granting offinancial aid by Unesco to international non-governmental organizations. This report, docu- ment 26/75, contained at the end a statement of the six general principles upon which Unesco should base its actions in this respect. The CHAIRMAN remarked that the resolution previously submitted by the United Kingdom also concerned the question of grants-in-aid and it might therefore be desirable for the special com- mittee to deal with this question also. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) pointed out that whereas document 2C/75 referred only to «non- governmental organizations», the United Kingdom document referred to «non-governmental and semi- governmental organizations». Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) stated that previously grants-in-aid had only been made to non-governmental organizations of an international character, but that it had recently been decided that such grants might also be made to National Commis- sions, subject to the approval of the Administrative and External Relations Commission. The delegate of DENMARK asked whether Unesco would necessarily assist organizations whose own sources of revenue were insufficient. M. de BLONAY(Secretariat) explained that in prin- ciple no organization should derive all its income from Unesco, but that an exception might be made in the case of organizations in course of formation. Dr. NEEDHAM (Secretariat) added that an excep- tion might also be made for certain well-established organizations such as the International Council of Scientific Unions. The delegate of BELGIUM suggested that Prof. Auger, Chairman of the Executive Board Committee ou non-governmental organizations, should be a member of the special committee appointed by the Chairman. Belgium would be pleased to give up its place to Prof. Auger. This offer was accepted. Item 11 (b) of the Agenda : Consideration of the Director-General's Report on Existing Agreements with Non-Governmental Inter- national Organizations (document 2C/22). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) stated that existing agreements had been made in conformity with the directives given at the First Session of the General Conference. It had been understood that these directives would be revised from time to time in the light of decis‘ons taken by the General Conference; consequently the draft resolution on page 2 of      document 2C/22 was submitted to the Commission. The delegate of CHINA formally proposed the draft resolution. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) se- conded the motion, but expressed certain reserva- tions in connexion with Unesco’s aid to affiliated unions. At the previous Conference it had been agreed that these unions should retain their inde- pendence and identity and that the aid granted to them by Unesco should be subject to restrictive conditions. During the past year grants had been distributed very liberally and in excess of the pro- gramme agreed upon (for example, the travel ex- penses of certain members ofthese unions to attend meetings of the Executive Committee of the Council had been paid). He asked that the sub-committee should give attention to this fact. The CHAIRMAN assured the United States dele- gate that this would be done. Dr. NEEDHAM (Secretariat) pointed out that on page 2 of document 2C/65 (which had been sub- mitted to the Natural Sciences Working Party) it was said that relations with non-governmental orga- nizations would be subject to certain rules and that the funds available for grants-in-aid would be allo- cated in accordance with Unesco’s desire to assist certain scientific organizations. A detailed programme had been drawn up by the Executive Board, laying down what part of their expenses would be borne by the beneficiary organizations themselves. &ка With regard to the remark made by the United States delegate, he pointed out that in document
20/65, where the procedure for the making of grants-in-aid was described, three general principles were stated :
(1) that financial aid should only be given in exceptional circumstances ; (ii) that in the past requests for grants-in-aid had often been refused (particularly with regard to Con- gresses where the expenses should be borne by the host-government) ; (iii) that per diem allowances would not be gran- ted to scientists receiving travelling expenses. The draft resolution was put to the vote and adopted. ©) M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) stated that the draft resolution concerning relations with the International Studies Conference was in similar terms to that with the International Council of Scientific Unions and appeared on page 3 of document 20/22. The resolution was formally proposed by the dele- gate of EGYPT, seconded by the delegate of FRANGE and approved. (5) The meeting rose at 3 p.m.
(1) Resolution IX, Annex VII (17); vol. II, page 58. ®) Resolution IX, Annex VII (16); vol. TI, page (58. TWENTY-FIRST MEETING Thursday, 27 November 1947, at 11,a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). The CHAIRMANcalled on the Secretary to report on a letter received from the delegation of Urugauy. The SECRETARY read the letter received from Dr. Nogueira, head of the Uruguayan delegation, in which he wished to clarify the position of his country with regard to the vote taken at the pre- vious meeting on the French proposal concerning the organization of the General Conference. He had baen called away and on his return found that a vote had already been taken; had he been there, he would have voted in favour of the French pro- posal, in view of the necessity for organizing the Third General Conference on a rational basis. To avoid disorder, he considered that the Executive Board should study a permanent plan with regard to the number and functions of the Commissions, Working Parties; etc, and similar details. He wished to request the Chairman to have ‘this declaration included in the records of the meeting. Item 12 of the Agenda : Other business. The SECRETARYread a resolution transmitted to the Commission fromWorking Party A-Reconstruction — 60 -