Dr. WILSON (United States of America) considered that there was no necessity to omit the reference to the Revolving Fund because that was the respon- sibility of the Programme and Budget Gommission. It was best to vote for the resolution in its present form in order to avoid the necessity for another resolution. SIXTH The GHAIRMAN also pointed out that the resolu- tion dealt only with types of currency and not the amounts. With the approval of the delegate of New Zealand, the resolution was adopted. The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m. MEETING Saturday, 15 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Item 4 (f) of the Agenda : Amendments pro- posed by the Executive Board to the Financial Regulations (document 2C/C2/2). In the absence of a quorum, an informal discussion of this item took place. A quorum being present, the CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and announced that, during the informal exchange of opinion, delegates had approved the texts of Regulations 1, 2 and 3. He asked for fur- ther comments and, there being none, declared these Regulations formally adopted. With regard to the general part of Regulation 4, he said that it had been decided informally to refer this item to the Drafting Committee. The latter was to secure the technical advice of the Budget Sub-Commisssion, which was, at present considering this question. This proposal was formally agreed and sections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Regulation were approved without discussion. With regard to section ({), the delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA pointed out that the revised text was entirely different from the origi- nal and asked for an explanation. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the United States delegate was quite right in his obser- vation, and explained that it was proposed to delete the original (f) from the Financial Regulations and insert it at a more appropriate place, possibly in the Staff Regulations. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA expressed his appreciation of this explanation, but suggested that an item relating to established posts, without mention of names, might be included in the Financial Regulations. He submitted the following proposed wording : A list of established posts, both filled and vacant, by organizational units, identified by title and grade and indi- cating the salaries and allowances payable, be confidentially circulated to Member States and the General Conference. Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) said that he had no ob- jection to the proposed new clause, but hoped, never- theless, that the list of names of Unesco personnel, at present being prepared for the General Conference, would still be circulated and that this would be done in the future. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that it was hoped to distribute this list within a few days and suggested that the Commission, at an appro- priate point on its agenda, should pass a resolution asking that this point be inserted in the Staff Regu- lations in order that this list of names might be pre- pared for the use of delegates before each General Conference. He also referred to the United States resolution passed at the previous meeting of the Com- mission and suggested that a date might be inserted in this. He reminded the meeting that the Secre- tariat normally circulated the Budget figures to Member States at the end of June and it would be impossible to foretell at that time what posts would be vacant at the beginning of the new financial year. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OFAMERICA agreed to include the words «at 30 June» in his draft resolution. The United States proposal for the inclusion of a new clause in the Financial Regulations was then se- conded by France, and adopted by the meeting as section (g) of Regulation 4. The meeting then passed to the consideration of Regulation 5 and Mr, PILE (United Kingdom) asked — 563 —
36.    if the Secretariat considered it necessary to include in this item mention of the proposed panel of finan- cial and administrative experts. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that a panel of experts had been set up to advise the Finance Committee of the Executive Board and he did not feel that this point should be included in the Financial Regulations. Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) suggested, nevertheless, that Regulation 5 should be referred to the Drafting Committee and that a member of the Executive Board should be asked to explain the modifications therein. It was agreed that this should be done and discus- sion on this Regulation was held in suspense. The CHAIRMAN then asked for consideration of Regulation 6, which was adopted without discussion. With regard to Regulation 7, the delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA suggested that the following sentence should be added : «Sums ad- vanced from the Revolving Fund for this purpose shall be reimbursed from the regular Budget for the- following year». After some discussion, it was agreed that this sen- tence should be re-worded as follows : «Sums ad- vanced from the Revolving Fund for this purpose shall be reimbursed as soon as possible from the nor- mal revenue of the Organization». Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) seconded the United States proposition and this was referred to the Drafting Committee. Mr. G. JOCKEL (Australia) said that, in order to counterbalance this decision, he was prepared to withdraw his reservation on Regulation 5 and this regulation was, therefore, adopted. The CHAIRMAN then called for consideration of Regulations 8, 9, 10 and 11, which were all adopted without discussion. Speaking on Regulation 12, the delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA proposed that at the end of the first sentence in Regulation 12, should be added : Except that the approval of the Executive Board shall be required for grants-in-aid and subsidies to other Organiza- tions. This proposition was seconded by Prof. PHO- TIADES (Greece) and M. DORGET (France) and approved for submission to the Drafting Com- mittee. A further proposal was made by the delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA that reference to the extent to which transfers within the Budget might be permitted should be included in Regu- lation 12, but at the suggestion of Dr. OPOCENSKY (Czechoslovakia) it was decided that this matter could be more suitably dealt with under Regu- lation 28. With regard to Regulation 13, Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) suggested that this item should be left open for discussion until the Committee of three, appointed at the previous meeting to examine the Auditors’ accounts had reported back to the Com- mission. This proposal was accepted. Regulations 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 were then adopted without further discussion. Dr. WALKER, on behalf of the Executive Board, explained the change which had been made in Regu- lation 19. The original Regulation meant in fact that the Executive Board was responsible to the General Conference for the financial administration of the Director-General. The Board felt that the revised Regulation was preferable, in that it required the Executive Board merely to transmit the Auditors’ Report to the Conference, with or without comment. This regulation was adopted by the meeting, as were Regulations 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27. The CHAIRMAN then requested the delegate of the United States of America to move the resolution relating to transfers within the Budget proposed by him earlier. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA therefore moved that the following sentence be included in Regulation 28 : E But transfers within the Budget may only be made to the extent permitted in the terms of the resolution adopted by the General Conference. This resolution was seconded by Mr. Jockel and referred to the Drafting Committee, with the under- standing that this Regulation would be included in Chapter XII. Regulations 29, 30, 31 and 32 were then placed before the meeting and adopted without further dis- cussion, on the understanding that they would become 27, 28, 29 and 30, under the new Chap- ter XII : Final Provisions. Item 4 (e) of the Agenda : Currency of Contri- butions (continuation). The CHAIRMAN then asked if the Commission was prepared to vote on the question of Currency of Contributions, which had been discussed at the previous meeting. — 564 —    The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA moved that the proposals contained in docu- ment 2C/C2/4 regarding the currency of contribu- tions should be adopted. Dr. WALKER (Australia) wished to second this motion, but asked that a recommendation should be included, to cover any new members joining the Organization during the coming year, to the effect that the currency of their contributions should be decided by the Executive Board in consultation with the Government concerned. This proposition was seconded by M. DORGET (France) and Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece), and the motion was adopted. The meeting rose at 6 p. m. SEVENTH MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947, at 11.15 am. Chairman : Item 4 (f) of the Agenda : Amendments to the Financial Regulations (continuation). Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) expressed alarm that eleven States out of thirty had not begun to pay their contributions. He added that some States had announced that they had not paid for technical reasons and he thought it would be interesting to find out what these reasons were. The Secretariat however, was taking action to obtain full payments. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) recalled that he had referred to the same question on Saturday morning. He read a note from the Uruguyan delegation urging Unesco to treatits Member Nations in arrears according to Article 19 of the Charter of the United Nations. He reserved the right to present this constitutional modification to the Director-General for submission to the Third Session of the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN considered it advisable to pass on this proposal to the General Conference for reference to the appropriate organ, because the Administrative and External Relations Commission was only supposed to discuss internal financial administration. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA supported the motion of the delegate of Uru- guay. He observed that there was no body dealing with these matters at the present time. The ques- tion of default in contributions appeared in the Report of the Director-General, which was under discussion. To avoid the possibility of this impor- tant matter being lost between various bodies, he suggested a resolution should be passed proposing that the next General Conference should consider Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) a plan similar to that put forward by the delegate of Uruguay. The CHAIRMAN felt that the Commission could make a recommendation, but not pass a resolution, on such a modification of the Constitution. Senator BROOKES (Union of South Africa) asked whether the Commission could adopt a resolution drawing attention to this matter, and wished for some remedy not found in the present Constitution. Mr. SICOTTE (Canada) expressed concern that some payments had not been made but said that he had no specific suggestions for securing payment. It was tentatively agreed to draw the attention of the Conference to non-payment of contributions by some countries and to propose that measures should be taken in the future to remedy the situation. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA expressed his satisfaction, provided that men- tion was made of the Uruguayan proposal, which he considered the most effective way to meet the situation. In response to a question by the DEPUTY DIREC- TOR-GENERAL, it was confirmed that a proposal regarding financial regulations, adopted on Satur- day afternoon, should have been submitted to a Drafting Committee and that this Committee should have asked the advice of the Budget Sub-Com- mission. The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Belgian Par- liament had voted favourably on the Unesco contri- bution and that the Chinese contribution was being forwarded. — 565 —