TWELFTH MEETING Wednesday, 19 November 1947, at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Chapter IL B. 1. b. — International Convention to facilitate International Circulation of Visual and Auditory Material Chapter ILB. 2. b. — Inexpensive Book Production Chapter II. B. 2.e. — Production of Facilities for Mass Media and Reproduc- tions in Visual Arts and Music. ‚4... ‎ام 404 Chapter IL. B. 3. 2. — Production Unit... — Collection and Dissemination of Data — Stimulation of Production in Press, Films and Radio to Chapter ILC. Chapter IIL. H. … ec ‎اعم ee further International Understanding Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) The CHAIRMAN : The business for to-day is concerned mainly with Section II.B.3. of the Green Book. We shall be dealing chiefly with the report of the Working Party on Mass Commu- nication and our discussion will be based on two documents — 20/G/7 and 2C/G/8. I will ask a member of the Secretariat to read document 20/G/8 to you. The SECRETARY : This is the Third Report from Working Party G, Mass Communication «As to Chapter II.B.1 (5), the Working Party approved the following text : The Director-General is instructed to transmit the draft of the International Convention to Facilitate International Circulation of Visual and Auditory Material of an Educational, Scientific and Cultural Character, as adopted by the First General Conference, to Member States of Unesco and to other States for their consideration and comments. This project is accorded priority A. For the Resolution concerning Chapter II.B.2 (b), the Working Party approved the following text in place of that in document 2C/3 : Explore all possible means of encouraging the inexpensive production of books, periodicals and teaching materials in the fields of Unesco's interests. (The United Kingdom delegate expressed the hope that in this work the Secretariat would keep in mind the interests of authors and see to it that they were represented on any committees of experts or at any conferences. The Secretariat representa- tives agreed to this request, and the Rapporteur was instructed to note the fact in his report.) As to Chapter II.B.2 (e) the Working Party approved the following texts of additional para- graphs : Explore all possible means of encouraging the inexpensive production of the physical facilities for mass media, and in
1948 to study particularly the problem of the inexpensive production of film projectors. Survey the reproduction situation in visual arts and music as a first step towards making the world's resources in these fields more readily available for Unesco’s purposes. (May I, Mr. Chairman, interpolate that there is a Working Party on Arts and Letters which will also bring a report on this latter paragraph.) As to Chapter II.B.3.1, the Working Party recommends approval, with priority С. As to Chapter II.B.3.2. the Working Party approved the following text : After consideration of the documents placed before it by the Secretariat, and particularly documents 2C/30 and 2C/G/5 (which latter it commends particularly to the attention of the Director-General) the General Conference adopts the following resolution : The General Conference instructs the Director-General to create at once a production unit based on an international ideas bureau, capable ofinitiating and influencing production on Unesco subjects in radio, press and films. The production unit should employ persons thoroughly experienced in their fields and with access to radio programme controllers and feature producers, panels of writers likely — 402 —    to attract attention to Unesco subjects in the press and direc- tors and script-writers not only in documentary but also in feature film production. It may be necessary to employ highly paid people for short periods, and it is essential that the administration of the Mass Communication Section should be sufficiently flexible to make this possible. It may also be necessary for purposes of techni- cal convenience to arrange that the whole or part of the pro- duction unit should be based elsewhere than at Unesco headquarters, No funds voted forthis project may be utilized for any other purpose. This purpose is construed to include the collection and dissemination of information designed to stimulate production. (This resolution replaces II.B.3.3. in the Green Book.) Chapter II.B.3.4 : Adoption was recommended, with priority C. Chapter IT.C. : It was proposed thät a paragraph be added as follows, with priority B: Collect ‘and disseminate in collaboration with the Unesco Documentation, Library and Statistical Service, on an interna- tional scale, through all appropriate channels, information about press, films and radio in relation to education, science and culture (including the publication of reports, catalogues and information bulletins). Chapter IT.C. Another project is proposed with priority C as follows : Call a meeting of experts on film cataloguing methods, in order to promote the adoption of standard practices by national film organizations. Chapter 111.11. A substitute resolution in four parts is recommended, with priority A, as follows : Stimulate the simultaneous presentation of four major themes of world significance within the fields of Unesco's interest by press, film and radio groups in a number of countries. Promote international eollaboration in the production of radio broadcasts, to be known as the Radio World University of the Air, and of other international radio programmes by national radio systems. Promote the production of an international series of films on the special achievements of a number of nations in the fields of education, science and culture, the films to be pro- duced through national organizations according to an inter- national plan and to be distributed internationally through national organizations. Stimulate the production of films on subjects of a multi- national character in the fields of Unesco's interest by co-ope- rative action between groups of countries concerned with each theme. (These activities would form a part of the new resolution proposed under I1.B.3.2., if adopted.) In accordance’ with your suggestion, Mr. Chair- man, I will stop reading now, since the only other item refers to a later part of the Green Book. The CHAIRMAN : One further point. On the last page of this document you will see a definition of priorities. Priority A is given by this Working Party as an urgent project which must be undertaken in 1948, priority B as a less urgent project to be under- taken if money and personnel are available, and priority G an approved project which is not to be undertaken in 1948. The first item on the agenda, then, if anyone wishes to raise it, will be a resolution bearing on Chapter II.B.1.5, on page 11 of the English text of the Green Book. Chapter 11. 3.1 b. — International Convention to facilitate the Circulation of Visual and Auditory Material. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, I am addressing you as the Acting Chair- man of the Working Party whose report has just been read. I would like to say how much we regret that our Chairman, M. Joxe, could not remain to the end. If he had, he would have been in charge of the duties which I am going to try to carry out this morning as his deputy. One word of introduction : I do not myself pro- pose to moye anything in regard to items which are put down in our Working Party’s report as priority С, It distinctly states there, in the definition of the priorities, that they are not suitable for carrying out — owing to financial or staff reasons — in 1948, and therefore I do not propose to make any motion, That means that, unless somebody else makes a motion and it is carried by this Commission, those items will not appear in the 1948 programme, With these preliminary remarks, I now move that the following words be substituted for Item II.B.1.5. and given priority A as set out in the paper : The Director-General is instructed to transmit the draft of the International Convention to Facilitate International Circulation of Visual and Auditory Material of an Educational, Scientific and Cultural Character, as adopted by the First General Conference, to Member States of Unesco and to other States for their consideration and comments. As this matter was discussed in 1946 and approved, I do not propose to make any further explanation about it. All this passgraph says is that the draft which is in existence should be circu- lated to Governments for their comments. The CHATRMAN : Seconded by Greece. anyone who wishes to speak ? If there is no objection, then I will put this mo- tion. The vote was taken by a show of hands. Is there — 403 —    The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. That finishes item II B.1, unless anyone else wishes’ to raise any matter concerning II B.1.7. If not, we move on to Chapter II.B.2.6. Chapter II. B. 2. b. — Inexpensive Book Pro- duction. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : In mov- ing this item I would like it to be understood that the Working Party has adopted two methods of securing economies in the programme. One is by putting items into priority C; and for the other — and this is an example of this method — we have re-worded the paragraph as it appears in the printed Green Book, and we substitute forit, in my opinion, a less ambitious project. I now movethat in the place of Chapter I[.B.2.5 the following words should be inserted : Explore all possible means of encouraging the inexpensive production of books, periodicals and teaching material in the fields of Unesco"s interests. We give that priority B. The CHATRMAN : You understand, then, that this priority B is included within your motion. Does anyone second that ? Seconded by the delegate of the United States of America. If no one wishes to discuss it, I take it you have no objection to its going to the vote ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (2) The next point is not mentioned in this document, but it refers to Chapter П.В.2.е. Sir Henry French perhaps can tell us bout it. Chapter II. B. 2. e. — Production of facilities for Mass Media and Reproductions in Visual Arts and Music. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : I note a slight typographical error in the typewritten report. The proposals at the bottom of the page, two paragraphs, are not additional paragraphs, — they are to be substituted for e for reasons I should explain in connexion with the last item. I will read them : Explore all possible means of encouraging the inexpensive production of the physical facilities for mass media and, in
1948, to study particularly the problem of the inexpensive production of film projectors;
(1) In final form : Resolution 2.2.2.
(2) In final form : Resolution 2.3.2.
1; vol. 11, page 15. Survey the reproduction situation in visual arts and music as a first step towards making the world’s resources in these fields more readily available for Unesco’s purposes. As the Secretariat points out, the Arts and Letters Working Party are interested in the second sentence of that new paragraph. The CHAIRMAN : May I suggest then, to Sir Henry French, that since Arts and Letters, and possibly other groups, are interested, that second paragraph might be held until we receive their report, and the discussion on that can be incorpo- rated in: it. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : I gladly accept that. The CHAIRMAN : We take it then, that only the first paragraph is now before this Commission for consideration, on the understanding that anyone has the right to raise the second paragraph when we are dealing with the Arts and Letters report. The delegate of China seconds this motion. Does anyone wish to speak to it? If not, may I put it to the meeting?
1. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. 3) There is still item g and that will come up from the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, so we have not quite finished Chapter II. B.2. We now come to Chapter ILB.3. Is there anyone who wishes to raise any matter from the report of this Working Party on Item ILB.3.1? You will notice the Working Party recommends approval, with priority C. Sir Henry French has stated he does not intend to move this. In that case we have completed consideration of
1.8.3.1. Concerning Chapter 11.B.3, paragraph 2, the dele- gate of the United Kingdom, Mr. Priestley, wishes to speak, Chapter II. B. 3. 2. — Production Unit. Mr. J. B. PRIESTLEY (United Laden) : ingMr. Chairman, I am taking this rather comman position for a few minutes because, after all, we are dealing now with the largest and boldest single project ever put before Unesco. It involves a con- tribution of $ 500,000, and that is a sum that needs justification. Unesco, if it is to achieve strength and security, must live in the minds of people, and must have the
(3) In final form: Resolution 2.2.3.7 ; vol. II, page 14. — 404 —    support of people even more than the support of governments. It is no use planning innumerable long-range projects and enquiries, and sending out questionnaire, if in a few years there is no Unesco to deal with them. Many of us here feel that Unes- co's chief task in 1948 is to bring itself to life in the minds of ordinary men and women, and this project is designed to achieve that purpose. Unes- co's task is to give people faith and hope and cou- rage, but now can we do that unless wetoo, here and now, show faith and hope and courage ourselves If we wish to appeal to the imagination of the world, we ourselves must show imagination. This project may seem expensive, but in point of fact it is the creation of a production unit that will not spend its money producing, but creating pro- duction elsewhere, and we hope that money can be spent, or rather invested, in brains and enthusiasm and creative energy rather than in fresh batches of overpaid clerks. Many of you, I believe, who havesat here day after day have complained of tedium. There is nothing tedious, there is nothing boring, about the adoption of this particular resolution. It is a bold and imagi- native move, and I hope that our Working Party will have the confidence of this Commission. There is one small change that I would suggest should be made in the resolution. It is in the fourth paragraph, where we say : « It may also be neces- sary for purposes of technical convenience to arrange that the whole or part of the production unit... ». I would suggest that the words «the whole or» are removed,so that it reads : « It may also be necessary... to arrange that part of the production unit should be based elsewhere than at Unesco headquarters. » I will now, at the Chairman's request, read the resolution : After consideration of the documents placed before it by the Secretariat, and particularly documents 20/30 and
2C/G/5 (which latter it commends particularly to the attention of the Director-General), the General Conference adopts the following resolution : The General Conference instructs the Director-General to create at once a production unit based on an International Ideas Bureau,capable ofinitiating and influencing production on Unesco subjects in radio, press and films; The production unit should employ persons thoroughly experienced in their fields and with access to radio programme controllers and feature producers, panels of writers likely to attractattention to Unesco subjectsin the press, and direc- tors and script-writers not only in documentary but also in feature film production; It may be necessary to employ highly paid people for short periods, andit is essential that the administration of the Mass Communication Section should be sufficiently flexible to make this possible. It may also be necessary for purposesof techni- cal convenience to arrange that part of the production unit should be based elsewhere than at Unesco headquarters; No funds voted for this project may be utilized for any other purpose. This purpose is construed to include the collection and dissemination of information designedto stimu- late production. (This resolution replaces 11.B.3.3.) The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to second this resolution? It is seconded by the delegate of Canada, and supported by Poland and the United States of America. Does anyone wish to speak on this? Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) Mr. Chairman, because of a misunderstanding which seemed to have gained rather general credence, at least in our Working Party, I want to take this occasion to express the approbation of the United States for this imaginative scheme, and to say that we are heartily in favour of a vigorous programme of production and stimulation of production on the part of Unesco. We think thatit fits in directly with the work of Unesco in the field of freedom of informa- tion and in the reduction of barriers. If this pro- duction programme is undertaken, it is obvious that some attempt must be made to remove barriers, so that the production stimulated by Unesco can move into the various parts of the world. We are heartily in favour of this vigorous pro- gramme that our British colleague has introduced. Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, we are convinced of the nobility of this ideal and of its undoubted usefulness for the lofty aims of our Organization, but we would like to ask the delegate of the United Kingdom to be more explicit in clarifying two points in his draft text: firstly, the beginning of the fourth paragraph of the text : «It may be necessary to employ highly paid people for short periods»; and secondly, will the delegate of the United Kingdom justify the necessity of basing the production unit elsewhere than at Unesco headquarters. What are the reasons, and what place has the delegate of the United Kingdom in mind for this purpose? Mr. J. B. PRIESTLEY (United Kingdom) : In reply to the first question, concerning the highly paid people for short periods and the flexible administration, it should be realized that in this type of mass communication project you are bound to deal with personnel who are themselves extremely highly paid in their professions, and who may not wish to come for more than short periods, and who cannot be treated in quite the same way as other types of personnel engaged for long periods. There must necessarily be, when dealing with experts on film, radio and press, more flexibility than perhaps has been seen so far in the Unesco organization. When you come to the second question of technical convenience, Paris is one of the great cities, but it is — 405 —
264    not the only one, and in some respects, for certain kinds of mass communication,it is probably not the best centre. In any event, it seems better to cover ourselves so that, if necessary, we can use other centres of mass communication for this particular programme. I hope these replies meet the ques- tions raised by the Mexican delegate. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman, I should like to ask the delegate of the United King- dom what exactly is meant by «based on an Inter- national Ideas Bureau». Iam not clear on that, and there are probably others in the same position. Mr. J. B. PRIESTLEY (United Kingdom) Mr. Chairman, I am very glad to have an opportunity of answering that question. The International Ideas Bureau was part of our mass media pro- gramme in the 1946 Conference. What it means is this. It is a group of people who are searching the news, searching the world, in fact, though not necessarily physically, to find instances of inter- national co-operation — orfor that matter of par- ticular excellence on the part of any people — that would give Unesco the kind of material that would lend itself to feature production likely to favour Unesco’s point of view. The ordinary press usually gives us the quarrels of the nations, but it does not give us any glimpse of a world society already emerging. It is the busi- ness of this International Ideas Bureau to find evidence from every part of the world of the emer- gence of this world society and to do everything possible to bring it alive in the minds of millions of people. Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The explanation ofthis draft given by the delegate of the United Kingdom does not seem satisfactory to me. I have good reason to know the idiosyncracies and attitude of the type of person to whom he refers in the paragraph which I wish to have clarified. I believe that the use- fulness of the activities of highly paid persons of that type would be extremely doubtful. I imagine that he refers to «stars» in editing, directing or producing for the radio, cinema or press, who would be employed instead ofa staff carefully trained to serve Unesco’s ideals. The work which such «stars» might do would not be closely allied to, or deeply inspired by, Unesco’s aims. By their very character, their incidental intervention in Unesco’s work would be exclusively inspired by commercial, mercenary motives. I think it would be tar more advantageous ior the Organization's ideals that staff should be spe- cially trained, who would devote all their efforts and their productive capacity to the service of8 aims, The delegate of the United Kingdom should also remember that people of this type, with special aptitudes, receiving high salaries for their work in radio and films, should be sufficiently disinterested, when the question involved is work such as that of Unesco and the lofty aims of international peace which inspire the Organization, to act in a spirit of altruism, without thought of remuneration. Mr. PRIESTLEY (United Kingdom) : I must point out, in the first place, that we tried to keep the resolution as short as possible, and I would refer the Mexican delegate to our original statement on this project. But I think he and I are at cross- purposes about these types of people. I think he has a vision of the quiet offices of Unesco being in- vaded by glamorous and temperamental beings of a type with which few of us are familiar. The people we have in mind are radio producers, script-writers, well-known journalists, and men of that kind, who in point of fact would come to work for short periods just because they are not thinking in com- mercial terms but are inspired by the ideals of Unesco. However, I would point out, in order to save the time of the Commission, that the Mexican delegate and myself are supposed to be members of a small sub-committee, and if the Commission wishes, we can thrash out this little difference of opinion there. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to speak on this project? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, the French delegation has listened very attentively to the interesting re- marks by Mr. Priestley. The reasons he gave in submitting his project are ofthe highest and noblest order. In particular we were struck by his appeal when he said that this project should be directed towards men rather than towards states or nations. That is an idea which the whole French delegation supports whole-heartedly. This programme, which is a new and courageous one, deserves respect and attention, and I can assure Mr. Priestley that the French delegation will give it full support. Nevertheless, not in a spirit of criticism, but to clarify, perhaps, certain aspects of the programme, I should like to remind you that yesterday we adopted a resolution to set up a stand- ing Programme Committee, and a smaller commit- tee to carry out part of the work, I think, for which Mr. Priestley wishes to set up another committee. Does he not fear that there may be some — 406 —    duplication of work between the Programme Committee and this new «Brains Trust» which he proposes to form? As regards the location of this production unit, Mr. Priestley remarked that Paris was a good centre, but was possibly, for technical reasons, not the best. As a matter of fact, I believe that there are very good arguments for this view; if, however, techni- cally speaking, Paris is not the best centre, adminis- tratively it has very definite advantages. This, Mr. Chairman, brings us to the financial aspect of the matter, which we must all consider, especially after the speeches made yesterday and the day before by a number of our colleagues. There has been mention of a sum of $ 500,000 for this project — a considerable amount. If this sum is voted, and if this project is given priority, how do we expect to carry out the other projects which were approved yesterday and the day before? I know that it is for the Budget Sub-Commission, when it has not received specific recommendations from the Programme Commission, to establish priorities. I also know that the Working Party on Mass Communication has arranged for a special sub-committee to study this question andto report to the Budget Sub-Commission, but I would remind you that the Budget Sub-Commission is subject to the Programme Commission, and that, ultimately, it is for this Commission to make suggestions and to decide exactly what it wishes and what can be done. With these reservations, and with the hope that Mr. Priestley will be kind enough to give us some additional details, the French delegation approves the suggested project. The CHAIRMAN : Does Mr. Priestley wish to reply to the questions raised by the delegate of France? Mr. J. B. PRIESTLEY (United Kingdom) Mr. Chairman, I will try to take up the various points, very briefly. There were, I think, two questions. One was the question of moving the unit outside Paris. We have already recognized that Unesco must have an office in New York and all we said in this resolution was that it might be necessary, to further the work of this unit, that it should function at times outside Paris. The ques- tion then was raised of cost. Well, that may or may not mean additional cost. The living al- lowance given in Paris seems to many of us very handsome, and no doubt it would not need to be raised elsewhere. As for the general cost of the scheme, that is, of course, for this Commission and the Budget Sub-Commission to decide. I can only say that in putting forward this project, we bore in mind the financial limitations of Unesco. Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 would like to raise one question about the alternative draft regarding the head- quarters of this unit. The CHAIRMAN : In actual fact the delegate of Mexico should have raised that when he spoke before. I think, however, the meeting would have no objec- tion to his doing so now. Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Thank you. T agree with the delegate of the United Kingdomthat this is one of Unesco’s major projects. We cannot leave these important matters undecided. Therefore, to pro- vide for that flexibility which the delegate of the United Kingdom wishes the Unesco production unit to have, and to ensure that this unit can be fully controlled by the Unesco authorities, I suggest that the draft be amended as follows : That the headquarters of the production unit be in Paris but that there be a mobile unit which can go to other coun- tries. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone who wishes to second that? The delegate of India. Mrs. Aruna ASAF ALI (India) : I entirely agree with the delegate of Mexico on the point he raised about the type of personnel which is envisaged here. Hereferred to the employment of highly paid people for short periods and to the misunderstandings that are raised in one’s mind when one reads that. Mr, Priestley was kind enough to point out that highly paid staff on the administrative staff of the production unit in this paragraph would not neces- sarily mean the glamorous people from Hollywood or other centres, but would mean experts, journalists, script-writers and experts in production. I would like to point out to Mr. Priestley that such experts, though they may not be glamorous themselves, demand glamorous terms, and it is time, I think, that a body like Unesco paid attention to young men and women who, although not expert, are na- turally attracted to the ideals of Unesco and were attracted to those ideals long before Unesco came into existence. Iam sure Mr. Priestley knowsof a large number of writers, journalists and young men and women who cannot be called experts in the sense in which the term is used here, but who share all the objectives which Unesco holds as precious to- day. They have not had the opportunity to become experts becauseit is very difficult for young men and women to make headway for lack of opportunity, and an organization like Unesco, I think, should afford that opportunity. There is a chance here for Unesco to employ young men and women who are tempera- mentally artistic, who bsve all the qualifications — 407 —
264.    necessary for making them expert, though perhaps they are not yet so good as those feature writers who have had years of experience; inexperience can be overcome. Or course, not for a moment would I suggest that efficiency should be sacrificed in the interests of eco- nomy, but you must all of you realize that you must have on your side young idealists as well as experts if a project such as this is to go through. I support the delegate of Mexico in the proposal which he has put forward. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of India did actually get the text, did she not, of the amendment she is supporting ? That the headquarters of the production unit be in Paris but that there be a mobile unit that can go to other countries. Thank you. That has now been moved and seconded. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to the amendment ? Mr. J. B. PRIESTLEY (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, I think we would gladly accept the first half of this amendment, «that the production unit have its headquarters in Paris», but the term «mobile groups» does not really convey the sense of what we mean. That is altogether too tempo- rary. That really would suggest small flying squads sent out for a very short period, whereas it may be necessary for a part of the unit to do its work for a considerable period outside Paris. I think we are really quarrelling about words rather than meanings. 1 have certainly no objec- tion to the first half of the amendment. In the second half you probably need some such word as «branch», «sub-section» or something of that kind in place of «mobile group». It is something a little bit more stable than a mobile group. That is all. The CHATRMAN : I would address my remarks to the delegate of Mexico. The question now is whether you will accept that alteration : instead of «mobile unit» have the word «sub-section», which might give rather more permanence to the particu- lar unit than the words «mobile unit» would. Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : I accept Mr. Priestley’s suggestion, provided that it appears in the draft of this resolu- tion. The CHAIRMAN : Your amendment will be accepted by Mr. Priestley as a part of his original motion, if Mr. Priestley’s seconder is agreeable, He is agreeable. The resolution now reads : The headquarters of the production unit should be in Paris but for purposes of technical convenience there may be a sub-section that can be stationed in another country. Might I ask the delegate of Mexico if the proposed wording given by Mr. Priestley is acceptable to him ? Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Yes, Sir. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Is there anyone who wishes to speak further to it ? If not, Mr. Priestley, if he wishes, has the right to reply to the general debate. Mr. J. B. PRIESTLEY (United Kingdom) : There are only two points I would like to make. First, one in reply to the Indian delegate. I would point out that there are already fellowship schemes in Mass Communication organized by Unesco, and that the most dangerous possible thing, the surest way to ruin this particular production project, would be to try to make it a fellowship scheme. Mass communication is a highly technical busi- ness and, while I have every sympathy with young persons who want to learn that business, they are catered for in other departments of this pro- gramme. The second point is simply that we necessarily have to make this resolution short. We hope — I speak now of the sub-committee that has been appointed by our Working Party — both to clarify many points and to enlarge a good deal on all those various sections of the resolution; but I implore this Commission to take this thing as it stands. Our great danger here is in smudging and smear- ing and frittering. Let us, for once, take one great lump of a project and bang it through. The CHAIRMAN : Now, are we ready to vote on this motion moved by Mr. Priestley ? The delegate of France is not speaking to the motion again, I presume ? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : 1 would like to know if Mr. Priestley would accept the following amendment, which might be included in the first sentence of his mo- tion : «The General Conference instructs the Direc- tor-General to create at once a production unit based on an’ International Ideas Bureau, etc.» Here I propose to insert the following words : «at- tached to the Standing Programme Committee». The more I study the motion adopted yesterday, the more convinced I am that, if we do not create some means of liaison between the International Ideas Bureau and the Programme Committee, there will be some very regrettable duplication. — 408 —    I think it might be advisable to look at the motion adopted yesterday again, because a number of the matters which are occupying Mr. Priestley’s mind are already included in that recommendation. For that reason, I think it would be useful to make formal provision now for liaison between the Stand- ing Programme Committee and the International Ideas Bureau. The CHAIRMAN : The document to which the delegate of France is referring is 2C/C1/9 which you considered and passed yesterday. It is con- cerned with the setting up of this Standing Pro- gramme Committee and the six experts and so on in connection with radio. There is one difficulty, and that is that the reso- lution we passed yesterday was concerned only with radio. The suggestion has been made to me that it might be more acceptable if the delegate of France would agree to the wording : «to work in close conjunction with» rather than «attached to». It is, of course, entirely for the delegate of France to say whether he meant that, or whether it is acceptable. Thedelegate of France, then, has moved an amend- ment which in effect means that the production unit should work in close conjunction with the per- manent Committee approved in terms of document
2C/G 1/9. Would that be acceptable to the mover of the motion ? Mr. J. B. PRIESTLEY (United Kingdom) : That is acceptable, except that the exact termis «a Stand- ing Programme Committee for 1948», The CHAIRMAN : I think that is correct. If it is acceptable to Mr. Priestley and to the seconder from Canada, we can incorporate it in the original motion. Does anyone wish to speak now ? If not, we will put it to the meeting. The vote was taken by a show of hands, The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried, (4) We have been concerned with Chapter II.B.3, sections 2 and 3. Are there any other motions concerning either of these sections that you now want to raise ? I do not know whether what Mr. Priestley suggested was a complete substitute for section 2 or not. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, in order to prevent misunderstanding, I would like to propose that section 2 remain, that is, that it be approved ; and that the motion which
(4) In final form : Resolution 2.2.3.2; vol. Il, page 13. has been adopted and has now been passed in an amended form should take the place of section 3. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of the United Kingdom is moving section 2. Section 3 is covered, as far as the United Kingdom delega- tion is concerned, by the motion we have passed. It has been moved in terms of paragraph 2 of IL.B.3. Does anyone wish to second it ? It is seconded by the delegate of Canada. Does anyone wish to speak ? In that case, I will put it to the meeting. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : I am afraid I have been guilty of an oversight. It will be obvious to every member of the Commission that we attach priority A to both these paragraphs —
2 and the new 3. The CHAIRMAN : It has been moved — we are now dealing with the motion we have just passed presented by Mr. Priestley — by the delegate of the United Kingdom, that this should have priority A. Does anyone second that ? It is seconded by the delegate of Australia, and supported by the delegate of Czechoslovakia. Does anyone wish to speak ? If not, I will put it to the vote. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried, and it bas priority A. Does anyone wish to speak to the motion moved by the delegate of the United King- dom in terms of paragraph 2 ? If not, may I put it to the meeting ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. ©) Are there any other matters or motions concerned with paragraphs 2 or 3 ? If not, we move on to paragraph 4. The Working Party recommends priority C, but the delegate of the United Kingdom has said he is not moving anything concerned with priority C. Does anyone else wish to raise a point on this ? If not, paragraph
4 lapses and we move on. That means we have now completed Chapter II. B.3, except for consideration of paragraph 5, which is the subject of a report by another Committee. I'now find myself in someslight difficulty as Chair- man. The difficulty arises from the fact that the field of some of these Working Parties covers more than one chapter. We have agreed to take as our ordinary agenda the paragraphs in the Green Book, but in the case of this Working Party there are some paragraphs further on which are concerned with IT.C. and some which even jump over to Chap- ter Ш.Н. Whichever way we handle this matter,
(5) In final form : Resolution 2.2.3.1; vol. II, page 13. — 409 —    it may lead to some confusion ; but I propose, purely experimentally, to follow for the moment the items included in the report of this Working Party, which will mean our by-passing other items if there are no reports from Working Parties. Strictly speaking, I am following out your instructions with regard to the Green Book, but if there are no reports pre- pared on earlier items, I propose experimentally to move on to consideration of the items contained in paper 2C/G/8. We now move to chapter II.C. I understand there is one report on libraries which deals with item 4. I still think that to avoid confusion we should pass that by for the meantime and move on to motion contained in document
2C/G/8 with regard to IT.G., Collection and Disse- mination of Data. Does anyone wish to speak to that ? Chapter II. CG. — Collection and Dissemination of Data. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, Ì beg to move that an additional para- graph be inserted in П.С. and that the proposa in this paragraph be given priority B. The word- ing is as set out in the report of the Working Party : Collect and disseminate, in collaboration with the Unesco Documentation, Library and Statistical Service, on an interna- tional scale, through all appropriate channels, information about press, films and radio in relation to education, science and culture (including the publication of reports, catalogues and information bulletins). The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to second it ? It is seconded by the delegate of the United States. Does anyone else wish to speak to this ? The understanding is, of course, that the preliminary words are, «The Director-General is structed» and so on. If no one wishes to speak to this mo- tion, I will put it to the vote. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. ©) There is another item here with priority C which Sir Henry French is not raising. If no one else wishes to speak, it lapses. Chapter III. H. — Stimulation of Production, in Press, Films and Radio, to further Inter- national Understanding. The CHAIRMAN : I shall now have to ask you to move on to Chapter III.H.
(6) In final form : Incorporated in Resolutions 2.2.2.1.1.
2.2.3.2.3.; vol. II, page 13 and 2.2.3.3.3.4; vol. 11, page 14. You will realize that Chapter III includes a whole number of items which come under various Work- ing Parties. They are fairly separate, I think, and I believe we can deal with them without confu- ion. I know the science people in their reports also want to raise matters in this chapter. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, as you have said, mass communication spreads itself through pratically every chapter of this programme. I am now going to propose a clarification of paragraph H. I will read it in a minute or two. But what I want to say first is this : that this is not a proposal for additional expenditure outside the $ 500,000 discussed on Mr. Priestley’s resolution, which has been accep- ted. This will come within that programme for a production unit. All that I am now doing is to suggest that the programme should specify some of the work that this production unit should under- take. The words which I suggest to you and which I have pleasure in moving are as follows, and they are in substitution for paragraph H on page 19 of the Green Book : Stimulate the simultaneous presentation of four major themes of world significance within the fields of Unesco's interest by press, film and radio groups in a number of coun- tries. Promote international collaboration in the production of radio broadcasts to be known as Radio World University of the Air and of other international radio programmes by na- tional radio systems. Promote the production of an international series of films on the special achievements of a number of nationsin the fields of education, science and culture, the films to be produced through national organizations according to an international plan and to be distributed internationally through national organizations. Stimulate the production of films on subjects of a multi- national character in the fields of Unesco's interests by co- rative action between groups of countries concerned with opeeach theme. I want to make it quite clear that these are not additional to the propositions contained in Mr. Priestley’s resolution. They are a part of it. In fact, the wording that we put in the report should, I think, read : «These activities fall within the scope of the resolution recently passed and the cost of them will come within the $ 500,000.» On this understanding, I move this addition. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Does anyone second it ? It is seconded by the delegate of Canada. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I was going to suggest an amendment to the introduction of the motion, if Sir Henry would accept it, in such a way that the motion would be definitely tied to the pre- vious motion. I was going to say, if Canada had — 410 —    not beaten us, that the Australian delegation would have been very happy to second it in these circum- stances. Could we leave it to the Drafting Committee to find some definite wording to relate this motion to the one previously proposed by Mr. Priestley ? Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : I am much obliged for the suggestion which the Austra- lian delegate has made. There are two points : First, we want to make it clear to the Budget Sub-Commission that the $ 500,000 cover this paragraph, as well as the original paragraph ; Second, we want, somewhere or other in the programme, to say that the production unit referred to in Mr. Priestley’s resolution is really to take charge of this new paragraph. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you. It is understood then that this resolution is passed in terms of that proviso. Does anyone now wish to speak to this ? Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Although the Mexican proposal set forth in this booklet : «An Idea for Unesco», is mentioned in document 2C/G/8, at the bottom of page 3, as referred to the sub-committee for dis- cussion, I should like, in view of the importance of the matter, to relate it to paragraph 2 of this item we are discussing, where we speak of promoting international collaboration in the production of radio broadcasts, to be known as the World Uni- versity of the Air. Gentlemen, through me are speaking young countries which find it difficult to receive the privileges of culture, which are obstruct- ed by many economic obstacles. Our universities and other institutions are making heroic efforts and doing everything possible to keep us up to date with the latest scientific discoveries, and to associate us with the latest developments of world thought. and the latest advances in modern technical science. Repeatedly, economic obstacles have prevented our universities from obtaining the teaching staff we should have desired, and though the local staffs are extraordinarily energetic and are doing every- thing possible to keep themselves up to date with developments in their own branch of study, we have not the advantages of other universities — of the great universities of the United States, or the great English universities, for example, for whose staff the foremost authorities in every field are immediately secured to promote swifter progress in all branches of science, art, literature, history, or education. The wireless — that powerful means of commu- nication and dissemination of human thought — now gives us a magnificent opportunity to make world culture a real world heritage, to make the thoughts of all men throughout the world common property. The proposal set forth in this pamphlet of the Mexican delegation, «An Idea for Unesco» is idea- listic, ambitious and apparently unattainable, but — and I particularly want to call your attention to this — it is perhaps the only proposal which includes its own financial plan, a plan which makes it self-supporting and economically justifiable. I should like the delegates of those countries which enjoy the privilege of a Harvard, a Yale, an Oxford, where the world’s cultural leaders come together, to spare a thought for the Latin American countries who are eager to-approach these sources of inspiration and knowledge. The establishment of the Radio International University implies the possibility of drawing on all original sources of human thought. This plan is conceived on entirely self-supporting lines and is economically feasible — the idea that the great teachers of human thought shall be able to address the masses of the world through an international broadcasting system, with the establishment of record-libraries in which the lectures of the world’s greatest professors in each subject would be record- ed. Examples are given on page 4 of this pamph- let — the Chair of Theory of Relativity to Professor Albert Einstein; the Chair of Anthropology to Pro- fessor Paul Rivet of France; the Chair of Political Science to the Viennese Professor Hans Kelsen or that of Atomic Theory to the American physicist Robert Andrew Millikan. Apart from the advantages of the scheme for countries which do not have these world autho- rities on the teaching staff of their universities, it will also result in inestimable advantages for coming generations, since we shall be able to furnish direct, vivid, personal and accurate testimony of how human thought is being received and transformed. Imagine, gentlemen, what it would be, for us men of the twentieth century, to hear the actual voice of Newton when he explained the law of gravity in his lectures; to be able to listen to the voice of Descartes and hear how his ideas were developed; to be able to hear the voices of the great philoso- phers of antiquity, or great artists explaining the secrets of their art, their technique or their science. I consider that this idea is practicable and to the highest degree beneficial to men of all nations, and I think it essential that, eliminating intellectual frontiers, the world’s heritage of culture should become, in very truth, the property of all. I there- fore ask the Commission to include this resolution under consideration in the second paragraph of the resolution on which we are about to vote. — 411 —     The CHAIRMAN : The amendment is that the prope of the Mexican delegation, set forth in a ooklet issued by them yesterday under the title of «An Idea for Unesco», be included in paragraph 2 of the resolution put forward by Sir Henry French. That has not been seconded. If Sir Henry French wishes to accept it as part of his motion, he can speak now. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman,I thought it might be for the convenience of the Commission if I explained that, in the draft- ing of our report, the second paragraph which I read out, beginning, «Promote international colla- boration. .. » was intended to be expressed in such terms as would fully include this proposal which has been circulated by the Mexican delegation and about which we have just heard a most interesting speech. I should not myself commit the Working Party to the technical details of that proposal. We did not have it before us until quite late, but we all felt, from a hurried glance at the document,that it was a good proposal which needed consideration, and we thoughtit was desirable to make our resolu- tion sufficiently wide to cover it. I would also point out that in this and in many other respects we have left a good deal to the sub- committee to work out in greater detail, and on that sub-committee I think the first delegate whom we elected was a delegate of Mexico, because of the importance weattach to this document. If the delegate of Mexico suggests any particular words to be added to, or substituted for, anything in the motion now before you, I will gladly consider them; but at this stage all I feel I can do, and I do it whole-heartedly, is to say that we accept this proposition in its general outline and will be very glad indeed to see it included within the scope of our work. The CHAIRMAN : This motion has not yet been seconded. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) : I am very glad that the British delegation accepts in principle the proposal which has been so clearly and so skil- fully presented by the Mexican delegation, especially as it corresponds to the proposals regarding post- war university education which have also been made, after consideration during the war. This pamphlet contains the proposal drafted by the Mexican delegation. I should be extremely happy to see this idea spread, because it is very important that we get into contact with the diffe- rent universities and give them the tools to do what is necessary. The CHAIRMAN : Might I suggest to the delegate of Mexico — in the terms of what Sir Henry French has said — that the Commission has not had time to read this or consider it in any detail, though it is very sympathetic towards it. The delegate of Mexico might be satisfied if this Commission agreed that the very interesting proposal put forward be sent to the sub-committee for most sympathetic consideration as one of the ways of carrying out the resolution proposed in the second paragraph. Would that be acceptable to the delegate of Mexico ? Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : When it has been sent to the sub-committee, will it he returned to the Working Party ? The CHAIRMAN : I am not aware of the nature of this sub-committee. Perhaps Sir Henry French would clarify that point. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, it was agreed at the Working Party yes- terday — it was late, and the delegate of Mexico had just left-that the better course would be that the report of this sub-committee should go direct to the Budget Sub-Commission, because it affects the question of priorities and so on. I believe that it would save the time of this Commission and be a very convenient arrangement. The CHAIRMAN: Is the delegate of Mexico quite clear on this point? Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation form the Spanish) : If the proposal goes to the Budget Sub-Commission, with the general approval of this Programme Commission and a recommendation to consider similar suggestions by the Working Party, I am in agreement. The CHAIRMAN : Very well, then, we take it that a part of Sir Henry French’s motion is that the proposal put forward by the Mexican delegate under paragraph 2 hereis referred to the sub-committee for most sympathetic consideration, the understanding being that the report of that sub-committee will go to the Budget Sub-Commission, and their report come back to this Commission. Is that acceptable? We now have the motion put forward by Sir Henry French, including the sentence I have just given concerning the Mexican proposal. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to it? If not, may I put this motion to the meeting? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. ()
(7) In final form : Resolutions 2.2.3.3.6, 2.2.3.4.1,,
2.2.3.4.2. and 2.2.3.5 ; vol. 11, page 14. — He  ‎ب   Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : We are satisfied in principle; we only want clarification. I think what Sir Henry French, the Chairman of the Working Party, said contradicts what you said. He said that, to expedite matters, it would be referred to the Budget Sub- Commission, and you have just said it would be returned to this Commission. I wish to have this point perfectly clear, so that the matter will not be left in suspense. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Mexico is, of course, quite correct in asking for clarification. The procedure, as I see it, will be this : that this parti- cular motion will go to the sub-committee referred to by Sir Henry French. That sub-committee will report to the Budget Sub-Commission, but the whole report of the Budget Sub-Commission will eventually come back for discussion and adoption by this Commission. Sr. GALVEZ Y FUENTES (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Thank you. I would like to know whether the recommendation for sympathetic consideration which you have given is endorsed by the majority of those here present. The CHAIRMAN : Those present here have passed a resolution which included the sentence referring this matter for most sympathetic consideration by that sub-committee. I may take it, therefore, that there is no one to speak against it and we are all in sympathy. Now would you mind making another of those hypothetical excursions to Chapter IV.A.4. En- quiry into the ways of presenting international news in all media. That has been given priority G by this Working Party. In that case I understand that the Chairman of the Working Party will not moveit. If no one wishes to move it, we will take it that that proposal lapses. There is only one other proposal. The next item in the report of the Working Party is concerned with Chapter V of the Green Book. May I read to you the relevant paragraph in docu- ment 2C/BUR/1, which is the document upon which we have based ourselves throughout. 2C/BUR/1 says : Although Chapter V of the Programme should be referred to the Administrative and Externai Relations Commission, that should not prevent the Programme and Budget Commis- sion from discussing the respective réles of Member States and the Secretariat in the execution of the programme of the Organization. Now there is a proposal here, with priority B, that Unesco should participate in the conferences of the International Organization of Journalists and of the Inter-American Press Congress. Is that a legitimate thing to bring before this Commission, or should it go before the Admini- strative and External Affairs Commission? Ido not want to trespass on the field of the Administrative and External Relations Commission. Perhaps you would not mind holding this over until I have a chance of discussing it with the Chairman of that Commission, to see if he feels we would be tres- passing on his field. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, I am sure I should be expressing the views of the members of the Working Party when we say we would very gladly accept your suggestion in this respect. Personally I feel that the Commission has done so well this morning, in taking all these various pieces of the programme related to Mass Communi- cation, that it would be quite discourteous if we did not accept this suggestion of yours very readily indeed. The CHAIRMAN : Apart from this one item, then, we have finished with the Report of this Working Party. I know, again, that you would wish me to express our appreciation of the work it has done. The expedition with which we have proceeded has been very largely due to the efforts of the Working Party and the able presentation of its work by its Chairman. If there is no further business, I declare this meeting adjourned until 4 o'clock this afternoon. The meeting rose at 1.20 p. m.