Dr. WALKER (Australia) considered that the motion just adopted implied acceptance of the United Nations scale with the appropriate adjust- ments; calculation for 1948 should be based on the 1947 scale, account being taken of new Mem- bers. The Drafting Committee should consider the motion in the light of the French proposal to apply the mathematical adjustment to the 1947 scale. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) sup- ported this proposal and moved that the Drafting Committee should pay special attention to the figures proposed for new Members, with a view to ascertaining whether they had in fact been esta- FOURTH blished in accordance with the accepted principles (mentioned on page 2 of the annex to document
2C/C2/3). This was agreed. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) announced that the amount outstanding against the Mexican contri- bution was due to a mistake by the Secretariat. M. de VISSCHER (Belgium) and Dr. MENG (China) announced that their respective Governments were about to pay their contributions to Unesco. The meeting rose at 1.15 p. т. MEETING Friday, 14 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr, HAN Lih-Wu (China) Item 4 (a) of the Agenda : Receipt of the Report of the Executive Board to the General Conference on the financial administration of the Organization. Item 4 (b) of the Agenda : Review of Auditors Report. It was decided that the two items should be considered together, commencing with a general discussion on Item 4(a). Dr. WALKER,as Rapporteurof the Finance Com- mittee of the Executive Board, suggested that the meeting should take note of document 2C/C2/1 and, after discussing the various points, decide whether to recommend it for approval to the General Confe- rence. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) asked whether the Director-General’s statement, referred to on page 17 of document 2C/C2/1, had been prepared and whether it was available for members of the Commission. Dr. WALKER replied that the Director-General's statement had been submitted to the Executive Board, but the latter had not been able to include in its Report all the material before it and had merely given a review of the whole situation. The last paragraph on page 17 of the Report summar-
1zed the Director-General’s statement to the Board. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) again asked whether the document would be made available to the Commission and Dr. WALKER replied that the Commission had a right to call for any document referred to in the Report. The CHAIRMAN,referring to Item 4 (5), observed that they had three Auditors’ Reports to examine: the first Report, dated 20 March 1947; an Annex to the first Report, dated 4 July 1947, and a sup- plementary Report dated 18 September 1947. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) remarked that, from a legal point of view, only the first Report was an audit. Dr. WALKERintroduced the Reports as follows : the accounts submitted in the first Report were those of the Preparatory Commission, but it had been necessary to carry the date beyond the Pre- paratory Commission, which ended with the First General Conference, and they had decided to draw a line at 31 December 1946. The present Execu- tive Board had no responsibility for the period of the Preparatory Commission, when the accounts were in the hands of the Executive Secretary of the Commission and underits control. When the Exe- cutive Board took cognisance of the first Auditors’ Report, they recognized two facts : firstly, that the first period was not their responsibility and, se- condly, that the unsatisfactory state of affairs had — 558 —    been carried on into their period. The last pages of the General Report explained the action taken by the Board to rectify this unsatisfactory situation. This action had consisted of mviting the Director- General to explain the steps he had taken in his own administration; of discussing the matter with the Auditors and asking them to make a supple- mentary report on the situation at that time (about
15 August). As a result of this Report, dated
18 September 1947, the Executive Board felt satisfied that steps had been taken to see that the deficiencies had been corrected. At present, the Commission had to examine the Report of the Auditors and the action taken by the Board to rec- tify this situation. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) felt that what Dr. Walker had said lent point to his request that the Director-General’s statement should be made available. As regards the Auditor’s Reports, these were very melancholy documents and the Commission should not examine them in detail. The first two showed most unsatisfactory financial management and the last was a report, not on the management of finances, but on certain improvements sugges- ted by the Auditors and adopted. The Audi- tors said that within the three months between their second and third Reports, the improvements were such that in theory they could be expected to continue, but in practice this was not certain. The delegate of India could not honestly say that he was satisfied with the management of Unesco's finances. As regards what had happened in the past, it did not matter whose responsibility it was, as an allocation of blame was no consolation to countries who had contributed a great deal of money and had seen it so inefficiently handled. He, there- fore, preferred to leave the past alone, but wanted to be certain that adequate steps had been taken to ensure that no repetition of mismanagement would take place. That was why he had asked to see the Director-General’s statement. Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that page 17 of the Board’s Report, the third paragraph begin- ning, «the Supplementary Report of the Auditors was received...» indicated that the defects men- tioned in their previous report had been removed and that all their suggestions had been imple- mented. Also, on page 18, the second paragraph stated : The Finance Committee is satisfied that the present ar- rangements within the Secretariat give every reasonable assurance that Unesco’s finances will, in future, be administered in an orderly fashion. The Board has impressed on the Auditors the need for applying to the audit of Unesco's accounts standards appropriate for the handling of public funds, and has arranged for periodical checks to be made and for half- yearly Auditors’ Reports to be submitted. He added that the Executive Board felt that great efforts had been made by the Deputy Director- General, the Comptroller, and their staff, to clean up the situation. Their task had been difficult, as a number of matters in the financial administration had only been brought to the attention of the Board towards the end of the year. It had been found that close supervision by the Executive Board and Finance Committee was not possible, as many mem- bers were not resident in Paris and, therefore, a small expert advisory panel had been set up to advise them, as explained in the second paragraph on page 15 of the Board's Report. In conclusion, he added that the Executive Board, just before the General Conference, had expressed the firm deter- mination to watch these and other problems more closely in the future, with the help of the aforesaid panel of experts. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) saw no point in continuing the discussion on the Board's Report, as most of the members of the Commission were neither quali- fied accountants nor financial experts. They bad before them an expert’s Report, which they need not discuss in detail. If anyone doubted the accu- racy of the points in it, they might nominate a Com- mittee of three persons to examine the doubtful points, but personally, he thought they should have confidence in those responsible for it and adopt the Report as a whole, passing on to other important questions on the agenda. Prof. AUGER (France) moved the adoption of the Report without further discussion. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) remarked that the delegate of Cuba had anticipated him,as he was going to propose that the Commission should appoint a small Committee to examine all docu-" ments in connexion with the Report of the Execu- tive Board. His aim in suggesting this was, how- ever, different from that of the delegate of Cuba; the object of the investigation, he suggested, was not to test the accuracy of statements made, but merely to ensure that the finances of the Organi- zation would in future be managed with proper efficiency. He was grateful for Dr. Walker's assu- rance that future management would be satisfactory, but in view of the past, he thought the Commission would like more definite assurances and would like to see a system brought into effect that would make a repetition of past mistakes impossible. He, there- fore, moved the appointment of a small Committee of three or five members to examine the relevant documents; to call for any documents not available; and to consult with the Director-General and mem- bers of the staff and, in the light of these investi- gations, make definite recommendations for the — 559 —    future. He was sure the Executive Board would appreciate such guidance. The CHAIRMAN called on the Deputy Director- General to make a declaration. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL welcomed the opportunity to say a few words on the Audi- tors’ Report. He agreed that it was desirable for the Commission to establish a small Committee to seek further information. The task of gradually establishing the financial system of a new organi- zation was necessarily a long process, involving selection of personnel and the introduction of the system with the co-operation of everyone. As ex- plained in the Board’s Report, considerable progress had been made. He called attention to the Audi- tors’ Second Report of 18 September, which was not an audit of accounts at that date, but a check by the Auditors on the extent to which the Organi- zation had made the changes suggested by them in their previous Report. They could have no further verification until the next Report at the end of 1947, but in the meantime, they had made the changes advocated on 18 September. On 7 October, the Comptroller had made a statement to the Finance Committee on steps taken since 18 September, showing that the various suggestions of the Auditors regarding bank reconciliations, receipts for cash collected, etc., set out on pages 2, 3, 4 and 5 of their Report had beencarried out. He hoped very muchthat the Committee to be set up would ask all the necessary questions, in order that the whole Conference might be assured of the financial sound- ness of the Organization. He added that the Comp- troller and everyone else were at the disposal of those who desired information. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) thanked the Deputy Director-General for the way in which he had replied to the delegate of India, opening the door of the Secretariat and laying the truth bare so as to prove that all was in order and properly conducted. As a member of the Finance Committee of the Executive Board,he did not want all the documents to be sub- mitted to the General Conference in their present state, and supported the motion that a small Com- mittee should be created to examine them. It was necessary to give proof, not only to the Gonference but to all Member States, of the moral integrity which the Organization should have if it were to be a temple of peace. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) said that when he had read the documents the previous night, he had realized the immense work done in the last months by the Secretariat, the Finance Committee and the Executive Board in order to change the admi- nistration of the Preparatory Commission into the present administration. He agreed with the dele- gate of India that it was important to safeguard the future and he thought it important that they should have some assurance regarding personnel policy. He also wished, therefore, to have the Director-General's statement mentioned in the Board's Report and sup- ported the proposal for the creation of a small Committee. Sr. BAMBOA (Philippines) supported the views of the delegates of Cuba and India, but wished the functions of the small Committee to be limited to : (1) examination of the Report of the Executive Board ; (2) comments and recommendations to be made to the Commission regarding action to be taken on that Report. He fully agreed that the Commission was unable to pass judgment on the Report because it was very technical : they were not, in general, spe- cialists and needed expert advice. He also sugges- ted a time-limit of two or three days for the submis- sion of the Report of the Committee to the Commis- sion. He stressed that it was not that they lacked confidence in the integrity of the Organization, but that the matter was too complicated for laymen and they needed the advice of experts. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay), while supporting the delegates of India and Cuba, felt that they needed a standing Financial Committee, selected outside the Executive Board and composed of five members, two being qualified accountants and the other three pos- sessing the necessary administrative qualifications. M. de VISSCHER (Belgium) observed that they had four proposals before them : that of the delegate of Uruguay for a Standing Committee, which was the widest proposal; that of the delegate of India for a small Committee to study financial questions only; that of the delegate of Czechoslovakia for a small Committee to examine both finance and personnel questions ; and that of the delegate of France to adopt the Report without further discussion. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) recalled that only the motion of the delegate of India had been supported ; it was, therefore, the only one which was formal. The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the proposal of the delegate of India which was adopted. He proposed as members of the Committee, the delegates of India, Cuba and Czechoslovakia. Agreed. He asked the delegate of Uruguay whether he still wished the question of a Standing Committee to be discussed. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) thoughtthat the Com- mittee just created should consider his proposal for a Standing Committee and placed himself at its disposal to explain his idea. — 560 —    Dr. WALKER had no objection, but added that the Executive Board had given some considerationto the question whether such a body would be use- ful. Under the Constitution, the Executive Board was responsible for the execution of the Programme, consulting whom it liked, and it had been thought that the effect of setting up an independent body would be to discharge the Executive Board of some of its duties under the Constitution. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) saw inconvenience in giving two quite different tasks to the Committee : that of examining accounts and books and that of examining legal and administrative questions, He thought it better to refer the matter of the Standing Committee to the Executive Board, which was to meet the following day. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) observed that his pro- posal would certainly not be accepted by the Exe- cutive Board as they had already decided against creating an independent body. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) asked the delegate of Uruguay not to insist on the point without knowing what the United Nations had decided in this con- nexion at Lake Success, as its decisions affected all Specialized Agencies. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) acceded to the sugges- tion of the delegate of Greece. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Saturday, 15 November 1947, at 11.30 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) The CHAIRMAN called attention to the fact that there were only three more full days (17,18 and 19 November), to consider all the items on the agenda. He stated that he had received a communication in the form of a letter from the delegate of Uruguay, who had asked that it should be distributed as soon as possible. Since this document had not yet been translated and mimeographed,it was decided to post- pone discussion on it. The Chairman also said that the recommendation of the Director-General not to discuss any document which was not available in all three working languages would prevent the Commission from discussing any financial questions, r. WILSON (United States of America) appealed to the Commission to continue with the agenda, at least in this instance, in order not to delay the Con- ference further, Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) agreedto this procedure on condition that it was recognized as exceptional. Item 4 (c) of the Agenda : Review of Financial Statement for 1947. ‚ Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) asked for the immediate distribution of the document «Budget Estimates for the Financial Year 19485 (Annexes D and E); it was explained that the document had been distributed at the Fourth Session of the Execu- tive Board and first meeting of the Commission. Dr. WILSON (United States of America) paid tri- bute to this document as an excellent technical achievement, especially in comparison with previous financial statements. He moved a resolution to - accept the document, commending the Secretariat for it, and said that he would submit a second resolution, with the object of improving the docu- ment for future use. He proposed that : To assure necessary record keeping during the currentyear, on the basis of which a more adequate Financial Statement can be developed for 1948, the Chairman of the Commission shall request the Director-General to arrange for the maintenance of Records and the development of Financial Statements for future years to indicate Encumbrances and Expenditures by Programmes, Projects and Quarters of each financial year, and in accordance with the Headings of the Budget Document. Mr PILE (United Kingdom) joined in commending the Financial Statement for 1947. He said that he was slightly perplexed because Table I of this document had already been presented in another document. The latter was based on un-audited in- comes but it was not too different from the re-audited — 561 —