synthesize the reports, but put them together and submitted them, with a general introduction, as its own report. At the present Conference, the whole Programme was to be considered by the Programme and Budget Commission. The Working Parties had been assigned two functions : (1) to prepare the ground for the consideration of a sub- ject by the Programme and Budget Commission, their opinion being made known before any deci- sion was taken by the Commission; (2) to examine decisions already taken by the Programme and Budget Commission, translating them into working terms. The Director-General thought it would be impos- sible, without prolonging the Conference, to adopt the French suggestion that only the first function should be delegated to the Working Parties. As regards the suggestion that the Chairman and Rapporteur might be invited to join in: the discussions of the Programme and Budget’ Commis- sion, he thought this might be considered. As far as the fourth point of the French delega- tion’s motion was concerned, he thought they were all agreed that priority should be given in discus- sions of Working Parties to projects to be submit- ted to the Programme and Budget Commission. As it was time to adjourn for the Plenary Meeting and several members had asked to speak, the Chair- man proposed that the Committee should meet again directly after the plenary. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) observed [that the Programme and Budget Commission was sche- duled to meet directly after the Plenary Meeting and was to discuss Chapter I of the Programme, where the whole question came to a head. He thought it advisable that the General Committee should make up its mind before the Programme and Budget Commission began its work, and there- fore moved that the meeting ‘of the Programme and Budget Commission be postponed until 4 p. m. Agreed. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. SEVENTH MEETING Thursday, 13 November 1947 at 6 p. m. Chairman : M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) Proposal by the French delegation (conti- nuation.) The CHAIRMAN stated that the draft resolution presented by Mr. Seydoux during the previous meeting was open for further discussion. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) said that he did not wish either to prolong or to shorten the Conference, as it was necessary to have as complete a picture as possible of the work accomplished; he therefore supported the French proposal as a whole. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) stated that both Professor Auger and himself, as Vice-Chairmen of the Executive Board, had decided to convene the Board to ascertain its attitude towards the Programme and the last report of the Financial Committee. Personally, Dr. Martinez Baez suppor- ted the French proposal. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) noted that several Working Parties had already finished their work (Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, Reconstruction, etc.) and would submit their reports to the Programme and Budget Com- mission; other groups, however, such as the Work- ing Party on Natural Sciences, had not reached that stage. The same chances of discussion in Working Parties should be accorded to all sections of the Programme before they were dealt with by the Programme and Budget Commission.  More- over, the Working Parties should be useful rather than decorative; as a matter of fact, delegates who were technical experts were constantly being appro- priated by the Working Parties, when they should be present at the Programme and Budget Commis- sion to advise the heads of their delegations. Con- sequently, either the Working Parties were necessary and the French proposal should be adopted, or they — 253 —     were useless and all the work should be done by the Programme and Budget Commission. How- ever, this last solution would prevent any intimate discussion; hence, the French proposal should be adopted in ‘order to have a unified Programme. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) said that he found himself in a quandary ; as Head of a small delegation, he approved the French proposal, but as Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, he feared that the Commission must await the reports of the Working Parties before continuing its own work. Detailed discussions among experts made the Work- ing Parties very useful; but the reports of the latter were of an entirely different nature (some contained resolutions, others general considerations on limited questions which did not cover all parts of the 1948 Programme). With reference to document 2C/ BUR/1 (page 3, paragraph c), Dr. Beeby felt that the reports of Working Parties should be placed in the same category as document 2C/3 (Programme of Unesco for 1948), in order not to lose the best results of their work. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) considered document 2 C/BUR/1 excellent, but felt that its tardy publication had prevented many Chairmen from becoming familiar with it; it should either be confirmed or set aside. It should be determined whether the reports of Working Parties should be submitted directly to the Programme and Budget Commission or presented by the head of a delega- tion. Mr. Hardman himself was of the opinion that, as the agenda of the Programme and Budget Com- mission was based upon document 20/3, it should abide by that document. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) reminded the meeting of his interest in the Working Parties and of the fact that he had suggested that the Vice-Chairman of the Programme and Budget Gom- mission should ensure co-operation between the Commission and the Working Parties. Fortunately, the excessive dissociation and specialization which had prevailed at the preceding conference had been eliminated by the Executive Board and the Secre- tariat. Paragraph 2 of the French resolution spoke of «the Working Parties concerned ». How was this to be interpreted in a case like that of the project on Tensions, for instance, which concerned Social Sciences, Mass Information, Fundamental Education, and Philosophy and Humanistic Studies? Further- more, because of the size of the representation which they could have in Working Parties, large countries had an unfair advantage; Mr. Benton, therefore, would rather see the Working Parties eliminated than agree to the French proposal. Yet Working Parties had a constructive part to play within the general scheme of the Conference; they should, therefore, submit recommendations to the heads of delega- tions on the one hand, and a report to the Programme and Budget Commission, on the other. Paragraph 4 of the French proposal seemed unnecessary, as co- operation between the Working Parties and the Programme and Budget Commission was ensured by the Vice-Chairman of the latter Commission. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) stated that he was no more satisfied with the proposed remedies than he was with the situation as it stood. There were two modes of procedure : the sub-committee system followed last year, and the discussion group system of this year. Unfortunately, at the last moment, a compromise between the two systems had been devised, with the result that they were confronted with Working Parties which submitted resolutions as though they were committees instructed to study special parts of the programme. It would scarcely be possible to remedy the resulting confusion this year, but it was indispensable that a repetition of the same mistake should be avoided next year. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) realized that an attempt to bring about a compromise at that stage would jeopardize the Working Party system, particularly since the Conference was already in full swing. He therefore proposed that the principles set forth in document 2C/BUR/1 be re-affirmed. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) felt that the Working Parties should give experts the opportunity to express their opinions effec- tually; it was therefore essential that co-operation between the Working Parties and the Programme and Budget Commission should be maintained; otherwise there was great danger that the dissatisfaction which was already manifest among the experts would be aggravated. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed an amendmentto replace the French proposal. M. SEYDOUX (France) stated that this text was in no way satisfactory to the French delegation, and that, if it were adopted, the French delegates, who were experts chosen with a view to the different Working Parties, might find it necessary to leave the Working Parties to which they were now assigned. The CHATRMAN put Mr. Hardman’s motion to the vote. It was adopted by five votes to four. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) thought, however, that this solution was not satisfactory, and, after a general exchange of views, the Board adopted the follow- ing text, which was acceptable to everyone:
1. Every effort shall be made by the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission to receive the conclusions of the competent Working Party before the Programme and Budget Commission takes its decision. — 254 —
2. If the developmentof the discussion in the Programme and Budget Commission does not allow of the timely receipt of the opinion of the competent Working Party on any project, the Programme and Budget Commission shall, if possible, adjourn its debates on that project until the competent Working Party has presented its conclusions.
3. In the event of the competent Working Party ‘being unable to present its conclusions in time to permit their consideration by the Programme and Budget Commission, the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission shall invite the Chairman or Rapporteur of the competent Working Party to take part in the discussion of the Commission and make known to the Programme and Budget Commission any available views of the Working Party.
4. In order to associate the Working Parties as closely as possible with the work of the Programme and Budget Com- mission, the latter requests the Working Parties to give priority of consideration to the projects to be examined by the Programme and Budget Commission, and then to consider problems of a general character and the meansofimplementing the projects already examined by the Conference. The meeting rose at 2,10 pm; EIGHTH MEETING Friday, 14 November 1947, at 10 a. m. Chairman : Dr. Luis E. VALCARCEL (Peru) Draft Resolutions submitted by Poland. The CHAIRMAN announced that the Committee would discuss the two draft resolutions of the Polish delegation, which were closely linked with the resolutions of ‘Ecuador. M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) said that the Polish resolutions were not linked with those of Ecuador, although they were agreed in principle. The Polish resolutions constituted a general appeal against war, whereas the Ecuadorian resolutions dealt with detailed questions. Hetherefore thought that the two sets of resolutions should be examined separately and he proposed that the Polish resolu- tions should be submitted to the next Plenary Meeting of the General Conference. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) believed that the resolutions proposed by Ecuador per- tained to several facets of the Unesco programme, and the Polish proposals were connected with Unesco’s education and mass communication pro- grammes. Both sets of resolutions should therefore be referred to the Programme and Budget Commis- sion, and in the future, any item pertaining to the programme should be passed to the Programme and Budget Commission. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) entirely agreed with the spirit of the Polish resolutions but thought the matter so important, as it touched on cultural and political domains, that it should be referred to the joint Working Parties on Education, Funda- mental Education and Education for International Understanding; the Working Parties would refer them to the Programme and Budget Commission, which would then submit them, with comments and recommendations, to the Plenary Conference. Mr. PIERCE, (Canada) observed that the suggestion of the delegate of Mexico might be techni- cally in order, but in yiew of the importance of the subject, the resolutions should be referred directly to the Programme and Budget Commission, aa suggested by the delegate of the United States of erica. Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) proposed that, as the resolutions were of general interest, they should be referred directly to the Plenary Conference. Dr. HAN (China) supported the delegate of the United States of America in considering that the resolutions should be referred to the Programme and Budget Commission, which could use its dis- cretion whether or not to refer them to the Working Parties. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) agreed with this suggestion, Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) agreed with the spirit of the Polish resolutions, but thought the wording of them was of tremendous importance. He recalled that this was a steering committee and must shoulder its responsibilities. The Uni- ted Nations had already considered a resolution — 255 —