Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : I think it would be more correct to say that the Member States should first be consulted. The CHAIRMAN : On that particular point, can the Drafting Committee remember if there was any reference to the consultation of Member States in the original? There was. I think there would be no opposition to that if it were moved in the plenary meeting. I really do notthink we can accept it now, but if the delegate of Greece would raise it at the plenary meeting I am sure that particular proposal would be accepted. TWENTY-FIRST Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I reserve the right to speak aboutthis in the plenary meeting, because we did not attend the meeting and we have something to say aboutit. The CHAIRMAN : It is understood then that this section 4.5 is passed, (29) so far as this Commission is concerned, and the delegates of Greece and Egypt have expressed their intention of speaking to this m the plenary meeting. In further resumption of this voting on the whole document, it will be understood they still keep that reservation. The meeting rose at 6.35 р. т. MEETING Monday, 1 December 1947, at 9 р. т. CONTENTS Report of the Drafting Committee on the Programme (continuation) Chapter 5. — Human and Social Reiations Chapter 6. — Natural Sciences Report of the Budget Sub-Commission Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). Consideration of the Report of the Drafting Committee on the Programme (continuation) Chapter 5. — Human and Social Relations. The CHAIRMAN : The meeting is open, and we are dealing with Chapter 5.1., Tensions Affecting Inter- national Understanding. Are there any matters that delegates wish to raise on this point? If not, are there any objections to our passing Chapter 5.1.? Chapter 5.1. is carried. Does anyone wish to raise any point on Chapter
5.2., Philosophical Analysis of Current Ideological Conflicts? Chapter 5.2. is carried.
5.3 Humanistic Aspects of Culture. Are there any comments or objections? 5.3. is carried.
5.4. Study of International Collaboration. Are there any comments or any objection? 5.4.is carried.
5.5. Methods in Political Science. The delegate of the United Kingdom. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : I cannot re- member whether when the Drafting Committee considered the first line of 5.5.2. it intended «social scientist» or «political scientist». I think it was «political scientist» and I would like to ask the rap- porteur whether he agrees. The CHAIRMAN : «Political scientist» is intended instead of «social scientist» in 5.5.2. Are there any comments on 5.5. or any objections? If there are none, 5.5. is carried.
5.6. Social Implications of Science. Are there any comments or objections? If there are none, 5,6. is carried.
5.7. Scientific and Cultural History. Are there any comments or objections? 5.7. is carried.
5.8. World Register. Are there any comments or objections? 5.8. is carried. Chapter 6. — Natural Sciences. The CHAIRMAN : We now come to Chapter 6 — Natural Sciences.
6.1. Field Science Co-operation Offices. If there are no comments or objections, it is carried.
6.2. Latin-American Conference. Any objec- tion? 6.2.is carried. — O —
6.3. Hylean Amazon Institute. The delegate of Australia. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : As it is draf- ted this very important project seems to me perfectly clear, but there appears to have been some confusion in the material presented to the Budget Sub-Com- mission. In 6.3.3.1. we read”: Unesco’s rôle in the setting up of the Institute is to initiate and to stimulate. Without any financial commitment beyond
1948, Unesco shall in 1948 make available to the Council of the Institute sums necessary for preparation for the meeting contemplated in 6.3.1. and for 6.3.2., and shall make available the services of the Field Science Co-operation Office in Latin America as provided in 6.1.2. above. Now, so far as I understand the English language, that appears to me to mean that we make a grant- in-aid to the Council of the Institute; but there seems to have been an impression in some quarters (which is reflected in the budget document) that any such funds which Unesco is to advance are intended to provide for the employment of Unesco personnel. Our understanding of this was that the services of the Latin American Field Science Office are to be made available and that in addition a grant-in-aid for the sum necessary (for which a figure has been previouly mentioned) should be made to the Coun- cil of the Institute by Unesco when it is asked. I that interpretation of the drafting correct? Dean Richard Mc KEON (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, so far as I could follow the exposition of the delegate of Australia, it is in accord with the intention ofthe Drafting Committee. He has inter- preted the language more precisely than the draft specifies, but his interpretation would be quite in accord with what the draft says. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : I do not know what the Drafting Committee meant by this, because I was not a member of it but, as the Chairman of the Work- ing Party concerned, I would like to clarify a point. As we understood this, the recommendation was that a Council should be set up and Unesco should take part in immediately starting a survey of the re- sourcesof the region, and the money was to go towards personnel for this purpose. My understanding
1s that Unesco would engage this personnel in co-operation with the Council. This is not a grant- in-aid. Dr. Sandoval VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, if my memory does not fail me, I recall that in clause 6.3.1. it was spe- cified that the meeting of the Board would be held immediatly. That word «immediately» is mis- sing : «to convoke immediately a meeting of the Coun- cil, consisting of...» ete., was I believe the original text. The CHAIRMAN Dr. McKeon may perhaps remember this point, before we come back to the Australian point. Dean R. McKEON (United States of America) Mr. Chairman, the Drafting Committee intended «forthwith» to convey the sense of «immediately». Dr. Sandoval VALLARTA (Mexico). (Translation from the Spanish) : T am completely satisfied with the explanation given by the delegate of the United States but I want to point out that that word does not appear in the Spanish text. The CHAIRMAN : The alteration will be made in the Spanish text and the equivalent of «forthwith or «immediately» inserted. We now come back to the point raised by the dele- gate of Australia. There seems to be some difference of opinion whether or not this involves a grant in-aid. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, all I am asking at this stage is that it be made per- fectly clear. I was not a member of the Working Party but we had an Australian scientist who was, and in all my discussions with him (and we followed the matter very carefully because we attach great im- portance to this project) our understanding was that Unesco would endeavour to set in motion a survey procedure which would lead to the esta- blishmentof this Institute. We regard it as an im- portantiway in which Unesco can encourage and stimu- late collaboration among a group of nations. We thought that the whole question turned upon the possibility of setting up an Institute which would be supported by the governments directly interested in this area and then we understood that, since it was not possible for that Institute to be set up yet, Unesco was to continue to foster it in the course of the year by making a grant-in-aid to coverits initial expenses. That is quite a different proposal from one in which Unesco proceeds to engage personnel, even in collaboration with some other organization. I must ask whether, according to Prof. Bhabha's interpretation, the people who work in this Institute are to be employees of Unesco or employees of the Institute. Tf they are employees of the Institute, they do not appear on the Unesco list of employees nor do they appear in the budget as part of Unesco's personnelcharges. I am not opposing this idea in any way at all. I firmly believe m the project, but I do want to be perfectly clear as to the way in which it is to be ear- ried out and I can only say that, if the idea is that we should engage staff to work in this Institute, in addi- tion to the members ofthe Field Science Co-operation Office who are to devote their time to it, then our — 526 —    previous support of it in the Working Party through the Australian delegate was based on a misunder- standing and our attitude towards the proposal must be, to some extent modified. The CHAIRMAN : Perhaps the Director-General can clarify the issue. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I, again, was not present in the Working Party but I have beenin close contact with various people who were, and my understanding was that the Commission itself could not be expected to begin functioning until the end of
1948. The Council, however, can be summoned at once and can begin undertaking tasks and, pre- sumably, receiving some sort of grant-in-aid, which, however, according to my understanding, should be entirely for purposes of preparing for the Confe- rence. My understanding about the survey to be under- taken was quite definite, namely, that it should be possible for Unesco to pay for the services of some of the people who would be conducting,in the interim the preparatory survey which would enable the In- stitute itself, when set up, to begin its work. It was really keeping the work of the Institute alive during the inevitable gap between the present and the time when it would come into being, and we should therefore want to pay the expenses of a certain number of people engaged in the survey and one or two experts who would come in to help with particular problems. The CHAIRMAN : Would these people actually be on the Unesco pay-roll or would Unesco make a grant to the Institute?. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Chair- man, when I raised the matter previsously we were told by yourself that the question was whether the resolution here was a correct rendering of what the Conference had decided. Now, this paragraph says that Unesco shall «make available to the Council of the Institute sums neces- sary...» [understand that to mean — and this was the way it was explained to me by our representative on the Working Party, who also sat in this Com- mission when this was considered — that once the Council is called together and comes into being, then there is a corporate body to which a grant can be made. We are quite prepared to support that. That is our understanding of what we have voted on and I would point out that that is what the reso- lution says as it reads. I would like to know whether this is or is not the form in which it was approved previously by this Commission. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : On the second point I should have to ask the Rapporteur. On the first point, there are two points raised in 6.3.3.1 : one
18 to make available the sum necessary for prepara- tion of the meeting comtemplated in 6.3.1, that is, if you like, a grant-in-aid; and the other is to make available the sums necessary for 6.3.2., which reads « Use his best efforts to assure that the Execu- tive Committee and the Survey Stafl proposed in the report of the Belem Commission are set into motion as soon thereafter as possible». The way in which we had always envisaged it is that we should employ these persons as temporary members of our staff until such time as the Institute itself is set up at the end of the year. The CHAIRMAN : Resolution 6.3.3.1 says that « Unesco shall, in 1948, make available to the Coun- cil of Institute sums necessary for.... »; that reads like a grant-in-aid. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: That is quite right, Sir. T should have to differ from the Rapporteur because, as it reads here, it certainly does not con- firm the Secretariat's understanding of how this should be implemented. The CHAIRMAN : Could the delegate of India speak on that? Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : As I understood it, ‘he position, as explained by the Director-General is correct, although the wording here does not appear to reflect it properly. That being so, I think the wording should be altered so that it does; the reso- lustion as approved by the members of the Working Party, I think the majority would agree, bears the interpretation which the Director-General has put onit. The people would be temporarily on the Unes- co staff till the Institute began to function. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Tran- slationfrom the French) : The Natural Sciences Working Party’s draft was prepared on the basis that during
1948 the Institute would not yet be established, but would remain a Unesco project with certain active elements, such as governmental representatives and scientists, preparing a plan for submission to the
1948 General Conference. Iam not of the opinion that we can contemplate the granting of funds to a body as yet non-existent, which is in course of for- mation and which will only be formed when the constituent countries ratify its constitution and make prorimon for its independentexistence, which should appen at the end of 1948. Dean R. Me KEON (United States of America) : In answer to your earlier question concerning the source of this motion, this is one of the motions in which the Drafting Committee was given the difficult — 527 —      task of revising a clause containing a number of points. The original clause was that Unesco’s part in the setting up of the Institute should be of a catalytic nature and, without undertaking any financ- ial commitments beyond 1948,it should make avai- lable to the Council the sum of $ 50,000, plus the services of the Field Science Co-operation Office in Latin-America, making in all a sum of $ 100,000, as was proposed in 20/99 and originally recom- mended by the Belem Commission. The Drafting Committee did two things in spite of the eloquent and scientific explanation of the na- ture of catalytic action : it removed the reference to catalytic nature; following a suggestion emanating, if I am not mistaken, from Australia, it removed all specific sums; but you will observe that what the original motion said was that certain sums should be made available to the Council, and in addition, it specified that the services of the Field Science Co- operation Office should be made available. We attempted to follow that language without ever employing any morespecific device to determine whether there was an actual opposition between the services specified in one item and the sum assigned to the Council in the other. The CHAIRMAN : There is no doubt that the Rapporteur’s interpretationis correct. TheWorking Party quite definitely recommended in document
2C/L/A that a sum of $ 50,000 should be made available to the Council, which I takeit is a grant- in-aid. Dr. Sandoval VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : I only wishto state that the inter- pretation given by my delegation to clause 6.3.3.1 coincides exactly with the explanation just given by the Indian delegate. Dr. A. Nieto CABALLERO (Columbia) (Translation from the Spanish) : I think that what underlies the Working Party’s proposal is that in 1948 the Amazon States should assume responsibility for the founda- tion and financing of the Institute. For this it is necessary that towards the end of 1948 Unesco should propose a complete plan for the Institute with its three essential features, namely, the stimu- lation of science in our countries ; secondly, the eco- nomic development of the Amazon region; and thirdly, a demonstration of goodwill between our countries. In order to realize this it is necessary that the plans should be defined and completed towards the end of 1948, for consideration by the National Governments and the Bodies which can give permanent aid to the Institute. Consequently I propose that 6.3.2. should be amended, in accor- dance with the meaning given to it by the Natural Sciences Working Party, in the following way : «En- deavour to ensure that the investigating personnel proposed in the Report of the Belem Commission begin to operate as soon as possible.» Thus the staff of the Latin-American Field Science Co-operation Office would begin the necessary preparatory work in 1948. At the end, this phrase would be added : . as soon as possible the work of the Latin-America Field Science Co-operation Office, so that the report for Unesco andthe States concerned may be drawn up in August. We must hear in mind that the Executive Board of Unesco should receive the preparatory report for the Third General Conference before September, and so this report should be ready in August. We must make the best use of the time from January on, and if possible from December, so that the report for submission to the Third General Confe- rence and to the Governments can be prepared and the Governments assume responsibility for the Institute. The CHAIRMAN : T have to keep as near as possible to the text originally passed. There is no doubt at all that we originally passed the document presented by the Working Party, which said that we should make available to the Council a certain sum. So we must retain that. We must also state, in reply to the delegate of Colombia, that the Executive Committee and the Survey Staff should begin to function as soon afterwards as pos- sinle. There 18 no reference to the month of August, or any other month, which must be taken as new material ; and if any of these changes are to be intro- duced, they will have to be introduced in the plenary meeting of the Conference. We cannot introduce changes in the total budget. The question of the amount of money can be raised under the budget, but I think it was the delegate of Australia who suggested that we should cut out from this all references to actual sums of money. So it appears to me that 6.3.3.1, as presented by the Drafting Committe, is a true and faithful statement of what we actually passed in the full Commission. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : I would like to make our position perfectly clear, and to make a suggestion, which may not affect the drafting, but which I hope will reassure those who are worried over the way it is going. First ofall, if our representative suggested that no figure be mentioned, that was part of our general policy of suggesting that we should not mention figures but leave them to the Budget Sub-Commis- sion. The Australian delegation is happy to vote the sum of $ 50,000 for this project, of which, as I said before, we have always been in favour and which we regard as an important way of extending — 528 —    international collaboration, and we look forward to the early establishment of the Council. But we do want to be clear what is involved in its financing and administration. If Unesco were to proceed differ- ently from the terms of this resolution, and begin employing its own staff in this Institute, or acting for the Institute, that would entail certain’ conse- quences. It would throw additional costs on other parts of the budget because of the staff employed. Consequently it would involve establishing the neces- sary accounting and auditing systems, and the Paris headquarters would be responsible for supervising the expenditure of every dollar spent in Brazil, and this represents certain organizational accounting and auditing problems. Now, if this resolution,as it is drafted, stands, and if we regard it as a grant-in-aid, I do not see that it holds up the progress of the work. If is quite possible to call the Council immediately. If not all governments are in a position to authorize their representatives to take part finally in this organiza- tion, then we can establish an interim Council, and Unesco makes a grant to that interim Council, and when Unesco has handed over the sum of $ 50,000, or whatever the sum 1s, then Unesco, so far as the financial transaction is concerned, has completed its part of the work. In addition, Unesco provides services from its Latin American Field Science Station, and so on. It is quite a different way of handling it. On the one hand, a grantis made to the Interim Council responsible for the money and this Council uses the money, which is the original suggestion. On the other hand is the suggestion that Unesco start to operate on a larger scale there, and that would entail all the consequences I have mentioned. The CHAIRMAN : I must say that the statement, as it occurs in 6.3.3.1, is a true statement of what was actually passed. If anyone objects to the principle of grants-in-aid, it will be necessary for them to bring the matter up in the plenary meeting. The amount can be discussed when we come to consideration of the budget — how much money goes to a grant, and how much to Unesco for its own staff. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : Mr. Chairman, I wish to suggest this matter ought to be discussed not now, but, as you say, when we come to discuss the budget, because in the budget this item is distri- buted in a way supporting the interpretation which we put on it. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, this may be a foolish and unscientific suggestion, but I think that if some of the talk that has gone on this evening had taken place in the Drafting Committee, some of us would have felt moved to make a rather simple change in this draft, and I think it was within our jurisdiction to do so. I will put it before you. I think, if we bad heard this argument, and in particular if we had noticed the fact that the body to which Unesco gives a grant-in-aid (as defined in the regulations which will come ‘before the Plenary Meeting to-morrow from another place) will be an interim council, since it is at least doubtful whether the Council of the Institute exists, the Drafting Committee would have taken the line of least resis- tance and omitted the words «to the Council of the Institute». That would not have precluded in the least the making of a grant-in-aid, and the sense as it came to us from the Working Party would have been preserved, I think. I would like to test the sentiment of the meeting by suggesting that we should at this stage delete «to the Council of the Institute». When we have discussed the budget resolution, it may be necessary to alter this, but I do not believe it will be, and I suggest we delete the words « to the Council of the Institute ». The CHAIRMAN : Would that be acceptable to the Rapporteur and Chairman of the Drafting Committee? It still does not say to whom we are making the grant available, if you make it available. I suppose it could be made available to the Secretariat. Dean Richard McKEON (United States of America): Mr. Chairman, it was my understanding that the delegate of the United Kingdom had suggested that we test the sentiment of this body on what must be admitted is a substantial change. The document that came to us did contain the specification that the grant-in-aid be made to the Council, and there- fore when I nodded assent I agreed this might be a point at which the delegate of the United Kingdom's suggestion might be tested. I do not think it would be correct to say that this is the sense of the resolu- tion, as reported to the Drafting Committee. The CHAIRMAN : If it is not, I think in terms of ourinstructions here we cannotalter it at this stage. It is a major matter of principle, and not just a verbal matter. We have passed it for better or for worse in our earlier meeting. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) : I think, Mr. Chairman, if you said «the Interim Coun- cil», it would be quite right. The CHAIRMAN : It is still in eflect a grant-in- aid. I do not think we can help at this stage. We have decided this and got it into the Report of the Working Party. I have no other evidence of tne intentions of the Working Party. If it is an Interim Council, it will still be called a Council, I presume. „= 5201.     I do not think that makes any great difference. I feel we must accept this in the form in which it is. If it is not the meaning of the Working Party, then I think someone has to raise the question from the floor in the plenary meeting. Sr. Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : I think that the principal point is the financial aid that is to be given. The fact that the Council does not yet exist is not an important point, since it will exist when the Institute is founded. In the opinion of my delegation, therefore, the wording should remain as proposed by the Drafting Committee The CHAIRMAN : I'think I have no alternacive put to accept it in that form unless you wish to change yourinstructions to me. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) + 1 think that there are two sources of funds for the project in 1948. One was clearly established : the budget of the Field Science Co-operation Office in Latin America. The other is the $ 50,000 which was recommended for the Council. It seems to me that it is not clearly laid down in 6.3.2. that the Field Co-operation Office should go into action immediately and should work with its own resources — $ 44,000 — from the beginning of the year. Assistance to the Council is one thing which cannot be given until the Council has been set up, and the budget of the Field Co- operation Office which can start work from the beginning of the year is another. The CHAIRMAN : I think you will have to make this clear. There are two methods of dealing with it. The Working Party prepared this report and meant that the money should be made available to the Council. Either we change our minds in the plenary meeting or you deal with it in the Budget and give a certain limited sum to the Council, making arrangements for the rest to go to the Secretariat. You can deal with it in either way, as you like, but in the termsof the instructions you have given me I have no alternative but to adopt the very strict inter- pretation here. Is there any further discussion on 6.3? If there is none, it is carried. If you wish to raise it again you can do so in either of the places I have men- tioned. Is there any discussion on 6.4, High Altitude Stations? Sr. Sandoval VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Again, if my memory serves me aright, delegates of Member States were mentioned in the Working Party, but it was decided in the dis- cussion in this Commission that the word «experts» should be used instead of «delegates». Neverthe- less, 6.4 mentions «expert delegates». I should like an explanation on this point. The CHAIRMAN : I think the point was raised by the delegate of India, who said it might be assumed that Member States would send expert delegates. The Drafting Committee has therefore tried to carry out the wishes of the meeting in that respect. The term «delegates» is definitely limited here by the term «experts», and it is this particular kind of delegate who is to be invited. Is there any further discussion on this item? Are there any objections? Then 6.4 is carried. Are there any points to be raised on 6.5, Carto- graphic Science, or any objections? Then 6.5 is carried. With regard to 6.6, Co-operation with Non- governmental Organizations, you will notice a reference, in the last line, to regulations to be adop- ted by the General Conference. The words «to be adopted » will be obsolete after we have considered and passed the report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission. Are there any comments or objections? Then 6.6 is carried. Is there any comment on 6.7, Co-operation with Specialized Agencies, or any objections? 6.7 is carried. Is there any comment on 6.8, World Centre of Scientific Liaison? Then 6.8 is carried. Are there any comments on 6.9, Protection of Nature? Sr. Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, with reference to 6.9.3. I should like the words « which belong to the Republic of Ecuador» inserted after the words «Galapagos Islands». This was the form in which the motion was approved. The CHAIRMAN : I do notthink there can be any objection to that, as that was certainly the sense of the meeting. Are there any objections to 6.9? Then it is carried. There is only one point now that we have to clear up in relation to the programme,and thatis the point raised by the delegate of Mexico on 3.14. It is concerned with the drafting of conventions for teach- ing for international understanding. He raised the point earlier in the evening whether we should have any reference to demonstration schools. My note is that the delegate of Egypt proposed to amend this by omitting reference to demonstration schools. — 530 —    This was accepted, and it was left to the Drafting Committee to put into satisfactory phraseology. Sr. Hector RODRIGUEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The Mexican delegation has no objection to calling them experimental schools instead of model schools. What I said was that if thetitle of 3.14 is to be amended,as was approved, to «Draft Convention for International Understand- ing through Education», this means that, for the title and what follows, to be consistent, the text of
3.14.3 should also be amended. It might read «To propose to Member States the establishment of experimental schools to achieve international under- standing through education, with a view to extending instruction for international understanding ‘even- tually to all branches of education. » Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : Might I suggest to the delegate of Mexico that this is something broa- der and wider than he has suggested and that, if the delegate recalls the discussion, the question of set- ting up experimental schools confined this teaching in the interim to a very limited sphere, and there are many of us who are so enthusiastic about Mexico's suggestion that we wish to extend it immediately to all schools, not just to a few experimental schools. We believe that all should experimentin the teach- ing of international understanding immediately, and I would suggest to him that he may accept our inter- pretation as being a completer and fuller form of his idea than his own original suggestion. The CHAIRMAN : Might I suggest to the delegate of Mexico that if he objects to the words «in the teach- ing of international understanding» he should accept the words «education for international under- standing», because I am quite certain that in our discussion we had entirely deleted reference to experimental schools very largely for the reason put forward by the delegate of New Zealand, that it was felt that the idea was so good that it should not be confined to a small number of schools. May I suggest you accept those words? That would be acceptable. Thank you. Sr. Hector RODRIGUEZ (Mexico) (Translation fromthe Spanish) : Of course we are entirely satisfied by the text suggested by the Chairman. I only wish to make clear that the intention stated by the dele- gate of New Zealand is embodied in the text. What we propose, in fact, is that experiments should be started in some Schools on teaching techniques and in general the organization of study courses, text- books and so on with a view to their being extended later to all schools. The Mexican delegation would request that there — 531 should appear in the text this proposal made by the New Zealand delegate that education for peace, liberty and democracy and, in general, the essential aims and purposes of Unesco, should be made general in schools. The CHAIRMAN : I think we are entirely at one on this. We are merely competing with one another on the extent of completeness with which we do understand the Mexican delegate’s original proposal. So 3.14 is now finally accepted. That brings us to the adoption of this Report
20/01/23 as a whole. It is moved by the delegate of the United States and seconded by the delegate of Brazil that the Report as a whole be adopted. Always remembering that we have adopted completely and absolutely the introduction, we are adopting the rest subject to the report of the Budget Sub-Com mission, which may involve our coming back and adopting it again in a somewhat amended form. Is there any objection then to this adoption of the Report as a whole? Since there are no objections the Report is adopted. I am quite sure, ladies and gentlemen, that you would wish me at this point to express our very deep gratitude to the Drafting Committee. I attended two of their meetings ex-officio and I know the work that went into the preparation of this document, of which I think we can all go back to our own countries justly proud. Report of the Budget Sub-Commission. The CHAIRMAN : The next business is the Report of the Budget Sub-Commission contained in docu- ment 20/C1/SC/2 (rev). I call on the Rapporteur of the Budget Sub-Commission, Mr. Holland, to present it. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of America) (Rapporteur of the Budget Sub-Commission) : Mr. Chairman,fellow delegates, I have the honour to present the report of the Budget Sub-Commission.
1. The Budget Sub-Commission was constituted by Resolution No. 1 of the Programme and Budget Commission. The Sub-Commission consisted of representatives of Australia, Czechoslovakia, France, India, the Netherlands, Norway, Peru, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, The Sub-Commission held its first meeting on Thursday,
13 November 1947, and elected Dr. J. Kielstra, delegate of the Netherlands, as Chairman; Dr. W. Alexander, of the United Kindgom, Vice-Chairman; and Mr. Kenneth Holland, of the United States of America, as Rapporteur.
2. After Dr. Alexander was obliged to return to ‘the United Kingdom, Sir Ronald Adam was elected ‘to take his place as Vice-Chairman.
3. The Sub-Commission held its 22nd and final meeting on 29 November 1947 and concluded the work entrusted to it by the Programme and Budget Commission.
4. The Sub-Commission was requested by the Programme and Budget Commission to examine the budget estimates, with the special obligation that these estimates be made to reflect separately the cost of each programme. The Sub- Commission was also instructed to ensure that the budget include no appropriation not specifically approved by a resolution of the General Conference, and to. consider only those estimates concerned with programmeitems recommended by the Programme and Budget Commission. On 18 Novem- ber, the Programme and Budget Commission passed the additional resolution : That ... the Sub-Commission be authorized to indicate priorities (where these have not already been determined): . .
5. In all its deliberations the Budget Sub-Commission was therefore bound by the priorities established by the Programme and Budget Commission, and exercised its autho- rity to establish priorities only in those instances where the Programme and Budget Commission had not already done so.
6. In considering the resolutions which were passed by the Programme and Budget Commission and referred to the Budget Sub-Commission, the latter was fully aware of the great responsibility that it bore in attempting to allocate the limited funds available to Unesco, to carry out the many important projects and programmes developed in the Working Parties and approved by the Programme and Budget Commis- sion.
7. The Sub-Commission felt equally strongly its obliga- tion to present the budget in such a way as clearly and speci- fically to reflect the details of the approved programme.
8. It therefore decided to recommend to the Programme and Budget Commission that the budget for 1948 be voted in the form of a Summary Appropriation Table (Annex A) setting out : I. General policy. II. General administration. III. Programme operations and programme services each heading to show the proposed expenditure on conferences and meetings, personnel services, common services, grants- in-aid and emergency grants-in-aid, and expenses of initial recruitment.
9. It was also decided that this Summary Appropriation Table, which is in Annex A and is called the Summary Budget for 1948 in your documents, be accompanied for information by provisional estimates of cost for individual projects (Annex C).
10. The Budget Sub-Commission recommends the form of Appropriation Resolution set out in Annex B.
11. The Budget Sub-Commission considered the question of an undistributed appropriation and of contingencies, and decided that in Unesco’s second year, with the added experience of the Secretariat and a more precise programme, an undis- tributed appropriation is unnecessary. Nor is it necessary to allocate contingencies to numbered headings in the Budget. The Sub-Commission therefore decided to replace contin- gencies by a Reserve to be applied only to cover further increases in the cost ofliving and of materials.
12. The Budget Sub-Commission is indebted to the Unesco Secretariat and particularly to the Budget Officers for their fine spirit of co-operation. I should also add that early in our deliberations we established liaison with the Drafting Committee so that both bodies could be kept informed on their respective reports and their work. I wish to call attention in this document to a few clerical errors which have slipped in. I think I should explain that the Budget Sub-Commission, in spite of its twenty-two rather long and arduous meetings, did not finish its work until about eight o'clock on Saturday evening, which was after the dead-line by a few hours, and so the document had to be prepared in a considerable hurry over the week-end. I first wish to call your attention to an error bearing on this point that was just discussed, the Hylean Amazon Project. In Annex A on page 5 you will note that under Chapter IT $ 54,250 is shown. We believe, according to our records, that this should be under Chapter IV, Grants-in-Aid and Emergency Grants-in-Aid. I assume that there will be some discussion of that pointlater on. Then, on page 6, which is Annex B, under point 3, sub-paragraph b., should read : No transfers shall be authorized to increase the sums appro- priated for personnel and grants-in-aid and emergency grants- in-aid which for the year 1948 shall be as set out in the Appropriation Table and in Annex D. May I now summarize briefly the documents that you have before you? The first item, on page 2, is the Report. This Commission will not take any action on that Report. You then come to Annex À which is the Summary Budget for 1948. It appears on pages 4 and 5. This,if you approve it, will become the Appropriation Table for 1948. You should also note that the last page of this document, Annex D, which explains the breakdown of the grants-in-aid, would be passed at the same time as that Appropriation Table. That Annex D was prepared as requested by a resolution from the Administrative and External Relations Commission. It does not, however, include the emergency grants-in-aid nor the funds for fellowships which are set forth in Chapter IV on page 5 of Annex A. There is therefore a discrepancy between these two figures. Then, in Annex C, which is entitled «Provisional and Unchecked Estimate of Cost of Individual Projects », you will find that the first three paragraphs explain that these are based on the resolutions as they came to the Budget Sub-Commission. I think, in all fairness to the Secretariat, I should make it clear that the Sub-Commission itself takes reponsibility for this document, because they did not have time to check all those figures, and I should also make it clear that they do not include certain other services that have been added to these and which appear in the Budget Summary document. Mr. Chairman, with this explanation, I move that these documents, the Report and Annexes A, B, C and D, be received by the Programme and Budget Commission as the Report of the Budget Sub- Commission. — Ka    The CHAIRMAN : It has been moved that these documents be received -not adopted, you understand, but received. It is seconded by the delegate of the Netherlands. Is anyone opposed to the receiving of this document? If not, it is received. The document is now before you for considera- tion. In our meeting this morning of the combined Budget Sub-Commission and Drafting Committee it was decided that the best method of dealing with the document was to begin with Annex B on page : the Appropriation Resolution, Annex B.1. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND(United States of America): Mr. Chairman, I move the adoption of Annex B, paragraph 1, on page 6 of the document, which reads: «That, for the Financial Year 1948, the amount of $ 7,707,637 is hereby appropriated for the purposes indicated in the Appropriation Table. » I should explain that, if you adopt this paragraph
1 of Annex B, you will support all the programmes and projects provided for in Annex A, which is the Summary Budget for 1948. The projects are also set forth in Annex C for your information, as I explained before, but I should also point out that your adoption of this motion will mean the dropping of the projects with third priority, which are listed in document 20/C1/SC/3.() The CHAIRMAN : Before we speak to this, might I make it quite clear just what is involved. It means that you have here the resolution that the amount of roughly $ 7,700,000 is appropriated, subject to the deletion of certain items from your programme which are contained in this separate document before you. This is the time for any member who so wishes to move the further deletion of any material from the programme, or the re-inclusion in the programme of any of these items cut out in the resolution by the Budget Sub-Commission. We are dealing with the total figure, and any amendment of that kind will necessarily affect the total figure. We are not, however, considering the introduction of totally new items which are not contained within the Drafting Committee’s Report. Dr. Abbas AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. Chairman, the Egyptian delegation voted for the proposals sub- mitted by the Working Parties. We voted for them all because we thought that they were very useful and fell within the scope of Unesco. But we had in mind, in voting, of course, that some items school; best book(1) These projects were exhibition ; grant to International Federation for Documenta- : Library tion; grant to Hertziana Library; meeting of experts on copyright; Fundamental Education regional study conference ; Fundamental Education seminar; International relations clubs; Educational yearbook; Government support of the arts. have more weight and are more important in th- immediate future. The Egyptian delegation thero fore wants now to make some remarks with regard et the Budget. One of the basic subjects which we think should not be touched at all is Fundamental Education Everything related to Fundamental Education should be left in the programme. No sum proposed for anything bearing on Fundamental Education should be dropped out of the budget. Therefore, « Funda- mental Education Regional Study Conferences» and « Fundamental Education Seminar» should be re- inserted. We see from the sums allocated for diffe- rent items that we have really been too generous with regard to some items, such as those that relate to the study of tensions and international misunderstand- ings. We realize that the study of tensionsis very important, and it is a matter that must be studied carefully and thoroughly by Unesco. The amount allocated for it, however, is really very large in com- parison with the amounts allocated to Fundamental Education when it is realized that some of the sums allocated for other aspects of the work can really be considered as bearing on the study of tensions. I just want here to refer to certain concrete figures in the paperin front of us. I take as an example the fact that for Fundamental Education we have a sum of $ 170,420 (Annex C, page 2). At the same time, we have about $ 100,000 for Social Tensions Affecting International Understanding. Besides this, we have amounts in Annex D of about $ 20,000 for Social Tensions. At the same time, we have $ 68,000 for an enquiry into International Under- standing. When we look into other items, we find that we were really very generousin the sums allocated to them. I must say that all these studies which are to be carried out in the next year will be more or less on an academic basis and our study on Social Tensions will not be at all complete or very helpful in the study of this problem. Meanwhile, the Egyptian delegation thinks that the most adequate steps for removing international tensions and ensuring world understanding and co- operation will be through education and the educa- tion of the masses. We are quite sure that if we educate the masses on an objective basis and in the spirit of Unesco, we shall be doing a great deal to remove international tensions; but just to work on an academic basis and to study tensions and these conflicts between cultures and so on does not seem to the Egyptian delegation to be as urgent as spend- ing money on fundamental education and on raising the standard of the masses all over the world. For this reason we move that all the items dropped from our programme which are related to fundamen- tal education should be re-inserted, and we might — 533 —
344    take some of the sums allocated for other matters for this purpose. I am sure that we should be doing a very good thing. The CHAIRMAN : I would like to explain once more what we thought the most useful procedure. We thought we would discuss first Annex B.1, the total figure; that we would consider at this stage any- thing that might affect the total figure. If you want to add material without taking any items away, or to take away items, then you discuss this under Annex B.1. just so far as it affects the final total figure. Then we thought we would go on to Annex B.2, which sets out the conditions under which we vote this sum of $ 7,700,000, or whatever it may be. These conditions, you will notiee, divide the budget into certain watertight or relatively watertight com- partments, groups that may not have amounts transferred from one group to another, except in certain conditions. Then we thought we might go on to Annex D, which deals with the whole thing in very much more detail and then, having fixed our total figure, we should see whether too muchis being given to this, too little to that : whether with regard to the total figure we think there should be a swing of amounts from this group of that group. If, therefore, we want to add items or take out items that affect the total figure, now is the time to do it. If, on the other hand, we are going to suggest that we keep within the total figure and yet change the amounts &s between one watertight compartment and another, we should keep that until we are dealing with Annex A. If you want the total figure of $ 7,700,000, I would prefer that you keep any transfers of amounts until we deal with Annex A. If you want to make a suggestion as to increasing or decreasing items that will increase or decrease the total figure, I think you should do it now. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR(Egypt) : If we retain the two items to which I referred, « Fundamental Educational Regional Study Conference» and «Fundamental Education Seminar», without making any reference to figures, we are going to increase the budget. [I do not think we can discuss this question without reference to precise amounts. Dr. E. RonaldWALKER (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, could I submita proposal concerning procedure for your consideration. I wonder whether it would be desirable to take the form of the resolution, but not the amount involved; then proceed to the tables which divide up the total figure; and finally the total figure. The CHAIRMAN : Do you mean by the form of the resolution, the whole of Annex B? Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Yes, except the total figure. Then before moving on to the total figure it may be desired to consider Annex A, which leads up to the total contained in the actual resolution. The CHAIRMAN : We discussed this morning whether it would be better to begin with the total figure or whetherit would be better to deal first with Annexes A and D and have transfers within the total. We were afraid that that might lead to a considerable degree of confusion. I think whichever way we start we get certain difficulties. May we try to keep to my original suggestion at this stage? Some people have to think in terms of a total figure. You have seen the whole programme and these tables gives an idea of the allocation of the money. Many people probally arrived in their own minds at a final total figure that they want. I really think it would be simpler at this stage to discuss the total figure and then later on,as I sugges- ted before, to discuss transfers as between the com- partments of the total budget. If the delegate of Egypt wants to keep the present total figure and make a transfer between sections, he can bring it up later. If, on the other hand, there is a delegate who consi- dersthat the total figureis either not high enough or else too high, he can at this particular point suggest another figure and suggest a means of arriving atit, either by adding or subtracting certain items. If you are satisfied with the total figure, but not with the allocation of the elements within it, I think it will be as well to hold your commentstill a later stage. There is one point further there has been a miscal- culation, which Dr. Laves will explain. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : In Annex A, Chapter 5, the total figure at present reads $ 1,000,000; it should be $ 30,000 less, that is $ 970,000. This mistake was due simply to the failure to make one necessary calculation, and the speed with which we were working. It means that there is a consequential change in the total of $ 7,707,637 which should read $ 7,677,637, and a further corresponding change in the Appropriation Resolution, Annex B, the first paragraph. The CHAIRMAN : I am now open to receive any motions to raise or lower the total amount. Sr. Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish) : I think it is very difficult to approve the total sum as it appears here without knowing first all the activities which are to be carried on and how much each will cost. We have just heard the Egyptian delegate request that the items for fundamental edu- cation should not be suppressed. Consequently, — 534 —    until we have discussed these matters we cannot approve a total figure and then later diminish or increase items appearing in the tables. First we should consider which projects the meeting thinks are most necessary for Unesco to carry out and their cost. After that; we should go on to the final figure. Let us begin at the beginning and not at the end. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. Chairman, I support the procedure you suggested. We can cer- tainly start with a ceiling figure because that is the procedure we have followed in this Conference. Our first act was to establish a ceiling figure. There are many arguments against this, such as those raised by the delegate of Ecuador, but I think we can certainly start with a ceiling figure to-night. The CHAIRMAN : 1 am entirely in your hands in this matter. There are difficulties whichever way we go. I have suggested we start with a total figure. We will vote upon this by a show of hands. Would those who desire to start with Annex B, that is the ceiling figure, please raise their hands? Would those who prefer to start with Annex A, that is by a consideration of the individual items in the total please hold up their hands? We shall start with a general figure. We have the motion, then, that for the financial year 1948 the amount of $ 7,677,637 is appro- priated, and that will involve the deletion from our programme of the items listed in document
2C/C1/SC/3. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Ganada) : You said, Mr. Chair- man, that if we agreed on a ceiling figure it involved the automatic deletion of these items? The CHAIRMAN It involves the fact that no money is to be appropriated for them. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Then thatis notenti- relya ceiling figure. It does not allow the delegate of Egypt to make a transfer. The CHAIRMAN : It would enable him later to make a transfer but in order to make that transfer he would have to suggest a deletion of some other item from the Programme. Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : I wish it to be stated in the records of this Conference that we have proceeded to the establishment of the ceiling figure so as to allow the distribution of funds within the Budget, but that this procedure is contrary to all parliamentary usage with regard to the discussion of a Budget. Dr. Sandoval VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The Mexican delegation feels great sympathy for the viewpointexpressed by the delegate of Egypt. It is not clear at this moment how,in the light of the discussions which have taken place in this meeting, we can provide an opportunity later for the re-inclusion of the items to which the Egyptian delegate referred. If we cannot increase the total amount of the budget, then it is clear that the only procedure left to us is to delete other items to make room for these. My delegation wishesit to be made clear that we sympathize strongly with this viewpoint and that we would be willing even to increase the total budget so that there should be no need to leave these projects out of the programme. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : 1 think that we have made a mistake in doing away with the sum provided for contingencies, because here already we have come up against contingencies. We have put the Director- General and ourselves in a difficult position in dealing with questions which have aroused the interest of the Conference and been approved but for which thereis no budgetary provision except at the expense of other projects. Consequently, I wish to support the Mexi- can motion for an increase in the total figure of the budget, so that there be some provision for contin- gencies. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that we follow your original ruling. It may not be parliamentary procedure, butit is the procedure that every one of us has to follow in our own lives. We have to decide first what our fixed spending power is, and we than have to adjust, within that fixed spending power, the various items of our budget. I would also suggest that, earlier in this Conference when the Chairman had given a ruling (and I do not want anyone to think I am supporting New Zealand; I am supporting the Chair) we spent about two days arguing about procedure and finally came back to the procedure which the Chairman had proposed. It worked out excellently in that case and I suggest that we trust the Chair again. The CHAIRMAN : I appreciate your remarks, but you are supporting not the Chair but the meeting, which has already decided to adopt that particular procedure. [I can see the difficulties which the dele- gates of Mexico and other countries have raised, but I think if we had started from the other end we would still have met equal difficulties. Unless the meeting has any desire to change its previous decision, we may proceed to Annex B. 1, May I make one more correction. In document
20/C1/SC/3 the item, 6.9, the Protection of Nature, has been omitted. Will you please add that to this list of items for which no budget appropriation — 535 — Shine    has at the present moment been made, although some of the items of course could possibly be carried on as continuing services, if that could be done within the powers ofthe Secretariat as established. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : On behalf of the Australian delegation I stated in the Plenary Meeting of the Conference and at an earlier meeting of this Commission that, whatever the total figure of the budget, Australia could only vote for it if we weresatisfied that the programme was reasonable and that the budget was based on economical adminis- tration. The Australian delegation has carefully considered the Report of the Drafting Committee and the Budget Sub-Commission. We still feel that there are a number of items in the programme that could well be left over until 1949 and that the Organization would achieve better results in 1948 if the pro- gramme were less diffuse. Moreover, in view of the Conference in Beirut, we have to recognize that the Secretariat will have less time to devote to the pro- gramme in 1948 than appeared likely when this Commission was considering the various projects now listed in the Drafting Committee's Report. Judging from our experience this year, work on the 1948 programme will virtually cease at least a month before the Secretariat leaves for Beirut, and in practice only a period of about nine months will be available to carry out this programme. In addition, the Director- General will be engaged on a complete review of the staffing of the Secretariat, which will also inevitably slow up our programme operations. For these reasons we should look very carefully at the budget proposals before us. We should not vote a larger sum than can usefully be spent in 1948. All Member Governments have to find money for the United Nations and several other Specialized Agencies ; and it would be disastrous for this Organi- zation if we asked Governments to contribute substan- tially more than is actually required in 1948. Australia was represented on the Budget Sub- Commission and our delegation is therefore in a position to evaluate the technical work that has been done in preparing these estimates. We have the greatest admiration for the energy, ability and devotion of those members of the Secretariat who have worked on the Budget, but they were too few in number and the time at the disposal of the Sub- Commission was too short to enable the estimates prepared by the various sections of the Secretariat to be exhaustively examined. On several particular points on which the Sub- Commission asked for special reports from the Secretariat, the information was not supplied, clearly through lack of time. Moreover, when the Sub-Commission ordered certain reductions in some parts of the Budget, it is not certain that all the consequential adjustments in other parts of the Budget were made. On the whole, we are bound to observe that the Budget has not been examined as thoroughly or as critically as is customary in national governments, and if it is approved in its present form we shall be obliged to report this impression to the Australian Government. The Australian delegation is firmly of the opinion that some of the estimates submitted by sections of the Secretariat, like most departmental estimates, are inflated; they are too ambitious and exaggerate the scope of effective work that could be done in 1948. It is obviously impracticable to refer back the whole budget for examination by this Conference. We propose that the total be reduced by 10 per cent, and that the consequential adjustments be made by the Director-General when he submits his detailed statement to Member States and the Executive Board on 1 February 1948. This will entail some minor re-drafting of the Appropriation Resolution. E K I therefore move that. # The General Conference decides, E To give effect by this resolution, to the provision of funds to the sum of $ 6,909,874 for the financial year 1948. The Director-General is directed to submit, by 1 February
1948, to Member States and to the Executive Board, à revised appropriation table prepared in accordance with the attached table, but giving effect to the adjusted total amount. In preparing this revision the Director-General has discretion to make adjustments, but no adjustment so made shall have theeffect of increasing any amount shown on the present appropriation table, or reducing any amount by more than
15 per cent. That the Budget Sub-Commission be requested to make any consequential changes in the appropriation resolution and report direct to the Plenary Meeting of the Conference. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. It is seconded by the delegate of the Netherlands, supported by the delegate of Norway. It is now open for discussion. M. Guy DORGET (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, the French delegation has some difficulty in understanding the objection which the Australian delegation has made with regard tc the budget figure. The Australian delegation was a member of the Budget Sub-Commission; it was constantly represented there by men of great bud- getary experience, and all the resolutions passed in the Sub-Commission were approved by the Aus- tralian delegation. This figure of $ 7,700,000 was also approved by the Australian delegation in the Sub-Commission. It seems, therefore, extremely difficult at the present time to reduce the total of the budget to $ 7,000,000. The Conference has worked — 536 —             on a total figure of $ 8,000,000, which was a ceiling figure not to be exceeded, and the Working Parties and the Programme and Budget Commission have drawn up a programme in terms of that ceiling figure. lt would seem to be impossible at this late hour to go back upon all our previous work. We must bear in mind also that it would be difficult now to reduce administrative expenses further. Therefore the $ 700,000 cut would have to be made in the programme. We would have to ask the Director-General to do away with practically a quarter of the present programme. This would be in direct contradiction to the general spirit of the Conference, which has voted a ceiling to cover a certain number of projects and which would see these projects abolished. For these reasonsthe French delegation1s obliged to oppose the motion proposed by the Australian delegation, and to ask that the original figure of $ 700,000 be maintained. Dr. Sandoval VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The Mexican delegation catego- rically opposes the Australian proposal. It seems to us that if it were approved, it would signify that the countries represented here do not believe in the ideals of Unesco. It would not be possible for the peoples of the world to interpret in any other way approval of a resolution such as the one we have just heard. My delegation considers that the reductions already made in Unesco’s programme are much too substantial. If we make further reductions we shall be denying the ideals of Unesco and we shall have difficulty in explaining our action. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Trans- lation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the delegation of Colombia, I support the remarks made by the delegates of Mexico and France. I believe Unesco must grow and not shrink in 1948. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : The United Kingdom delegation had a very disagreeable task to perform a few days ago, when we thought that we ought to speak and vote against the delightful invitation to go to Lebanon, and we were out- voted on that occasion. The only reason we spoke against it was because we thought, in fact, that the interest of Unesco lay in what seemed to be a rather undesirable decision. I think, and the United Kingdom delegation thinks, that we are in just the same position now. If we are unsuccessful in supporting the Australian motion, and if this Confe- rence votes the higher figure, we shall be most delighted to play our part, and we shall echo your — 537 — words, Mr. Chairman, when, after we had turned a majority vote into an unanimous vote on the ques- tion of going to Lebanon, you said you had done what you thought right but you were delighted to get what you wanted. We are in the same position. There is no doubt that the economic condition of the world to-day is something we must take heed of, and in particular those parts of the world which have suffered most directly from the war. Nor can we forget that the work of Unesco is part of the whole pattern of international work, and that it is difficult for us here to see the perspectives of the international work of the world in the way in which our representatives at Lake Success, at any rate, ought to be able to see it. We must, therefore, in taking our decision this evening, take cognizance of the fact that the United Nations Organization has asked Unesco to consider making a reduction in the budget of eight and one half million dollars, which had been the matter of consultation a few weeks ago in accordance with our constitutional relationship with the United Nations. That is why the United Kingdom delegation found itself bound some weeks ago to vote in favour of a lower ceiling than $ 8,000,000. We thought then that $ 8,000,000 was, in fact, too high a ceiling. Since then the Conference has done a tremendous creative job of work on the programme and on trying to see how much that programme would cost. I think we do not share some of the feelings which the Australian delegation put before us this evening. We do not feel that there is much water to be squeezed out of this programme. We think it is a good programme, although it takes rather a lot of words to spell out the resolutions as we saw on the Drafting Committee. But we do think that the considerations which the Australian delegation has put before us about the need for money to car out this programme in 1948 have some validity. We do think that the experience of 1947 will, to some extent, be repeated in 1948. We all of us are aware that in 1947 a good deal less was, in fact, spent by Unesco than the budget figure fixed by the Conference last year — and there I speak fully aware of the vote which we made in fixing that figure, and the efforts that we unsuccessfully made to put that figure higher. But it is a fact that now we have experience, we think it will be possible to make progress with the programme on which we have worked this year without, in fact, spending more than about $ 7,000,000. We, there- fore, feel that we are bound to vote in favour of the Australian motion, although if the vote comes out against us, as it did in the matter of Lebanon, we shall feel as Dr. Beeby felt on that occasion.     Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translationfrom the French) : The sum of $ 700,000 which we are asked to cut from Unesco’s budget would, if divided among the thirty or more Member States in proportion to their contributions, repre- sent such an insignificant sum for each that, in spite of the difficult times which some are passing through now, in spire of all reconstruction activities imposed upon them by a brutal war, the argument would not command much attention. We have announced to the world a ceiling figure of $ 8,000,000. We have reduced the sum for expenditure in 1948 to $ 7,700,000. I believe that the psychological effect of this assembly, which proposes to raise the educational, scientific and iehd standards of the world, further lowe- ring at the dest minute that ceiling figure by 10 per cent, whenall of us would like to see the total figure raised further, would imply to the world that this programme of fundamental education which is offered to it as a plan for collective resurrection, this effort to peace through international unders- tanding, all the plans by which we hopeto establish a new order, are set in the balance against a budget reduction of 10 per cent, a quite insignificant amount for the national budget of each Member. I therefore wish to oppose this motion formally on behalf of the Brazilian delegation — on behalf of a poor country which nevertheless wishes to contri- bute with all its resources to the intellectual and moral wealth of all peoples at any cost to our own small budget. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : At the opening of the Conference, the delegation of the United States felt that it was a mistake to fix an outside budget figure before we knew what the programme would be. We were prepared to support whatever budget figure would be necessary to carry out a practical programme. However, we recognized the political realities invol- ved, and so the debate took place in the early stages of this Conference, and the decision was made that the final budget would be in the neighbourhood, of $ 8,000,000. We see no reason for reopening that general question now, and therefore our dele- gation is opposed to any reduction in the budget as set forth in the document submitted to us by the Budget Sub-Commission. The Programme and Budget Commission, in our judgment, has de- veloped here a consistent, imaginative and practical programme which merits the support of the Member States, National Commissions, Co-operating Bodies and private organizations and individuals in the fields of education, science and culture in all our countries. The programme we have adopted cannot be carried forward efficiently, in our opinion if this budget is reduced. The Budget Sub-Commission has held twenty-two long and arduous meetings, and we have full confidence in its judgment. We do not believe that in a general session here our judgment will be better than theirs. The worst we could do here is to make a horizontal cut in tight budget estimates which we think have been prepared with a careful eye to economy and ef- ficiency. The next worst we could do is to abdicate our own responsibility by referring the task of reducing this budget to the Secretariat and the Executive Board, which is precisely what we did in Paris, and we do not want to repeat that ex- perience. 1 If the Commission should insist upon reducing the budget, which we hope will not occur, we sub- mit that the best way to do thisis to refer the matter back to the Budget-Commission with instructions to eliminate entirely sufficient projects to bring the total cost down to the desired figure. If we try to handle such detailed matters in this full ses- sion, we shall be here until Christmas. It is better for us to carry out some projects adequately than to deal superficially with a larger number, which will happen if we make a horizontal cut in this budget. I want to make it clear, after saying that, that we are not advocating any reductions, either in projects or in total costs. We favour the budget precisely as it stands. The CHAIRMAN : Is there any further discussion? Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : I will not take up the time of this meeting, and there is not much we can add to the excellent remarks of the United States delegate. I only wish to say we are wholly opposed to the Australian amendment. The CHAIRMAN : Is there any further discussion? If not, I will ask the delegate of Australia to reply. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : It is not necessary to prolong the discussion very much, as I have no doubt the delegations have already in mind the way they wish to vote. It is necessary for me to reply to one or two of the remarks that have been made, however, as they may give rise to misunderstanding if I let them go without any mention. The delegate of Mexico suggested that if we were to agree to the Australian proposal, this would be in some way to deny the very ideals of Unesco itself. Now, as the representative of Australia, I cannot allow that to pass without some challenge. I must remind the Conference that at this present — 538 —    time throughout the six states of Australia there is being conducted, under Government auspices, a Unesco Month; people are discussing what is going on here, and there is great interest in Unesco and in our work here. I should say also that Australia will be as ready as Mexico and Brazil and other countries represented here to pay our share of the budget, whatever it may be. We have already told this Conference that our contribution ‘to educational reconstruction this year will be more than twice as much as our contri- bution to the budget, that is if the larger figure is adopted. I do not think it can besaid, therefore, that my motion in any way denies the ideals of Unesco. It is made because we believe that this organization can do better work if it is not unduly inflated from the financial point of view. The delegate of Colombia said that Unesco should grow and should not shrink. If the Australian amendment is adopted, Unesco’s expenditure in
1948 will be approximately 40 per cent greater than in 1947. The Australian proposal is not therefore a proposal to shrink Unesco but to expand it at a moderately rapid rate — 40 per cent in one year. I should also add that this programme, even if it be reduced to $ 7 million, is much more than а $ 7 million programme. Unesco does not consist of its Secretariat alone. It does not consist of the people who are paid out of this $ 7 million or $ 7.7 million. It consists also of the Member States and their National Commissions and the people they employ, and the people whom they employ very often receive no payment. From that point of view this programme is much larger than last year’s programme and represents much more than a 40 per cent increase in the scale of Unesco’s activities on this year. From that point of view again, therefore, I repudiate any suggestion that our proposal is designed to shrink Unesco. Unesco is expanding and we want it to expand efficiently in the course of the coming year. Finally, the French delegation expressed some doubts as to whether we should take this line at all. It is true we took part in the work of the Budget Sub-Commission. We were not able, of course, to challenge any of the projects, because they had already been approved this Commission as a whole. We too would prefer to see, if any cut were made, a selective cut, so that Unesco could try to do fewer things and concentrate on the more important things this year. We had hoped that perhaps a cut in the budget might have helped, might even have forced, the Director-General and his staff to con- centrate on the most important things that figure in this still very extensive programme before us: We are anxious, as the delegate of Czechoslovakia has said, that Unesco should concentrate on impor- tant things, and we are still providing for a number of relatively unimportant things in view of the present world situation to-day. I have merely put before you the viewpoint of the Australian Government and the Australian delegation in this matter. If it were preferred that the matter should be referred back to the Budget Sub-Commission for further examination we would be quite agreeable to that, and we would be pre- pared to accept that amendment, if the Commission so desires, to the second part of our motion. Never- theless we must ask you first to vote on the first part of the motion. The CHAIRMAN : We are now, I take it, ready to vote on the Australian amendment as put. We will take the vote by roll call. We are voting on the Australian amendment to reduce the sum proposed by the Budget Sub-Commission by
10 per cent. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Australia, China, Norway, Nether- lands, United Kingdom. Voted against : Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru- Poland, United States of America. Abstained : Egypt, Greece. Absent : Bolivia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Denmark, Liberia, Luxemburg, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Union of South Africa,Uruguay, Venezuela.) The CHAIRMAN : The Australian amendment is lost by 16 votes to 5, with two abstentions. The original motion proposed by the Commission is now before you for consideration. Does anyone further wish to speak to the original motion put forward by the Budget Sub-Commission? Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO [(Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Among the proposals for which no budgetary provision has been made, the Egyptian delegation has already mentioned two, the importance of which is undeniable for funda- mental education. Another point in that list deals with government support of the arts. The sum allocated to this proposals is infinitesimal. I should like to draw the attention of this meeting to the value of including in our budget paragraph 4.1.6. Government Support of the Arts, which, in tha original proposal, carried an estimate of $ 2,500. Closely related to this proposal is one dealing with general education which was allotted in the budget — 539 —          $ 2,500. This latter may be reduced to $ 2,000 and so we could re-include in the budget the ori- ginal proposal, reducing it from $ 2,500 to $ 2,000. Then with an increase of only $ 1,500, project
4.1.6. could be once more brought within the scope of Unesco’s activities. I therefore move that proposal. The CHAIRMAN : It has been moved by the delegate of Brazil that the total as suggested by the Budget Commission be increased by $ 1,500 to allow the inclusion of the Government Support ofthe Arts. Thatis item 4.1.6. in your document
2C/C1/SC/3. I would point out that the Budget Sub-Commis- sion made the total for this come to $ 6000. I understand, however, that the delegate from Brazil has suggested a simpler form. Whatever transfer of funds may be involved within the amount, the effect of the Brazilian proposal is to increase this sum by $ 1,500. Does anyone second that? It is seconded by the delegate of France. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : I understood that the motion we were going to consider was a motion to approve a budget figure of $7,677,637, and that the proposal from the delegate of Brazil would be by way of amendment. I would certainly speak against any amendment that would increase the total by that amount. Whenthe Australian delegate spoke I was impres- sed because my experience has been that there never has been a budget that did not have 10 per cent water in it, even the most carefully prepared budget; and I suspect that this one may have a little guess work and a little water. But other delegates got up and told me about the Budget Sub-Gommission’s work, about their twenty-two meetings, and how brillantly they have done. That convinced me. But it convinced me both ways. If their figure should not be reduced, their figure should not be increased, and if anything has to go into this programme, something should come out. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to speak? We will take this by show of hands, unless the mover wishes otherwise. The amendment proposed by the delegate of Brazil is that the total sum should be increased by a sum of $ 1,500 to enable work to be done on item 4.1.6, Government Support of the Arts. The vote was taken by a show ofhands. The CHAIRMAN : The amendment is defeated. Prof. Paul RIVET (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I believe that there is an omission in the budgetary estimate. It relates to article 6.9, the Protection of Nature. This was a project capable of realization and of being highly effective. I assumethatif this project has not held the interest of the Budget Sub-Commission, it is perhaps because we have not made sufficiently clear what is meant by the protection of nature. It is not only a question of establishing national parks, or national forest ‘reserves, to protect nature in certain limited regions. It involves much greater problems concerning the whole world. In many regions of the world and on every continent, man is in process of murdering the soil, and there are vast areas over which, as a result of human occupa- tion and irrational exploitation of their resources, the soil is disappearing altogether. I am speaking to people coming from every continent. You know very well that in America, Australasia, Africa, as well as in Europe, the soil
18 dying over tremendous areas. Therefore what, we have to do is to assist an international organi- zation, which has already held its first meeting in Berne and which asks for your support, in the struggle for the protection not only of nature but of the soil itself. I believe that you cannot possibly remain indifferent to a problem of such scope, with repercussions on the whole of human life; on peace and on the welfare of humanity. The sum of $ 5,000 was asked for, to support the international organization which was set up in Berne-an organization which is already in exis- tence. I recommend you to respond to this appeal and add this small sum of $ 5,000 to the budget. The CHAIRMAN : Thatis seconded by the delegate of Colombia. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : 1 wish to second the motion of the delegate of France. It seems to me that we are considering one of the principal problems of humanity and one of the principal problems which should be dealt with by Unesco. Sr. Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : My delegation also wishes to support the motion of the French delegation and, since there seems to be some resistance to increasing the budget,if the meeting does not wish to increase the total of the budget as requested by France, we should take the sum from some other item. We have just listened to an intellectual, distinguished scientist, and I hope that all the delegates will give due consideration to his words. They are not empty words; they are the words of a man who has pondered well what he says on behalf of his dele- gation and for the good of humanity. Let us not — 540 —    haggle about this and refuse the sum asked for this purpose. I repeat that if we do not want to increase the total budget, we can provide the small sum required by decreasing some of the other items. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Might I just say a word, in clarification of the sum demanded. I understand, though I was not present, that at the Budget Sub-Commission it was considered possible to carry the preparation of this Conference on the general overhead work of the staff of the Natural Sciences Section. May I say that, in my opinion, that is quite impracticable. The suggestion that I made when this matter first came up was that we should engage, perhaps for six months, the services of a real expert in this subject to prepare the agenda for the Conference, and I think that we might do this for about $ 4,000 rather than $ 5,000; but we must get a good man, otherwise it would be better not to have anyoneatall. However the matter is arranged, I would very strongly hope that this item be restored as one of the projects on which money can be spent instead of, as at the moment, being on the third priority list. It is only a small sum and, whether we adopt the suggestion made by the delegate of France or that of the delegate of Ecuador, I do very much hope that this $ 4,000 or $ 5,000 will be available for the services of an expert for, say, six months. The CHAIRMAN : The amendment proposed by the delegate of France is that the sum suggested by the Budget Sub-Commission be increased by the sum of $ 5,000 to allow the inclusion of item 6.9 in the Programme. Are you ready to vote? I think we can vote by showof handsif the delegate of France is agreeable. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion has been carried, and the total sum is increased by $ 5,000, which means that the total sum of $ 7,682,637 will be appropriated. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I hope we have not forgotten my proposal at the beginning that the items relating to Fundamental Education should be re-included. I do not want to ask for an increase of the total budget figure because I am sure that the amount could be found for these two projects. Egypt abstained from voting on the Australian pro- posal because we really have not studied these figures thoroughly, and we do not commit ourselves as to whether we can make a reduction or not. But I am sure we can find the money needed for these very fundamental and important aspects of our Pro- gramme. The CHAIRMAN : In that case, I would suggest that the delegate of Egypt bring up his proposal when we are dealing with Annex A, which is con- cerned with the transfer of funds within the total sum. Are there any other amendments proposed to this total sum? The Deputy Director-General would like to say a word at this point. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Mr. Chair- man, this is a very late hour; but I would like to say a few words about the nature of the Budget estimates which you have before you, particularly with refe- rence to the question before you, namely, the total amount to be voted. Two points I would chiefly like to make. The first is that the present Budget before you had no provision in it whatsoever for a contingency. It has no funds in it upon which the Organization can draw in the event that a situation arises calling for a new kind of activity, a new kind of programme or a new kind of action which is approved by the Executive Board. The difficulty at the present timeis that it has been necessary to construct a Budget extremely rapidly, as has been pointed out. I do not believe that there is much water in it. I am convinced however that with the extremely rapidly changing world situation it would be most unwise for the Organization to move into a further period of 12 months without having some funds to draw upon in the event that there should be need for an addition to the Pro- gramme, or some other kind of activity. Let me point out the nature of the situation in which we find ourselves. Just three illustrations. Since the Budget figure was worked out in the Bud- get Sub-Commission, three decisions have been taken by Commissions or by the full Plenary Session of this Conference. First, that this Organization shall co-operate with the United Nations in the esta- blishment of an international civil service advisory board, and that we shall pay our proportionate share. There are no funds to pay that share. Secondly, there has been established an appeals board for handling staff questions. We do not know the exact amount, but there is no provision in the budget to take care of the remuneration for an outside chairman to be appointed by the Executive Board. Thirdly, this Conference has gone on record in favour of the simultaneous interpretation system, whenever possible in its meetings. That item has not beenenvisaged in the preparation of this Budget estimate. Now may I call your attention to the fact that the item of $ 350,000 which appears at the bottom of page 5 on the Appropriation Table, which would — 541 —         apparently provide a contingency fund,is limited in its application to the implementation of the second footnote on that page, which reads that the reserve is to be applied only to cover further increases in the cost of living and of materials. That means that the $ 350,000 may not be touched for any unforeseen expenditures of the Organization other than those which derive specifically from increased costs. Mysecond point, Mr. Chairman,is that this Budget already represents a very economical figure, and I call attention particularly to Chapter V which covers initial recruitment and allowances. That figure is so tight that I think I can predict now we shall have to draw upon the $ 350,000 reserve. It is so tight I would mention by way of illustration that step which is now proposed concerning 23 persons — and I may say the bulk of them are secretaries — cut out from the original figure of personnel submit- ted in the proposed Budget. There has been a cut of $ 745,000 from our original estimate in the Blue Book for allowances and initial recruitment. At the same time you have asked us to undertake a substantial improvement in the geographical distribution of the Organization, which of necessity means we must expend conside- rable funds in the search for better personnel. We shall necessarily have to replace a substantial portion of the personnel, which increases the cost of bringing new individuals on to the staff. I would like to submit that, at least in my judgment, it would be most unwise for the Organization to move into the very uncertain year that lies ahead without protecting itself by the inclusion of a substantial contingency fund — whether you wish to protect the Organiza- tion by providing that no money shall be drawn upon without the approval of the Executive Board, or in some other way. I have my own estimate. I think that we should not go into the year without a contingency fund of $200,000. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : As I said before, I think it is necessary to maintain a contingency fund, and I think that without it the Secretariat cannot work efficiently. I therefore propose as an amendment that we appropriate an additional $ 500,000 for contingencies. The CHAIRMAN : There is a motion from the dele- gate of Colombia that the sum be increased by $ 500,000 for contingencies. This has not yet been seconded. Does no one second it? Then the motion lapses. We are now back to our original motion that the sum of $ 7,682,637 be appropriated. Does anyone wish to speak to this? If no one wishes to speak, I will give the mover of the motion the right to reply if he wishes. Mr. Holland, do you wish to reply? There is no reply, so we are ready to put this motion : That, for the Financial Year 1948, the amount of § 7,682,637 is hereby appropriated for the purposes indicated in the Appropriation Table. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : I am sorry to interpolate a moment'sdelay, because we all want to take a vote, but I suggest that what we really want to vote on should finish at the word «appro- priated ». You explained that we were going on later to discuss the figures in the Appropriation Table itself, and what we wish to do now surely is to vote on the amount hereby appropriated. When we have decided whether or not we accept the figure in Annex A, we can then complete resolution I «for the purposes indicated in the Appropriation Table». The CHAIRMAN : I do not know that is valid. } We are voting actually for the purposes indicated in the Appropriation Table. As a matter of principle, we have not yet decided the exact form the Apropria- tion Table will take, but we certainly know that we will have an Appropriation Table. I do not think there is much difference. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. The next item to be moved is the remainder of this Appropriation Table B. The mover of this motion considers that these paragraphs 2, 3 and
4 are really a unit, and he would like to move them as a whole. If we see any reason for dividing them later, we can, but the mover and the Sub-Commission felt that was the proper way to doit. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, as you have indicated, we do believe we should now consider the rest of this Appropriation Resolution, and so, as you have indicated, I wish to move paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. The CHAIRMAN : Is this motion seconded? The delegate of France secondsit. Might I make it quite clear that we are not consider- ing at the present time the figures contained within these various groups. We are merely considering at the moment the principle of establishing what I called this morning financial bulkheads, with trans- fers impossible in some cases and possible in other cases only under certain conditions. We will not speak now on the figures. Dr. Sandoval VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation — 542 —      from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, 1 wish to suggest an amendment referring to paragraph 3b. My amendment is the following : «No transfers shall be authorized to increase the sums appropriated for personnel. The sums appropriated for grants-in- aid and emergency grants-in-aid shall for the year
1948 be as set out in the Appropriation Table and in Annex D». The CHAIRMAN : I must admit I cannot see any factual difference in this. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : I think that the result of the amendment would be this : that transfers to involve grants-in- aid would then be permissible. The CHAIRMAN : The amendment is seconded by the delegate of India. Prof. H. J. BHABHA(India) : Sir, I wish to second the motion, and my reasonis the following. In the report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission, document 20/02/12, on page 16, Appendix 23, there is the following resolution : The General Conference shall from year to year consider the approval of a total sum to be paid from its budget in the form of grants-in-aid to international non-governmental and semi-governmental organizations. This figure to be contained in an annex to the budget. Now,in accordance with that, it is necessary that» the figure for grants-in-aid should be specified in the budget, but I think the actual text as it stands in Annex B goes rather beyond that in saying that transfers to it cannot be made. It is for this reason that I support the Mexican amendment. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, the Budget Sub-Commission has complied with the resolution just quoted by the delegate of India, and the information 1s set forth in Annex D. I think the reason why the Budget Sub-Commission put the proposal forward asit did is this : if there are any unspent funds in any of the major chapters of this budget at the end of 1948, it was the intention of the Budget Sub-Commission that those funds should be carried forward to the following year, and it might make our appropriating work the following year a little easier. But if the language is changed, there is going to be a great temptation to take any savings that may be effected during the year and let Unesco appropriate these funds to outside non- governmental or semi-governmental agencies. It seems to me that in this field as in all others the Budget Sub-Commission has given careful considera- tion to the amounts that should be available in each chapter for grants-in-aid to give effect to the pro- gramme as approved by the Programme and Budget Commission, and therefore again the United States delegation hopes that the Budget Sub-Commission will be upheld and it will vote against the amend- ment now before us. Prof. H.J. BHABA (India) : I want, ¡f it is possible to move an amendment which might, perhaps, satisfy the United States delegate, and I have the au- thority of the mover of this motion to put it before you in its new form. We feel that personnel and grants-in-aid are separate items and should not be classed together. Therefore 3.b. should read : Notransfers shall be authorized to increase the sum appro- priated for personnel. We now add (e) as it stands, with a few additions in what appears to be the mistaken version, the one that is here. It reads as follows : No transfers shall be made except with the prior sanction of the Executive Board to increase the sums appropriated for grants-in-aid and emergency grants-in-aid which for the year 1948 shall be as set out in the Appropriation Table in Annex D. I think if you have confidence in the Executive Board that should be sufficient security. The CHAIRMAN : The mover and the seconder have agreed to a changed form of the motion. I must allow the delegate of the United States or any other delegate who wishes to do so to speak, even if it is for the second time. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of Ame- rica) : I am very sorry, but the amended proposal put forward by my good friend from India does not please the delegation of the United States. In fact, I am more opposed to this one than to the previous one. In addition to the other reasons I gave, namely that we have before us a perfectly practical and sen- sible programme for grants-in-aid in the various chapters, I do not think that we should now start putting into the hands of the Executive Board au- thority to do things which this Conference should decide for itself. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else now wish to speak to this? If not, I will put the amendment which has the effect of allowing transfers in the case of grants-in-aid with the approval of the Executive Board. (The vote was taken by a show of hands, but as the re- sult was inconclusive, it was taken again by roll call. Voted infavour : Belgium, Brazil, China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Mexico, Peru, Poland. Voted against : Australia, Canada, Egypt, Nether- — 543 —       lands, New Zealand, Norway, United Kingdom, United States of America. Absent : Bolivia, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxem- bourg, Philippines Saudi, Arabia, Syria, Turkey, Union of South Africa, Uruguay, Venezuela. The CHAIRMAN : The amendmentis carried by
13 votes to eight. The motion as amended is now before you. Does anyone else wish to speak to Annex B, 2-4 ? The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : On a point of information, I think there may be a slight error in drafting here. The clause now reads that «no transfers shall be authorized to increase the sum appropriated for Personnel.» You plan to approve
3 (a) which says that : No transfers may be made from Part III to Part I or Part II of the Budget. Other transfers between the parts of the Budget may only be made with the prior approval of the Executive Board. If I read that correctly you would be saying on the one hand that transfers may be made in the per- sonnel column with the approval of the Board, but you are also saying that no transfers can be autho- rized to increase the sums appropriated. I wonder whether you would approve the following wording : No transfers shall be authorized to increase the total sum appropriated for personnel. That I think was probably the intention. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of America) (Rapporteur) : It is my recollection that that was our intention and that 3 (b) should read «total sum appropriated ». The CHAIRMAN : That is accepted by the mover nad seconder of the motion. Is there anyone fur- ther who wishes to speak ? Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Does that wording prevent us transferring money from the reserve to personnel ? Mr. James MARSHALL (United States of America) : I think that within this $ 350,000 reserve you could use that for the raising of salaries. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Would this wording be acceptable : «No transfers shall be authorized to increase the total sum appropriated for personnel». The CHAIRMAN : We have now had three legal opinions, and the original motion as amended is now before you. Is there any further discussion? Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) (Rapporteur) : The Budget Sub-Commission considered this very carefully. I believe that the reserve is to be used only to cover further increases in cost of living and materials. That is stated in the footnote on page 5. It seems to me that this amendment does change the objective of the Sub- Commission. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I think not, Mr. Chairman, because I think the intention was to meet increased costs which may be reflected in living allowances, or salaries or in any kind of personnel costs. I think that could be used for this purpose. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : I do not believe it was the intention of the Budget Sub-Commission to use those funds to hire more personnel. The CHAIRMAN : I think that would be met by the words in the conditions set out in Annex A. The motion is as follows : Section 3 (b) : No transfers shall be authorized to increase the total sum appropriated for personnel except from the reserve under the conditions set out in Annex A.
3 (e) : No transfer shall be made except with the prior sanction of the Executive Board to increase grants-in-aid or emergency grants-in-aid beyond the amounts set out in the appropriation table and in Annex D. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : That is carried and 2, 3, and 4 are completed. I do not think I need put Annex B as a whole. We now come to Annex A and Annex D. What we are dealing with now is a detailed appro- priation table. If anybody wishes to alter the balance of financial appropriations within the total budget sum, now is the time to do so. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, as Rapporteur I move the adoption of Annex A, the summary budget for 1948 which will become the appropriation table, and is contained on pages 4 and 5; and then Annex D, the last document in this section, which sets forth the breakdown of grants-in-aid. The CHAIRMAN : That is seconded by the dele- gate of Mexico, supported by the delegate of the United Kingdom. It is understood that this will be changed by the addition of that $ 5,000 which we added, you will remember, when we were dis- cussing Annex B. 1. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. Chairman, I should like to suggest that the proposal for a Fundamental Education Seminar, for which no — 544 —      money was voted by the Budget Sub-Commission, be included here. Before doing so, I should just like to ask a question. In document 2C/C1/SC/2, in «Education for International Understanding» in Annex C, under No. 3, there is the item « Seminars ». Could that Seminar for Fundamental Education, which has been dropped, be included here ? I remember that we had voted for at least three seminars, and a possible fourth was the Seminar for Fundamental Education. Whether we included it in these three or four Seminars or not I do not know, but, if so, why not include it here? I think it should have priority over all other seminars. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, may first state that the Budget Sub-Commission can, I think, be said to have been very much interested in education as an important part of the programme of Unesco. I do wish to call attention to the fact that the total sum that was allocated to educational projects in the three items which are listed here comes to $ 856,000, which
1s about 17 per cent, just a little under one-fifth, of the total amount that is listed for programme activities in Unesco. I wish to point out, furthermore, that we gave very careful consideration to the fourth seminar, that was proposed in the field of fundamental education. As I think has been made clear before, it was the objective of the Budget Sub-Commission in considering all of these important projects to be sure that the Secretariat of Unesco could carry out as many activities as possible within the limitations of budget and personnel. We felt that in this particular case with three seminars and with many other conferences and seminars provided for in this budget, it would be difficult for the Secretariat to carry out the many activities that we are providing for, and we thought that this Fundamental Educa- tion Seminar would probably be carried out better in an ensuing year, after the Unesco Secretariat had had more experience with seminars. There are three provided for this year, and we thoughtthat, with a fourth, it would tax seriously the Secretariat. and even the Member States, to carry out as large a programmeas that. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : With reference to the statement made by the Rapporteur, I know well what a large amount of money has been allocated for education, but I think that no amount allocated for education could be too much for the mission which Unesco should perform. I am therefore still not convinced that the amount advocated for the Seminar on Fundamental Education should be dropped, and for this reason I should like it to be included in the amount allocated for seminars, and to have priority if possible. The other point is the item for Fundamenta Education Regional Study Conferences. I should like the amount which had been allocated for that to be considered again and taken either from the amount which is allocated for Social Tensions, or that allocated for International Understanding. As I said before, all our work in Unesco, in whatever department, is really aiming at international under- standing. If not, then we are not doing our task well. We must not keep things in separate com- partments but, as was indicated in the Paris Confe- rence, I think by the United States delegate, we have one objective, and all these activities are leading to that objective. Education, in our idea, is the most important thing for the objective and if we take some money from the sums allocated either for International Understanding or Social Tensions, we are not really reducing ourefforts, but making them more constructive. For this reason I move that the amount of money that was originally allocated should be taken from these other items. I am a social scientist myself and I see in the budget that the allocation for social science is very small, but I consider that that is not the fault of Unesco. It may be the fault of the social scientists who have not submitted a more precise and practical programme for this Conference. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, in order that delegates may understand what this meant in terms of finance, these two projects in Fundamental Education, the Regional Study Conference and the Fundamental Education Seminar would, it is estimated, cost approximately $ 68,480. That includes, of course, the administrative services as well as the specific amount for the programme project. The CHAIRMAN : It has been moved, then, that the sum of $ 68,480 be added to the education programme for Fundamental Education Regional Stu- dy Conference and Fundamental Education Seminar, and that a similar amount be subtracted from the pro- gramme for Social Tensions and International Under- standing. Does anyone second that? It is seconded by the delegate of Mexico. Does anyone wish to speak to it? Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. Chairman, it is rather difficult to know whether fundamental edu- cation can be advanced by seminars this year, but I suppose if we have four seminars for another type of education, we can do with one seminar for that type of education, and it seems to me that there is quite a disparity between the sum of $ 170,000 for Fundamental Education and the sum of $ 128,000 for Social Tensions. I was impressed
35       by what the delegate of Egypt said — that one way of removing tensions is by advancing fundamental education. The project for Social Tensionsis a study project. It seems to me it is better to remove tensions than to study tensions, and for that reason I think that we should take a large part, say $ 40,000 from Social Tensions, and perhaps $ 28,000 from another enquiry, that into International Understanding, eli- minate part of these enquiries and do a little more of the positive work in Fundamental Education. The CHAIRMAN : Does the delegate for Egypt accept that particular allocation? It makes your motion more specific. It is to take $ 40,000 from Social Tensions and $ 28,000 from International Understanding. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman. the Budget Sub-Commission, with very helpful advice from the Secretariat, had reviewed all these matters and I think reviewed them with a great deal of care. It was difficult to estimate the exact costs, but the Australian delegation considers that inits prepa- ration of expenditure allocated, the Budget Sub- Commission did the best possible job in the cir- cumstances. We would therefore, despite the importance we attach to the Fundamental Education project, be very reluctant to agree to the transfer proposed, because it would upset proportions very carefully thought out in the course of the 22 meetings. Mr. James MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, may I point out three things. In the first place, as I understand it, this proposal for a seminar was not something that was recom- mended by the Working Party, but was added by this Commission. When we discussed these matters in the Budget Sub-Commission we had to make balances between the various demands of the various interests that were here represented. We felt, of course, that we had, in order to keep within the $ 8,000,000, and below the $ 8,000,000 as most delegations desired, to make some cuts from time to time and make changes and give priority. Giving priorities was an authority which was granted to the Sub-Commission by this Gommission, and therefore in the exercise of our best judgment we had to cut some items and one of those that was cut was the one not recommended by either the Secretariat or the Working Parties, but recommended from the floor of the meeting here. As to the $ 28,000 which it is proposed to cut out from International Understanding, my under- standing is that this is an item which was put in the Budget becauseit was a matter that was requested by the United Nations. Now, finally, as to the matter of Social Tensions, may I say that that is a matter which is very dear to the heart of the delegation of the United States. It was an item which received the highest priority in our National Commissions. We feel that perhaps if it were better understood it would receive greater support than it has here. May I say a few words here in explanation of what we feel is the impor- tance of this Tensions project. Throughout the work of Unesco, there has been a tendency to work on the theory that the more and more interchange there was between the nations of the world, that in itself would create better inter- national understanding — more education, more mass communication, more exchange of personnel, more exchange of cultures; that the mere fact and quantity of exchange would thereby create a better understanding between the nations. Now, this is the one item in your Programme which bears not upon the amount or the quantity of inter-communication, but upon the quality of inter-communications. It is a very serious question at times whether the mere fact of education brings about better international understanding. It is a question whether the mere exchange of persons of itself brings about better international under- standing. It is a question whether greater and greater amounts of mass communication bring about greater international understanding and goodwill. And the very purpose of this Tensions study is to find out what it is that brings about ill-will towards people — what it is that brings about good under- standing between peoples — and this study will be in the long run a guide to the influencing of mass communication and the influencing of education and the influencing of the exchange of persons, so that we have a better rather than a merely increased amount of interchange between the nations of the world. We Americans can see very definitely that the kind of study proposed in this Tensions project can be of great help in bringing about good will and understanding between people. We can point out how just such studies and just such work in the cities of Chicago and Detroit and the State of California have resulted in a greatly improved relationship between the peoples and the races in those communities, and we urge upon you that whatever else you may cut, you do not cut the Social Tensions project, because that is the one project in this Programme, which may, through the findings that it produces, guide education and guide the mass media in improving the relation- ships between people, and so we seriously and earnestly urge that it be not cut. — 540 —    Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans- lation from the French) : 1 also attach very great importance to the question of Fundamental Edu- cation, but the seminar for educators seems to me covered to a large extent by other activities which will be carried out in 1948 in the field of edu- cation ; I wonder whether the pilot projects in China, Haiti, East Africa, and others which are planned, will not fully cover, atleast for this year, that seminar for the training in fundamental education of pro- fessors and educators already in service. In this way we shall not be compelled to sacrifice other projects of a least equal importance. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the amend- ment, that the allocation for the Social Tensions programme be cut by $ 40,000, and the Inter- national Understanding project by $ 28,000 in order to allow for an increase of $ 68,480 for Fundamental Education to cover the Regional Study Conference and the Fundamental Education Seminar. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : It may well be, and it appears to me clearafter hearing the explanation, that the two projects on Fundamental Education would perhaps be superfluous in the light of what is being done in other fields. Could we have a break-down in the two costs, that of the Regional Conference and the Seminar? Perhaps we might find funds for one. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : The cost of the Fundamental Education Regional Study Conference is $ 2,890, and that of the Fundamental Education Seminar $ 40,000. The difference between the total of these two figures and the $ 68,480 is, of course, in the service and administration costs, which must be added to these two projects. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : The mover of the motion and I will be quite happy if the Regional Study Conference could be retained, and if the funds for that could be found. Whether they should come from Education for International Understanding or from Social Tensions, I do not know. My prefe- rence. would be from Social Tensions. It is not, of course, that Social Tensions is unimportant. I agree fully with the delegate of the United States as to its importance, but $ 128,000 for a study seems to me a tremendous amount to be used in one year, and thé small amount needed for the Regional Study Conference could be found in that item without doing it the least bit of harm. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : The total for the Fundamental Education Regional Study Conference would be about $ 7,680. The CHAIRMAN : The amendment is altered to read : « That the sum of $ 7,680 be added to the Education Section to provide for a Regional Study Conference for Fundamental Education, and that a like sum be taken from the study of Social Tensions >. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of Ame- rica) : Would it be possible, and perhaps a better procedure, if we asked the Budget Sub-Commission to have a hurried meeting and tell us how that money can best be found, leaving the final decision for us here? For example, I suspect that the $ 3,000 for expenses in this item could be found within existing funds without a transfer, if the Budget Sub-Commission went to work. I may say that we are not going to oppose this motion. I mere- ly think it would be more orderly to handle the matter in the way I suggest. The CHAIRMAN : That would involve a further meeting of this Commission this morning. Would you be prepared to make that change: that the sum of $ 7,680 should be added to the Education vote to provide for the Regional Study Conference for Fundamental Education, and the Budget Sub-Com- mission should be asked to suggest ways in which that could be found from other items? Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : One would think that from a budget of $ 8,000,000 we could find about $ 8,000 for such an important matter. I am speaking on behalf of millions of people who need this, [am a great believer in regional studies, because centralized studies, in my opinion, are not so important as regional studies. I think it could easily be found, and that we can leave it to the Sub- Commission. Dr. Sandoval VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 speak on behalf of the dele- gation which originally supported the proposal of the delegate of Egypt. I must admit that I am com- pletely convinced by the arguments presented by the United States delegate with regard to the impor- tance of the project for Social Tensions, and I am completely in agreement with the viewpoint he expressed of leaving to the Budget Sub-Commission the task of finding out where the necessary money should come from. Nevertheless, I respectfully suggest to the Chair that we should not insist upon this requiring a new meeting of this Commission. ! think we can easily leave this to the consideration of the Budget Sub-Commission without having this Commission meet again. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the proposal and the suggestion py the delegate of Mexico. Are — 547 —
35.      you ready to vote that the sum of $ 7,680 be added to the Regional Study Conference, and that it be left to the Budget Sub-Commission without further reference to this body to find that sum in the budget as it is proposed? We will have to vote on that. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. You have now a motion concerning Annex A and Annex D. Is there any further discussion? Dr. Hermann ZEISSL (Austria) : I am obliged to draw the attention of the Conference to the fourth item in document 2C/C1/SC/3. Last night an urgent request reached me from the competent Austrian authority to place before the Conference the situation of the Hertziana Library in Rome. The situation is this. This is a very important library, one of the most important in Rome, particu- larly on questions relating to the history of art. It is at present in the care of the Allied authorities; it seems to be in complete disorder and is inacces- sible, and there is considerable danger of damage and complete loss. The Allied authorities have no funds to enable them to deal properly with the matter, and the library could only be put in order and made available if Unesco were to assist in its protection and help to make the necessary funds available. Otherwise the Allied authorities will not be in a position to deal with this very serious situation. I would like to ask whether it would not be pos- sible to find the necessary sum, the amount of which is not known to me, and perhaps cover it by a deduction from one of the four items regarding libraries on page 5 of document 26C/C1/SC/2. My first question, however, would be what amount would be necessary, and my second whether any delegate would be prepared to move anappropriate sum. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : I should make it clear that, while this desi- gnation on the sheet which you have received men- tioned only the Hertziana, the project actually provided for grants to the International Union of Institutes of Archaeology to aid in the rehabili- tation of ex-German libraries in Italy. The total sum that was placed in that resolution by the Secretariat was $ 7,500. This, again, was a project which the Budget Sub-Commission thought was in itself important; but considering the limited funds of Unesco, as well as the limitation of staff, it was thought that this was a project that Unesco could assist by stimulating interest on the part of private individuals and private organizations who might be interested, bui we did not feel that the funds of Unesco should be used in order to make a grant to these institutes. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to move a motion concerning this? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, this is a small practical job which the United King- dom delegation was disappointed to find did not receive financial support in the proposals before us. As our overworked Budget Sub-Commission is having another meeting to-morrow morning, I would like to move — because none of us here is in a position to know the exact sum needed to help to restore this very important institution which as a direct result of the war is in urgent need of reha- bilitation — that the Budget Sub-Commission be asked to find the necessary funds. I think it would engage the interest of all lovers of art in all parts of the world. I think we should ask the Sub- Commission to find means of diverting the necessary dollars, if I may move that. The CHAIRMAN : That is seconded by the dele- gate of France. The delegate of Poland wishes to ask a question. Dr. Z. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : 1 want to ask, Mr. Chairman, whether this Institute is a German Institute or an ex-German Institute. It is not quite clear what is meant by «German Archaelogical Institute in Italy». I do not wish to oppose the motion but on the other hand I should like to point out that in the devas- tated countries there are hundreds of thousands of libraries which have been completely destroyed. In Poland very precious books and valuable texts still lie in the corridors of ruined buildings, and the buildings themselves have been completely devas- tated. Therefore I think this question should certainly be considered, and I should like my remarks to be recorded in the report of this meeting. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : It is an ex-German institute. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : May we ask the Rapporteur to give us an estimate of this project, as he did on the previous project. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame- rica) : The estimate which I gave was $ 7,500 and, if this is the correct sum, may I point out to Sir John Maud that it is necessary to have a figure, for otherwise how are we going to vote this table to-night? If the Sub-Commission has to determine to-morrow the amount that is needed we cannot achieve our objective of completing this report tonight. — 548 —    The CHAIRMAN : We should have to vote it, I think, subject to adjustment, but I think a definite sum should be mentioned now, all the same. Dr. Jan OPOCENSKY (Czechoslovakia) : I will be very brief. I would ask to whom the library now belongs if it is ex-German? The CHAIRMAN : It is under the control of the Allied authorities. Perhaps the Director-General could answer this question. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I am afraid I have not the details, but I understand it is under the control of a commission which has been newly constituted to look after it. It is composed, if I understand aright, primarily of the Directors of the different cultural institutes in Rome. The library is, of course, ex-German, as I said before. The CHAIRMAN : Would the delegate from the United Kingdom wish to name a specific sum? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, I deliberately did not mention the sum of $ 7,500 because I understand that that $ 7,500 was the total amount required for more than this one institute, which is the principal one about which I was moving my motion. My proposal was not made to mention the sum, but to ask the Budget Sub-Commission how much of the $ 7,500 was needed for this particular institute, and that I suggest is just as easy for us to vote to-night con- sistently with the rest of our work. If you rule that we must have an actual figure, I will name a figure, but it necessarily will be a token figure of say, $ 3,000; I would prefer to leave it to the Budget Sub-Commission to decide what action is necessary for this particular purpose. The CHAIRMAN : I do not know whether the Budget Sub-Commission have the necessary infor- mation to enable them to make a better judgment than we can to-night. Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of America) : I am afraid that I have not any figure that would indicate exactly what should go to this one Insti- tute. I understand that it is the most important and that the major share of the $ 7,500 should go to it. It is suggested that the sumof $ 6,000 would be adequate to carry onthat particular project. The CHAIRMAN : In that case would the delegate from the United Kingdom care to move his amendment in this form : The Budget Sub-Commission be asked to find the sum of $ 6,000 to enable the necessary assistance to be given to this institution. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The amendment is lost by 9 votes to eight. M. Guy DORGET (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation wishes to return to the very important point raised by Dr. Laves, namely that in the budget of $ 7,700,000 there is no provision for contingencies. This is contrary to all budgetary practice and under present condi- tions it is extremely important that such a fand be established. However, the French delegation did not submit a motion for this purpose because it is difficult now to increase the total figure of our budget. In Annex A, page 5, we find a reserve fund of $ 360,000 and as a footnote to that we find «the reserve is to be applied only to cover further increases...» I propose a slightly different draft for that footnote : The reserve is to be applied primarily to cover further increases in the cost of living and of materials provided that not more than $ 100,000 be used for contingencies. If this would meet the approval of the Director General, I would like to move it as a proposal, for I believe it would be extremely dangerous to have toorigid rules for 1948. The CHAIRMAN : That is seconded by the dele- gate of Greece and supported by the delegate of Egypt. Does anyone wish to speak to it? If there is no one, I shall put the motion as proposed by the delegate from France. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : That is carried. Are there any further amendments to Annexes A and D? If not, I will put the motion that Annexes A and D as amended and subject to certain changes that we have authorized the Budget Sub-Commis- sion to make without further reference to us, be approved. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : Annexes A and D are carried. I now put this document 2C/C1/SC/2 as a whole, as amended, and subject to those slight changes to be made by the Budget Sub-Commission. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : Document 2C/G1/SC/2 as amended, is approved. We now come to the final vote on the Programme as a whole, as amended by the changes that we have now made in the consideration of the Budget Sub-Commission’s Report. The vote was taken by a show of hands. — 549 —
354 o u i e i S d e E a o n a n s w     The CHAIRMAN : The Programme as a whole, as amended, is approved. We still have, I am sorry to have to tell you, the matter of the Revolving Fund. The documents are 2C/C1/22 and 2C/C1/22 Rev. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : I think this is a matter which can perhaps be taken in the Plenary Meeting. I move that it be taken there. The CHAIRMAN : It is moved that it be taken in the Plenary Meeting; seconded by the delegate of France. I put it to the meeting. That is carried. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : If there is no further business, Mr. Chairman, I am sure the Commission would like somebody to express ourvery grateful thanks to you for the way in which you have presided over ourvery difficult proceedings and debates, and I would like, on behalf of the Commission, to extend to you our thanks for it. The vote of thanks was carried by acclamation. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you very much indeed. I have no answer to that. But might I, at this stage, before we do disperse, express our appre- ciation of the assistance we have been given by the Director-General and his staff. The Director-Gene- ral, I think, has shown courage and wisdom in speaking when he thought he ought to, and has shown even more remarkable restraint in not speaking when he felt he should not. We have also to thank Mr. Ascher; much of the success of these meetings has been due to the words that he has poured into myear. Finally, I would like to express our very deep appreciation to all the technical assistants — the work of the interpreters is still a miracle to me — and to the other members of the Secretariat whose work has been equally useful although perhaps less public. The meeting rose at 1.45 а. т. оп 2 December 1947. NOTE — BUDGET SUB-COMMISSION The Budget Sub-Commission held twenty-two meetings, as shown in the Calendar of Meetings on page 19. With the exception of the first three, these meetings were held in secret and therefore no Summary Records are published. At the conclusion of its work, the Sub-Commission submitted a report to the Twenty-first Meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission, which appears in the record of that meeting on page 531. The annexes to this report, being the Appropriation Resolution for the Financial Year 1948, Appro- priation Table, Grants-in-Aid forming part of the Appropriation Table, and Information Table, are given, in their definitive form as approved at the Nineteenth Plenary Meeting of the Conference, in volume II, « Resolutions adopted during the Second Session ofthe General Conference », on pages 29-33.