س س أ A ‏   SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTION AND PROCEDURE FIRST MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947, at 10.30 a. m. Chairman: Dr. Esther BRUNAUER (United States of America) In the absence of the delegate of the United King- dom, and because the majority of the members were obliged to attend a meeting at 11 a.m., it was decided that the Sub-Committee should limit itself to dis- cussion of a few questions of general import, and should meet again on Tuesday, 18 November at
9 a. m., and again at 6.30 p. m. In the interim, Dr. Brunauer and the Head of the Conferences and Technical Services Section would study the various amendments which had been sub- mitted. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that these amend- ments had been presented by the following countries: Cuba, Dominican Republic, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Vene- zuela. The representatives of the Dominican Republic having reported that they had not received the texts of the proposals, the CHAIRMAN explained to them that these texts had been circulated only to members of the Sub-Committee. She also pointed out that the amendment presented by the Dominican Republic would come under discussion the next day at 6.30 p. m. The Chairman added that the Sub-Committee would, the next day, study three types of amend- ment :
1. Amendments bearing upon the substance of the Regulations;
2. Changes to be made in the order of the various articles;
3. Drafting changes. Dr. FRYD INENA) proposed that the final draft should be left to the Secretariat. The CHAIRMAN agreed. She asked, however, that the members present should read over the Regu- lations and bring to her attention any ambiguities in them. After Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) had raised the question of the working procedure to be adopted by the Sub-Committee, it was decided, following a proposal by Sr. Juan JONES PARRA (Venezuela) that the va- rious articles should be studied one after another, tak- ing into consideration any amendments or additions to be made to them. The meeting rose at 11 a, ть — 631 —