under the heading «The Executive Board is autho- rized to...». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Then this would not refer to the Director-General but to the Executive Board. Are there any other observations? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, the Executive Board can do a great many things, and if the motion is passed as the United States delegate suggests, it will have to give prior approval to its own acts. The resolution would read «Ad- vances from the Revolving Fund shall be approved by the Executive Board prior to establishment». I think it would be easier, if the delegate of the United States would agree with this, to restore it to its original form. Paragraph 3 (b) would be as here. Then you would have paragraph 4, which would be about the $ 125,000. Dr. M. EISENHOWER (United States of America) : I have no objection, Mr. President. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : If there is no objection, the amendment proposed by the delegate of the United Kingdom is approved, and the final draft will therefore take due account of that amendment. If there are no further comments, the meeting stands adjourned until 10 a.m. to-morrow. The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. SEVENTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 3 December 1947, at 10 a. m. CONTENTS Consideration of the Report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission Annex VII (6) Relations with Germany Pages (coutinuation). Speeches by delegates of the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, France, and Czechoslovakia Consideration of the Report of the Committee on Procedure Recognition of Hindustani as an Official Language of the Conference. .. President : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium). M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : The President has asked me to replace him for the time being, as he wishes to take part in the discussion, and I ask your indulgence. The first question on the agenda is «Considera- tion of the Report of the Procedure Committees, but the Czechoslovak delegate has asked to speak on the agenda.
33. Consideration of the Report of the Admini- strative and External Relations Commis- sion, Annex VII (b) : Relations with Germany (continuation). Dr. M. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, I am very surprised to see on the agenda, Item 3, discussion on section 6 — Relations with Germany. Yesterday this proposal was voted upon. I was present at the beginning of the meeting, but after I had left it was decided to reopen the discussion. I know that this procedure is possible, but it seems to me that to reopen a discussion on something which had already been settled is some- what dangerous, particularly on the last day of the Conference. It creates a dangerous precedent, for by the same token we might ask for the re- opening of the discussion on any item, or the rever- sal of any decision we have taken. I do not think we have time. I may betold it is necessary to vote upon the proposal of a delegation which wanted to reopen a discussion on a point already voted — 103 —    upon, but, if we had to reject such a proposal the delegation making it might feel hurt and believe that delegations are not treated on an equal footing. That is why I should like to propose that we do not reopen the discussion on section 6 — Relations with Germany — as a decision has already been taken and we may be unable to terminate the Confe- rence today if we start this discussion over again. Sr. Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, with regard to the words of the delegate of Czechoslovakia, I request the Chair to follow the order of items as they appear on the agenda and to discuss Item 1 before embarking on Item 3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Are there any other remarks As hr as Tam concerned, I see nothing wrong in taking Item
3 first. If the Czechoslovak delegate has no objec- tion, we might take this matter first. The delegate of the Netherlands. Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : Mr. President, now that we have decided to reopen yesterday’s debate on the question of section 6, I should like to say a few words about the amendment proposed by the Polish delegation. First ofall, I wantto say this : Unesco is a body that works for peace, and especially for the promo- tion of peace in the minds of men. Iam convinced that we... The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I believe that the delegate of Czechoslovakia wishes to raise a point of order. Dr. M. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) (Translation from the French) : It was a point of order that I raised when I first spoke. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I believe that this point was fully considered yester- day in conformity with the regulations. Five dele- gations were in favour of reopening the discussion and the question is reopened normally and in full conformity with our Rules of Procedure. TI do not know whether the delegate of Czechoslovakia real- izes that we are fully covered by these Rules. "All we can do now, in the light of the suggestions offered us, is to deal first with this very delicate question and then pass to the other items. M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I offer a little clarification on the agenda and also on the decision taken yesterday. First we approved the amend- ment proposed by Poland, then, on a point of order presented by the United Kingdom delegation and fully supported by four members of the Conference, we decided to reopenthis discussion, and ihe meet- ing was adjourned. Those are the facts. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Exactly. The question has been reopened in full conformity with our Rules of Procedure. I cannot object to this, and I therefore call again upon the delegate of the Netherlands. Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : Mr. President, as I said, the task of Unesco is to act for peace and to establish peace in the minds of men. I am absolutely convinced that we are meeting here in a friendly spirit and want to live with each other fully in peace. But I am not sure that the same mentality exists in Germany, and with regard to the Germans in their present state, I am sure that millions of them, educated under the Hitler movement, and in the S.S. and other political organizations, have a dangerously aggressive men- tality. We in Holland, like so many other countries, have suffered under this dreadful mentality. We suffered, next to Poland, the greatest losses by this murderous treatment. Knowing this men- tality, we cannot, as Members of Unesco, let the German youth grow up without any contact with democratic ideas, as these ideas flourish in Unesco. We want to exercise an active influence upon all these youths. Contact with Germany has been made during the current year. We may not be very happy about the result that has been reached in 1947; at all events, contact has been made and preliminary discussions have been held with the allied occupy- ing authorities. We cannot content ourselves with only a survey in 1948. On the contrary, we want Unesco to start work in this field. Mr. President, we have in so many cases in this Conference said that we want Unesco to work and obtain’ results; not only to have conferences, not only to. study : we want work. I am quite sure we have to work in this field very carefully. I am the last to cherish cheap illusions in this direction, for we have suffered too much. But we want more than a mere survey, we want to help men of good faith who exist in Ger- many and we want Unesco to organize penetration into the world of those who do not understand the trend of thought in democratic countries, It would be suicide if we postponed this work for another year. It must be effective, and the sooner it is begunthe better. I move, therefore, the adoption of the original motion as it was passed in the Administrative and External Relations Commission and was approved nn WA      unanimously, with the exception of the vote of Poland. I want to end what I have said with words that were used yesterday by the delegate of the United States of America on the question of displaced persons — « We must do this work as a help to humanity, as good policy and as the fulfilment of a primary duty of Unesco». Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Presi- dent, I would like to second what has been moved, but only if the mover would consider slightly al- tering the words — though, I think, not the sense — of what he intends. I think this morning we are all at a grave moment in our Conference : we can now take a decision which will do justice to all the points of view that have been expressed, including the point of view expressed by our Polish friend yesterday, which led to a vote being taken to replace the word «activities» by the word «surveys» in English. I take it, Mr. President, that the mover has moved that in the resolution as passed yesterday, which includes the word «surveys», there should be substituted for «surveys» the word «activities»; and Ì want to ask him whether he will reconsider the word «activities». I think it is most impor- tant that, if we can, we should meet the very legi- timate desire of the Polish delegate, who moved the substitution of the word «surveys» for «acti- vities», and who naturally will not wish to see the word «surveys» disappear from the resolution as finally passed by this Conference this morning. I want to ask the mover of this motion whether he would agree to keep the word «surveys» but add the words «and experiments» after the word «sur- veys» in the two places where it occurs. The effect of that would be, Mr. President, that the resolution, if it were passed, would read : That the Director-General be instructed to enter into negotiations with the appropriate allied authorities in Ger- many in order to ascertain the ways in which the objectives of Unesco may be promoted in, and in relation to, Germany, and be empowered to incur reasonable expenditure within the approved Budget for 1948 in respect of such surveys and experiments as may be approved by the Executive Board, always provided that these surveys and experiments are under- taken in agreement with the appropriate allied authority in Germany.” If the delegate of the Netherlands would agree to have the words «surveys and experiments» instead of the word «activities» in his motion, I would like to second it, and we would then be able to vote on something very near to what was proposed by our Polish friend yesterday, but which includes in it the right of Unesco to act in 1948. This was the view of the Commission which brought this recommendation originally to the General Conference and it is certainly and most emphatic ally my own feeling that, if action can be taken in this direction in 1948, it should be. Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : I fully accept the proposal ofthe delegate of the United Kingdom. I think it is a very good solution. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I think it a very good thing that the debate on this very delicate question is being held in a much clearer atmosphere than that which prevailed yesterday. The delegate of Czechoslovakia raised, a little while ago, a question of procedure. I would like, on behalf of the French delegation, to support what he has said as concerns the danger of the precedent that has been created. The vote taken yesterday on the Polish motion was taken in per- fectly regular circumstances and I do not think that in this assembly there could have been very much doubt of the meaning of the word « enquétes» or «surveys», on which we had voted pre- viously. But, that said, an assembly can always revert to a question of substance, and this is why the French delegation voted in favour of the British proposal. As regards the amendment by Sir John Maud, I still have reservations to make. We are at the end of the year 1947 and Unesco will not be able to resume work until early in 1948. Regarding enquiries in Germany, we have not yet advanced very far, and I think that we should make further investigations before embarking upon activities ourselves. We must consult the Allied Control Commission, and I very much doubt our being able to do anything before the middle, if not the end, of the year. Under those conditions, I would like to know — this, I think, is logical in the French text : I do not know about the English text — whether the author of the motion would accept in the fifth line of the French text, the following insertion «in respect of such surveys and, so far as possible, experiments as may be approved by the Executive Board». I would then omit the repetition of the French word «mititiqves» and go on «always provided they are undertaken in agreement with the appropriate allied authority in Germany». This compromise would unite the Polish and British united proposals, and is, I think, the only practical conclusion we arrive at. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Is there anyone who wishes to speak on these — 195 —
13.     various suggestions ? I will request the delegate of France to give us his text, if he would be so kind. Dr. A. HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia) (Transla- tionfrom the French) : Mr. President, you put us ina rather difficult position by refusing discussion on the motion submitted by Dr. Havranek at the begin- ning of this meeting. We asked not to reopen the question and you did not even ask the assembly whether there was anyone in agreement with our proposal. Yesterday another member asked that something already decided should be discussed again, and the President gave the assembly a chance to decide whether the discussion should be re- opened. You are puiting us in a painful and disagreeable situation, Sir. Czechoslovakia, like other coun- tries which have been occupied, especially those countries which are neighbours of Germany, believes that, at a time when we are curtailing the funds for reconstruction, we cannot ask Unesco to spend money on activities in Germany. We are not opposed to certain surveys or studies, but we are violently opposed to any sort of activities or experi- ments to be undertaken in Germany by Unesco. Germany needs an education very different from the education that Unesco can give the world. Ger- many needs a political re-education. I believe that the delegates here present agree as a whole that it is not the task of Unesco to do this. Natu- rally, as soon as Germany is admitted again to the society of nations after the signing of the different peace treaties, Unesco can concern itself with Ger- many and the German question, But, for the time being, I must vote against any sort of activities to be undertaken by Unesco in Germany and against any expense incurred through such activities. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The only remark I can make as provisional Presi- dentis that this matter was explained by yesterday's President when he gave us the facts, and I have nothing to add to what he said. We have now the text of the French motion. Are the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in full agreement with the text proposed by France ? Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : I agree en- tirely with the French delegate. If I may give it in English, I would propose that it should be : Such surveys and possible experiments. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I will ask the Secretariat to read the final text pro- posed by the French delegation and the delegation of the Netherlands. The SECRETARY : «The General Conference resolves that the Director-General be instructed to enter into negotiations with the appropriate allied authorities in Germany in order to ascertain the ways in which the objectives of Unesco may be promoted in and in relation to Germany, and be empowered to incur reasonable expenditure within the approved Budget for 1948 in support of such surveys and possible experiments as may be ap- proved by the Executive Board, always provided that these are undertaken in agreement with the appro- priate allied authority in Germany.» The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Are there any delegates who wish to speak on this text ? Then I think we can submit it to a vote. Will all those in favour of the text proposed by the three delegations be kind enough to raise their hands ? Against ? Then the text, plus the two amend- ments, is definitely approved. ')
34. Consideration of the report of the Com- mittee on Procedure. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Now, ladies and gentlemen, we come to Item 1, which is the Study of the Report of the Procedure Committee. I call on Dr. Brunauer. Dr. Esther C. BRUNAUER (United States of America) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I am reporting for the Committee on Procedure in the absence of the Chairman, Mr. Hardman, who had to leave early this week. Before the Report, which is not very long, I want to make a few comments about this Committee and its work. It seems a little dull, perhaps, after the exciting things this Conference has talked about for four weeks, to talk about the housekeeping details of Rules of Procedure; but the other day we adopted an amendment to the Constitution, under which the General Conference may have standing rules and will not be compelled at the beginning of every session to go over all the rules and re-adopt them for that session. The Committee on Procedure had great difficulty in meeting. There were many other meetings going on at which many of the delegates had to be present; nevertheless those of us who attended all the meetings of the Committee and Sub-Committee had the feeling that it is important to have good rules for an Organization such as this. It is not enough to have great principles in your Constitution, and it is not enough to have rules () Resolution TX, Annex VII, 6; vol. II, page 55. — #96 —   that are put together in a rather scrambled way; but you cannot have perfection in Rules of Pro- cedure— we knowthat — for practice is always chang- ing procedure. What we ‘did try to do in the Committee was to watch the procedure as it had developed in these two sessions and adapt the existing rules to fit those practices. Besides that, we re-arranged the rules to try to make them more logical. Now this Committee and its Sub-Committee, as I said, held many meet- ings, trying to do a workmanlike job for this Con- ference; we got rather discouraged at times but on the last day we had a reward, when the President of the Conference himself came and presided over our debates all day long. So we bring to you the Report of the Committee on Procedure. I am going to read it to you. It is not very long. If you have questions I will try to answer them, and if I am unable to answer them, I am sure some of the other members of the Com- mittee will answer them for you. The documents before you are 2C/PRO/2 and
2C/PRO/5. The Committee on Procedure anticipated the amendment of the Constitution to permit the General Conference to adopt standing Rules of Procedure. Consequently,it worked throughout this Session, and with the aid of a Sub-Committee, made a careful study of the existing rules in relation to the practices that have developed, with a view to providing future sessions of the Conference with a well arranged, practical bodyof regulations for conducting the business of the Orga- nization. The Committee now places before the General Conference a draft revision of the Rules of Procedure, together with a proposal that this draft be handled in the following manner :
(1) That this session of the General Conference receive the draft revision of the Rules of Procedure submitted to it by"the Committee on Procedure, and
(2) That this draft be referred to the Executive Board with the request that the Board, in consultation with Member States and with the assistance of an editorial committee. pre- pare a definitive text of the Rules, and
(3) That this text be submitted to the next session of the General Conference, at the beginning of its deliberations, for adoption as the standing Rules of Procedure of the General Conference of Unesco. The attention of the General Conference is called to the annexes to this Report, which in- clude (1) the Report of the Sub-Committee to the Committee on Procedure together with the draft revision of the Rules as recommended by the Sub- Committee, (2) the amendments to the draft revision agreed by the Committee on Procedure, and (3) a note on proposals for amending Rule 66, which the Committee on Procedure wishes to have passed on to the Executive Board for future consideration. On behalf of the Committee on Procedure, there- fore, the following resolution is submitted to the Second Session of the General Conference : The General Conference Having considered the Report of the Committee on Procedure, and taking into account the fact that the amendment of Article 4, paragraph 10 permits the General Conference to adopt standing Rules of Procedure, Resolves To receive the Report of the Committee on Pro- cedure together with the annexed documents, and to refer these documents to the Executive Board with the request : (a) That the Executive Board, in consultation with the Member States and with the assistance ofan editorial commit- tee composed of experts on organization procedures, prepare a definitive draft of Rules of Procedure for the General Con- ference of Unesco, and (b) Thatthis draft be submitted to the General Conference at the beginning of the next session, for adoption as the standing Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. As I said,if there are any questions on the Annexes, I shall be very glad to try to answer them. I do not think it is necessary, unless you wish, to read the full text with the revised Rules of Procedure. I move this on behalf of the Committee. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Does anyone wish to speak on this text? The dele- gate of India. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) : As a member of the Sub-Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I second the proposal which has just been moved by Dr. Brunauer, and, in doing so, I should like the Conference to know what an enormous amount of work she put into it. The work, if I may say so with respect to my colleagues on the Sub-Committee, is due more to her than to any of us, and I should like the Conference to record its appreciation of her splendid work. I do not think that this question need raise any debate, because the Rules of Procedure,as they have now been suggested by the Committee, cannot apply to this Conference. The Committee therefore thinks the best course would be to make use of the intervening year to consult Member States, to invite suggestions from them and, with the help of an expert committee, to polish these rules and bring them up at the first meeting of the next Conference. Therefore, none of these rules need be discussed at this stage, except one to which two amendments have been proposed. Subject to that, Sir, I second the proposal. —: 107. —    The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Does anyone else wish to speak? No-one? Does the Conference agree with this document? Are there no objections? Then it is approved. ©) There are a number of amendments to Articles 31 and 39. The first is contained in a resolution sub- mitted by the delegate of India. I think you have before you the text of this resolution in document
35. Recognition of Hindustani as an official language of the Conference. Professor H. J. BHABHA (India) : Mr. President, I rise on behalf of the Indian delegation to move a resolution which very closely touches 400 million people, and which we believe closely touches the ideals and aims for which Unesco stands. It is a just demand, the acceptance of which will allow us to enlist the enthusiastic support of these people for Unesco. Unesco is not a political organization. It is the educational, scientific and cultural organ of the United Nations, whose aim it is to promote peace and understanding among men through a know- ledge and exchange of their cultures. Chief among the concrete forms which make up the culture of a people, and in which are embodied both its as- pirations and its age-old history, are its language and its literature. For this reason, we believe that the language of every Member State of Unesco should be recognized in principle as an official lan- guage. For practical reasons, however, we have had to abandon this theoretical ideal and restrict ourselves to a few languages spoken or understood by large numbers of men and women. At present Unesco has five official languages : Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish, and it is easy to see why these have been chosen. English is the language of the British Common- wealth of Nations and of the United States of Ame- rica, and large numbers of men of other nationalities speak it. French is the language of France, Belgium and Switzerland, and it is spoken and understood all over the world. Russian is the language of
200 million people and is the lingua franca of the Slav countries, Spanish is the language of the Latin American people and of Spain. And lastly, but not least, Chinese is the language of 500 million people. But we feel there is an important omission in this list. Hindustani, the common language of
400 million people of the Indian sub-continent, a quarter ofthe population of the globe,is not recognized @ Resolution X, 5 ; vol. 11, page 64. as an official language of Unesco. It is order that this omission may be corrected that we have put before you the present resolution which you all have, namely, that Hindustani should be recognized as an official language of Unesco, and that Rule 32 (a) be amended to read «Chinese, English, French, Hindustani, Russian and Spanish are the official languages of the General Conference.» I wish to emphasize that what is demanded is not that Hindustani should be made a working language, but only an official language. The two propositions are entirely different. It is a just and reasonable demand, one that recognizes the indivi- dual realities with which Unesco is concerned. Hindustaniis a language belonging to the heritage of culture and civilization common to the many different races and peoples which inhabit the Indian sub-conti- nent. It takes, for example, longer to travel from Calcutta to Bombay than it takes to travel from Warsaw to Paris, and the people who inhabit this densely populated area have as their lingua franca Hindustani. It is the language of a culture which is among the oldest and richest in the world and has taught the message of peace and goodwill to men ever since the time of Buddha. I would like to explain that the recognition of Hindustani as an official language does not mean that members of the Indian delegation will forthwith make speeches in it. According to the Constitution of Unesco we could do that even now, but we recog- nize that the purpose of speech is to communi- cate our views to other delegates and for this pur- pose we are prepared to use any language which facilitates the exchange of ideas. May I now turn to the constitutional aspects of this matter? In the Constitution of Unesco, the only document by which we are bound, there is no mention of any language. The five official languages are only mentioned in these Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which have been adopted by each conference for itself. It is open to us to change these Rules as we think desi- rable. In this matter we have nothing to do with other United Nations agencies, because for us lan- guage is a matter of culture and not of politics. I trust that those who come from the home of lost causes will not support yet another lost cause and move some amendment or compromise, the only effect of which will be to postpone a decision. This year, following a resolution by the United States delegation, the Rules of Procedure, subject to amend- ments, are being drafted for the conduct of all future conferences, and therefore we believe that this is a particularly appropriate occasion to correct the omission of Hindustani and recognize it as an official language. — 198 —      I come next to the administrative and financial aspects of the matter. T am happy to be able to state that the adoption of Hindustani as an official lan- guage will involve Unesco in practically no new admini- strative or financial commitments. In the Report which has just been put before you it is recorded that M. Montagnier, on behalf of the Secretariat, said that the proposal did not present any serious difficulty from the administrative or financial point of view. According to Rule 32 (c), any amend- ment to the text of the Constitution and any decision of the Conference regarding the Constitution and the legal status of Unesco shall be translated into the five official languages. Thus, if Hindustaniis recog- nized as an official language, the only commitment is to translate the Constitution into Hindustani. This is a very small matter and should be done by Unesco in any case in furtherance of its objects. It will not in general require the translation of docu- ments into Hindustani, unless specifically requested by any particular delegation, and then, according to the last paragraph on page 14 of the Rules of Procedure «the interested delegation shall provide the staff of translators», so there is practically no financial commitment involved in this whole resolu- tion. We see therefore that, beyond the cost of publication of the Constitution — which I think should be done in any case, and in other languages too, Unesco by this simple gesture will bring its object nearer to the hearts of 400 million people. Never before was so much to be gained at the cost of so little. Our people in the past have enriched the world by many great cultural values. They gave mathe- matics one of its fundamental discoveries necessary for its further advance, namely, the invention of the zero many centuries ago. They have, during the last few centuries, slept, but during the last thirty years there has been a great awakening. In the past three months we have been through a revolu- tion. A great nation, against whom we have strug- gled for many years, has risen to greater’ heights by recognizing the inevitable course of events and deciding to transfer the reins of government to us peacefully. The Indian people have set their feet on the path of modern industrial development and intend to travel along this path with increasing speed. They realize that, with the aid of science, the natural resources in which our country is extra- ordinarily rich can be exploited and controlled to create a material environment such as has never existed before, and on the basis of which a new flowering of culture and peace can take place. What we are asking you to do to-day is to take a step which will be inevitable in the next few years, not only here but in the United Nations. The simple resolution which we have put before you gives us the opportunity here to make a choice between deciding now to be in the vanguard of history and following sheepishly in its rear a few years hence. I appeal to all of you to support a proposal which is just and reasonable, which involves Unesco in no appreciable new financial and administrative commitments, and which will touch the hearts of
400 million people and enlist their enthusiastic support for Unesco's aims. Senator E. H. BROOKES (Union of South Africa): Mr. President, the delegation of the Union of South Africa has sought the honour and privilege of second- ing the motion which has just been moved. We do so because we think this motion is justified on its merits, because we feel that the centuries- old culture of India, with all its treasures for the hu- man mind and spirit, deserves recognition of this kind at the hands of a great cultural organization. We do so not only because of the old India but because of the new India. We do so with a feeling of sympathy and comradeship with the new India, which has been born not without embarrassment and difficulties to ourselves, but with consequences of incalculable value both for India and for the world I do not think, Mr. President, that a long speech is called for after the eloquent and convincing words we have just heard. 1 only wish to say that it is the earnest hope of the South African delega- tion present here that the cordial and friendly co- operation which has been possible in this assembly in the cultural, scientific and educational fields will be a good omen for better relations in the poli- tical field as the years go on. Professor P. RIVET (France) (Translation from the French): Mr. President, gentlemen, the French delegation heartily supports the motion which has been presented by the Indian delegation. We have several reasons which have already been ex- plained, to justify, this support. Hindustani is a language which is very closely linked with the ma- jority of languages spoken by the delegates here; it is an Indo-European language — a language sup- porting a very important civilization, a vital civili- zation ; moreoverit is spoken by 400 million people. We believe also that this is a tribute which should be paid to a people which — through its courage — has now gained its freedom, and also to another great people who has shown admirable understanding — a model for the behaviour of a number of other countries -- by granting liberty to this great country of Hindustan. — 199 —    Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) : I think we have all been moved by Professor Bhabha's eloquence, and certainly I hope we all of us shall join him in his vanguard of history. In fact, his eloquence is so persuasive to me, that I should like to remind the delegates of two of his phrases. First, he pointed out that this motion is a small matter and should be acted upon in any case. In respect ofthatI whole-heartedy agree. Oneofthe great duties of Unesco is to reach the 400 million people of India and the other peoplesof the world, and this is a small matter and should be incumbent on Unesco in any case. Secondly, he pointed out that never was so much to be gained at so little cost, and there again he puts his finger on a crucial point : he is balancing the rewards to be gained against the smallness of the cost. He told us that there is practically no new administrative or financial com- mitment, and I would like to point out to the dele- gates that the only commitment is the translation of the Constitution, and that, beyond that, the inte- rested delegation must provide the cost of transla- tors if it wants other documents translated into these official languages. Therefore, it seems to me that he has made out his case so convincingly for Hindustani that exactly the same case applies to the languages of other Member States, and I propose that in addition to the word «Hindustani» in point (a), the following phrase also be added : But any official language of any Member of Unesco shall be added on request of that Member. I see no reason,in view of the rewards to be gained by carrying the story of Unesco to the masses of the peoples of the world (which is one of the major objectives of this Conference and this Organization) in contrast to the smallness of the cost, as so elo- quently described by Professor Bhabha, why these same arguments do not apply to each and every language of each and every Member State; and next year we shall have an illustration of this when we meet in an Arabic-speaking country and are faced with the question of Arabic. So I propose the accep- tance of the spirit of the proposal, the project in full applying to Hindustani and the other languages of the Member States. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. President, I do not wish to take up much of your time, after all the support given to the Indian proposal. I think it is a very good and encouraging spirit to be tolerant and scientific in approaching such proposals, and I was very much touched by the speech of the honour- able delegate of the United States and the amend- ment he suggested. I was intending to speak on the same lines, but I decided to postpone my remarks until the Indian resolution had been passed. I {felt that further pro- posals for adding further languages might raise difficulties and make delegates hesitate to support the Indian proposal. Now, as the delegate of the United States has sug- gested the amendment, I should like to supportit and perhaps make a further very small amendment by suggesting that all languages of Member States representing cultural regions be recognized as official languages of Unesco, without waiting for their request. That would be a very wise decision and would be further evidence to the world that we, in Unesco, do not differentiate between cultural regions but put all nations and all cultures on an equal footing. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. President, it is only fitting for China to support heartily the motion of India for making Hindustani an official language. China owes a great debt to Indian culture and to Indian philosophy. The whole of Indian philosophy has always been for peace, and this is the precise argu- ment put forward by the Indian delegate for both demographic and cultural reasons. Therefore, I give my strong support to this mo- tion and I want also to support the American mo- tion of making, upon request, all the other languages official languages. It is a great opportunity to sell the idea of Unesco to all the peoples. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : I will be very brief. I want to say, on behalf of the United, King- dom, that we are whole-heartedly in favour of the spirit of the proposal from the delegate of India and of the amendment to it from the delegate of the United States of America, but there is just one question which we wish to put before this assembly. Are we right to take a decision this morning of a far-reaching and important kind, withoutfirst con- sulting with our colleagues in the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies? What we are doing to-day, which is making a very important change in our rules regarding official languages, might have some effect on some of the other United Nations agencies. I think that it would be more in the spirit of collaboration among the various Specialized Agencies of the United Nations if we did not take a definite decision here and now, but expressed em- phatically our sympathy with the proposals which have been put forward and asked the Executive Board to take counsel with the United Nations on their plans and practices for official languages and to report to the next session of the General Confe- rence, when we can take a decision. My own feeling is that we definitely should take the step which the delegates of India and the United States of America have suggested. But I feel that it would be more prudent and statesmanlike if -- 900! —    we proceeded rather more cautiously in the matter, and, to that effect, I would like to move, Mr. Presi- dent, in due course and when convenient for you, an amendment which would invite the Executive Board to give most sympathetic consideration to the pro- posal that Hindustani be added to the languages of Unesco, to consult the United Nations and the Spe- cialized Agencies on their practices and plans in respect of their official languages, and to report to the next General Conference. Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : I only wish to refer to the pro- posal of the United Kingdom delegate, and to de- clare that we do not agree with it. We absolutely support the suggestion that Hindustani be included among the official languages, as well as the amend- ment suggested by the United States delegate. Even if these proposals involved expense, we should still support them. In reality, it is a question of principle relating to the manner in which we are to understand each other in Unesco; consequently, since it is a funda- mental question, any expense would be justified. With regard to the proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom, I do not believe that our relations with the United Nations oblige us to consult them, as he suggests. In the first place our Consti- tution does not determine which are the official or working languages. Consequently, the autonomy of our Organization is what determines for us the official or working languages. I do not believe that, in the Agreement with the United Nations, there is anything expressed with regard to languages, and Article X of the Constitution of Unesco very clearly determines the situation of our Organization in relation to the United Nations. On the other hand, I would like to ask the delegate of the United Kingdom whether, when Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure was approved, we consulted the United Nations. If we did not, as we knowvery well we did not, and if we then had autonomy to determine the languages in which we were to under- stand each other, I do not see why, at this moment, we should wish to renounce part of that autonomy by using a method of consultation in regard to a modification of one of our regulations, which, at the time the Rules of Procedure were approved, we did not consider opportune. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen, we have now three different proposals. The first is the one submitted by the United Kingdom, which is to postpone the matter. The second, introduced by the United States ‘America, extends the proposal and, if I had to improvise a text, I would say that the text would be as follows : The official languages of Unesco are the official languages of the different Member States of Unesco. The third is the proposal introduced by India Professor H. J. BHABHA (India) : Mr. President I rise to say that we are not in favour of the United Kingdom proposal. We sincerely believe that this question has nothing to do with the United Nations in general. This is, as I pointed out, a cultural and not a political issue. But I accept the amend- ment proposed by the United States delegate, and I would gladly incorporate the spirit of it into my resolution, if he so wishes, by amending it as he suggests. Our resolution at the moment reads as follows : That Article 32 (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference be amended to read as follows : Chinese, English, French, Hindustani, Russian and Spa- nish are the official languages of the General Conference. We would add to this the following sentence : Any other language may also be recognized as the officia language of the Organization on the request of the Member State or Member States concerned. I think that meets the point and, if so, I move that resolution instead of the one originally moved. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. President, I also suggested a minor amendment, and I think that, if we discuss it and take it in a friendly spirit, it would really put our proposal on a very general basis, without pressing or emphasizing certain languages and then leaving room for special requests. I do not think that any Member State would hesitate to request that his language should be an official language. Why, then, add such an item or paragraph ? Why not, after expressing our appro- val and support of the spirit of the Indian resolution come to a conclusion here in this Conference and say : That this Gonference resolves that all languages of Member States. : .......... (if you do not want to make any qualification). ........ be recognized as official languages of Unesco. That is my proposal, Mr. President, and I should like it to be discussed and put to the vote. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : I rise to ask a ques- tion, Mr. President. I think the spirit of the meeting is clear, but I wonder if there is not a technical difference between making all languages official at once and making them official upon request. If the motion passes that all languages be made official, does that mean the Secretariat must at once proceed to print the Charter in all languages ? 1 — 201 —     think it should be done, but I am worried about priority and about timing. If it is done on request, the requests will not come in all at the same time, and it may give us a little more leeway. I wonder, too, whether we have the funds. I have no objection, if it can be done, but I would like an answer to that question. M. YASSIN UMAR (Iraq) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, unfortunately I am only an official observer for my country. I hope that in the very near future my country will be a fully accredited Member and so have a vote in the Conference. I would like to support the proposal of the Indian delegate whole-heartedly, and I am very happy and grateful to hear that the delegate of the United States of America supports it, as well as the sugges- tion to include other languages as official languages of Unesco. If we look at this Conference now, we find that the languages of almost all the delegations are spoken : English, French, Spanish, Chinese ; and I hope that today Hindustani will also be included. What are left for us among other languages to be included are very few indeed : Arabic, and perhaps one or two other languages. By passing the Indian resolution today, as amended by the United States delegate, you are indeed conveying the whole idea of Unesco to 600 million people. I therefore request that this resolution be passed as amended by the delegate of the United States of America. M. J. ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : I do not wish to repeat the reasons already given. The delegate of the United States of America has anticipated me. We wanted to do exactly the same thing when he submitted his amendment. We do notagree to the Indian amendmentas far as Hindustani alone is concerned; but on the other hand, we fully agree with the amendment proposed by the United States delegate in the spirit of the Indian proposal. The Lebanese delegation asks officially that Arabic be included as an official lan- guage of Unesco. Miss [L. Mc PHEE (New Zealand) : I would like to have one point cleared up. The Canadian delegate referred to the translation and printing of the Constitution in all languages, and to the priorities there. I would like to know, and I think many other delegations would like to know, whether in fact our decision to include the other languages as official languages involves the printing of the Constitution and these amendments, and their circulation by Unesco. If we could have an answer, I think that might clear some of the points in our minds. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : According to Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, any amend- ment to the text of the Constitution and any decision of the Conference regarding the Constitution and the legal status of Unesco shall be translated into the five official languages. The delegate of AUSTRALIA : There are two matters which I would like to raise. The motion, as we have it now from the delegate of India, is not in the exact terms of the amendment proposed by the delegate of the United States of America. It is a minor point, but not an unimportant one, I think. It reads «any other language». What I under- stood the United States delegate to say was «any other official language of a Member State». Now I do not think that the British are likely to ask that Welsh be regarded as an official language, but it may be; and some Member States have several languages which are languages, but not official languages. I think the Indian delegation will accept that amend- ment. But I wonder, Sir, if I can ask another question. If we adopt this now, whatis its effect ? It seems to me we have adopted Rules of Procedure for this Conference, and that we shall not adopt more Rules of Procedure until the next Conference. This proposal appears to me to be one concerning future rules of procedure which, if adopted, will bind the next Conference. I am trying to find out what the effect would be of adopting these now, or adopting it in Beirut. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I assume, Mr. President, that a decision made now determin- ing the official languages for this Conference would have its necessary consequences for all future Confe- rences. I cannot imagine — but it is for the Confe- rence to decide — that they would reduce the number of official languages. The delegate of AUSTRALIA : I thought we adopted the official languages for this Conference about a month ago, when we adopted the Rules of Procedure for this Conference. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : It concerns the next General Conference, not this one. That is how I understand it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to the position of the different proposals. We have one by the United Kindgom. Will all those in favour of postponing this question be kind enough to raise their hands ? Against ? I see that the majority is against the United King- dom proposal. Now there is a wider proposal from the United States delegate. I shall sum it up, and you will tell meif l am wrong: it is to consideras official languages — 202 —   of the General Conference all the official languages of the Member States of Unesco. Do we all agree on that ? Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, I did not understand your question. I agree with the Indian interpretation and the addi- tion of the word «official » by the Australian delega- tion, as my original suggestion had the word «offi- cial», so that Chinese, English, French, Hindustani, Russian and Spanish would be the official languages, and any official language of any Member State of Unesco would become an official language of Unesco on request of that Member State. I subscribe to Mr. Pierce’s view that it staggers the load somewhat if it is on request. The delegate of Egypt has made his request already, and I assume it will be granted as soon as the meeting adjourns. But that is my original comment and suggestion. Professor H. J. BHABHA (India) : I want to say a word. If the delegate of the United States of America feels strongly that the word « official » should be added, I will accept it. We are moving that the request has to be made by a Member State. In cases where Member States have French, German and Italian for their languages, for instance Switzerland, in view of the economic implications, I see no reason why the idea of one official language should not be accepted. I suggest that the word «official » be omitted, but, if you insist, I will agree. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : In the case of Switzerland, its languages are the official languages of other countries. I was thinking of large numbers of dialects in many other coun- tries, so I prefer the inclusion of the word e official »_ Dr. E. ALZONA (Philippines) : Mr. President, the Philippines delegation is also in favour of the inclu- sion of the word «official », to make it clear that it will be the official language of the Member State requesting inclusion. In my country there are 84 languages and dialects, but there is only one official language. Therefore, I support the proposal that the word «official » be included in the resolution of the delegate of India. The PRESIDENT ‎رومباو from the French) : If T understand rightly, the text should be : «The official languages of Unesco are all the official lan- guages of Members of Unesco, upon their request». This is the general idea — again I have no exact French ‘text. Dr. A. HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslavakia) (Transla- tion from the French) : Mr. President, allow me to remind the assembly that this text might exclude the Russian language, which has already been accepted, since Russian is not the language of a Member State. If you speak of Member States, that would leave the four languages which are already accepted, and the other languages would be added, but it would exclude Russian. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : That is a very relevant and justified comment. We can therefore maintain the text in our Rules and add the other languages. To exclude Russian would, if I may say so, be rather ridiculous. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. President, in view of the point raised by the delegate of Czechoslo- vakia, and in the spirit of the discussion, the Egyptian delegation feels that it should withdraw its amend- ment. We support the request made on behalf of the Arabic-speaking peoples that the Arabic language should be considered an official language of Unesco. That is a formal request from a Member State on behalf of the delegation of Egypt. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I would point out to the delegate of Czechoslovakia that it would suffice to say, in the United States text, care also etc.». In that way everyone will be satis- fied. Do you agree ? I shall put to the vote now the text as it was interpreted a moment ago. All those in favour of this solution, please raise your hands. Professor H. J. BHABHA (India) : Mr. President, I submitted the resolution on which the United States and the Indian delegations agreed. May I read it out before we vote on it ? The resolution is : «The Second Session of the General Conference of Unesco resolves : that Hindus- tani be recognized as an official language of Unesco, and that Rule 32 (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference be amended to read as follows : Chinese, English, French, Hindustani, Rus- sion and Spanish are the official languages of the Conference. Any other official language mayalso be recognized as an official language of the Organization on the request of the Member State or the Member States concerned. » That is the resolution on which we are voting. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : All those in favour, please raise their hands. All those against ? The Indian proposal is adopted. (3) Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I wish to move a formal request from a Member State that the Arabic ®) Resolution X.6 ; vol. ll, page 64. — 203 —    language should be considered an official language. Is this in accordance with the resolution or not ? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen, we had understood that the aim of the proposal submitted by India included the Arabic language. The Arabic language is in the same position as the others. It is merely a matter of an official request to be submitted to the Director- General. Otherwise there is no objection to includ- ing this language as an official language. The meeting is adjourned until 3.30 p.m. The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m. EIGHTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 3 December 1947, at 3.30 p.m. CONTENTS
36. Discussion of Resolution Submitted bythirteen Latin American delegations, Pages concerning the Use of Spanish as a Working Language of Unesco... 204
37. Consideration of the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission. 218 President : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium).
36. Discussion of Resolution submitted by thirteen Latin American delegations concerning the use of Spanish as a Working Language of Unesco. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We shall now proceed with the discussion of the items on our agenda. Item 2 raises a rather delicate problem, and that is the use of a third working language. We are concerned here with the language to be used, as the text says, in committees, where all documents have to be translated. Therefore this proposal not only has a practical aspect, but raises a financial problem. We already have two speakers on our list : the delegates of Mexico and Peru. I call upon the delegate of Mexico. Sr. GUAL VIDAL (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Gentlemen, you have before you a proposal formulated by various Latin-American countries in favour of the adoption of Spanish as a working lan- guage. This means that the present Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure, sub-paragraph (b), should be drafted in such a way that, besides the two working languages English and French, we add Spanish. The Mexican delegation, on behalf of the countries which have signed this proposal, does not wish to burden you with long and laboured arguments, for we are agreed that, in principle, the proposal is beyond assail. We should believe that the ideal would be a single working language, if we had not seen the simultaneous interpretation system in operation at this Conference. Through simulta- neous interpretation, which, as you have decided, will be used in future conferences not only in plenary meetings, but in the commissions and sub-com- mittees, the use of several working languages will enable all delegates to express themselves in their own tongue. I do not think that anyone would maintain that he can express himself as well in a foreign language as he does in his own. It is not necessary to convert the Conference into a veritable Tower of Babel, when available mechanical elements such as we are now utilizing enable us to understand each other better. Nevertheless we wished, in order to avoid lengthy discussion, to anticipate somewhat the arguments which we all know can be adduced against our pro- posal. Naturally there is the economic argument. n the Report by the Sub-Committee on Rules of Procedure,it is said that the adoption of Spanish as a working language would cost approximately $ 340,000 in years when the Conference met away from Paris, and about $ 250,000 when it met in Paris. We do not understand howthese high figures were arrived at. They seem to us to be exaggerated and perhaps we could be informed whence they come, — 204 —