SEVENTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 11 November 1947, at 11.25 a. m. CONTENTS.
17. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation) : Speeches by delegates of Czechoslovakia, Union of South Africa, Poland, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, India, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador and
93 President : Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Gentlemen, on this eleventh day of November we honour the memory of those who died as victims of the first World War 1914-1918. It seems to me that we cannot allow this event to pass by unnoticed or fail to salute this anniversary of the Armistice. I believe that we should invoke the memory of those who died and seek, in the painful example of the past, guidance for the task that lies befores us. I invite you, gentlemen, to stand for two minutes in silent tribute to those who died. The meeting stood in silence. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I have to announce that the representatives of Re- publican Spain will be received, as guests of honour of this Conference. The Director-General has gone to meet them, in order to be able to bring them into this hall and introduce them to you. Gentlemen, in conformity with the resolution adopted by this Conference, the representatives of Republican Spain, Sr. Luis Nicolau d’Olivier, Sr. Mariano Ruiz Funes, Sr. Honorato de Castro, Sra Isabel de Palencia, are present with us. Task you to allow me, in the name of the Conference, to greet them and to bid them welcome. Gentlemen, the First Session of the General Con- ference of Unesco adopted a resolution to greet the representatives of Republican Spain and greeted them at that time through its President, our eminent leader last year and very true friend, M. Léon Blum; and I cannot do better than remind you of the words which he then spoke. In the name of the Confe- rence, I would like to tell you that the representatives of Spain this year, when the civilized world is cele- brating the work and memory of Cervantes, are particularly welcome in this hall, where the ideal of Cervantes 1s amongst the highest we can celebrate. Unesco, a non-political institution, salutes in the representatives of Sapin the eternal and noble Iberic culture.
17. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The speakers on the list are Czechoslovakia, the Union of South Africa, Poland, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, and Mexico. Wehave also a request from the delegation of India, that one of the representatives, a lady, might also be allowed to speak here. In view of the number of delegates on the list and the very limited time, I propose to grant this request as far as conditions will allow. The time allotted to each delegate 1s =    unlimited and he can use it as he wishes, but allow me to remind you that we have ten delegates wishing to speak and that this meteing must be finished by I p. m. I call upon the delegate of Czechoslovakia. The delegate of CZECHOSLOVAKIA : Fellow- delegates, Mexico City, which, as we know, stands
7,000 feet above sea level, has afforded an extraordi- narily high cultural atmosphere to this Second Session of the General Conference of Unesco. Intel- lectually, at least, we are able to breatheeasily here. Thereis a town in the vicinity of Mexico City which is called Lidice, as a demonstration of Mexico's friend- ship and sympathy towards the Czechoslovak people. Next Sunday, the Czechoslovak people will, in its turn, make a gesture of friendship and sympathy towards the Mexican people by o to this town of 3,000 of our Mexican friends ¡ts first public library. May I suggest that we, too, can show our appreciation to the Mexican people by making this Conference famous forits spirit of fraternity and by making it an undoubted success in every way. When our Mexican hosts enable us to view the relics of the great culture on which they have built anew, we realize how much more effort and money must have been spent on art and culture in those historic periods than to-day. In the Czech language, and, indeed, in the very spirit of our thoughts, we find a clear differentiation between culture and civilization. It is our belief that, in order to fulfil its high mission, Unesco should also maintain a balance between culture and civilization, so that culture should not limp behind civilization, so that books of poetry and philosophy should be as necessary and welcome as refrigerators and vacuum-cleaners. Unesco should assist the advancement of culture and civilization. It should co-ordinate and further their interests throughout the world, unselfishly. In doing so, it must use every device to eliminate all narrow economic interests that may seek to camou- flage themselves in more respectable forms. To-day, moreover, we have an overriding respon- sibility : to defend culture from the new threat of war. Fascism hasbeen conquered, but it has not been killed. Its roots have not been torn out. It takes refuge under various masks and pretences. It can still deceive or fool the unwary and the overtrustful. Would it not be a fruitful task for Unesco to seek out these insidious Fascist elements in public life,or, at least, to bear in mind that they still exist? In «Faust» Goethe portrayed the devil as the spirit of systematic negation. And our Czech author, Karel Capek, wrote of the spirit of destruction as a cannon — the greatest weapon of his time. Iam afraid that Geethe and Capek, if they were living to day, would have chosen those new weapons — atomic, bacteriological and who knows what else — that are now being manufactured, as the new ammunition orf the cannon of destruction. It is the task of Unesco to show the nations the path of honest and healthy collaboration in work and in knowledge. Fascism denied international col- laboration. Therefore, to stand in the way of co- operating with any Fascist-proof body is to harbour the germs of Fascism. Some of these germs are spreading dangerously again. If Unesco is squeamish about calling the greatest disease of our time by its right name and bashful about diagnosing its symptoms scientifically, it may set out to win all battles but the right one. Unesco was created to promote the equality of mankind without distinction of sex, nationality, religion, colour, political beliefs and education. And yet, to-day and every day, the front pages of thousands of newspapers are succumbing to a war-mongering hysteria. A campaign of hatred has been launched against men of different faiths or colours — not merely if they are black, but particularly if they are red. This irresponsible freedom of misinformation is doing untold mischief throughout the world to people who fought in the cause of truth and justice. And it is here that I see another great task looming ahead for Unesco. In the past two centuries, economic, historical and political conditions produced individuals who represented their age as leaders, as symbols, as teachers. When we consider that men like Tom Paine, Diderot, Robespierre, Marat, Jefferson, Lincoln, Sun Yat-sen, Juarez, Lenin and many others in all lands were radicals, men who went to the root of things, as the very word radical implies, then there is no reason why Unesco should not benefit from their example. I see no reason why a union of representatives of culture like this should not, as part of its activity, anticipate the future as well as uphold the heritage of the past. I believe that it should be one of the main aims of Unesco to defend the truth and wage war against lies. That is a war on which everyone should be able to agree. The Secretariat of Unesco has submitted to this General Conference a rich programmeof activities and plans, which may be impossible of complete and immediate fulfilment, however much we may regret it. We, too, should like to see at least a few of the objectives of the General Conference achieved in the very near future. I have ventured to mention some general aspects of the programme which may mean the life or death of specific projects. — or =    If we believe that Unesco is able to fulfil its historic task and that the Executive Board and the Director-General are competent to lead Unesco straight to ultimate success — and we are of this opinion — then we must have the courage to give Unesco all the money it needs. We wish one thing to be clearly understood : Czechoslovakia supports Unesco. The world would be poorer without Unesco. How much richer it can and will be depends on us, and Czechoslovakia promises to do its part. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) + Mr. President, colleagues : at the First Conference, in Paris I expressed the hope that Unesco would avoid the multiplication of theoretical formulae for the millennium and concentrate on practical problems. It is a matter for congratulation that the Director-General’s Report discloses that much of a practical nature has already been accomplished, and that the programmefor 1948 promises continued progress along the same sound lines. Last year, in common with many of our colleagues, we urged the extension of membership to all nations. Our hopes have to a certain extent been realized, but we must once more deeply regret the absence from the roll of Member States of so many nations. It is in particular devoutly to be hoped that we shall soon have the active co-operation of the Soviet Union and that the admission of Germany and Japan will not be long delayed. In Paris, South Africa took a strong stand on the need for a conservative budget. Experience has shown that the time was indeed too short to allow all the urgent tasks, on which we were agreed, to be completed in 1947. The ability of the Organization to do great things has, however, been demonstrated. We rejoice to hear, for example, that contributions to educational reconstruction had reached no less than $ 100,000,000 by 1 November of this year. With the advent of more Member States and the experience gained by the Secretariat, we believe that more can with confidence be undertaken in 1948, although we still urge caution in budgeting. Provision should be made, not for what we would like to see done, but only for what we know can effectively be accomplished m 1948. In the consideration of the Organization's policy last year, I uttered a plea for a greater proportion of expenditure to be allocated to education. The programme for 1948 is such that almost unlimited opportunities are given for work in educational fields, but I regret the absence of any indication that the pre-school child is to receive the consideration which his paramount importance warrants. I would like to plead also for the specific inclusion of education ofthe millions who by reason of physical, mental or temperamental handicaps are unable to adjust themselves to the modern world. These matters cannot be further developed now, but we shall deal with them more fully on the appro- priate occasions. We are glad that the Executive Board has already given attentionto the question of a Teachers’ Charter, for no educational system can advance beyond the level of itsteaching service.We hope that the contem- plated committee will speedily enlist the co-operation of teachers’ organizations throughout the world, and that one of the results will be to secure more adequate representation of teachers at Unesco conferences by members of their own profession. It is a happy augury that our progressive and hospitable colleagues from Mexico have housed us in this unique and inspiring college for the training of teachers. The South African delegation feels that this matter of education cannot be too strongly stressed. Many of you will recall the criticism of Unesco last year that it was in dangerof becoming an organization for the propagation of a particular philosophy, of a particular way of life. We do believe in democracy, but see the danger of treating education as a training of citizens for any static conception of democracy. Education must bring out the resources of intel- lectual and spiritual freedom in the individual. It must make him a creator and part of the forces of creation in a continually changing and dynamic society. It mustfit a man to transform his environ- ment and not merely to adapt himself toit. Personally, I believe that Unesco should preach a particular philosophy and prepare the world for a particular way of life, because I believe that the Golden Rule sums up the law and the prophets for all nations,all races and all ages. «Follow what is good and right and love your neighbour» is not the peculiar doctrine of the European or the Christian. We find it in the teach- ing of Confucius, of Akenaton of ancient Egypt, of Moses and of Christ. We find it in fact in the utterances of the great thinkers of all the ages. One is apt to assumethat religion is the strongest segregating influence in the world, but that is a superficial view. ‘True religion is the greatest of all unifying forces, and can alone supply the motive for advancement to higher things. Only religion can satisfy the innate desire of all men for a final court of appeal, can furnish the inspiration for worthwhile actions and give us the faith without which we can never attain the ideals we have set ourselves. I hope I have made it clear that we appreciate the — 95 —    seal and efficiency of the Director-General and his Secretariat, but the experience of my country up to the moment of my departure from South Africa compels me to make a most earnest plea for the strengthening of that Section entrusted with the maintenance of liaison with, and the rapid dissemi- nation of information to, Member States. Details of the incidents I have in mind would be out of place here, but I have arranged to discuss them with the Secretariat. Whatever the explanation, the fact remains that the Union of South Africa has experienced great difficulty in keeping abreast of Unesco’s development and we have as a result been unable to make the contribution which we believe ourselves capable of making. I doubt whether there is another country in which there are in operation, to so marked a degree, all the factors in, and problems of, modern life which make the existence of Unesco so necessary. South Africa is the meeting-ground of the cultures of Asia, Africa and Europe, with strong inter-action of various racial and religious groups within each. We have Hindu, Moslem and the colourful and interesting Cape Malay communities. We have the Bantu of various and often traditionally opposed racial groups, with a residual Bushman Hottentot fragment at all levels of civilization and education; millions — probably half of the eight to nine million natives — are still in a stage so primitive as to be completely incapable of self-government or even of self-help in modern conditions. Portuguese, Dutch, French, German, Swiss, English, Italian and latterly — and in increasing measure — North American influences have been at work on our national pattern, which has not yet been welded into a harmonious whole. We have certainly evolved an indigenous legal system of great strength and elasticity; we have gone far in building up an indigenous culture and a great deal of attention has of late been focused on South Africa, but we feel that neither our peculiar difficulties and our limited resources, particularly in trained manpower, on the one hand, nor the substan- tial advance made during the short history of our country, on the other hand, are appreciated abroad. We are moving forward through fruitful tensions towards a society whose final form no one can yet forecast. Our Government, representing mainly one culture, is continuing to build on the founda- tions laid by the missionaries of two centuries, and is fast extending the fullest educational facilities to all races. It is educating the African in freedom and creative thinking, well knowing the challenge so issued to a static society and to the continuance of European domination. We need encouragement in our endeavour ot build a new society rather than denunciation because our task is so far from completion. We realize our own shortcomings only too well, but it is time the nations knew that there has been steady progress for generations, that there is a rapidly growing percentage of liberal-minded men in responsible positions, that a great deal has been accomplished, and that my country has embarked upon schemes which will in the not distant future accomplish a great deal more. The forces which have resulted in the creation of Unesco are strongly at work in South Africa. Fun- damental education is receiving a great deal of attention, and, while we believe that we must build on the foundations of the past, we are fully alive to the need for improved techniques. Virtually, our whole education and cultural system are in process of rapid evolution and reorganization. Commissions have recently investigated the education of de- linquents, adult education, the use of the film for purposes of information and education, penal reform, native education, medical, dental and technical education, research, libraries and uni- versity education; and the results of these investi gations are already being translated into action. Our efforts at providing the machinery for a National Commission have advanced substantially. More about all these developments will be supplied at the appropriate time, and details are available to any person who is sufficiently interested. Finally, let me state briefly what I consider the most important message which Unesco can at this stage give to the world, the message which we shall take back to South Africa. The distinguished leader of the French delegation has emphasized the danger of one-sided development in applied science. The outstanding address of my esteemed colleague from India stressed the dan- ger of modern developments in the Social Sciences. Everywhere one hears pessimistic forecasts as a result of the recent recrudescence of a propaganda based on prejudice and intolerance, which resulted in internecine strife in my own country in 1899, in the conflagration of 1914 and in the holocaust of 1939-
1945. We must, of course, be alive to these among the pitfalls which encompass our path, but above all we must have faith. When I returned to the Union of South Africa from Paris, Unesco had not yet been able to give proof of its ability to translate its high ideals into practice, but, in reporting on the results of my visit, I quoted the remark of our Director-General, Dr. Ju- lian Huxley, that «never before in the history of the == 96 —    world had there been brought together in one place so many representatives of the arts, science, philo- sophy, education, of radio, of government, of relief societies and youth organizations, town planning and of all the higher activities of the human mind ». I quoted President Truman's observation that «there is at least one defence against the atomic bomb in our mastery ofthis science ofhuman relation- ships all over the world — the defence of tolerance, of understanding and thoughtfulness ». I reported that I was satisfied that the spirit of that great Conference in Paris was excellent, that delegates had come with a determination to make a success of Unesco, and that I had come away convinced that the will to peace is strong amongst the nations of the world. To-day I have renewed my faith. I believe that there has been a steady evolutionary development through the ages towards a world community, towards a realization of our inter-dependence, towards that respect for justice, for the rule of law and for human rights and the fundamental freedoms which all of us have recently twice solemnly under- taken to observe in our acceptance of member- ship of the United Nations and of Unesco. Now, for the first time in the history of mankind, civilization has become sufficiently widespread for it to be possible for international co-operation to be world-wide. Now, for the first time, is literacy sufficiently universal, is enough information about the nations of the world available, are the techniques of mass communication and propaganda sufficiently understood, to make a successful effort to bring about universal peace. I believe that the bitter lessons of the first world war and unhappy peace materially helped us during and since this last war, and that, even if Unesco should at this timefail to achieve its object — which God forbid — its work will by no means have been in vain. I believe that I have seen the dawn of world peace and that evolution of a world civilization on a basis of goodwill is proceeding at an ever-increasing pace. That pace can be further accelerated and setbacks avoided by the conscious effort of men and women the world over, but it cannot be arres- ted. The apparent retrogressions of yesterday and to-day are merely the waves of the incoming tide breaking on the shore and receding to meet and be swept on again by the swell of peace on earth and goodwill among men. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French): I call upon the delegate of Poland : M. Stephan WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Transla- tion from the French) : Mr. President, fellow delega- tes, Unesco has now been at work for a year and the time has come to gather up the experience we have gained, draw conclusions from our achievements as well as from our failures, and take decisions to enable us to render our work more effective. Before this assembly of eminent representatives of the intellectual and political life of thirty-eight coun- tries the Polish delegation deems it to be its duty to speak frankly. The Polish delegation believes the goal to be international co-operation in education, science and culture, and it is in the name of this ideal, and for the sake of Unesco’s healthy develop- ment, that we shall have to level, with the frank- ness of which I spoke, several criticisms and even some reproaches. The Polish delegation cannot conceal its disap- pointment at Unesco’s activities to date. Unesco may and should carry out two different kindsof activities : indirect activities, which consist of encouraging international contacts and co-ordinating the work of the United Nations in the fields of edu- cation, science and culture; and direct activity in the Member States of our Organization based on the National Commissions. We are all familiar with Unesco’s present policy. Numerous reports and programmes have been sub- mitted to us. It is clear that the balance between Unesco's two activities has been completely distorted, and we are witnessing the victoryof a conceptionof unilateral activity, purely of co-ordination and inter- mediary action — which conception is, in our opi- nion, false. The past provides examples of international co- operation in education and science built on similar foundations. The results were not satisfactory. The Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, created after the first World War achieved some results, yet, let us be frank, it was a feeble organization, which did not even include all the great nations, and was divorced from the masses of the people. There is some fear to-day that Unesco may inherit the tradi- tions of the Institute of Intellectual Co-operation. The direct consequence of the character of Unesco’s activities, as I have described it, is the weakness or non-existence of national co-operating bodies of Unesco. The responsibility for this state of affairs cannot be attributed to the Member States alone. Unesco itself is in the first place responsible. Yet without national co-operating bodies, which should be thepillars of international co-operation, Unesco’s existence cannot be other than artificial. Without them Unesco cannot become an organization in which the ideals and interests of national cultures  =97ب   _ e " . are brought togetherin the interestofthe strengthen- ing of peace and effective collaboration. The Budget of Unesco reflects this tendency of narrowing Unesco to the rôle of an intermediary. 1 It is enough to say that the sums allocated for the direct activities of Unesco are only aboul one-third of the sum spent by New York City for the removal of the city’s garbage. The rest of the funds are being used up by the administrative machinery in an often unproductive way. Nevertheless, Unesco subsidizes the activities of certain international organizations which have sub- stantial incomes from various collections. In doing this Unesco has not effectively influenced the distri- bution of these sums nor adequately controlled their expenditure. In this field Unesco plays a somewhat vague, consultative role; the organizations are allowed to dispose of the funds available in accordance with the instructions of any government and with no concern for real international co-operation; they can assist countries selected arbitrarily and use their resources to serve the political aims of certain finan- cial circles. The operation of the budget has also been very unsatisfactory. Such severe cuts have been made in it by the administration thatit has been found impos- sible to carry out numerous projects which had been approved by the Conference. Nevertheless, towards the end of the year, it was possible to announce that several hundred thousand dollars had not been used. Nor is the allocation of funds among the different Sections entirely suitable. For example, in the field of cultural and artistic activities, there is a quite extraordinary situation; this Section has been allo- cated only 2 per cent. of the Budget of the whole Organization and yet, according to the Constitution, Unesco must conduct its activities equally in the three fields of education, science and culture. In the same connexion, let me draw attention to the dispersion of Unesco’s activities, and consequently of its funds, by too many long-term study projects. The Polish delegation considers thatit should rather concentrate its efforts on a few realistic projects which can be completed relatively quickly. Such activity would strengthen Unesco’s authority and the confidence of the world in Unesco. Fellow-delegates, the Polish delegation cannot pass over in silence Unesco’s administrative policy in the field of assistance to war-devastated countries. Poland is one of those countries. Her losses are enormous. Allow me to quote a few figures. In the field of culture, Poland’s material losses represent
43 per cent of the total, in the field of education,
6 per cent. With regard to libraries, the losses total 60 million dollars. In round figures we have lost 5,600 teachers, 5,000 doctors, 2,500 dentists,
4,500 lawyers, 4,200 priests, 1,100 judges,
700 professors and lecturers. To give some idea of the extent for our losses it is enough to say that the United States lost during the war 1.4 men per thousand, Germany 25 men per thousand and Poland 220 men per thousand. The nations which endured the horrors of war hoped that Unesco would make its principal task the compensation of their cultural losses and the cultura] reconstruction of the devastated countries. These hopes have not been realized. It is for this reason that the Polish delegation abstained from voting the Constitution of Unesco and voiced a sharp protest against the manner in which this question of aid to the devastated countries has been neglec- ted. We can state now that the way in which Unes- co handles the problem of cultural reconstruction, once it gets out of the organizational phase, will have considerable influence on the future attitude of Poland to Unesco. Unfortunately only $ 100,000 have been al- lotted to this sort of activity, and so it has been reduced almost entirely to information and propa- ganda work for cultural reconstruction. The Polish delegation believes that the assistance to be given for the reconstruction of a cultural heritage destroyed as a result of a bloody total war, is not a question of philanthropy : it is the duty of the United Nations. We think that the United Nations should allot to Unesco adequate funds for carrying out a realistic reconstruction programme. Until these funds become available, Unesco should transfer to a concrete reconstruction programme the sums allocated to numerous projects which exist only on paper. If it is true that we are claiming this help for our cultural reconstruction, that does not mean that we Poles are waiting with folded hands for help to come to us from across the sea. We are working unrelentingly and our achievements are consider- able. Although our population has been reduced by
10 millions, the number of students has increased by one-third. Elementary education has been made universal. Several hundred school buildings have been reconstructed. Because of these achieve- ments we consider that we have an even greater claim to assistance. For lack of assistance our develop- ment has been slowed down and the existing dispro- portion between the degree of cultural, education and scientific development of our country and that of more favoured European countries has been aggravated. If, as I have just shown, Unesco has not fulfilled its direct task with regard to education, science and culture, and has limited itself to the rôle of an inter- mediary and devoted too much ofits budget to the
0     ب س ب   upkeep of an administrative machine, if Unesco has failed to secure for itself the support of the National Commissions and has not given effective help to the countries which suffered grievously as a result of the war, this is of course due to certain causes. I believe, fellow-delegates, that the cause is this : a vast, rich and powerful country has sought, not without success, to dominate the administration of Unesco. This domination is of course only a first step towards total control of Unesco and the bending of its programme to certain political aims. It seems to us that neither the Executive Board nor the Director-General have defended themselves with sufficient energy against the preponderance of one country within the administration; they have not defended with sufficient energy the principle of an administrative machine embodying a just, geogra- phical distribution; they have not defended with sufficient energy the principles of their own pro- gramme and their own plans. We want to see in Unesco, as in other international organizations, co-operation between countries and nations. We are opposed to domination by any country, especially when the country in question certainly does not represent cultural values superior to those of many other smaller, poorer and devas- tated countries. The Polish delegation believes that failure to change this state of affairs will undermine Unesco’s authority, against the will and interests of the vast masses of the people, but perhaps in conformity with the wishes of trusts and cartels and certain imperialist circles, which systematically aim at stir- ring updiscord among the United Nations and pro- voking another war — a war which, as history shows, is a source of satisfaction to these circles. Fellow-delegates, the first Article of our Consti- tution states : The purpose of the Organization is to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion, by the Charter of the United Nation. Our Director-General, Dr. Huxley, admirably stated the conclusions which are to be drawn from this principle, when he addressed the Conference. He said that Unesco cannot act effectively in face of the existence of Fascism, imperialism, intolerance, superstition, exploitation, corraptiom, suppression of liberty and exaggerated mationalism. He added that Fascism is the exploitation of a majority by a minority; Fascism is based upon a thirst for power which is never satisfied; it brings aboutintolerance and artificially creates enemies; it implies fanatical nationalism, which leads always, in the end, to aggres- sive imperialism and the risk of war. Weentirely share these views. And we are filled with anxiety when we read in the press of this beautiful and hospitable country a statement by a delegate to this Conference, a delegate of a powerful country to this Conference, the aims of which are peace and the development of art and culture — a statement in which the use of the atomic bomb against a Member of the United Nations is justified in advance and almost advocated. In this campaign against the free nations of the world and against the independence of peoples and countries, a considerable part is being played by the powerful weapons of propaganda and information, or rather misinformation. And now we are asked, under the pretext of the free flow of information, to open our doors to false news supplied by agencies so powerful that eur own could not compete with them, to a cinema industry which would flood us with films of which gangsterism is the principal attraction and the height of artistic ry and whieh would crush our own cinema industry out of existence. We are asked to open our doors to the platitudes of comic strips and our radio sets to speeches reminiscent of the days immediately before the last war. Moreover, we are supposed to open our doors without there being any real reciprocity, because to-day our mate- rial and technical resources could not hope to oppose that other power, which is based on gold. Does this mean that we want to shut ourselves up behind a Chinese wall or an iron curtain? There are in our country a large number, of foreign corres- pondents, including American eorrespondents, and their dispatches are not censored. In our country the news supplied by American agencies is published, we show American films. It is possible to buy m the street American and English newspapers and magazines. We seek international co-operation, we want a genuinely free exchange of thought, and that is why we have abandoned the idea of reeiproeity in the strictest sense. We want to maintain the elosest contact possible with the American nation, at whose side we fought against German, Japanese and Italian Fascism. We know the great achievements of that country, we know its history filled with battles for freedom and for democracy; we know its high qua- lities and we admire them, realizing that its desire for peace is no less sincere than our own. But we do not want what will really be a monopoly, although hypocrites euphemistically call it freedom. Let me add that our film producers do not want the «free- dom » of their colleagues in Hollywood. — —      Allow me to conclude this part of my remarks by quoting from the Report of the Director-General : It is not enough for peoples to be educated from without, to have all their scientific research done by others, to receive their information through foreign newspapers or outside broadcasts : they should have their own educational and scientific systems, their own newspapers and radio stations, although of course they should not aim at cultural autarchy or isolationism. Our country has been almost destroyed in both wars. Our neighbour is Germany, who for ten centuries has been waging wars of aggression against us. We desire peace, we want to be able to work constructively and to rebuild our country. We do not wish to build up a wall between Germany and ourselves, but we want first of all a de-nazified, re- educated, democratic Germany, which would not be a threat to our freedom and independence. We do not oppose the participation of Unesco in the re- education of the German people. Nevertheless, we consider Unesco to be an organization of the United Nations, sovereign nations endowed with full rights. For a long time Germany cannot belong to that same family of nations and until she does belong to it, Unesco’s activities should be limited to consultation with the Occupation authorities on the problems of re-education. What I have said of Germany is qually true in regard to Japan. All of us are painfully aware at present of the tense atmosphere in international relations. The President of our host-country, H. E. Miguel Aleman, said at the inauguration of this Conference : « We are at a critical moment in human history, for which science is responsible; we are obliged to recognize the risk of extermination». Our Organization cannot be silent at such a moment. That is why the Polish delegation proposes that the following resolution should be transmitted to the United Nations Organization. After I have read this, Mr. President, I shall place it in your hands : Whereas The Constitution of Unesco states that wars begin in the minds of men, and that lasting peace must be funded... upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind; and Whereas Unesco was created to promote the prosperity, peace and progress of mankind, and the nations which signed the Con- stitution of Unesco have renounced the use of force as a means of settling international differences, The General Conference of Unesco, Assembled in Mexico City, in conformity with the noble aimsthe Organization, and at a moment when there are many who are inciting to war Appeals to the United Nations. to condemn categorically all war propaganda, discrimination between races and nations and all attempts to assist the ebtablishment by one state of supremacy over others; to recommend the Member States of Unesco to take such legal measures as will put the means of mass information at the sole disposal of friendly international co-operation and will render impossible any activity hostile to such co-operation; to recommend the Member States of Unesco to spare no efforts in the field of education, science and culture to enable the new generation to grow up in a spirit of peace, mutual understanding and friendly co-operation. Looking round this assembly, I see eminent repre- sentatives of science and the arts, educators, scholars, artists, writers and journalists. These men represent not only States, but also peoples. A characteristic of this Conference, which distinguishes it from the other Specialized Agencies,is that it brings together men who can exercize a direct influence on the vast masses in the various countries of the world. This authority lays on them unusual duties in these unusual times. The appeal of these men in defence of peace cannot be without echo. Perhaps in some countries 1t will not appear on the front page of the newspapers; but it will find an echo everywhere in the world, and I am sure that in my country the echo will be true and widespread. In those countries which are engaged in war propaganda it will encou- rage peace-loving elements, and in the whole world it will make clear that Unesco is not only concerned with the question of progress in the distant future, but can also take a determined stand in face of the grave problems of the present when, as you all know, the cloud of war is threatening the world and pro- gress in an unprecedented manner. We therefore propose that this assembly should recommend the launching ofthe following appeal : The representatives of science and culture assembled in Mexico City appeal to their colleagues, educators, scholars, artists, writers and journalists in the whole world, to oppose the war-mongers and defend peace with all the means and all the power at their disposal. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Gentlemen, we have before us two recommendations. Before presenting them to the General Conference, I shall submit them to-morrow morning to the General Committee of the Conference, to arrange for their eventual discussion. I now call upon the delegate of Colombia. Dr. Agustin NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, in speaking for the first time as head of the Colombian delegation, allow me to present to the illustrious Government of Mexico, which has so lavishly and generously offered us its hospitality, and also to the directors of Unesco, whose untiring work we so much admire, the most respectful and cordial greetings of the government and people of Colombia, and allow me also to say to-day no more than a few words to make clear the position of my country in this august assembly. — 100 —    e e Colombia, Mr. President, comes here to contribute the supportof its faith in the high values of culture. Our people is a young people, without arrogance or vanity; but it is proud of its republican institutions and the profound democratic spirit which has inspired it from the very dawn of its independence. Many decades ago we trod the fruitless path of fanaticism and revolution, but to-day we come before this assembly with hearts free of bitterness, with the windows of our spirit thrown open to all the hori- zons, with the clouds of prejudice dispersed by the winds of freedom, uncompromising only in respect of discrimination, injustice, abuse of power, and attempts to overthrow the legal regime freely chosen by the people itself. We consider culture to be universal property, in which weall have an equal share, and never have we disavowed the mestizo blood which courses warmly through our veins, nor the mental heritage of Europe which dominates our spirit. Spain gave us, with its life-blood, its language, its religion and its cus- toms. France gave us its liberal spirit, its scientific method and its delicacy in the expression of beauty. Italy gave us its artistic emotion. England gave us the example of a democracy respected by its own sovereign, and of a university system whose supreme purposeis the production of gentlemen. The United States gave usits wide outlook in the contemporary world and its efficient technical training for the service of humanity. I tell you this in support of the doctrine of universality which for long past we have been applying to our culture. This sum of spiritual influencesfertilized the spirit of a new people rooted in its own land, mindful of the voice of its own blood, obedientto the spirit of its history and upheld by the certainty that its own efforts and its spirit of interna- tional collaboration would enable it to realize fully its own destiny. We are thoroughly American. Common) interests make all our peoples stand together before the world. Thefrontiers shown on our maps are lines which bind us together and not lines which separate us. Greater than our national feelings, we nourish a spirit of continental patriotism. But this does not mean that this new patriotism should be exclusivist. The contrary is true. Our motto should be this : America united, but united in the service of humanity. The motivating principle of these ideas is the same which inspired Bolivar, the Liberator, whose prophetic words were so fittingly recalled by President Aleman at the inaugural meeting of this assembly. And so we understand Unesco : lofty and noble thoughts which draw us all together; unreserved appreciation of high spiritual values; fruitful action. Let us say to the world that we have faith in the forces of intelligence and culture; we believe in the efficacy of education. And let us not be content only to give this message; let us work forits realiza- tion. When we all return to our own countries, let us be untiring workers for the ideals which ensure human welfare and constructive peace within a framework of liberty, order and work. For ourselves we want it to be clearly understood that we do not come here to seek any material assis- tance in the solution of our national problems. The moral support and scientific collaboration you may offer us, especially in regard to fundamental education, the cardinal problem of the contemporary world, will suffice us. Sr. Gonzalo GUELL (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President and fellow-delegates, Unesco has come to fill a deeply-felt need in the common life of nations and of individuals as members of nations. That need is for co-ordination both in the official or governmental field and among private institutions in the promotion of intellectual activities and knowledge, in all their different aspects, literary, scientific and artistic. The need has become all the more imperative in present times, since formerly the rules governing relations among nations and mutual knowledge among peoples were determined by chosen groups, who themselves embodied the power and light of knowledge, and these standards and rules were accepted among nations and by the masses virtually without the intervention of public opinion. Modern advances in the media for the diffusion of knowledge, and the progress made in the reduction of illiteracy among the people, have trans- formed these conditions politically and morally until we have reached the point where, apart from tempo- rary setbacks by autocratic dictatorships, there has evolved a popular conscience, and real power is based on the people — the highest conception of the state — and from them emanates the governing will. Thus the noble and clear-sighted political concept of the leader of this great Mexican nation, Benito Juarez, expressed in his presidential address in 1861, when he said «I recognize no other source of power than public opinion», has become a practical reality for humanity and is day by day affirmed more power- fully and more clearly. To-day, as humanity emerges from the darkest hour of its existence, when peoples and individuals saw their rights violated by force and discrimination, as it enters upon the critical stage of the establish- ment of peace and the reconstruction of life and institutions, it is essential that there should be co- operation between peoples in the defence of human progress a co-operation which, at the same time as it takes the political decisions required by contem- porary conditions, will aim at consolidating right — 101 —       based on justice and democracy, and plan for a better future. Inasmuch as law is not an institution which is spontaneously generated or merely wished into existence, but a product of the life, struggles and experience of peoples, and since its rule and applica- tion do not correspond to good intentions and desires alone, but must be founded on socialjustice, ordered economy and civic education, so international rela- tions must tend to the preservation and develop- ment of these same concepts within the individual, the state and humanity itself as much as to their own efficiency and harmony. By a happycoincidence, the present meeting, which stands for spiritual ennoblement of the highest order and for the widening of the scope of the educa- tion and culture of the people, is being held in this beautiful city just when the World Trade and Employment Conference, the purpose of which is the adoption of economic and social agreements and measures to enable the peoples of the world to live honourably and worthily together, is opening in Havana, the capital of my country. This is proof positive that men in all countries are aware of the need for these values we have already mentioned as being essential foundations of law to be strengthened as fully as possible for the benefit of all peoples. The Republic of Cuba has very much at heart the noble purposes and aspirations of Unesco and has taken far-reaching measures for the promotion of culture and education. An outstanding example that provided by the principles enunciated in our Constitution, as follows : Article 47 : Culture in all its aspects is a primary concern of the State. A national educational and cultural council shall be created and shall be presided over by the Minister of Education. It shall be charged with the promotion, technieal guidance or inspection of the educational, scientific and artistic activities of the nation. Article 59 : Its advice shall be sought by the Congress in regard to every bill or draft law on matters within its com- petence. . Since 1882 Cuba has been making a contribution to be proud of to what is now known as Fundamental Education. José Marti was ahead of his time when he realized the necessity for travelling teachers for the people of America; these travelling teachers penetrate the depths of the jungles, or cover vast plains far from centres of civilization in order to carry to the children of peasants not only the indispen- sable learning and reading and writing, but also the knowledge they need to protect their lives against disease and suffering of every kind. This idea of travelling teachers was put into practice many years later under the Republic in Guba and other American countries and is now one of their greatest monu- ments, drawing its vigour from the people. The crowning glory of this system is to be found in the numerous technological institutes throughout the Republic, in which thousands of Cuban children receive adequate training to enable themto overcome the conditions in whichfor better or for worse they are obliged to live. Inits desire to extend its efforts to the outside world, while at the same time widening interest in scientific, literary and cultural develop- ments at home, the Cuban Republic, when the Institute of Intellectual Co-operation of the League of Nations was collapsing before the war, convened the Second American Conference of National Commis- sions for Intellectual Co-operation, which contributed so much towards keeping alive the high and lofty ideals of universal culture; and Cuba provided much of the necessary initial economic resources. lts efforts were recognized at the London Conference for the establishment of Unesco, when a special vote of thanks was accorded to Cuba. In the field of copyright, a tribute must be paid to Unesco’s endeavours to make real the ancient dream of a truly world-wide protection of these rights. Cuba is proud of having launched a campaign on these lines in 1945. If there is any subject which by its nature must be regulated on an international scale, it is copyright, and for that reason I consider it my duty to encourage and applaud the body which has made this a practical possibility. To-day Cuba is concentrating its energies and its fervent desires on increasing, through the channels which Unesco provides, the exchange of ideas among all nations of the world by exchanges of teachers, students, books, periodicals and reviews, radio programmes, plays and films — in a word, employing every available means for transporting from one side to the other of this world, which is daily being reduced in size by modern progress, the wisdom of the peoples of the earth, so that it may become a common heritage, and the principles of equality and democracy be set on sure foundations by freedom of the sources of information. The ideals and principles of Unesco to which I have just alluded have been brilliantly and wisely expounded with the vision of a statesman as well as of a scientist, by the distinguished Director-Ge- neral, Dr. Julian Huxley, in his Report, which has won warm and unanimous praise at this tribune. I also wish to show our recognition of the fine work done by other officials of Unesco, thanks to whose spirit of self-sacrifice, devotion, perseverance, ability and efficiency the success of the Organization has been rendered possible. Lastly, I should like to express the gratitude and admiration of Cuba to Mexico for having offered hospitality to this important gathering and at the same time provided the most favourable conditions — 102 —     i for its success through the co-operation of her dis- tinguished intellectuals and experts. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I now call upon the delegate of Egypt. Dr. Hassan FOUAD EL DIWANY (Egypt) (Trans- lation from the French) : Mr. President, gentlemen, on behalf of the Egyptian delegation, I bring you the fraternal greetings of my country and of the Egyptian people. I am sorry that our delegation has had to be re- duced to a very limited representation. Owing to the unhappy circumstances through which my country is at present passing, it has had to be confined to personsliving outside Egypt. We have, however, had cheering news. We were very sincerely touched — and it is for that reason that I speak of these matters here — to find that the people of great countries, who have so many anxieties of their own, spontaneously and promptly came to our aid and sent us the vaccines necessary for the nineteen million people who form the pre- sent population of Egypt. This was a gesture of human solidarity, for which I must express my deep and heartfeit gratitude. From the inauguration of Unesco in Paris to the present time, I have witnessed the constant efforts of the Secretariat and the Executive Board to place this Organization on a sound footing. It was no easy task and it is, therefore, a very pleasant duty to express our admiration to the Director-General, as well as to all his distinguished colleagues, down to the humblest international official, hard-working, discreet and anonymous. There is, I think a very strong feeling growing within this General Conference that Unesco should take direct action to influence the masses of the world in order to dissipate the misunderstandings which are alive to-day. This is à task of great ur- gency and difficulty and, though we may have some doubt about the efficacy of such action, we most sincerely hope that it may be effective and that it may bring about mutual understanding among the nations. Gentlemen, even though this activity is urgent, it must not make us relegate to the background the other activities of Unesco — activities which are more certain to achieve results, even if in a more or less distant future. They, too, must have our full atten- tion, We must therefore work with equal energy for this intellectual organization of the world, in the various committees dealing with science — and especially with reconstruction — libraries and mu- seums, exchange of persons, and so on. There is, however, one activity in particular that, in my opi- nion, should dominate the others. That is the fun- damental education of peoples. All those who were present when our Constitution was signed in London in 1945, will remember the great enthusiasm of the assembly when a few minutes later it greeted the address of Sir Alfred Zimmern dealing with Fundamental Education and with the importance to be given to it by Unesco. People believed that very soon human knowledge would flow, like a holy elixir, from nation to nation, as water flows through a system of communicating ves- sels. Unfortunately, some of the vessels, perhaps because they are the capillary vessels, though their need is greatest, seem to be blocked at present and this elixir is slow in reaching them. That is why we draw attention to the necessity of giving this pro- ject the importance it deserves by increasing the amount allotted to it in the Budget. In the work of the committees and in the work of the Secretariat, informed advice from people living in the regions concerned is needed in order to achieve successful results. That is why, like many others, I support the remarks of my eminent and distinguished colleague, the head of the Indian delegation, whenhe spoke ofthe necessity of ensur- ing adequate geographical representation in the composition of the Secretariat. The head of the Indian delegation found a totally inadequate per- centage of Asiatic representatives in the Secretariat, but for us of the Middle East this percentage 15 nil; there are no representatives of our countries or of Arab culture in the Secretariat. Fortunately, the Director-General and his colleagues fully realize this deficiency and, for our part, we are prepared to submit qualified candidates for his consideration in the future, as we have done in the past whenever so requested — particularly, in the case of the va- rious experts serving on the Committees set up last summer. Those are my remarks concerning the Secretariat itself. I now venture to say a few words as an Egyp- tian, regarding our activities within the framework of Unesco's programme. Our Government has brought the budget for Public Instruction up to 11 per cent of the total budget of the State, in order to provide for the increase in the number of primary schools for compulsory education and for the training of teachers. It has also opened night schools to com- bat illiteracy among young people who have already started to earn their living. A popular university has been founded to give instruction on scientific, medical and literary subjects to people who already have some education. This popular university has branches in practically all the big towns of Egypt, and its results are extremely satisfactory. As regards exchange of persons, Egypt some time — 103 —   E e D — E A ago established a number of educational centres in some of the capitals of Europe and even in America, and has sent to these different capitals — in France, England, Switzerland, Italy, the United States — almost 1,400 young students who had finished their studies in their own country and thus went for further training to various countries where they could gain a knowledge of other people's methods. We have also asked (we regularly make such requests) a numberof foreign scientists to come and explain their methods, research and conclusions in their individual fields and on their own lines in our two national universities at Cairo and Alexandria. These scientists leave behind them mementos in the form of pamphlets and reports, and we thus keep up to date with work done outside Egypt. Similarly, we have opened the doors of our uni- versities to the young people of our Arab neigh- bours, the members of the League, by granting them the facilities of scholarships and enrolment. Our Government has sent hundreds of Egyptian teachers to the different schools in the Arab countries, from the Mediterranean to Bahrein, and, on a spirit of fraternal solidarity, has defrayed part of their expenses. Allow me now to express to the Mexican people our gratitude for their very warm welcome, their generosity and hospitality, and our wishes for their prosperity and future might. The lands which bask in the sun have always been the cradle of philosophies and religions, and when those religions and philosophies began to lose their vigour in the Middle Ages, it was an Arab scholar, a philosopher from the sunlit gardens of Spain, who commenced a crusade to establish free discus- sion and positivism as the path to truth. It was he who formed around him a school, the represen- tatives of which in the Middle Ages are as famous as himself. I will mention only Averrhoes, who had Moslem Arabs, Christian Arabs and even Jew- ish Arabs among his disciples, as the books of that time showed. For this reason I have great confidence — super- stitious Oriental that I am — that our meeting in a country warned by such a wonderful oriental sun, will found the new faith, the new religion of humankind, the religion of Unesco. Mrs. Aruna ASAF ALI (India) : Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I wish I could have spoken in my own language, Hindustani. Perhaps next year, when you meet here or in some other country, it will be possible for the representatives of my coun- try to speak in Hindustani, for naturally we express ourselves much better in our mother-tongue; it also happens to be the commonlanguage of 400 mil- lion people of this world. Mr. President, my leader has spoken not only for my country but, I believe, for all the Asiatic peoples and, as a body of distinguished men plan ning the future of mankind, you may well wonder why a mere woman should dare to interrupt the flow of male eloquence. Believe me, I have decided to do so after much hesitation; and let me assure you that no feminist argument, such as vindicating the right of womanhood to share equally with men the burden of erecting the defences of peace, has prompted me. Besides, in an assembly of men of such high learning and academic experience, if one who belongs to the market place of politics chooses to raise her voice, it is, I assure you, not from a sense of over-confidence. I quite realize my inadequacy in attempting to preach what may sound like a sermon to a body such as Unesco, but, although realizing the short- comings from which Unesco suffers, and its limita- tions, I thought I would intervene in the debate to-day,if for no other reason, to invite your attention to Unesco's role as the saviour of peace. Also be- cause I cannot help saying that either you who de- signed the Organization must quicken your sensi- tivity and see the cracks in the foundations Unesco rests on, or you may give up all hope of saving man from himself. Two years ago, when this Organization came into being, such talk would have been considered mor- bid and destructive, but two years ago men and women, and particularly the common man and the ordinary woman, still believed in charters and pledg- es given by men in high places. Now, with crisis following crisis, above all the crisis of hunger and want, most men have grown cynical, and have lost their faith in those who govern their lives. The abstractions they are called upon to defend or the evil they are told they must destroy whip up their emotions temporarily, but disillusionment follows quickly and breeds in them fear, suspicion and com- plete indifference to spiritual values; the brutali- zation of man, you will admit, is a graver calamity than the material destruction of war. Let us, therefore, ask ourselves in all seriousness if this war-damaged humanity is prepared to accept a leadership that has ceased to command its respect. Let us examine with frankness the reasons for the storm that threatens the world again, a storm which, of it breaks, will probably destroy all civilization and culture and will lay waste all hopes for mankind, if not forever, at least for an unpredictable period of time. If our analysis is correct, we cannot but con- clude that the basic causes that carry human beings to the brink of disaster are greed and the power- lust of the few. Unless we can eradicate this primary defect in our socio-economic structure, I for one — 104 —    cannot foresee a world settling downto a life where- in evil, untruth and unloveliness will cease to in- fluence modern man. What is Unesco doing to restore national equili- brium? I am not ignoring Unesco’s limitations; I am not overlooking the limitations of even the parent and more powerful body, the United Nations. At the same time, we must honestly face our responsi- bilities and the implications of the fact that the world’s sick condition is a cause for even graver anxiety to-day than it was two years ago, when Unesco was ushered in to heal that sickness. It may be said that the remedy which is being tried is a sure one, though it takes time to yield the desired results. I am afraid that does not satisfy me. The world is sick to day — gravely, critically sick; it needs to be healed here and now and immediately — if it is to be saved. As one reads the Director-General’s Report, one cannot help admiring the outlines of a design for peace which is to unfold itself gradually through international collaboration in the fields of education, science and culture. The design is, however, too complicated and elaborate and its completion will take longer than humanity can afford to wait. A crisis will overtake us unless we make haste, and war will win the race, not Unesco. I realize the difference between positive peace and negative peace; I also realize that we must build up peace on a positive basis if it is to be lasting. The question, however, before us to day, I suggest in all humility, is not what is ultimately or ideally desirable, but what is immediately essential. ‎انو less, therefore, we devote our energies to the urgent task of banishing and outlawing war, and rescuing peace from its present precarious condition, there
1s danger of Unesco itself, and all that it stands and strives for, being washed away by a rapidly advanc- ing deluge. I am tempted to say that, in present conditions, a body like Unesco has serious limitations, and that even the bigger and more powerful United Nations Organization is a house divided against itself. I might also say that, until the present political and economic pattern of the world is radically altered, there can be no real peace for mankind and that only a political organization, and not we here, can do anything immediately effective to save the peace of the world. But that would be no better than counsel of despair, and its logical conclusion would be to wind up this Organization and to admit that the forces of education, science and culture are no more than instruments in the hands of political and economic bosses, to be used for their own ends, as and when they please. I, however, will not be a Cassandra. Even so I must ask you, fellow-delegates, to pay urgent attention to the rumblings of thunder which warn and threaten us. In order that you may be able to pursue and ensure the ideals for which Unesco stands, we must not only strive to build in all countries a democratic structure that provides security and equality, but must help to build an outlook that recognizes the emptiness of individual liberty if it means liberty to suffer want, to die of hunger, to go on dying, dying, without end. While, therefore, Unesco should not neglect such important subjects as fundamental education, the natural sciences, arts and letters, philosophy and humanities, museums and so on, I feel that, for some time to come, we must concentrate our limited energies and material resources on those activities which help in the immediate task of combating international distrust and conflict and of mobilizing the mind of the common man all over the world against the forces which are to-day leading the na- tions to a war of unimaginable frightfulness and de- struction... I am certain that even in the present state of affairs, if the intellectual leaders in the dif- ferent countries are determined to establish peace, they can achieve a great deal. The only conditions of success are intellectual integrity and courage. There is another suggestion I should like to place before you for consideration. It is not enough to have a General Conference once a year and a few projects of varying importance during the year. This may yield very useful results in the long run, but what is required immediately is to reach the peoples of different countries with the message of the neworder, to create among them an appreciation of the objects of Unesco and a realization of the dan- gers if those objects are not implemented quickly. Some Member States may — but all will not — find it possible to undertake a sufficiently large and effective programme. In any case, there will be need everywhere for co-operation between the Member States and Unesco in this vital task of creating inter- national understanding. It is possible that,if Unesco had a representative in each large State or group of small States, it might keep the people of that area fully informed of the ideals, objectives and activities of Unesco and assist the authorities of the Member State concerned to plan and implement programmes of different kinds designed to promote international understanding. Fellow-delegates, immediate action, not distant planning, is the need of the hour. Humanity is inexorably linked with its economic environment, and in our present struggle for civilization we must strive for equality and social justice, the only sure founda- tions of peace and fellowship. Unesco’s work,there- fore, inthe immediate fuutre, should be centred — 105 —      around one main project, designed to bring about international understanding and the implementing of this project, and Unesco must align itself with progressive forces only. International co-operation has failed in the past, because the ruling cliques which control wealth and political power within national groups were opposed and could not rise above their conflict of interests. Let us not make the same mistake again. Mr. Hardman, the leader of the British delegation, yesterday affirmed his belief in the existence of a world society; there is undoubtedly a world society and a world culture among the common people of the world and, if Unesco is to succeed, it must strive for a united front of the common people against power-groups responsible for Fascism and war. I have perhaps said much that you may consider irrelevant. Maybe I have also expressed myself impatiently, but impatience is surely not a fault in these critical times. Our generation has reason enough to be impatient; that impatience is the greater because of our irritation at our own helpless- ness to act promptly. That growing restlessness, however, should not lead to a sense of frustation. We must realize that it lies in our power to mobilize men and women by the millions for achieving ends that I think are not only right, but of greater worth than life itself. Shall we resolve to act while action is yet possible? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Lcall upon the delegate of the Dominican Republic. “ Sr. R. E. JIMENEZ (Dominican Republic) (Trans- lation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, fellow-dele- gates, it is a privilege for the Dominican Republic to salute Mexico in the person of its worthy repre- sentatives to Unesco, with the deep feelings inspired in us by this great people, with its high monument of achievements built on the threefold foundation of Education, Science and Culture, and to express our gratitude for the hospitality which it has shown, as seat of this Second General Conference of the most outstanding international institution in history, one that is devoted to the supreme design of universal peace; and, in saluting this glorious land, in which the beauty and grandeur of nature go hand in hand with the greatness of Mexico’s efforts in the develop- ment of a programme of action worthy of all praise and admiration, we salute all the Member States of Unesco in their distinguished representatives to this Assembly. The Dominican Republic has faith in the noble common effort of the nations here represented to ensure that war shall no longer be the means of settling disputes between nations; and,in the light of this faith, it has been striving for the last seven- teen years for the diffusion of culture, until it has obtained a very high rate ofliteracy. Both children and adults enjoy the benefits of fundamental educa- tion. Before 1930 there was not a single school for adult illiterates in the Dominican Republic, and very few for children under 14 years of age. To-day the number of schools of this kind is considerable, as also is that of primary and secondary, vocational and professional schools. This fact has been favourably commented upon by all visitors to our country, which until very recently was prevented by poverty from ensuring its development. In order to realize this transformation of an intellectual and social order, the Dominican Republic had to wage an arduous struggle across mountains and plains to exploit fully the resources of its soil and thus create an economy on which to base this fine reality of its cultural blossoming. « Cultivos y Cultura», cultivation and culture, was the theme of the governments policy and we saw it pass from vague theory to practical reality. Neither were there before 1930 schools for arts and crafts or for the development of artistic aptitudes, domestic training colleges or any others designed to correct the tendency to a purely academic education, providing no outlet for the creative instincts. To-day the Dominican Republic offers the world the spectacle of a cultural movement characte- rized by firm concentration upon the constructive activities for which mankind yearns to day, when it has just emerged from the misery of war and goes in fear ofits ghastly return, to-day when it sees in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization a gleam of hope. Intensive arable farming at the same time as stock- breeding, industry and commerce, made possible far-reaching reforms of the University — the creation of the National School of Art and the Conservatoire of Music and Rhetoric, while simulta- neously with the cultivation of heart and mind it enabled roads to be built and sanitary conditions to be improved. This creative energy applied to the cultivation of the land and utilization of the hydraulic power of the country also made it possible for the Dominican Government to wipe out this year its foreign debt of nine million dollars, a debt which, in 1930, amounted to sixteen million dollars. In these circumstances the Dominican Republic not only continues to intensify its cultural programme by increasing the centres of free secondary and pri- mary education and professional and technical train- ing; in addition, it is in a position to offer Unesco in its noble effort to raise the standard of living through education, greater co-operation in economic aid toregions which require it. My delegation can assure you that itis the ardent desire of the — 106 —   Dominican Republic to respond to the utmost of its ability to the call of this noble institution, to which the whole world looks, confident that it is founded upon justice and so has the necessary authority to guide mankind along a new path towards a spirit of peace to replace suspicion and envy, the seeds of aggression. In view of the Dominican delegation’s interest in the discovery of all practical means to contribute to the realization of this international organization’s noble aims, we take the liberty of making a few suggestions. (a) To recommend to Member States an annual ssue of postage stamps, the revenue to be devoted to the International Fund, the need for which has been established by the Conference. (b) To make a strong appeal to the bodies which, by their generosity, promote the diffusion of culture by means of books and other vehicles of thought, such as the Carnegie Foundation, to co-operate with their resources in the preparation of text-books enshrining the spirit of Unesco and its moral concern for teaching for peace; this would be a great material help to the Governments of MemberStates in provid- ing text-books ofliterature, history, moral and civic instruction, to replace old texts, which were generally inspired by a narrow nationalism and permeated with prejudice and hate. (c) By better remuneration of teaching personnel, to abolish, as far as possible, a system (Unesco cannot overlook it, for it is world-wide) under which teachers, who belong to a profession ill-paid in pro- portion to its arduousness, are a poor class, although entrusted with the loftiest of human missions. Asa result, many persons with a genuine vocation aban- don teaching for some more remunerative occupa- tion, and there remain only those who out of love for their work face poverty with stoic resignation. We must give the lie to the common expression «poorer than a schoolmaster»; otherwise teachers, particu- larly men, will desert their profession in such num- bers that it will be left, as far as we can see, in the hands of women, who can generally manage with smaller resources and are more self-sacrificing than men in the cause of education. (d) To recommend to Member States that they should provide free postage for schools to encourage correspondence between students of different coun- tries; correspondence cannot be effective while the children, or failing them their teachers, have to bear the cost of postage because of this gap in school organization. (e) Since personal contact between the membersof different nations is the surest means of mutual under- standing (all other forms of exchange lacking the vital and intimate power of actual contact, to create friendship between nations and between individuals), to recommend to Member States that they organize regular and systematic reciprocal exchanges of pro- fessors, students, writers, artists and scientists. The importance of this has not escaped Unesco, as is shown by the item «Exchange of Persons» in the Programme. ) To recommend an amendment of sub-para- graphs (b) and(c) of Rule 32,ofthe Rulesof Procedure for the General Conference, to the effect that Spanish, besides being an official language, be declared a working language on an equal basis with French and English, so that documents, minutes of meetings and the Journal of the Conference should be pub- lished in French, English and Spanish, on account of the number of Spanish-speaking Member States of Unesco. The Dominion delegation would be highly grati- fied if these suggestions, which it takes the liberty to propose to this assembly, could meet with the sup- port of all delegations. Sr. A. Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish) : It is a particular source of satis- faction to the Ecuadorian delegation that this Con- ference is held in Mexico, one of the great universal capitals of the spirit, and especially of the Latin and Iberian spirit. Mexico to-day is in a way the Ade- lantado, the pioneer of eternal Spain. It is for this reason that, before making certain observations on the Director-General's Report, I ask your permission to propose a tribute of homage to Cervantes, one of the few in whom the eternal voice of man has spoken in his essential language, as in the cases of Ramayana, the Bible, the tragedians and philosophers of Greece, Dante, Shakespeare, Pascal and Goethe. My resolu- tion is as follows : The Second General Conference of Unesco, held in Mexico, desires, in connexion with the fourth centenary of the birth of Cervantes, to render homage to that highest exponent of Spanish literature. It considers that the moral figure of Don Quixote de la Mancha is perhapsthe most completely authentic symbol of human idealism. The delegation of Ecuador, which I have the honour to represent here, wishes to carry on the precedent established at the London and Paris Conferences and has come to Mexico to co-operate in the work of Unesco, whose object is to ensure peace and to prevent future wars through the means of education, science and culture. In the field of education we believe that the ideas of pacifism must be inculcated in the minds of chil- dren and must be carried on to youth and to adult generations. For this purpose it is of primary importance to revise the interpretation and teaching of history. Up to the present, it is sad to have to YT —     admit, history has been taught with nationalistic aims, to such an extent that there are no two coun- tries which relate a single historical event in the same manner. We believe, at the same time, that in the future we must abandon the practice of glorifying warriors. In the past we have presented to students the lives and deeds of men as examples worthy of imitation, notwithstanding that in many cases these heroes were warriors carrying on unjust wars, and inflicted on other countries great suffering, misery, desolation and ruin. Even more seriousis the division of historical eras, which must be rectified. Hitherto, we have adopted as points of reference the great wars, which have brought misery to mankind. Webelieve that,if we wish to avoid future wars, it will be necessary to train the minds of men in the spirit of peace, and to this end we should begin by dividing historical eras on the basis of the great peaceful events in world history, such as the advent of Christianity, the discov- ery of America, peaceful and useful inventions, such as printing, for example. In the sphere of the free circulation of ideas and ideals, in that of international co-operation for improved social services, we believe it desirable to establish a list of technicians, professors, educators and other experts, to which countries who needed their services might refer. Alternatively, the coun- tries could inform the appropriate Section of Unesco of their needs of services. The main work of Unesco must be the defence of human life. There are in the world millions of beings who live in such conditions of nakedness, hunger and misery that it is ridiculous to attend at this stage to what would seem to them luxuries. The provision of medicines, and teaching about proper diet, offer a vast field for Unesco’s activities. “The Ecuadorian delegation believes that no coun- try should be outside Unesco, and it is regrettable that certain countries have not yet applied for admis- sion. It would be even more regrettable for Unesco to refuse to admit any country. Culture and science are not the exclusive heritage of a single country or group of countries. It would be ignoble to exclude one or more countries from the benefits which they might derive from Unesco. Nor must Unesco deprive itself of the collaboration of the humanists and scientists of any country. In this respect we find a great defect in the Constitution of Unesco, which can only be rectified by the amendment of sub- paragraph 3 of Article II. This paragraph reads : «Members of the Organization which are suspended from the exercise of the rights and privileges of mem- bership of the United Nations Organization shall, upon the request of the latter, be suspended from the rights and privileges of this Organization.» We have already had an opportunity in London to make known our views on this sub-paragraph. At that time conditions were not suitable for due attention to be paid to our point of view. We believe, how- ever, that this article should be modified, in the sense that it should be Unesco that decided, on the merits of each case, whether a country or countries should be suspended or excluded, and in the case of suspen- sion the suspended country should be allowed to continue to co-operate, although without the right to vote. The present wording of Article II constitutes a veto on the universality of culture. Consequently, the delegation of Ecuador, in conformity with the proce- dure established under the Constitution, will, at the proper time, propose the amendment of that article. The delegation of Ecuador has the honour to inform the General Conference that, in accordance with the recommendations made to it, Ecuador has set up a National Commission for Unesco, consisting of representatives of the Government, the univer- sities, the Casa de la Cultura Ecuatoriana and of private cultural institutions; and this Commission
1s already active. Weare particularly concerned with the protection of intellectuals by copyright and in this connexion we propose to make suggestions in the proper com- mittee. We must confess that, since the foundation of Unesco, Ecuador has not received any benefit, sup- port or assistance from the Organization in either the educational, scientific or cultural fields. We have received support from France, the spiritual mother of Latin culture, the irreplaceable home of human thought, without which to-day man would be in danger of falling into the chaos of technical know- ledge without general ideas. France has sent a whole team of teachers for the Polytechnic School, as once before she sent a geodetical mission, of which the distinguished French scholar, Dr. Paul Rivet, was a member. He is here now as a member of the French delegation, and the Ecuadorian delegation pays tribute to him, for besides being a man of wisdom and justice he is part of ourselves; he made his home with a noble lady from Ecuador. In conclusion, I wish once more to express our gratitude to our sister country for her splendid hospitality to the delegations to this Conference. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the delegate of Mexico. Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico) ( Translationfrom the Spanish) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates, ladies and gentlemen; the delegation of Mexico wishes, through me, to express its profound gratitude to — 108 —   the Director-General of the Organization and to the delegates who have spoken from this platform. We wish to express our gratitude for the repeated expressions of your sympathy and for your cordial words addressed to our Government in thanking us for our efforts to give you a welcome to our country. The Mexican people and its Government have only followed their natural impulses of generous welcome to all that represents nobility of purpose, high prin- ciples and sincerity in action. We want you to take back with you a true picture of the life of our coun- try, not only from manifestations of its high culture, butrather through a knowledge of the popular life of the people and of their customs and a better realization of their virtues as well as of their faults. For we are sure that from that knowledge and interest there will arise a new concern and affection for a people who, through a history not always quiet or happy, continues to work with optimism and indus- try for its own improvement and the highest human ideals. Within the limits of our scanty resources we are carrying out our duties as Members of this splendid Organization, but we are also carrying them out with happy satisfaction, not in formulas and formalities, but with the sincerity of a people who respects and admires you and, which is more impor- tant, loves you, and is happy to serve as a site for the work of this important conference. Public opinion, as reflected in our press, radio, and films, 1s prodigal in its manifestations of sym- pathy and pleasure at having this Conference held here in my country. The Second Conference of Unesco already constitutes one of the most brilliant chapters in Mexico's cultural history. Although, through the necessary limitation in the size of dele- gations, our number is small, those of us you see here in our delegation have behind us the work of the finest intellects of science and letters — the National Consultative Council, in which we seek to gather those who are actively interested in pro- blems of education, science and culture, the Perma- nent Commission, as well as all the Committees which have been established and which together form the intellectual opinion, not only of the Govern- ment to which I have the honour to belong, but also of the Mexican people. We feel that this effort is one of the best contributions our country can make to the cause of the Organization. The Mexican delegation has listened with profound interest to the opinions of the delegations expressed here concerning the Report of the Director-General, and we wish to join in their congratulations upon the work of the Director-General and of the Secre- tariat. It is undoubtedly true that the beginnings of an organization such as Unesco are slow and difficult, and we must be satisfied to sec that in such a short time there has been achieved an organiza- tion and administration of work, and a formulation of projects, some of which have already had valuable practical results. This will all lead, no doubt, to the achievement of the purposes of Unesco as set forth so clearly in its Constitution. We have had the good fortune to see the work done by the Secre- tariat, close at hand, and offer our congratulations to them upon their industry, enthusiasm and high sense of responsibility. We are proud to collabo- rate with them and to contribute in a small way to their success. With regard to the work of the Organization itself contained in the Report, and granting that what we shall say is open to criticism, it seems to us that the projects are too extensive and include too many different fields to be translated into truly useful achievement. Frankly, we feel a certain uneasiness at reading the statement in the Report that, «in spite of the brevity of its active existence, Unesco has already begun successful operations at almost every point along its bread front of international education, science and’ culture ». In another paragraph we read : «Further, each of these separate main subjects has à vast range. ‘Science’, for instance, must include not only all the Natural Sciences, both the puresciences from physics to psychology. .., but also the array of the Social Sciences, from political science to social anthropology, together with their applications from nature conser- vation and public opinion surveys, to home and com- munity planning and the techniques of public ad- ministration. ‘Culture’, again, includes such varied fields as music, literature, philosophy, museums, the history of art, the theatre... painting... >. It is not that we believe that Unesco should not br an organization of large proportions. On the contrary, we desire its maximum development, but our fear is based on the evident disproportion be- tween the work attempted and the resources of the Organization. We know thatit was the First General Conference which determined the work for 1947, but we are not in agreement with the opinion expres- sed by the Director-General that Unesco should undertake some activity in as manyfields as possible. It must be borne in mind that the Budget of the Organization for 1947 was only $ 5,875,539, a large part of which went to administrative services. For 1948,the request is for a budget of $ 8, 507,821, from which there will have to be paid admini- strative services such as the Executive Board, the External Relations Section, Public Information, the New York Office, the Budget and Administrative Bureau, the Office of the Comptroller, Personnel, General Services, Documentation, Libraries and Statistics — needing some $ 4,000,000, and — 109 —    without including the expenses of the General Con- ference. It is with anxiety we ask ourselves if the remaining sum would permit of useful and intensive action in regard to all the problems of education, science and culture, even with thehelp of other orga- nisations. Perhaps it is worth while, as has already been suggested here, to makea critical revision of the plans to be developed, giving preference to those which may most directly influence the essential purpose of Unesco — to contribute to peace and security. The theme is too broad and dangerous to be dealt with extensively here and we will only join with those who wish to see the greatest care taken in dealing with the problems of Programme and Budget for 1948, to secure a proper balance between the resources of the Organization and its projetcts. Of course, we would like to see all these projects realized. At the same time we do not wish to see the efforts of the Organization lost in unrealizable tasks like drops in the ocean. By the Organization we mean all the countries which are Members of it. These countries incur heavy sacrifices on behalf of the Organization, because they believe in it, but they do not believe in Utopias. That is why we, of the Mexican delega- tion, have been trying to find effective formulas for the realization of the purposes of the Organization, but ones which do not constitute unduly heavy charges to the Organization. Unesco should not try to solve all the problems of suffering humanity, for its economic capacity is too small. Without prejudice to well-selected projects, we feel that greater emphasis may be given to the influence Unesco may exercise on educational insti- tutions with the aid of Member States. Keeping in mind the specific aims of the Organization, we believe that, in order to contribute to peace through educa- tion, science and culture,it is necessary that Member States should more or less revise their educational systems to conform with the principles of respect for the dignity and value of the human personality, and for fundamental freedom and equality. We believe that to achieve the ends of peace and human brother- hood an attack must be launched against the roots of the problem, against narrow nationalism and in favour of the highest moral interests of humanity. We believe also that it is necessary to fix basic educational principles, in order that these may lead to a culture founded on democratic liberty, on the value of the human personality, on the ideals of brotherhood and the equal rights of all men, without distinctions of race, sex or religion. Why should not the political constitutions of the Member States incorporate the principles of Unesco? Why should not the laws ofall countries impose compul- sory elementary education? Likewise we might advance towards realization of the purpose of the Organization through the establishment of schools of all grades, from kindergartens to universities. They might be called « Unesco » schools and the train- ing in them be devoted to the cause of human brotherhood and peace founded on study schemes and curricula suited to this purpose. The numbers of programmesof this type would be adapted to the economic resources of each country and would tend to expand in accordance with experience and results obtained. The training of teachers in training colleges would be an essential aspect of the development of the purposes here set forth. We believe that a special Conference to discuss these educational principles and to adopt conclu- sionsto be put forward to the next General Conference of Unesco, would be more than valuable. Mexico, anyhow, is willing to create and support, within its possibilities, programmes of the type indicated, and in the case of advanced education our universities intend to establish special courses and to revise their curricula and in general make every effort in all directions which lead in greater or lesser degree towards developing a sense of international solidarity in which the purposes of Unesco can be carried out. At the same time we invite the universities of other countries to co-operate to the same end. In this way the Member States will be able, in an immediate and practical fashion, to contribute effectively towards the purposes of peace. These do not entail extraordinary contributions for the Organization, for Member States who join in this effort will seek its moral support and technical advice and only in special cases would they require economic aid. We ask again whether, if the Organization does not take these obvious, yet in our view most fruitful measures, it will ever be able to solve by itself the enormous problems of the material and moral misery of peoples and to create peace and intellectual har- mony. This means trying to help andto contribute one’s mite, but we must realize from the first that, alone, these aims are unattainable. Only the com- mon effort of all men may some day realize them. By planting our feet firmly on the ground, we shall be loyal to the Organization, to our countries and to ourselves. One last observation about the Report. We regret the admission that in the field of social sciences progress has not been more rapid, and we regret this not only because of our interest in social matters, but because we believe that in this field Unesco might progress towards its goal farther and more directly than in other fields. We do not wish to conclude without again expres- sing our thanks for the tributes you have paid to the
110 —      | Mexican people. We repeat the words of our Pre- sident that, in the land of the America of Bolivar, the purposes of Unesco find the most propitious atmos- phere, the warmest welcome, the greatest assurance of comprehension and the most fervent enthusiasm. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : As no other delegation wishes to speak on the Report of the Director-General, the meeting is adjourned. But, before leaving, I will ask you to examine the proposals submitted by the General Committee of the Conference to the General Conference. There is one dealing with the organization of the work of the Programme and Budget Commission, the Budget Sub-Commission and the Working Parties. This document, 2C/19A, has been distributed to all delegations. If you have no observations to make, I will ask you to approve the document. Document 2C/19A is approved. The meeting rose at 2 p. m. EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 12 November 1947, at 5.50 p. m. CONTENTS Pages.
18. Discussion of the Recommendations of the Programme and Budget Com- mission concerning the Total Budget Figure for 1948.............. 111 President : Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)
18. Discussion of the Recommendations of the Programme and Budget Commission con- cerning the Total Budget Figure for 1948. The PRESIDENT : This meeting of the General Conference is called to consider the recommendations of the Programme and Budget Commission on the total budget figure for the year 1948. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, fellow-delegates, I want to suggest to the meeting that, from the point of view of wisdom, it would be a good thing to adjourn. May I explain why I suggest this? It is not because the United Kingdom delegation wishes to make any attempt whatsoever to reverse a decision already taken. The democratic vote has been taken and the total figure is now known. But I do think, in fairness to many of the delegates, that we ought to bear in mind the programmeasit has been presented for to-day. The Programme and Budget Commission met at 11 o’clock, and we expected that by lunch time the total figure would have been carried. Instead of that, we have gone on until a quarter past five and then reached a decision, — and reached a decision, moreover, with as many as ten abstentions. But it has been demo- cratically taken and it has been carried, and every one hopes and wishes good for Unesco in so fine a budget figure. Then you will notice on the pro- gramme it says : The Eighth Plenary Meeting at 4 p.m, followed by the Programme and Budget Commission I appeal, ladies and gentlemen, not only to our commonsense but to our wisdom and prestige, and I suggest it might be wiser all round to adjourn now, and give everybody a fair chance of being here to vote in favour of the total figure. The PRESIDENT: Is the motion for adjournment seconded? Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : The United States delegation wishes to second this motion, As you know, we are prepared to support the budget figure, but we feel that all the delegations should be represented. If therefore the vote should Le taken to-night, in case this motion fails, we would abstain from voting. The PRESIDENT : Will those who are in favour of adjourning this meeting until to morrow morning at
11 o'clock indicate their desire by a show of hands? A vote was taken by show of hands. The PRESIDENT: The motion for adjournment is carried. We will meet to morrow at 11 a. m. The meeting rose at 5.55 p. m. — 111 —