THIRTEENTH MEETING Wednesday, 19 November 1947 , at 4 р. т. CONTENTS Chapter ILD. 5. a. — Field Science Co-operation Offices Chapter II. D. 5. b. — International Institute of the Hylean Amazon Chapter IL. D. 5. c. — International Laboratories and Observatories....... Chairman : Chapter II. D. 5.a. — Field Science Co-opera- tion Offices. The CHATRMAN : The business for this afternoon is the consideration of the report of Working Party L on Natural Sciences. The basic document for the first part is 2C/L/3. The section in the Green Book with which we are dealing is ILD.5., «The Natural Sciences», page 18 in the English text. The first business of the meeting, then, is the consideration of paragraph a of I1.D.5. Is there anyone who wishés to move a motion concerning this paragraph? Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : May I just say a few words regarding this particular item. All the papers which were before the Working Party are enumerated here. They were fully discussed and various resolutions were moved by the delegates, I only wish to state that practically all of them were passed without any opposition. On this particular item the resolution was moved by the delegate of Peru in the Working Party and I should like to call your attention to it) Dr. Carlos MONGE (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, this matter is so clearly important that there is no need for me to insist on the reasons behind it. The question, which is mentioned on page 18 of the English edition of the Green Book, concernsthe need for maintaining and developing the Field Science Co-operation Offices in Latin America, the Far East and the Middle East and opening an office in India. These offices are most important because they are going to result in a Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). better knowledge, not only of the regions in which they are situated, but also of what scientists can borrow from different countries to contribute to the development of science and culture throughout the world. I should add that this resolution was unanimously adopted by the Working Party and has been regarded as of prime importance on other occasions. The motion reads as follows : The Programme and Budget Commission, fully aware of the value of scientific liaison in keeping the various parts of the world in touch with scientific and technological advances, and in maintaining contact among all scientists and technolo- gists in their work for the advancement of knowledge and the raising of the standards of life of the peoples, strongly endorses the recommendation made at the First General Conference for the establishment of four Field Science Co- operation Offices (in the Middle East, the Far East, South Asia and Latin America), notes with satisfaction that three of the offices have been established, and urges that the fourth such office in South Asia (India) be established without fail in 1948. It accordingly approves the sum proposed in the 1948 budget for the whole operation, and further recommends that funds as large as possible be allocated to these offices in the future. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the resolution proposed by the delegate of Peru. It is seconded by the delegate of Colombia. The matter is now open for discussion. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Without wishing to vary the motion in general, may I suggest two alte- rations, and ask if the mover and his seconder would accept them. The first is a matter of form. It has not been the practice of this Gommission to give reasons, and while the Australian delegation en- dorses the reasons which are included in the first seven lines of this motion, it thinks that there are — 414 —    other considerations which might also be stated, and if we are going to do this it will lead to our prefacing each resolution. Therefore it would be desirable, if acceptable to the mover and seconder, that the motion should be amended by omitting all the words up to «endorses» in line 7. That is our first suggestion. Our second suggestion is on a matter of content, but is in accordance with the practices which have been adopted previously by this Commission. It is that the final sentence of the resolution should be omitted because we have not referred specifi- cally to budget amounts in our resolutions in this Commission. May I ask if the mover and seconder both accept these suggestions? The CHAIRMAN : Could the delegate of Peru, after considering that, give us his opinion? The suggestion is that the first seven lines and the last four lines be deleted for the purpose of uniformity. Dr. Carlos MONGE (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) » I agree to the deletion of these words. The CHAIRMAN : Does the seconder agree to that? Dr. Enrique PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : I think we could retain the word «strongly», and also the last four lines to which the delegate of Australia has referred. Mr, W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I do not mind the word «strongly»; we thought it was unnecessary, but we hold no strong views on that. I think 1t desirable that we should omit the last four lines. Dr. Enrique PEREZ ARBELAEZ(Colombia) (Trans= lation from the Spanish) : The Natural Sciences Wor- king Party agreed that this item should be given priority «A» in the budget, and therefore I consider these four lines should be maintained, unless the delegate of Australia feels strongly about it. It should be stated that special preference be given in the budget to the carrying out of this task. The CHAIRMAN : It is now a matter for the dele- gate of Australia. If he wishes the fourlines to be deleted he must move an amendment. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : T accordingly move that as an amendment. I do not think the amendment will weaken the motion in any way, but I do think it will preserve the form and the practice we have observed previously. If we include these words they will prove an embarrassment not only to the’ Budget Sub-Commission but also to us. Possibly if the meeting wishes, the importance of the project could be emphasized by allocation of a priority, as has been done by the Commission when dealing with two previous reports of Working Parties. I move as an amendment that the last four lines be deleted. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chairman, I do not believe really that there is any disagree- ment about this, and I think it would be useful for us all to understand each other. This morning, in the resolutions that were moved on another part of the programme, the technique was used of signi- fying clearly to the Budget Sub-Commission what this Commission thought, by saying that a particular project was accorded priority «A». Now, as I read the motion as it comes from the Working Party on Natural Sciences, these seven lines at the begin- ning and the four lines at the end are intended to make quite clear that this should have priority «A». If the mover and seconder of the motion agree, I feel that we could give the Budget Sub-Commis- sion the clear instructions we wish to give by omit- ting the words which the Australian delegate has suggested should be omitted, and adding that this should have priority «A». Therefore, in seconding what my friend from Australia has suggested, I hope that the mover and seconder of the motion will make it unnecessary for us to vote on this as an amendment and will agree to substitute those words for the resolution. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Peru has heard the proposal put forward by the delegates of Aus- tralia and the United Kingdom. Is it acceptable to him? Dr. Carlos MONGE (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 agree, Sir. Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 accept the amendment very gladly so long as priority «A» is maintained for this project. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you, gentlemen. That simplifies the matter very considerably. The mo- tion now stands with the first seven lines, up to but not including the word «strongly», deleted, and the last four lines in the English text from « It accordingly approves...» until the end deleted, and, instead, the statement added : "That this Commission gives priority «A» to the proposal. That is now the motion before the meeting. "If no one else wishes to speak we can putit to the vole, The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. ©)
(1) In finalform : Resolution 6.1.1; vol. IL, page 27. — 415 —    Are there any further resolutions concerning IL.D.5.a? Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : Bearing in mind that the Field Science Co-operation Office of Latin America has too vast a field of action, and that during the past year it was already working in connexion with the Hylean Amazon project, on the preparation of the project for its acceptance by the ten interested countries, who would conduct it on Unesco’s initia- tive, I beg to submit the following proposal : The Conference, having considered the position of the Field Science Co-operation Office in Latin America, believes that its present sphere of operationsis too large, and therefore recommends : (a) that the Field Science Co-operation Office in Latin America should concentrate its effort on such specific liaison tasks as may be decided by the Director-General after taking into consideration the requirements of the countries in the area, and of other parts of the world; and for such periods as the General Conference may from time to time determine; (b) that for 1948 the effort and budget of the Field Science Co-operation Office in Latin America be closely co-ordinated with the Hylean Amazon project, if the latter should be ap- proved by the present General Conference; (c) that a Panel of Experts should be called by Unesco to meet at some place in Latin America to advise Unesco as to the best way in which the development of science in Latin America may be assisted in the further future. The CHAIRMAN : That proposal is seconded by the delegate of Mexico. The matter is now open for discussion. Mr. J. D. NASH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman, I suggest that we deal with this motion in two parts, taking (a) and (b) together and (c) as a separate part. Paragraph (c) seems to involve a certain amount of expenditure over and above what has already been provided and it might be more accep- table if we dealt with it separately. The CHAIRMAN : If the mover and seconder have no objection, we will deal with (a) and (b) together, and (c) as a separate motion. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : May I ask, Mr. Chairman, to what item in the Green Book this paragraph from the Working Party relates. The CHAIRMAN : The paragraph from the Wor- king Party deals with ILD.5., paragraph a, which begins, in the English version « Maintain and develop the Field Science Co-operation Offices... >, etc. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to this? Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : Our colleague from New Zealand has presented a motion that the subject shouldbe discussed in two or three parts. I second that. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I wonder if the Working Party could give us any idea as to the priority assigned to those two items (a) and (5)? Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : It seems to me that it is not necessary for this Commission to allocate a definite priority to this project, since these items we are discussing now do not involve any new expenditure. They would be covered by the normal expenditure of the Secretariat and by the expenditure for the Field Science Co-opera- tion Office which already exists in Latin America to-day. The CHAIRMAN : If there is no further discussion, I put the motion, including (a) and (b). The vote was taken by a showof hands. The CHAIRMAN : carried. ©) We now come to paragraph (c) which is moved and seconded by the same two delegates. It is now open for discussion. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : Paragraph (c) refers to the very important point of developing science in South America. The approval would involve some increased expenditure. I think that we should either give it a low priority or — which would be, in my opinion, the best way to do it — insist that this enquiry should be conducted with the help of Governments or of the other Specialized Agencies, because I am sure that all these Agencies working in South America would be extremely in- terested in having the opinion of a panel of experts of South American scientists. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to speak to this motion ? The mover and seconder, of course, may speak again on this separate motion. Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : I anticipate that this panel of Latin American scientists might involve some expenditure for Unesco. If the Working Party agrees, we might add the phrase :« If the Governments and Specialized Agencies are willing to bear the expense of this meeting. » The CHAIRMAN : That, I presume, is acceptable also to Mexico : «If the Governments and Special- ized Agencies concerned are willing to meet the expense of the meeting ?» Does anyone wish to speak to this ? Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of Ame- rica) : I do not believe this matter has been made quite clear. As I understood the discussions in Paragraphs (a) and (b) are
(2) In final form : Besolution 6.1.2; val. II, page 27. = 46 ==       the Working Party, the suggestion was that Unesco should bear the expense of bringing the experts together which would, we assume,be a cost of some- thing like $ 12,000 to $ 15,000. Am I wrong about that ? Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : I suggested the idea that the Governments would provide the ex- penses of the experts invited by Unesco, and that Unesco would make an allowance for sending one representative, and perhaps invite exceptionally one man who, by some peculiar circumstance, might have been forgotten by the Governments. The CHAIRMAN : The proposal, I gather, if the mover and seconder are agreeable, is that the only expense to be borne by Unesco would be to send one of its own representatives, and, perhaps, to invite at its own expense any single scientist who might not have been sent by his own Govern- ment. The Drafting Committee can put it into suitable words, if that is what is understood by the meeting. Is that acceptable to the delegate of the United States? In that case, may I put the motion? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : Paragraph (c) is carried. (® Are there any further motions concerning Chap- ter IL.D.5.a. ? If not, we may take it that is finally dealt with, and we pass to II.D.5.6. The documents for this are 2C/L/4 and 5. Is there anyone who wishes to move a motion in connexion with this ? The delegate of India. Chapter II. D. 5. b. — International Institute of the Hylean Amazon. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : My resolution is contained in 2C/L/4. It is a rather long resolution. I will read it : The Programme and Budget Commission, appreciative of the pregnant possibilities of international co-operative effort in the investigation of regional areas of the world for human betterment and the increase of knowledge, takes note of the Report of the Belem Commission (document 2C/18) and warmly supports the proposal that Unesco act to bring into being during 1948 an International Institute of the Hylean Amazon. It considers that the implicit intention ofthe Belem Commission that such an Institute should be set up was perfect- ly clear from the amplitude and detail of its deliberations. It therefore recommends : (a) that a second meeting of the Belem Commission is unnecessary before the work begins, and that following its ©In final form : Resolution 6.2 ; vol. II, page 27. suggestion Unesco proceed forthwith to call a meeting of the Council consisting of representatives of the countries and international organizations mentioned in the Belem Report, together with representatives of any other countries, such as India, and other international organizations, which may express themselves as vitally interested in its work; (b) that the Executive Committee and Survey Staff should begin to function as soon afterwards as possible; (c) that Unesco's part in the setting up of the Institute should be of a catalytic nature and that without undertaking anyfinancial commitment beyond 1948 it should make avail- able to the Council the sum of $ 50,000 (proposed in 2C/72) plus the services of the Field Science Co-operation Office in Latin America (as proposed in the previous resolution of the Working Party, 2C/L/3, para. 3) — making in all approxima- tely the sum of $ 100,000 as proposed in 2C/99 and origi- nally recommended by the Belem Commission; (d) that the portion of the sum other than that provided by the Field Science Co-operation Office in Latin America be found without prejudice to other scientific activities of Unesco, since the Hylean Institute is a Unesco-wide project. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to second this ? It is seconded by the delegate of France. Does anyone wish to speak ? Mr. J. D. NASH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman, my delegation does not wish to oppose the princi- ple behind this project. It is realized that the results of the investigation have international value, but in the opinion of my Government it should be the responsibility of the countries most immediate- ly concerned. Unesco’s rôle should be one of initiation, and before we agree to carry on with any definite programme of work by preliminary survey, I think we should have a firm assurance from the Governments concerned that the necessary financial support for the continuation of this project is forth- coming. In the Working Party, the Brazilian delegation indicated that its Government was in the process of obtaining approval to make available $ 700,000 over a period of twenty years. That was not defi- nite, but was an indication. In the Belem Report itself we have an indication that the governments concerned are prepared to make available various laboratories, buildings, and other facilities. My point about the continuing financial support could probably be met by the inclusion of a clause to the effect that the Director-General should be instructed not to proceed with this projeet until such time as these assurances are received from the countrier concerned. I recollect that under another item under discus- sion in the Programme and Budget Commission we came across the proposal that Unesco should initiate a pilot project in Haiti without making completely sure that the Haitian Government was either able or willing to bear the financial burden involved. — #7 =
27     My delegation, therefore, would like to know how far the governments concerned have committed themselves to financial support of the project. The CHAIRMAN : Perhaps the mover or seconder can answer the question put by the delegate of New Zealand. Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : The delegate of New Zealand proposes that the governments should first approve aid for the Amazon project, and that afterwards Unesco should put before them the plan of work for the Hylean Amazon Institute. I think the process should be the reverse : — that is, Unesco, which first launched the idea and which is the promoter of the Institute, should propose to the governments and congresses of the countries concerned, the complete plan for the Institute, the advantages it could offer the countries and the ex- penses involved in continuing assistance to the ope- ration of the Institute. I think the first thing we should do is to present a detailed report, and for this purpose we have called upon Unesco’s assistance this year. This is what should be done with the $ 94,000 proposed in the budget. Therefore, I believe we should support the pro- posal, and I would ask the delegate of New Zealand to put himself in the position of a member of the congress of one of our countries, who hears this proposal and has to vote a considerable sum for an indefinite period; then he will appreciate that first he would like to hear the proposed plan, which it is for Unesco to present in detail. Then Unesco, the promoter of this Institute, will reap the full glory and will be acting in accordance with itsnodle principles. Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, I believe that all the pre- vious discussions that have taken place in Unesco have indicated that the Hylean Amazon, project should have very high priority. In view of that, it is obvious that we are concerned not only with the support of this project during the year 1948, which will be very largely a planning year, but with its support after that. I should like to ask the mover of the motion and the seconder if they would be willing, in order to clarify the problem, which I think is bothering a good many here, to include this additional para- graph : (e) That in order to implement the principle stated in paragraph (c), the Director-General shall consult with interes- ted governments and organizations concerning the future financing and administration of the Institute, and shall present his recommendations to the Executive Board prior to the next meeting of the General Conference. This, Mr. Chairman, it seems to me, would ensure giving thoughtto the continuation of the programme, and at the same time recognizing the so-called catalytic nature of Unesco’s effort. I wonder if the scientists are imposing the word «catalytic» on a group of people who do not know exactly what that term means? The CHAIRMAN : Would you note the suggestion made by the delegate of the United States. If there is anybody who does not understand the word «catalytic», perhaps he would be bold enough to hold up his hand. At least we have one honest man in the delegate of Australia — therefore we would presume we are saved. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : Before we go on to give certain information and have discussion of the project, I would like to ask Dr. Gustavson if I really understand all the points he made. I would like to know if he is referring to the General Conference of Unesco, so that the project as it is proposed can go on directly. The CHAIRMAN : Perhaps Dr. Gustavson can play a double rôle and give us first a definition of «catalytic», and then answer the delegate of Brazil. Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the confidence of my distinguished colleague from Brazil. A cata- lyst is defined as an agent which has a part in bring- ing about a certain reaction, but which at the end of the reaction is still intact. My own intention was not to detract from the motion in any way. We would set the machinery up, so that instructions could be given for the continued operation of this project by having the Director-General consult with interested govern- ments and organizations. In this way something would be done in 1948 and the project would not have to be dropped as might be the result if such plans had not been worked out. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : I would like to say in reply to my colleague from New Zealand that I am sure that, as a scientist, he would not oppose the project of the Hylean Amazon Institute. Just as he was speaking as a scientist and notasa delegate, I would ask him now to speak as a delegate and not as a scientist. I can with great pleasure assure the meeting that Brazil has taken all the necessary steps to carry outits part in the Hylean Amazon Institute beginning not next year but actually this year. We have received a message from our national Unesco organization saying that our parliament has approved that part of our budget which is, and must be, under our Constitution, allocated to — 418 —    improving conditions in the Amazon area; and some part of this budget will be given to support the Hylean Amazon Institute. We are not sure of the exact amount which can be given this year, but I think it will be a very substantial support to Unesco’s work in the Institute. I would like to say that this project has all the merits of a real international project. I say with some pride that it is not often that one country offers a great part of its territory to international co-operation and places its soil at the disposal of such co-operation in the manner in which the South American countries and Brazil are acting in regard to the Hylean Amazon Institute. I think that this is really a co-operative international plan, the results of which on the scientific side are un- doubted. It has already given us a concrete exam- ple of what goodwill can accomplish between men. I would ask my colleague from New Zealand if he does not think the amendment proposed by Dr. Gustavson will allay his doubts. The funda- mental point is urgency — speed — and I am afraid that his amendment might to some extent diminish the speed with which the Institute is planning its work. I would like to emphasize this because of the local situation in the Amazon basin, which is very difficult at certain times in the year, so that surveys made in the field must be carried out before October. The need, therefore, is very urgent and the work should be begun as soon as possible. All the doubts and reservations of the New Zealand delegate can, I think, be met by Dr. Gustavson's proposition. I would therefore ask him, in the name of Brazil and all the other nations which are interested in our plans, to drop his amendment. The CHAIRMAN I do not think the New Zealand proposal was an amendment : it was merely a sug- gestion. And possibly the delegate of New Zealand is speaking not as a scientist but under instructions from the head of his delegation. I do not know. Mr. J. D. NASH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman, that puts me in the position of having to come back to you, maybe, for instructions. I think I am going to take it upon myself, however, to say that I think the proposal made by Dr. Gustavson would satisfy us on the point raised and would ensure that the Hylean Amazon project will not go on for one year and then be dropped for lack of support by the countries mainly involved. I quite agree with the delegate of Brazil that the project has international implications and that, from the scientific point of view, the work will be of value to all countries and of particular value to the countries immediately concerned in the project. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : I only wish to say that I entirely agree with the form of words proposed by the United States delegate. It seems to me that there are two alternatives — either he can move an amendment, or, alternatively, I am quite willing to incorporate the form of words proposed in the resolution, if you prefer. The CHAIRMAN : In that case it would be sim- plerif the delegate of India would incorporate these words in the resolution as sub-paragraph (e). Is there any further discussion? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I wonder if the mover, in accordance with my earlier request in connexion with another matter, Mr. Chairman, would be prepared to delete the words up to and including «warmly» in line six and to delete the phrase in the fourth and fifth lines of section (c) on page 2, so that instead of «the sum of $ 50,000» we had the words «an appropriate sum». Prof. CHAGAS (Brazil) : Mr. Chairman, could I ask the delegate of Australia to change the words to «make available to the Council the sum proposed in 20/72»? Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) : I think, Mr. Chairman, that this is only saying the same thing, but T think it is a matter of importance. I do not believe the report of the Working Party would lose by the omission of a specific amount, and we are quite in agreement with this proposal, but we think the forms adopted so far are very satisfactory and should be preserved. The CHAIRMAN : Would the delegate of India agree to that ? It is in line with the procedure we have adopted in another report. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : As regards the first part, I was about to move it myself; I am quite agreeable. As regards the second point, it seems to me that the Budget Sub-Commission will certainly realize that, if this project is to go through, certain sums are needed, as provided in the report. It therefore does not make much difference whether you allocate $ 50,000 or whether you merely say «a necessary sum». But if you wish that, I am quite agree- able. The CHAIRMAN : If it is agreeable to the dele- gate of France, that change can be made : to delete the words «fifty thousand dollars» and put in the word «necessary» before «sum». Then there will have to be a similar change in the case of the $ 100,000 but that we can leave, of course, to the Drafting Committee. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to this ? — 419 —    If no one wishes to speak to it, may I put the mo- tion with the alterations that have been accepted? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (4) Is there any further motion concerning IL.D.5.6? The delegate of Mexico. Dr. Manuel SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : The motion I am about to propose refers to document 2C/L/5. Everybody knows the importance of the contribution of Spain and Portugal to the exploration of the Amazon Basin, and to the studies carried out in that Basin. Conse- quently, I have the honour to propose the following resolution : The Programme and Budget Commission, considering that Spain and Portugal have pre-eminent reasons for forming part of the International Institute of the Hylean Amazon, recommends that places on the Council be reserved for them, to be occupied at such time as they may adhere to the United Nations. It is evident that this proposal has no budgetary implications and involves no expenditure. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. I have not had time to consider this particular mo- tion fully and I think, if you do not mind, I should like to refer it to the General Committee to ask them for their opinion upon its implications. It will be for the delegate of Mexico to raise this matter again when we have a report from the General Committee. We now come to ILD.5.c. The dele- gate of Peru. Chapter IT. D. 5. c. — International Laborato- ries and Observatories. Dr. Carlos MONGE (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : The Economie and Social Council of the United Nations has made a recommendation with regard to the creation of International Labora- tories and Observatories. It also received reports on this matter from various parts or the world. I understand that Dr. Bhabha of India, and some persons in my own country, asked for an opinion upon the need for establishing international insti- tutions of the type of these laboratories which would contribute to the progress of science, parti- cularly in regard to certain points to which scientists themselves have not called sufficient attention. It is in this very connexion that, in my opinion, the question of life at high altitudes should be consi- dered by this Organization. In the Working Party I set forth the reasons, familiar to you all, concerning
(4) In final form : Resolution 6.3 ; vol. II, page 27. the need for studying high-altitude biology, which is neglected and overlooked and to which there is no reference in scientific text-books. There are, however, over eighty million people living at high altitudes. Therefore, my delegation proposes a recommen- dation which was unanimously approved by the Working Party and which I shall read : The Programme and Budget Commission recommends that Unesco should call in 1948 at Paris a conference of delegates of all the countries, such as India and Peru, and of international organizations, such as the International Civil Aviation Organization, the International Meteorological Bureau, and the International Council of Scientific Unions, interested in the establishment of high-altitude stations, for the purpose of making proposals to Unesco and to the United Nations concerning international stations for the study of : (a) the effects of high altitudes on life, e. g. the genetics and physiology of human beings, or the adaptations of animals and plants; (b) the physical phenomena such as cosmic rays or the physics of ice and snow, or meteorological phenomena, only observable at high altitudes. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Does anyone second it? It is seconded by the dele- gate of Mexico. The delegate of Greece. Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : In the last paragraph of document
2C/L/5 it says «Suitable locations are only avai- lable in such regions as the Himalayas or the Andes. » I believe that the word «only» is an exaggeration and should be eliminated, because it is not only in the Himalayas or the Andes that such conditions exist. The CHAIRMAN : Are the mover and seconder willing to eliminate the word «only»? Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : In the resolution proposed the word «only» does not appear. The word «only» is only included in document 2C/L/5. The CHAIRMAN : That is correct. The delegate of Brazil is strictly correct because the resolution only begins at the word «Recommends». Is there anyone now who wishes to speak to this resolution? The delegate of India. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : Sir, I only wish to state here that this is a project in which the Eco- nomic and Social Council of the United Nations has taken the initiative and has referred the matter to Unesco, and I move that, in view of the importance of the project and the fact that the work to be done will concern many countries because of its inter- national values, priority «A» be assigned to this project. = #20 —    The CHAIRMAN : Are the mover and seconder of the motion willing to accept priority «A» as part of their motion? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, I notice there are one or two omissions in this pro- posal which appear to me, at first sight, to be serious. Theeffects of high altitude on life would, I imagine, be of some interest to the World Health Organization and other Specialized Agencies, and I understand that, throughout the year, there has been consider- able discussion between Unesco and the World Health Organization. When I say the effects of high altitude on life, I assume that human life is what is mainly concerned. The effects of high altitude on plants would, I imagine, be of some concern to the Food and Agriculture Organization. I think that Unesco may be embarrassed if we agree to the promotion of a Conference with which those two ‘organizations, at least, are not very closely associated and in which perhaps they might want to take as important a part as Unesco. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of the United States of America. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, I want to raise a point of principle, possibly a point of order. The Admini- strative and External Relations Commission is considering the whole problem of the relations between Unesco and other organizations and it seems, therefore, a little inappropriate for this Commission to name specific bodies with which we will co-operate. I suggest it would therefore be better to change the wording after «such as India and Peru» to «and other appropriate international organizations inter- ested in the establishment at present...» etc., not naming any of them. The CHAIRMAN : May I quote the appropriate section again in 2C/BUR/1 ? It says : — « Although Chapter V of the programme...» which is the one concerned with Relations)»... should be referred to the Administrative and External Relations Com- mission, that should not prevent the Programme and Budget Commission from discussing the respective rôles of Member States and the Secre- tariat in the execution of the programme of the Organization.» But that does not include interna- tional organizations. I think in that case, if it would be acceptable to the mover of the motion, that the suggestion made by the delegate of the United States would be a wise one. Dr. Carlos MONGE (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : I entirely accept the suggestion of the United States delegate, all the more willingly since the Spanish text already bears that meaning. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you. Then if you ‘will make the necessary change, that will meet the point raised. Is there anyone else who wishes to raise a point on this ? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I take it that the present formof the motion will cover the point | raised about Specialized Agencies of the United Nations, Sir ? The CHAIRMAN : Yes, I takeit that will be so. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak on this parti- cular project ? The Director-General would like to say a word or two. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I would just like to say that, while we in the Secretariat are extremely anxious to see some international scientific larora- tories established, I personally feel — and I have only just seen this resolution — that it might, in view of the large volume of projects contained in our Programme for 1948, be desirable in this case to take note of this projects as something which we ought eventually to deal with but for the moment await the discussion in the Economic and Social Council on the whole question of international laboratories. This discussion is taking place and I might remind delegates that Unesco was asked, among other specialized agencies, but as a primus inter pares, so to speak, to give a report on the desira- bility of establishing international scientific labo- ratories. We did present a 96-page report in which we went into great detail as to the principles on which it was or was not desirable in our opinion that international laboratories should be established. We have received specific thanks from M. Rogez of the Social Department of the Economic and Social Council, for that report. That matter is to come up in 1948 and, personally, considering the large number of projects, scientific and otherwise, with which we shall be charged during 1948, I feel it desirable that we should wait until we hear from the Economie and Social Council that it has in its deliberations approved of this type of project. I would go further and say that I think any resolution on this subject should, of course, be for- warded to the Economic and Social Council for consideration when it discusses the matter. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the suggestion made by the Director-General. Does that in any way affect the attitude of the mover or seconder of this motion ?
421 —    Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : Mr, Chairman,it has just been suggested to us that there would be no cost to Unesco for this Conference, but that the cost would be covered by the Governments concerned. This is information that we have not previously had, and it might be important in deciding the vote on this question. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Peru. Dr. Carlos MONGE (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : The idea of my delegation was that, in view of the fact that this is a matter in which, if I may say so, Science is ignorant, and that life at high altitudes is completely unknown to scientists; and as, besides, the conditions of human life in these altitudes are so intimately linked to the work which is at present being carried out everywhere on aviation, we should hold a conference in Paris to deal with this problem and make the respective recommendations with regard to the establishment of international laboratories. In our opinion there is no question of funds; I have been instructed by my Government to state that this is no question of money, but rather of ideas, and that we believe that life at high altitudes affecting eighty million men1s still being neglected. I should add, also, that for twenty years Peru has had a laboratory, with a budget of $ 50,000 a year, which may seem a small sum but is large for a smal] country such as ours. It is our wish that Unesco, as an international body, should deal with problems which affect the whole of human knowledge. The CHAIRMAN : The Director-General would like to say a word in connexion with cost. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I take it that this conference would be without cost to Unesco so far as the travel and expenses of delegates were con- cerned ; but it would clearly involve cost to Unesco in putting facilities in the way of interpreters, transla- tors, roneo-workers and so forth at the disposal of the conference; and if we were to undertake this conference it would mean that we should have to assign someone on the Secretariat to help prepare it. I would not like to undertake such an important conference without assigning somebody of consider- able ability to help in its preparation. I do not wish it to be supposed for one moment that I am opposed to this idea in principle. I am not. I had the privilege of journeying through Latin America last summer. [ was immensely impressed by the problems, almost unique problems, very important problems, peculiar to the high altitude regions of that vast continent, and I am sure that sometime something ought to be done about them through Unesco. I am only saying that in this report which we have presented: to the Economic and Social Council we have put forward a number of ideas for laboratories and the principle on which such international laboratories may be established. One of them was exactly what Peru has suggested, namely, to put forward the problems of peculiar climatic conditions of the world which are common to several countries; but there are many other problems which we also put forward, and I still feel that it really would be better — as this arises out of a request of the Economic and Social Council, to whom we have made our report — that this Conference should submit a strong plea, if you so wish, that this particular problem should be put in the forefront of any international laboratories which the Economic and Social Council may recom- mend. But before taking any actual action on behalf of Unesco, we should await the discussions in the Economic and Social Council. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Would the mover and seconder accept an alteration after the second word of the motion, so that it would read «recom- mends that the Director-General should keep in touch with the United Nations, and, if it is appro- priate. .. » (deleting the word « Unesco») « .. .should call a conference». The CHAIRMAN : Is’ that acceptable to the mover and seconder ? It is not acceptable. Therefore, does the delegate of Australia wish to move it as an amendment ? The amendment moved is that the Director-General should be in- structed to keep in touch with the United Nations and, if it is appropriate, call a conference. Does anyone second that amendment ? It is seconded by Canada. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? The delegate of India. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : I wish to say that this resolution does not merely. emerge from the action of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, but from two other factors: firstly, that a considerable amount of high-altitude research Is actually in progress in Peru, and secondly, that about two years ago a project to establish a high- altitude station in the Himalayas was launched by the Meteorological Department, and plans are being drawn up. This laboratory will go through on a national basis, but if you wish us to have interna- tional co-operation, action must be taken now. All we are suggesting now 1s that Unesco should call a conference of experts in order that the United Nations may be better advised. The CHAIRMAN : I have a note here from the observer of the World Federation of Scientific — wa —    Workers, who wishes to speak on this matter. I assume we will be glad to hear him. Mr. J. G. CROWTHER (World Federation of Scientific Workers) : Mr. Chairman, on the subject of a research station, I should like to speak on this from the scientific point of view. This is one of the fields which is a growing point of science, and it will be a very great pity if active development on high-altitude research is not proceeded with as quickly as possible. One would, therefore, hope that a small conference of experts might be called as quickly as possible to provide a considered agenda for wider development. The CHAIRMAN Thank you. Does anyone wish to speak ? There is a point of order. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, the proposal does not refer to a conference of experts, but to a conference of delegates from countries, and, whatever the merits of a conference of experts, I do not think that is what we are discussing now. The CHAIRMAN : That is certainly the wording of the motion. This is by way of explanation only from the dele- gate of India, Prof. BHABHA (India) : Mr. Chairman, since «delegates of all countries interested in high- altitude research’are» called for, it is presumed that each country would naturally send an expert. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to speak now to the amendment ? The delegate of Mexico. Dr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : The delegation of Mexico is of the opinion that the amendment suggested by the delegate of Australia would, in fact, modify the intention of this proposal, and consequently we oppose it. The CHAIRMAN Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to the amendment ? If not, may I take a vote on it ? The amendment is proposed by the delegate of Australia, and is seconded by the delegate of Canada; it reads : That the Director-General should be instructed to keep in touch with the United Nations in connexion with this matter and,if it is appropriate, to call a conference... etc. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : Since there seems to be some uncertainty about the vote, I think it would be better to take it by roll-call. (The vote was taken by roll-call.) Voted in favour : Australia, Canada, Denmark, Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines, United Kingdom. Voted against : Belgium, Brazil, China, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, India, Leba- non, Mexico, Peru, Poland, Union of South Africa, Venezuela. Abstained : Greece, United States of America. Absent : Bolivia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, El Salvador, Haiti, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Uruguay.) The CHAIRMAN
14 votes to 7. We now have before us the original motion. : The amendment is lost by The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. ©) If there are no other motions concerning item H.D.5.c. we pass it. The delegate of Colombia. Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : After the discussion of this proposal in the Natural Sciences Working Party, the following resolution was approved The Programme and Budget Commission, aware of the urgency for adequate planning in the basic field of Cartogra- phic Science, so essential to the intelligent execution of any projects for reconstruction, development of new’ resources, or normal conduct of world society in joint efforts to contribute to peace through mutual acquaintance and understanding, requests the General Conference of Unesco to make known to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the deep interest which Unesco has in the study and implementation of these proposals, particularly that concerned with the calling of a group of experts. It further urges the General Conference to assure the Secretary-General that Unesco hopes that the Conference may be called at the earliest opportunity, and stands ready to send its representative thereto. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to second the motion ? It is seconded by the delegate of Denmark and supported by the delegate of Brazil. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? If not, I will put the motion to the vote. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried.) If there is no further business, we will stand adjourned until 9.30 on Friday morning. The meeting rose at 5.55 p. m.
(6) In final form : Resolution 6.5 ; vol. 11, page 28. — 423 —