it was entirely illogical to speak of «re-grading» incompetent people and it would be preferable to dismiss them. The delegate of the United States therefore proposed that the words «or re-grading » should be omitted. Lastly, he proposed that the part of the text cor- responding to the second proposal from the United States delegation should be separated and included as a separate paragraph in the resolution. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) stated (1) that so far as the word «integrity» was concerned, he had nothing to add to the remarks of the delegate of the United States of America; (2) that he agreed that «fair» should be substituted for «even »; (3) that the second proposal from the United States delegation should be included as a separate paragraph, in accordance with the United States’ suggestion. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) remarked that an enquiry regarding the moral qualities of the international staff of Unesco, as recruited through governments or international organizations, seemedto be intended. Who would be responsible for such an enquiry, and would it be private and confidential? This suggestion appeared to throw suspicion on the international Secretariat and it was therefore desi- rable that it should be omitted. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico), speaking on behalf of the Drafting Committee, stated that he had been instructed to include various informal resolutions similar to those of the United States of America. In reply to the objection raised by the delegate of Brazil, he wished to emphasize that the Director- General might have justifiable doubts about the competence and integrity of certain members of the Staff. It was not correct to say that recruiting had been done by the Executive Board, which,in fact, had only been informed of the appointment of the officials and had had no partin making the appointments. Unesco should, therefore, not hesitate to undertake a wide enquiry concerning the staff. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) explained the intention of his suggestion; he agreed with the substance of the resolution, but was anxious to modify the wording; it was possible to achieve the desired result without going into details which might injure Unesco in the eyes of the public. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) remarked that, on the other hand, if this text were adopted, the Director- General's power to select, remove and replace staff would be strengthened ; his difficulties in this matter were well known. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) considered that para- graph (4) was incomplete, as the Commission was also concerned in this matter. M. ABRAHAM (France) asked that the wording should be altered to read «with a view to re-grading the members of the staff or, if necessary, replacing them ». The CHAIRMAN announced that this question would be considered at a subsequent meeting, together with the second resolution from the United States delegation. The motion by the delegate of Brazil was rejected. The amendment by the delegate of the United States of America was adopted. Thefirst part of the amendment by the Canadian delegate was withdrawn; the second part of his amendment was adopted. The amendment of the delegate of Czechoslovakia was rejected. Paragraph (4) was adopted, with the foregoing amendments. The following text of the resolutions so far adopted was read : The General Conference: While appreciating the difficulties involved in the recruit- ment of staff and in organizing the Secretariat during 1947, and noting the action taken by the Executive Board and the Nominations Committee of the Executive Board during that year, considers that every effort must now be made to build up a permanent staff with adequate security, while at the same time avoiding wasteful and unnecessary expenditures. To this end, the General Conference resolves : en That at the earliest possible time the Director-General should initiate a long-term appointment policy, subject to the Staff Regulations in force. it 2. That in the selection ofstaff due importance be attached to the consideration of geographical distribution. In this connexion the Director-Generalis instructed to take adequate measures to improve the present unsatisfactory situation, and the Executive Board is requested to follow closely the implementation of this policy.
3. That in implementing the recruitment policy the Direc- tor-General should avail himself of all possible assistance from the United Nations, the Specialized Agencies, Member States, National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies, or, if necessary, other sources, with a view to ensuring integrity of selection on an impersonal basis.
4. That the Director-General is instructed to institute, as soon as possible, a review of the experience, qualifications and achievements of present staff members with a view to replacing those staff members who do not measure up to the high standards of competence, integrity and efficiency which must be expected of staff members of Unesco, or whose services are no longer required in the light of changesin the Programme approved for the year 1948; and, further, to request the Director-General to report on the progress achieved in this review to the Executive Board at its meeting in February 1948, and to complete the review by 31 March
1948. In this connexion, the Executive Board and the Director-General should also bear in mind the consideration of fair geographical distribution. The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m. — 585 —              FIFTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). Resolutions on Staff Questions (continuation.) The CHAIRMAN submitted to the members the additional paragraph proposed by the United States after paragraph (4) : That the Director-General is instructed to include in the review ‘of qualifications of personnel of the Secretariat, a consideration of the salary and grading of each incumbent and to effect at the earliest possible moment the necessary re-grading where indicated. The Commission approved the additional paragraph suggested by the United States. Paragraph (5). M. MORAVIA (Secretariat), speaking for the Deputy Director-General, suggested some changes in the wording. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) said his delegation was in general agreement with the resolution but felt that the wording suggested by the Secretariat was helpful. He was, therefore, incor- porating these suggestions as an amendment to paragraph (5), which would now read :
(5) That the Director-General is instructed to make a study of the various grades of salary for the staff, bearin in mind the real emoluments of the officials of the Unite Nations and Specialized Agencies and various governments holding posts of corresponding duties and responsibilities, particularly those living in Paris. The results of this study shall be submitted to the Executive Board and for considera- tion at the next General Conference. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) moved acceptance of the resolution. It was approved by the delegates. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America), in discussing Paragraph (6), proposed a few changes in the wording. He wished to replace «...and to consider the possibility of replacing it by a system of allowances, which will ensure a more equitable compensation...» by »...and to consider the possi- bility of replacing this allowance by providing the staff with other facilities, including special services as indicated in resolution No. 7». The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt that the changes proposed in paragraph (6) would tie the hands of the Administration 1n such a way that it could not develop a system comparable to that of the United Nations. It should be remembered that the standard practice of the United Nations was based on the long international experience of the League of Nations and the International Labour Organization. He asked whether it was the wish of the delegates to do away entirely with the per diem allowance and limit action to that suggested in Paragraph (7). This was a very disturbing thought, since the measures confained in le (7) did not deal with the rapidly rising cost of hotels and the rise in the price of coal, gas and electricity in Paris. He suggested that the wording of paragraph (6) should remain as it had been suggested by the Drafting Committee. Senator BROOKES (Rapporteur) pointed out that the change proposed by the United States delegation would deprive the Secretariat of the possibility of granting any living allowance at all. He asked the United States delegation to consider the following modification : .. including special facilities as in paragraph 7. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) supported the Deputy Director-General’s remarks. If the Commis- sion adopted too rigid a system, it would be placing the Secretariat and the Director-General in a very difficult position. For instance, there was a serious danger of a coal strike in Paris in the coming winter. If the text adopted by the Commission were too rigid, the Director-General would not be able to give members of the Secretariat an allowance for coal. It was imperative, in order to get a minimum of efficiency, that the Secretariat be given a maximum of security. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) asked whether it would be satisfactory to the Rapperteur if the United States’ amendment were worded thus; «and to consider the possibility of reducing or replacing this allowance by providing thestaff...» Following interventions by the delegations of GREECE, NEW ZEALAND, POLAND and AUSTRA- LIA, the members of the Commission agreed upon the following wording for paragraph (6) : — 586 —    That the Director-General is instructed to examine without delay the question ofthe daily living allowance and to con- sider the possibility of replacing this allowance by a system ofallowances, taking into account the specialfacilities indicated in paragraph 7, which will ensure a2 more equitable compensa- tion for those variable and special costs of living that are not taken into account in fixing salaries and which are necessary to ensure for the staff an adequate standard of living. Paragraph (6) was unanimously approved. In the discussion of Paragraph (7), Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that all efforts to take the steps indicated in (a), (b) and (c) had been blocked because the Administration lacked the necessary authority for appropriation of capital for these purposes. He submitted a resolution stating that the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion should suggest to the Budget Sub-Commission that a portion of the working capital be advanced for these purposes, subject to the approval of the Executive Board. Paragraph (7), incorporating the Australian proposal, was unanimously approved. Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that the Budget Sub-Commission was pressed for time and wished the Commission to approve a resolution based on paragraph (3) of the previous Australian resolu- tion, which would read as follows: In view of the problems involved in recruitment, training and management of the staff, the Commission recommends to the Budget Sub-Commission that the budget to be approved by the General Conference should not provide for any consi- derable expansion, over the next twelve months, in the total number of positions in the Secretariat as at the present date. His motion was seconded by the delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. The Australian motion was unanimously approved. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. SIXTEENTH MEETING Monday, 24 November 1947, at 11 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN. Lib-=Wu (China). Item 6 of the Agenda : Organization Questions (continuation). The GHAIRMAN announced that the General Committee had decided that the principle and admini- stration of grants-in-aid would be discussed in the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion, while the nature of grants-in-aid would be discussed by the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) stressed the complexity of the problem presented by the organization of the Secretariat ; it could not be solved by piecemeal reso- lutions passed by the General Conference on matters such assalary, living conditions,scale of contributions relations with the specialized agencies, however important these matters might be in themselves. He deplored the small attendance at the meetings of the Commission; the absence of so many delegates detracted from the weight of the criticisms made and resolutions passed by the Commission. It was essential that the Organization be considered as a whole and that precise plans for a permanent Secre- tariat be drawn up. Co-ordination was urgently needed. He suggested that the technical heads of the main sections should be assisted by adminis- trative advisers, who would act as liaison between the sections and the central administration and relieve the heads of sections of much administrative work. Manyof the criticisms levelled against the Secretariat arose from this lack of co-ordination; there was much overlapping; there was repetition in the abundance of documents circulated, and their classification required systematization. Referring to the proposal of the delegate of Australia that a small sub-com- mittee of the Executive Board be formed to assist the Director-General in administrative and financial matters, he proposed a sub-committee of three experts in administration. The terms of the resolu- tion he submitted were as follows : The Administrative and External Relations Commission Considering that the administrative organization of the Secre- tariat depends on many factors of varied character, impossible to co-ordinate in the short time at the disposal of, and in the atmosphereof, the General Conference, Considering that these factors have in many respects a special technical character which the Conference is unable to take into consideration when appointing the members of the Executive Board, Considering that the year of experience already obtained and the year of experience to be gained in 1948 will enable the creation of an organization in a permanent and final form, Consideringthat the rules of procedure relating to quorums are not effective enough to obtain them, - 587 -