raised by the speakers to-day. The French delegation second that. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to it? No one wishes to speak to it. Is there anyone who opposes it? In that case I declare the motion passed. (1°) Is there any further point that anyone wishes to raise on Chapter I. B.? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man,I just want to ask a question, so that we may none of us be in any doubt what we have just deci- ded. Am I right in thinking that the question which we have referred is the question of where the one additional pilot-project should be? Then may I ask a second question : what exactly is the status of the other pilot-projects? Do we take it that the resolution to which we all agreed on the motion of the United States, which is in general terms «Co- operate with Member States in establishing or assisting pilot-projects in Fundamental Education », covers the particular projects which were discussed
(19) In final form: Resolution 3.4.11.3.; vol. II, page 19. by the Working Party and were referred to as «new pilot-projects »? The CHAIRMAN : I hadtakenit as that, since the wording was «one additional pilot-project». If we agreed to the additional one, I took it that we agreed to the others, but if you are not quite sure upon that point, you might care to put it in a special motion. If the Drafting Committee considers that there is any ambiguity in what we have passed, they will bring it to our notice. Are there any further motions concerned with Fundamental Education, that is Chapter I. B., on the understanding that, apart from one or two things which have been held over, there will be no possibility of any further discussion of new material under I. B.? If there is nothing further, then we will pass on, at our next meeting to Chapter I. C., provided that the documentation is ready. If there is no further business this evening, I declare the meeting adjourned. The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m. SEVENTH MEETING Saturday, 15 November 1947, at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Chapter I. C. 4. — Teachers” Charter Chapter I. C. 6. — Rôle of the Arts in General Education Chairman : The CHAIRMAN : The meeting is now open. The Secretary will inform you of the documents which are before you for discussion this morning. The SECRETARY : Discussion this morning is on Chapter I. C. (Increasing Opportunities for Educa- tion, Science and Culture). There should be before you this morning a document on the Teachers’ Charter, that is, a report of the Working Party, document 2C/C/2, on Item 1 of Chapter I. C. There is also before you document 2C/C/3, which deals with part of Item 6, the Arts in General Education. Dr. €. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) The CHAIRMAN : May I now tell you the procedure that I would propose this morning. We are dealing, as the Secretary said, with Chapter I. C. In accor- dance with your instructions yesterday, I shall take the business,if you are agreeable, in the order of the paragraphs of Chapter I. C. You understand that, until some motion is made from the floor, there is no actual motion before the meeting, but I shall give priority in the moving of motions to any person who wishes to movea resolution which is included in the appropriate report of the Working Party. | a l o . i o a ا ‎ o k = = = b i a ت ع ‎ р e и н т е = _ — o ا ت ل
7 = S a    When the resolutions included in the report of the Working Party on any particular paragraph have been completed, then anyone else who wishes to move a motion concerning that particular paragraph can do so. Chapter I. C. 4. — Teachers’ Charter. The CHAIRMAN : The business before the meeting is paragraph 1 of Chapter I. C. If anybody wishes to move that particular paragraph as it stands, they have first priority; if anybody wishes to move a paragraph or a resolution from the Report of the Working Party, they have second priority. Is there anyone who wishes to move anything now with regard to paragraph 1? Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation agrees with the text submitted to this meeting, and we also agree that Unesco should establish contact with profes- sional associations in all countries and that nothing should be done without asking the views of the professional organizations which are to be mainly responsible for drawing up the Teachers’ Charter. The French delegation considers, however, that Unesco should not merely act as an intermediary between these various groups, but that the Organiza- tion’s duty is, after all, to win acceptance for Unesco's principles. For this reason we have proposed that there should be included, in addition to the prin- ciple of consultation with the various professional associations in the different countries, the following : Unesco must, however, ensure that the principles which it is its task to propagate and preserve, are fully observed and, especially, that no bar, groundedon distinctionof race, colour, sex or religion, should operate in any way in any branch of the teaching profession. I need not dwell on the importance of this. In this Teachers’ Charter, which must have a common basis throughout the world, we must observe Unesco's principles : namely, that no bar of any sort should operate against any member of the teaching profes- sion; and,in particular, that no one should be discre- dited or handicapped because of the philosophic or religious principles he may hold, or because of his race or colour. We have also asked for equality between the sexes, which would make it possible for us to solve the problem of women more quickly. Thus in our resolution, we have solved this problem of women; we believe it is an integral part of all the Resolutions concerning the teaching profession which are to be passed. We do notallow any special status for women, and we recommend that women in the teaching profession should be on exactly the same footing as men. Furthermore we thought it necessary to specify that material conditions in the teaching profession should be such that the profession should not com- pare unfavourably (as it does at present in certain countries) with other types of officials, or even that the public service should compare unfavourably with professions in the country generally. I think, therefore, that it is essential to state that Unesco should carry out a survey of the conditions of the teaching profession in each country, as affected, firstly, by the purchasing power of salaries for the various categories of the teaching profession, and secondiy, by the status, in comparison with other public officials in the country in question, which results from the salary. These are the two additions which we proposeto the text drafted by the Working Party. The CHAIRMAN Is the delegate of France moving the text of the Working Party with certain additions? Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : We are supporting the text submitted by the Working Party, and we are asking for the two additions I have just mentioned, one dealing with the principle that there should be no bar founded on sex, colour, race, or opinions in religion or philo- sophy, and the other that Unesco should compare the material conditions of the teaching professions in the various countries. The CHAIRMAN : Might I suggest it would sim- plify matters a little if the delegate of France would first of all move the two motions contained in docu- ment 2C/C/2 proposed by the Working Party, and then, when that is passed, moveas further motions the additions he has already proposed? The motion put forward by France is seconded by the delegate of Brazil. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : I only wish to remark that the British delegation has submitted to you a resolution which covers the points raised in the Working Party’s Report, and clarifies two posi- tions which we left open. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you. Then I presume that the British delegation will, ifit wishes to amend anything in the Working Party’s Report, do so; if not, it will move its resolutions when we have dealt with the Working Party. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : May I point out that there is nothing in the proposal of the United Kingdom delegation which conflicts in any way with the decision of the Working Party.  ودع   The CHAIRMAN : The following resolution has been moved and seconded :
(1) That Unesco, deeply aware of the importance of de- veloping a Teachers’ Charter, request associations of teachers to prepare drafts for such a Charter.
(2) That Unesco will serve as a clearing house for collec- ting and disseminating such drafts and for distributing to organizations information bearing on the Charter. It is open for discussion. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I have only one point concerning the form of the resolution, Mr. Chairman. It says «Unesco requests associa- tions of teachers to prepare drafts for such a Charter ». I do not know if that is in the form suggested by this Commission. Do I understand that the Drafting Committee will re-phrase it? A second point, the wording «That Unesco will serve as a clearing house », suggests that the Working Party has confused the Secretariat with Unesco. l assumeit is the Secretariat that is intended to serve as a clearing house and not the Member States. The CHAIRMAN : I think it is correct that the Drafting Committee will put these resolutions into the form required by the General Committee, and I take it the second point is as you understandit. Is there any discussion, or is anyone opposed to either part of this motion? Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : T would like an explanation. Cannot the Commission give a decision now on the two proposals submitted by France? The CHAIRMAN : I think the situation would best be clarified if these two motions in the Working Party’s report were passed immediately, and if France would then move a further motion including the pointit wishes to bring up. Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : Are we then to submit the two motions I spoke of just now as separate resolutions? The CHAIRMAN : No. All I am suggesting is that, if there is anything in the French motions which clashes in any way with the proposals in the report of the Working Party, the French should alter those proposals. If, on the other hand, what is included in the French resolution is merely an addition, I think it might be simpler to pass the Working Party’s proposal now, and then for the French delegation to bring forward a new proposal which would cover any additional facts. I want to save the meeting from becoming confused between two documents. Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : There is nothing in the French proposal which conflicts with the Working Party’s sugges- tions. We, therefore, are in favour of the Working Party’s proposals, and will submit our motion for discussion afterwards. The CHAIRMAN : In thatcase the proposals al- ready moved by France and included in the Report are before you, and weare ready to vote. Does anyone else wish to speak or to oppose these proposals? If not, I take it that that motion is passed. We thank the Working Party for preparing it for us in that form. Now the delegate of France can speak, if he wishes to move some further motion included in this docu- ment 2C/C1/7. Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : The motions which the French delega- tion proposes should be added to the Working Party’s text are : firstly, that Unesco shall not act merely as an intermediary, but shall ensure that the principleslaid down in its Constitution, advocating full and complete equality, irrespective of distinc- tions of colour, race, language, religion, or sex, are observed in the teaching profession. This, we believe, is in accordance with Unesco’s principles, but we also think it necessary to stateit specifically. The second proposal relates to the teachers’ mate- rial and spiritual conditions; it is essential that each government should inform Unesco of the position of the teaching profession in its country in relation to other classes of government officials. This is necessary because the teaching profession may com- pare unfavourably with others (as it does already in various countries). This situation may have very serious consequences. If the material conditions of teachers compare unfa- vourably with those of other officials, recruitment of teachers, as regards both quantity and quality, will be affected. I think it is important that Unesco, in considering the Teachers’ Charter today, should emphasize the need for preventing the status of this profession from deteriorating in comparison with that of other officials, Forthis reason, the French delegation asks Unesco to make enquiries concerning the conditions and salaries of the various grades of teacher, and to ensure decent conditions for the teaching profession — not only for subsistence but in comparison with other government officials. This is the purpose of ‘the two proposals we are submitting to the Commission for approval. The CHAIRMAN : The French delegation proposes the motion in the second sentence of paragraph 1 of document 2C/C1/7 : — 343 —    Unesco must, however, ensure that the principles which it is its task to propagate and preserve are fully observed and, especially, that no bar, founded on distinction of race, colour, sex or religion, should operate in any way in any branch of the teaching profession. It is seconded by the delegate of China and sup- ported by Poland, India and Mexico. Does anyone wish to speak to it? Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman, I am again in the invidious position of having a vitally important resolution of principle placed before me after coming into the meeting without having had the opportunity of discussing it with the expert on the particular branch affected, and without the opportunity of having prepared a careful statement, which, in the case of my own country,is offirst importance. In the form in which this resolution is put before us to-day, I cannot supportit, but I want to take this opportunity of endeavouring to make clear the atti- tude of my country. We,of course, have subscribed to the fundamental principles of Unesco, and I can give you this assurance here and now that we are doing everything in our power to put them into operation — or rather, shall I say, to bring practice into line with these fundamental principles — and we shall continue to do so. Now, the words of this resolution — «that no bar, founded on distinction of race, colour, sex or reli- gion, should operate in any way in any branch of the teaching profession» — are quite frankly impos- sible to put into operation in a country such as South Africa at the present moment. We should have been prepared to vote for this resolution hadit stopped at the words «fully obser- ved », because we believe we are doing all that is humanly possible to observe all the principles. Whether it would be worth passing the motion in that form is another matter. But let me take the lesser trouble first. On the question of sex, I have never made any secret in my own country of the fact that I am one hundred per cent in favour of equal pay for equal work. I have urged on many occa- sions that women should be paid on that basis, and I shall continue so to urge. The fact remains that my country is not yet ripe for that move. Not only that — very strong arguments have been advanced, if you like for purely physiological reasons, and others on other grounds, that nothing must be done to encourage the woman to go out of the home, for instance. But, for whatever reasons, the majority feeling is far too strong in South Africa to make it possible for Government organizations to pay the same salaries. My own Department has a number of posts where we have actually managed to obtain that, and I hope to extend it, but I cannot vote for a resolution which would endeavour to force us, at this stage, in every case to pay the same wages to women as to men. One must not lose sight of the fact that, in the case of teachers, the vast majority of the women who become teachers in South Africa are women who do not intend to makethat their profession, and who are economically very well off indeed, if they receive a salary considerably lower than that of a man. Many of them really require nothing more than pin money to carry them over the intervening period between college and marriage. If some formula could be devised by which every person who intended to make the teaching profession their life’s work should receive equal pay,it might be different, but, without going further into that point, I want to make it perfectly plain that at this stage, while I say again we wish to uphold and will do all in our power to uphold the principles of Unesco, we cannot give equal pay for equal work in the case of women. In the case of non-Europeans, the position is even more impossible. It must not be forgotten that we have a population of between eight and nine million natives, at least half of whom are absolutely primitive. It must not be forgotten that, while we have been doing everything in our power to increase facilities for education for the native races, it is a physical impossibility to give them the same opportunities as have been built up for generations for Europeans, for the simple reason that with the best will in the world we cannot get the man-power; we cannot get the buildings; we cannot get the material; and we cannottrain the teachers. We are making provision as rapidly as we can for training teachers, but when you think that, according to the latest figure I have, only two hundred and forty natives in the whole land completed the school course, that is, matriculated (the figure is higherto day — I do not know whatit is exactly), you can see the difficulty. Quite clearly it is a physical impossibility for us to get qualified teachers. If this resolution means that it is only where the teacher has higher qualifications and therefore is in every respect entirely equal, that he should receive the same pay, there might be something to be said for it, but the vast majority of our teachers who are working among the natives (and our policy, of course, is to provide teaching by Africans for Africans) have a standard of education so low that they could not possibly be put on the same level as the European teacher. Not only that, whether or not that will remain the position, the fact also remains that the standard of living, the requirements of the African teacher, are not the same as those of the European. His clothes do not cost him the same, because he — 344 —    does not dress in the same way. Iam not defending the position; we are aiming at a stage — and I believe we are rapidly beginning to attain to a reas- onable measure of success in that campaign — where we shall be able to elevate the whole of that primitive community to the level at which we have ourselves arrived. But at the present momentit is a physical impossibility. Moreover, I do not believe that the colour discrimination is a real one. I am hoping, before this Conference disperses, to be able to place in the hands of each one of you a chart which will indicate the comparative rate of development in the educational world as between Europeans and Afri- cans. The majority of you would be amazed to see the increase in the rate of development : the increase in the number of pupils, the records in the number of teachers, and above all, the tremendous compara- tive increase in the expenditure on native education. I hope you will accept it from me, that my country has come here with every intention of playing its full part; that there is goodwill in my country; that there is an increasing body of people of the character of the delegates who have come here to-day, who are determined to improve the conditions to the utmost of their capacity. But you must not forget we are a small community, a poor community, and there is — as in every country — a large body ofreactionary feeling and that, as in any democratic country, no government, however eager, can run far ahead ofthe eople. I sincerely hope that our position will not be made more difficult by the passing of theoretical resolutions of this kind, which need not be passed because we all accept them in principle, and which can only have the effect of making things more difficult for countries such as mine — although, for- tunately, this difficulty does not exist in many other countries. Sr. José Daniel CRESPO (Panama) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 wish to congratulate the French delegation on this important motion, which aims at putting into practice in the field of education the ideals for which so much blood has been shed, for which so many great battles have been fought, and for which, I might say, Unesco was established. If we, in an assembly such as this, were to reject a resolution of such far-reaching importance, conceived in such a democratic spirit as this, we should be contradicting the fundamental principles of this Organization; we should be denying the reason for its existence, and the whole world would then under- stand, and say with justice, that this Organization of ours has no ratson d'être, because it attacks the basic principles on which it depends. If it is impossible to achieve fundamental equality for all men everywhere irrespective of class, colour or race, in the field of education, it would, I think, be useless to try to achieve it in any other field. I am speaking on behalf of the Republic of Panama, in which the principles laid down by the French dele- gation are not confined to theory. In the Republic of Panama thereis no difference in the salaries earned by men as opposed to women. In no branch of the government service, least of all in education, are salaries paid on any basis but that of academic quali- fication, without regard to sex, colour, or religion. Even the Indians of one of our regions — that of San Blas — enjoy exactly the same rights and receive the same salaries, according to their qualifications, and have exactly the same schools as the rest of the population of the country. The assertion, for example, that members of any given race cannot be entitled to the same salaries as members of another race, because they have a lower standard of living is, in my view, not well-founded ; such individuals have a lowerstandard oflife preci- sely because their natural human rights to receive equal pay for equal work are not admitted. Panama is a poor country; Panama is a small country; Panama is a country with a small popula- tion, but we have accepted these fundamental demo- cratic principles and we are making every effort to devote a fairly high percentage of our budget to education, realizing that there should be no dis- crimination, even in those communities, such as the Indian natives, where the standard of living is natu= rally lower, and believing that the only way to raise the standard of living is to recognize for all the natives, all men, and all those living in the Republic, not excluding foreigners, the right to equal pay, equal remuneration for equal work. I can say that my country, allowing no discrimina- tion against individuals of different races, does not discriminate against foreigners either. Foreigners who cometo our country enjoy exactly the same educ- ational rights as our citizens; they can enrol in schools under exactly the same conditions as our na- tionals; they can take a University degree under exactly the same conditions, paying the same fees as a citizen of Panama. Therefore, in the name of democracy, equality and human dignity, I ask the Conference to approve this resolution submitted by the French delegation, designed to establish in the realm of education, the fundamental equality of men in all fields of human endeavour. Dr. E. ALZONA (Philippines) : I wish to congratu- late the Working Party which recommended the draft of a Teachers’ Charter recognizing the demo- cratic principle of equality regardless of sex, race or colour. [I congratulate the French delegation for — 345 —    supporting that proposal and I congratulate the delegate of Panama for supporting this democratic principle in the teaching profession. I was very sorry to hear the delegate of South Africa taking exception to this Charter and I wish to make a few remarks regarding women in the teaching profession. I have spent perhaps the best years of my life in that profession. My country, the leading country in the Far East, recognizes the democratic principles that we have inherited from the French Revolution : Liberty, Equality, Fraternity. Now, the women of many countries, of civilized nations, have always sought for equality between the sexes in every field, not only in the teaching profession. It is not correct to say that women take up teaching not as a pro- fession but as a temporary career, a stepping-stone to marriage. But, regardless of women’s motives in taking up any profession, I believe they are entitled to equal treatment, equal pay for equal work. Even in the Treaty of Versailles, of unhappy memories, it was provided in its LabourSection that there should be no discrimination on account of sex in any work. That Treaty had already laid down the principle of equal pay for equal work. Therefore, the statement which has been heard to-day from oneof the delegates is altogether obsolete and does not belong to this enlightened age, the Atomic Age. I heartily support any proposal to recognize the democratic principle of equality among all men, regardless of colour, race and sex. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : I am sorry that, as a representative of the United Kingdom, I have been put in the unfortunate position of having to speak against this resolution as it now stands. I am speaking against it, not because the United Kingdom fails to agree whole-heartedly with the prin- ciples adopted by Unesco, for in point of fact I per- sonally accept, without any reservations, the whole of the principles enunciated by France. I object to the resolution for quite different reasons. I object because, first of all, it vitiates the decisions of the Working Party; because it asks this Conference to adopt a procedure which, in our judgment, is com- pletely wrong. It calls upon us to make a decision now which ought to be deferred until we have heard what the teachers think about the contents of their Charter. The purpose of a Teachers’ Charter, as I under- standit, is to raise the status of the teaching profession in the eyes of the world, and in the view of Unesco this is a wholly desirable objective. We want to remind ourselves, however, that a Teachers’ Charter is but a meansto that end and I submit to you that, with all the power it may command, a Teachers’ Charter can fulfil that purpose only if it satisfies three conditions. Firstly, it must be prepared in the right way. Secondly, it must be sound in its conception and in its execution ; a bad Teachers’ Char- ter, or one containing vague platitudes would, in my judgment, be worse than useless. Lastly, the Teachers’ Charter must be checked against public opinion. It must be acceptable to Member States, to employers and to the teachers themselves. Now,in the Working Party we concerned ourselves with the first step, a very important step. We concerned ourselves with the preparation of that Charter, and the Working Party came to the unani- mous conclusion that teachers themselves were in the first instance, the people to whom we ought to refer the principles of a Charter. It would be derogatory to the status of the teaching profession to tell them that we want them to prepare a Charter and then to tell them exactly what the Charter must contain. Therefore, we in the British delegation feel that the best interests of Unesco would be served and the raising of the teaching profession better ensured, if in the first instance we trusted the teaching pro- fession. When that is done, it might be possible to look at this Charter afresh and to make our decisions, but we suggest that it would be best to submit no hard and fast conditions to the teaching profession as to how their Charter might be prepared. The furthest my delegation would be prepared to go would be to suggest to the teaching profession and to teaching organizations throughout the world that, in drawing up their Charter, the principles of Unesco should be borne in mind, but certainly there ought to be no hard and fast conditions as to the way in which that Charter should be prepared. There is just one last thought that I would leave with you. I am quite confident that the teaching profession is not anxious to settle a Charter on its own initiative. Teachers have to be placed in their social setting; their rights have to be set against the rights of society, and on some future occasion, perhaps next year or the year after, it might be desirable for Unesco to look at the Teachers’ Charter which has been prepared by the teaching profession and to check the exuberance of the teaching profession by the wisdom of the United Nations. That is a matter for the future. For the present I suggest that either we vote against the resolution put forward by France or, alternatively, we ask them if they will suggest to the teaching profession that they might bear in mind, in drawing up their Charter, the principles that have been accepted by Unesco. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, the Australian delegation, while it endorses entirely the general principles indicated in the resolution, agrees with the British delegation that it would be most unfortunate if this proposal were adopted, and that is mainly on account of its form, and for some of the other reasons given by the British delegation. — 346 —    The Australian delegation, however, is concerned about the present form in a more serious manner still. We do not want to be parties to decisions which impose on Unesco impossible tasks. We can see no way under the Constitution in which Unesco could carry out or give effect to this resolution if it were passed. I hopethat the French delegation will be prepared to withdraw the resolution or to re-cast it in the form suggested by the British delegation, which other, wise we would have suggested ourselves. I fear that, in relation to Article I, paragraph 3, of the Constitu- tion, this is not a resolution which can be adopted in its present form by the Organization. M. Jan DROHOJOWSKI(Poland) : Mr. Chairman, fellow-delegates, I have been serving, and still am serving, my country in various capacities in China, India, the Middle East, Haiti, Central America and Mexico, and I must fully agree with the French reso- lution. Why? Because whereever I have been I have noticed that each race different from ourselves is backward ; thisis because they have not been given a proper chance. Where they have been given a proper chance, they are absolutely our equals, and sometimes superiors in education, culture, science and government and modern improvements. I must say one thing more. That, if we reject the French resolution, we should also tear up the Preamble of our Constitution. May I remind you of one paragraph : «that the great and terrible war which has now ended was a war made possible by the denial of the democratic principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men, and by the pro- pagation in their place, through ignorance and pre- judice, of the doctrine of inequality of men and races ». Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) : Mr. Chairman, and fellow-delegates, the other day, when I had the opportunity of addressing a plenary meeting, I said that it was not only the vanquished who required to be re-educated; the victors have also to be re-educated. We were successful in defeating the doctrine of inequality of men and races on the battle field. We have accepted in the Preamble that sentence which was quoted by the Polish delegate just now, that the breeding-ground of war is suspicion, distrust, fear; these things produce war as do race discrimination and imperialism — inequality of men and racesis the breeding-ground. Theresolution which has been put forward by the French delegate merely implements this general statement. | realize that there are conditions in ceriain countries where it might not be possible all of a suddento give exactly the same kind ofstatus. What the resolution says is that, if there are people whoare properly qualified,it does not matter to what race, sex or religion they belong ; they must be given absolute equality of treatment. It does not say that you should give people, simply because they belong to your own particular race or religion, the same kind of treatment, whether they are qualified or not for the specific job. It is not an invitation to lower your standard of efficiency simply because particular eople happen to belong to your race. Other things e about equal, there shall be no discrimination on grounds of sex, religion or community : that is what this particular resolution of the French dele- gation proposes. It is nothing more than a logical consequence of the purposes for which Unescostands. We are not now saying that we should degrade our level of efficiency in the name of equality. It is one of the main purposes of Unesco to raise the general cultural level of the under-privileged or backward races of this world. If we are really serious about fostering the peace of this world, about abolishing distrust and mutual fear, about removing the under- ground sources of war and threats of war, it is essen- tial for us completely to erase the problem and to abolish, wherever possible, this kind of unequal treatment of races and nations. The British delegation said that it is for the teach- ers to draw up a Charter; quite right, but we may invite the teachers’ associations to consider the Preamble of Unesco and the logical derivation of that Preamble which is now embodied in the French resolution. In the light of these general principles, the Charter will have to be drawn up, and it must express the interests of all races and nations. M. Arthur BONHOMME (Haiti) (Translation from the French) : Whether we like it or not, Unesco is now faced with a principle on which we must take a decision, the principle of proclaiming the equality of all men and all races in education. We can fulfil our obligations only by stating this principle, and I believe that, if we evade the issue, we shall judged by the whole world, by our own people and by all the masses who cannot express their views here and who will learn that at one meeting delegates of States anxious for peace refused to proclaim a funda- mental principle of justice, democracy and freedom; or that they evaded this responsibility by subterfuge, referring this matter to the teaching profession for decision. I think we are in a trap, but it is a good trap. To day we must affirm the equality of men. To-day we must proclaim the equality of races. To-day we must assert that justice and equality are the founda- tions of peace. Political meetings involve the interests of each country and we know that, in the world asit is, when — 347 — A N i В Ш I     countries consider their own interests, it is not the principles of justice which are applied and expound- ed, but precisely that state of affairs in the world which has produced war and will again produce war. Wars are not simply the expression of human egoism, but are also the correction of this egoism. Since the principles of inequality, exploitation and dictatorship have beenthe causes of wars, political, economic or social, if we wish to do anything of real value, if we wish the world to trust us, if we wish to reap the harvest of our efforts for peace, we cannot neglect the opportunity offered us to-day to pro- claim a principle. I am sorry that words have been spoken in this meeting in favour of avoiding the pro- clamation of this principle throughout the world. There will be no more confidence in Unesco if this happens, and we shall suffer the effects of our lack of courage and goodwill. In the name of the Republic of Haiti, [ ask all those present to reaffirm the principle of the equality of men and to approve the French proposal. Task the States who have colonies and have not helped them to light and liberty, to look into their hearts and proclaim this principle with us. Injustice is rife not only in colonialstates, but in democratic states also. There has been injustice in my own country. I admit that the favoured few at one time neglected the people, and some of us who have received educa- tion have not reached out to help the ignorant. Therein is the cause of our many revolutions, parti- cularly our latest revolution of 1946. Now we are ready to help our people; we have taken stock of ourselves. I am of the educated class of Haiti, and I am dedicated to the task of making it possible for my Haitian brothers, like me, to come into the light and to become men. I know this is not only a question of justice or humanity, but it will be for our own good, for much energy is going to waste. The selfish outlook believes it is working for its own advantage while it is working its own ruin. I therefore ask that we should revise our colonial outlook, with its unjust and selfish ideas, and that, whatever may happen, whatever anxiety we may feel, we should do our duty by making it possible for all who need light, who need to escape from ignorance, poverty, oppression, to do so, even at the expense of our own interests. Dr. CHAO Yuen-Ren (China) : Mr. Chairman, I fully appreciate the difficulties raised by the dele- gate of the Union of South Africa, but, in applying the principles of non-discrimination to this problem of equal pay for equal work, I think there are really two problems : the problem of equal pay and the problem of equal work. When I supported the proposal of the French delegation, I did not under- stand that the resolution called for equal pay for unequal work. With regard to the first problem of equal work, I think that has been dealt with in the speech by the delegate of the United Kingdom. We have the problem of raising the standards of teachers, espe- cially teachers from the relatively under-privileged portions of communities in many countries. That is a genuine problem, which is being dealt with by various governments and peoples of the world and by Unesco, so far as it is related to other aspects of the Organization's work. I am very happy to learn from the delegate of South Africa that rapid progress is being made in that direction. As for the other problem of equal pay for equal work, that is the point of this motion and, since it is not calling for equal pay for unequal work, the difficulties raised by the delegate of South Africa do not apply to this present motion at all. I think, therefore, that we can still pass this resolution without being concerned with any of the difficulties raised so far. That is why I continue to support this resolution, after hearing and understanding the difficulties raised by the delegates of South Africa and the United Kingdom. The CHAIRMAN : I have had put before me an amendment proposed by the United Kingdom, which would perhaps solve this particular problem and help people who believe in the proposal and have found some difficulty with the French resolution. I will read it to you : « That Unesco, in inviting the teachers’ organiza- tions to prepare drafts of the Charter, should recommend :» And then follows the principle proposed by the French delegation. Would any of the speakers down on the list — New Zealand, Venezuela, United States, Brazil — object to the United Kingdom delegation moving this amendment now? If none of these delegations has any objection to priority being given to the United Kingdom delegation, the United Kingdom delegation will move this amendment. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : I hope that the so-called amendment we have submitted to the Conference will not be treated as such, but that the French delegation will accept it. It is rather unfor- tunate that in this discussion we have tended to deal with matters of major principle, which I understood were completely settled by Unesco at the First General Conference. The questions of equality of treatment between races, between colours, between people of different religions and sexes, seem to me to have been settled already for us, and we ought not to be here unless we adhere to those principles. — 318 —    Our question was concerned with procedure and not with principle. Weare in agreement with the prin- ciple, and the time for Unesco to determine what ought to go into the Charter should be when the drafts of the Charter are submitted from the teachers’ organizations. We are therefore prepared to agree that : Unesco, in inviting the teachers’ organizations to prepare drafts of the Charter, should recommend that the principles which it is its task to propagate and preserve,are fully observed and, especially, that no bar, founded on distinction of race, colour, sex or religion, should operate in any way in any branch of the teaching profession. That would help us out of a difficulty, if the Confe- rence were prepared to accept our suggestion. The CHAIRMAN : Would the French delegation be prepared to accept this, or would they prefer to treat it as an amendment? Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation is glad to see that there is unanimous agreement on the principle and that the only question is one of expediency. We think this question will be solved by paragraph 3 of Article I of the Unesco Constitution. The questions raised could not, therefore, conflict with the prin- ciples we are trying to establish. We agree with the United Kingdom delegation’s proposed amendment. This amendment simply confirms the principle that Unesco must act in agree- ment with the professional organizations. In the wording proposed by the United Kingdom the principles of equality between races, colours, lan- guages and religions are safeguarded. The draft also affirms the principles, which we have maintained, of co-operationВр Unesco and the professional organizations. The French delegation accepts the wording proposed by the United Kingdom’ delega- tion. The CHAIRMAN : Does the delegate of China, who, I think, seconded the motion, accept this variation? If so, the new form becomes the original motion. Do those who previously put down their names still wish to speak? I would draw your attention to the fact that time is going very rapidly and that we have not got through a great deal of our programme yet. It would be of great help if delegates would make their speeches as brief as possible. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : At the risk of delaying the meeting, I am speaking because I am one of a very, very small body represented in this great educational organization. Iam a real teacher, I would like to thank my Government for giving me the opportunity, as a practising teacher, of being present at this great educational meeting. I will be brief. I want to speak on two points : first, because New Zealand is a country which has long anticipated the principles that are being argued this morning. Our Maori peoples are our equals. They work with us; they play with us; they study with us; they fight with us; and they sit in our Legislature and govern with us. We have had a Maori Acting Prime Minister of New Zealand; we have had a wonderful Maori Minister for Public Health. So we have anti- cipated what is asked here, and we have a right to speak and to agree with those principles and not to be challenged if we raise a point. As a teacher, may I say how glad I am that the French delegation has agreed to that modification, which I can now find it within my conscience to support. Had they not done so, I, as a represen- tative of a nation which has already fully adopted those principles, would have had to vote against the motion, because I believe it would have been almost an insult to the intelligence of the people I represent to dictate to them what they should put in their Charter. I believe — and I thank France for accept- ing the proposal — that they will gladly accept the suggestion that these matters be taken into conside- ration and that they will no doubt include these principles in their Charter. Srita. Elvira ZULOAGA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish) : The Venezuelan delegation most warmly supports the French resolution, one worthy of that country which first drew up a declaration of the rights of man. I wish to supportit most warmly, not only as a member of my delegation, but as a woman. The delegate of Panama has expressed much better than I can what Latin-America thinks of racial, sex or religious discrimination but, as a woman and one belonging to a country in which women have the right to vote and the same civic and other rights as men, I want to express the hope that these conditions may prevail throughout the world, and especially the principle of equality of women with men in the teaching profession. It is only when in this, the finest profession ofall, there is no diseri- mination whatsoever of race, sex or religion, that it will be possible for the regions of darkness to become regionsof light throughout the world. Dr. Howard E. WILSON (United States of Ame- rica) : The delegation of the United States stands firmly in support of the principles of human dignity regardless of race, colour or creed, because these conditions have no bearing on the essential equality of human beings. The principles enunciated in the French resolution are inherent in our national Consti- tution as well as in the Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution of Unesco, to which we all so heartily subscribe. We see no discord between the resolution from the Working Party, which has already — 349 —    been adopted, and the amended resolution now before us. We trust the teachers of the world, who have been among Unesco's earnest supporters, will prepare and present to us on a later occasion a great Charter in harmony with the principles which have been so eloquently defended here this morning. Those principles, which none of us has yet attained on the highest level, are yet the goals to which we all subscribe. Because that is so, we support the proposed French resolution. We salute the modifi- cation proposed by the delegation of the United Kingdom and the spirit in which that modification was accepted by the French, and we urge that the question before us be put to the vote. Prof. M. B. LOURENCO FILHO (Brazil) (Trans- lationfrom the Spanish) : The delegation of Brazil was the first to declare its agreement with the French resolution. It did so because the political consti- tution of my country lays down the same fundamental principles of equality by which the French motion is inspired. Although this Constitution establishes every form of freedom of expression, it nevertheless limits that freedom when it might accentuate diffe- rences of race, colour and religion. There is no liberty for injustice. We are convinced that the declaration made by the delegate of the Union of South Africa is mistaken ; it confuses cultural equality with racial equality. I can understand that equality among men should be based on cultural equality, but once there is cultural equality there should be complete equality in every field. In these circum- stances, the Brazilian delegation fully supports the French motion as amended by the United Kingdom delegation. Dr. Herminio RODRIGUEZ (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegation of Cuba, profoundly moved by the resolution submitted by France, that great country which proclaimed the rights of man and of the citizen, wholeheartedly supports that resolution, especially as the Constitution of the Republic of Cuba proclaims the sacred principles of absolute and complete equality of religion, sex and race. It is one of the great goals of this Conference and the society in which we live, that complete and absolute equality should reign in the domain of education, science and culture, and that education, science and culture should recognize no barriers nor any kind of discrimination. Therefore we of the Cuban delegation support the French resolution. The CHATRMAN : Does anyoneelse wish to speak to this resolution ? If not, I shall put it to the meeting. If no one is opposed, I take it that this resolution is now passed. ©) #) In final form : Resolution 3.11.1. vol. 1], page 21. We now come to the second resolution by France in document 2C/C1/7. At the bottom of the page in the English text, the second paragraph of Section
1. I take it that the French delegation would have it begin with the words «Unesco will assemble...» or rather that it should be : The Director-General be instructed to assemble all rele- vant information concerning the material position of teachers in the various countries (such as the purchasing power of salaries, comparison of teachers’ salaries with the salaries of the various types of state servants, conditions of promo- tion, maximum number of years of service, security of tenure) and their intellectual situation (the intellectual and social position of teachers, status of the profession). Is there anyone who seconds this ? Seconded by the delegate of Belgium. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to it ? If no one is opposedto it, we may take it that that second resolution of the French delegation is also passed). The French delegation has no more points dealing with the Teachers’ Charter. We are still on Chapter I. C, paragraph 1, of document 20/3. The United Kingdom delegation had already put in certain reso- lutions just following the French. Some of the points appear to be covered by the French proposals, but there may be others. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : We wish to raise the question of a conference in 1948. This matter was discussed by the Working Party, but no decision was reached. In the opinion of the United Kingdom delegation there is now no need to call a conference of teachers in 1948, since there is bound to be a time-lag between calling upon teachers’ orga- nizations to prepare the Charter, and the submission of the Charter to the Unesco Secretariat. Therefore I would like to move that no conference be called in
1948 and that a decision be deferred until our next General Conference. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. The delegate of France secondsit and it is supported by the United States of America and Denmark. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? Does anyone oppose it ? If not, I take it that the resolution proposed by the United Kingdom is passed. There are no further resolutions before the Chair at the moment on paragraph 1 of Chapter LC. Is there anyone who wishes to raise any further motions on that ? If not, we pass to the first paragraph for which we have papers before us, which is paragraph 9 ; the relevant report from the Working Party is document
2C/C/3. There is some difficuity here : I under- stand that there is another Working Party on govern- ment and community support for the arts which () In final form : Resolution 3.11.3. ; vol. Il, page 21. — 350 —    will want to say something on this. I would suggest therefore that, if the Chairman of that Working Party wishes to make any remarks concerning para- graph 6 before he makes his report, he should do so now. Chapter I.C. 6. — The Rôle of the Arts in General Education. Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : With regard to the rôle of the arts in general education, the Working Party reached deci- sions, which are set out in its Report, and the French delegation has also submitted a number ofproposals. These proposals are very largely in line with the Working Party's decisions. We are in a position to discuss the matter as the documents have been sub- mitted to the General Committee. The CHAIRMAN : The French resolution is in document 2C/C1/7, but, in accordance with the ruling I gave earlier, I am giving priority to anyone who wishes to move a resolution contained in the Report of the Working Party. Perhaps the French delegation would bring up its proposals following those. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : The Brazilian delegation would like to substitute for paragraph 6 of Chapter I. C. the Working Party’s recommen- dations contained in document 2C/C/3, reserving the right to amend those recommendations. The CHAIRMAN : We shall get ourselves into some difficulty if we give the right to amend. I think I must give the first priority to anyone who wishes to move the resolution as it stands. A slight amendment might not matter much, but we might later on get an amendment which would alter com- pletely the proposal of the Working Party. If you want to make an amendment to a proposal of the Working Party, you should let someone else movethe resolution first and then move your amendment as an amendment to that. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : T am merely pro- posing that paragraph 6 of Chapter I. C. in document
20/3, should be replaced by the recommendations
1, 2 and 3 submitted by the Working Party in document 2C/C/3. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you. That is seconded by the delegate of the United Kingdom. If the delegate of Brazil will look at paragraph 6, he will notice that it is in two parts, one dealing with the arts, and the second with science. I assume he means to replace only the first half. That is so. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : On a point of wording, Mr. Chairman, I take it that this is one motion with three paragraphs. In paragraph 2, would the mover and seconder be prepared to have, instead of the second word « Unesco», the words «the Director-General» ? The CHAIRMAN : I think we shall get into confu- sion if we take all three paragraphs at once. We will take them seratim. We now take paragraph 1, which begins : « That the conference suggested be not held...». It will have’ to be re-drafted, of course, but you know what it means. That is moved and seconded. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? Does anyone wish to oppose it ? The delegate of Belgium wishes to speak. M. Louis VERNIERS (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : Is there not a mistake in the drafting of paragraph 1 ? What is the conference in ques- tion ? Is it not rather an enquiry, which we are suggesting should not be made ? The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Belgium is quite correct; it is not clear in itself. If you turn back to the previous page, you will find the words «The Working Party has considered the enquiry...» (into the role of the arts, presumably) «which was prepared as directed by the 1946 Conference and sent for comment to Member States together with the memorandum suggesting a conference in 1948. The Working Party takes the view that the procedure is not that best designed to produce at an early date a programme of concrete proposals and therefore recommends :» The resolution as put is not self-contained, but, if you understand what it means,it can be altered by the Drafting Committee. Is it quite clear ? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : At this stage, Mr. Chairman, I feel compelled to ask to what Member States the enquiry was addressed. Australia to my knowledge, has not heard anything about this enquiry. I wonder if the Secretariat could give us any advice on that ? The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : It has been sent out to all Governments. I can only assume that, owing to the distance,it did not arrive in time. It was sent out about seven weeks ago to all Member Govern- ments. The CHAIRMAN : The resolution is before you. Does anyone wish to speak on it, or is anyone opposed toit ? I take it then that Resolution 1, in document
20/C/3, is passed. 3) ©) In final form : Resolution 3.14.1.1, ; vol. II, page 21. — 351 — " Н Н G E a E usA C L L A a i s = = E n s x E e e U B E D A    Resolution 2. The delegate of Australia. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : My suggestion is an amendment of a word ; that «Director-General » be substituted for «Unesco» in the first line. The CHAIRMAN : It is a question of what is actually meant by the Working Party. I do not know whether they mean Unesco in the sense of these words, or whether they mean we are instructing the Director-General to urge. Has Dr. Chagas any comment to make on that ? Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : I think the propo- sal is a very good one, and the Drafting Committee could putit into final form,since it is merely a ques- tion of wording. The CHAIRMAN : Obviously, if this Conference instructs the Director-General to urge, then this Conferenceisitself urging. The Drafting Committee can make this point clear; we all know what it means. Does anyone wish to speak to this, or is anyone opposed ? Carried. (* Recommendation 3. There is a misprint in the English version in the second last line. «Lists of available recording» in the plural, not the singular. Does anyone wish to speak to this ? — Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : I would urge, if this is passed, that the Secretariat give this first priority. I think there is no finer way by whicn we could get the work of Unesco right downto the people we want to get it to — that is, the children in the schools, and persons concerned with the practice of education — than by some services such as these. 1 think all delegates who have been in this beautiful city and seen its wonderful culture would agree that they would like to have an example of that in their own country; it would do a very great deal to draw attention of countries to the cultures of other coun- tries and promote international understanding, if this could be implemented and given priority. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to speak to this ? Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : We are very much in favour of this third recommendation and, if it is adopted, we shall with- draw the French proposal, which was chiefly intended to emphasize the need for establishing contacts be- tween the different countries. We stress the value for international understanding, as well as for the culture of each country, of developing and promoting interchange between all countriesin the fields of the plastic arts, dancing, music, and everything which is a direct expression of the feeling of the people of ® In final’ orm : Resolution 3.14.2; vol. Il, page 21. each country, so that there may thus be created a worldwide fellowship based on easthetic appreciation. We therefore emphasize the necessity of asking the Secretariat to promote such exchanges between the various countries in the coming year. The exchanges might at first take the form of art exhibitions and exhibitions of drawings. We have already seen, from experiments made by certain countries, what a great effect may be produced by exhibitions of children’s drawings, for example, gathered together from as many regions as possible and interesting not only to adults but to the children themselves. The different interpretations which may be given in different parts of the world, of certain natural and social phenomena — such as war, ete. — are of great importance for the creation of understanding between the peoples of the various countries. We therefore support this motion and, if it is adopted and recog- nized as important, we will withdraw the French resolution. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyoneelse wish to speak to this motion? Is anyone opposed to it? Dr. E. A. KREIKEN (Netherlands) : I would like to ask the Commission whether they have consi- dered the budgetary implication of this proposal. The CHAIRMAN: Is there anyone who wishes to speak to that? I assume we must always bear in mind the budge- tary implications of everything we pass. If not, I sincerely hope the Budget Sub-Commission will bring them to our minds at the earliest possible moment. Prof. Henri WALLON (France) (Translation from the French) : 1 think there are certain measures in our proposal which would not involve any very serious financial consequences. For example,if the Secretariat arranges exhibitions in the various coun- tries of children’s drawings from other countries, no very great expenditure is necessary. As regards the exchange of films or records, it is obviously necessary to know how the scheme is to be ar- ranged. It isa different matter if Unesco is to under- take to collect such films and records, but that is not what we have asked. We have recommended that the different countries should be asked to deve- lop the reproduction, by recordings and films, of folk-songs and dances; the Secretariat would then merely have to promote the exchange of these pro- ductions between the various countries. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to speak to this motion, or does anyone oppose? If not, that motion is carried. (5) ©) In final form : Resolution 3.14.1.2; vol. Il, page 21. — 859 —    Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : When I presented my motion, you asked if it referred only to the first part of paragraph 6. The second part begins : «to initiate plans for a similar enquiry into the rôle of science in general education», and I would like to move this enquiry should be undertaken. I there- fore move that the second part of paragraph 6 should be retained. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : I understood, Mr. Chairman, you gave the ruling that we should discuss in the Green Book only those projects which had been considered by Working Parties. I submit that this is out of order because it concerns material which has not been considered by a Working Party. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : When I rose to speak, it was because the Chairman said that only the first part of this paragraph 6 was included in the Working Party report; I therefore thought that T could speak on the second part. The CHATRMAN : The second part is not on the agenda of any Working Party, and therefore we cannot expect to receive a report on it from anyone. Therefore, Dr. Chagas is in order. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : We would support the retention of the item referring to an enquiry into the rôle of science in education. The delega- tion of Brazil supports and insists on any opportu- nity for education in science and diffusion of science. Weare afraid that the wave of fear of science which is spreading over many countries and masses of people in our modern world will spread more and will invade this assembly. That would mean failure for our Organization, because it is our belief that one of the best channels for mutual understanding must be scientific co-operation and education. Science is one of the best tools to better human conditions and to bring hope and relief for suffering. We must face the fact that malnutritionat presentis a danger, because production is falling off. The danger of science comes from misapprehension, and we know the present situation will not alleviate this, but failure to understand will be much more dangerous. The actual realization of any scientific programme will bring results which will impress governments. Emphasis on mass information regarding the social implications of scientific education appears to us a necessary programme, not only to improve human conditions in a short time but also to raise the standards of our civilization. The fear of science will drive science to the only people it can serve, namely to governments, and I fear that, there, science may be developed in the cause of destruction and wars. If this happens, there will be times of bloodshed and revolution, but it is our duty to control this situation by all possible means. As I see it, education through science will be one of our ways. In stating its fears, the Brazilian delegation wants to stress again its opinion that science is and can be as usefulfor preserving peace as any other means, and we wish to see a distribution of our funds according to the efficiency of each project. We are running a programme; let us keep it balanced so that fear of science does not influence our goodwill. That is why I think that in this Chapter I. C. we should provide an opportunity to expand scientific and cultural education, and therefore I put this amendment. The CHAIRMAN : The motion before the Com- mittee is the second half of paragraph'6 : «that Unesco initiate: plans for a similar inquiry into the rôle of science in general education », ete. Does any- one second that? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I would like to second it, if thefmover does not object to reformu- lation.. My proposed reformulation is in the fol- lowing terms : That the Director-General be instrueted, in collaboration with the International Bureau of Education, to invite Mem- ber States to submit general statements on the role of science in general education 1n their communities. My reason for suggesting this is that I fear another questionnaire, I would like to suggest that in this case it will assist the Secretariat in formulating a later questionnaire, and assist Member States, if the motion can be adopted in this way. Would the mover be prepared to accept that? The CHAIRMAN : It is moved and seconded in its new form. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : May I say, Sir, that this would be an excellent method? The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to speak? Dr. Howard E. WILSON (United States of Ame- rica) : The United. States delegation is wholly in accord with the statements made about the impor- tance of science in education. We should like to have the promotion of an investigation in this field in exactly the same way as the work in the field of Arts. We would oppose very much the allocation of Unesco funds to the International Bureau of Educa- tion for this enterprise. We understand that there is in the Budget a sizable amount — several thou- sand dollars — to be allocated to the Bureau for this — 353 —
33    enterprise. We would support the resolution pro- posed, if all reference to the International Bureau of Education were removed. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I think there is ‘a misunderstanding. I have not looked at the Budget item on this, but it was not my intention that it should involve much expenditure. My hope was that we should relieve the Secretariat of what in this case would not be a very onerous job — the writing of letters. The Australian: Government is anxious that, where there is an organization which can carry out preliminary enquiries of this kind (in view of what we have seen of the difficulties of re- cruitment which face the Director-General and the difficulties of the Secretariat), work should be handed out to them; that where there is a reputable bureau it should do the work. I do not know how this applies with regard to the item which was presu- mably put into the budget in the same section. Dr. Howard E. WILSON (United States of Ame- rica) : We believe that a matter of principle is at stake. The International Bureau of Education is a second inter-governmental bureau working in the field which 1s properly Unesco’s. We believe it is not appropriate for this organization ‘to ‘grant money to another organization to do work which is more appropriately to be done (and probably in the end better done) by the larger, the more im- portant, inter-governmental organization. If this enquiry could be allocated to non-govern- mental organizationsin the field of science, we should be entirely glad to support it. It is a matter of principle respecting the International Bureau of Education on which we are speaking. I would repeat that if that mention is dropped, we can support your proposal. The CHAIRMAN : That is a matter for the mover and the seconder to decide. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : Before deciding, I want just to say that our emphasis in putting science in that position is due to the importance we attach to it in bettering human conditions. The Brazilian delegation feels very strongly that its place is in Chapter I and especially in Chapter I. C. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I have had an opportunity to discuss this with the mover, and without going into the question of principle on this particular issue — which I think is trifling because our proposal is only for a general enquiry — I would be prepared to modify these points. That does not mean, however, that we necessarily accept the gen- eral principles proposed by the United ‘States. The CHAIRMAN : The words «in collaboration with the International Bureau of Education» are withdrawn. Mr, R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : It would be a great help to this Conference, Sir, if we could have an authoritative statement from the platform as to the relationship between the International Bureau of Education and Unesco. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : May I move that the point put by the representative of the United Kingdom should come after the decision taken upon paragraph 6, because we have already dropped the reference to the International Bureau of Education. The CHAIRMAN : I think the delegate of Brazil is quite right. There is nothing to do with the Inter- national Bureau of Education before this meeting now. If the delegate of the United Kingdom wishes to raise the matter at any other appropriate time, he may do so. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : I submit to you that there may be delegations here who, if they had the full facts, might want to include the refer- ence to the International Bureau of Education. We at the moment are undecided because the facts are not before us. The CHAIRMAN : Would the delegate of Brazil have any objection? Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) : On the contrary. As a scientist I feel that any kind of knowledge 18 very useful! The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I will furnish full information about our relationship with the Inter- national Bureau of Education before the time at which the matter will come up in principle. The question which is at stake is whether a grant-in-aid which we made to them last year should be conti- nued next year, so I do not think it is relevant at this present stage to bring the matter up. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : Do I under- stand then, Sir, that the proposal which the Secre- tariat put into the Green Book is not now being sup- ported? The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : It is not a question of whetherit is supported or not, but I understand that this proposal about aid to the International Bureau of Education will be a matter of considerable discussion. There are certain delegations, I under- stand, who are opposed to continuing that aid. Therefore, until that matter comes up, I do not think we should insert the International Bureau of Edu- cation in this resolution. — 354 —    The CHAIRMAN : If the United Kingdom dele- gation wishes to have it discussed at this point, his method, I think, is to re-introduce the words which have been cut out. Otherwise a general discussion is not possible now, because I under- stand that the whole matter of the relationship with the I. B. E. is under consideration in the External Relations Commission. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : Sir, I had no desire to raise the question of the financial relation- ship between the International Bureau of Educa- tion and Unesco. I simply wanted to know why the Secretariat included in their recommendations the suggestion that Unesco should work with the International Bureau of Education on this specific project, and so far there has been no answer to that question. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : We had assumed that the relationship this year would continue and that, if so, the tion Bureau would be the right body to co-operate with Unesco on the project. As we now understand that the whole question whether Unesco's relationship with the Bureau shall continue-on the same lines is going to come up, we think it better to leave that sub judice at the moment. It would be perfectly possible, if we have a financial relationship with the; Inter- national Bureau of Education this year, to ask them to undertake part of the work for usin return for the grant which we give, but we cannot do that un- less there is that financial relationship, and that is a matter which has not yet been decided. Mr. R. GOULD (United Kingdom) : On that under- standing, Sir, we are quite prepared to accept. the resolution. i The CHAIRMAN : Is there any other discussion on this resolution? Does anyone oppose it? If not, the resolution is passed. (©) If there is no further business, we stand adjourned until 4 o’clock this afternoon. EThe meeting rose at 1.35 p. m. © In’final form : Resolution 3.15; vol. II, pagef21. EIGHTH MEETING Saturday, 15 November 1947, at 4 p. m. CONTENTS Chapter ILA. Chapter I. C. 3. Chapter I. C. 5. Chapter I. C. 9. — Exchange of Persons — Equivalence of Degrees — Educational Opportunities open to Women — Experimental Production Centres for Films Chapter I. C. 10. — Preservation of Folk-Arts Chapter I. C. 11. — Collaboration in Study of Vocational Guidance Chairman : Dr. G. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). Chapter II. A. — Exchange of Persons. The CHAIRMAN : The business before the meeting this afternoon is Chapter II A of the Green Book, document 2C/3, on the Exchange of Persons. You have a document before you, 2C/D/2, which is the Report of Working Party D, Exchange of Per- sons. According to my ruling this morning, in- — 355 terpreting the will of the Commission, I shall call first upon anyone who wishes to move motions ‘in terms of this document. I understand the delegate of Czechoslovakia wishes to do so. Dr. Miroslav HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) : I move that the resolution in this document be accepted.