TENTH MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) The GHAIRMAN proposed that a general exchange of views regarding the progress of the Conference should be deferred to the following day, as Dr. Beeby, Chairman of the Programme and Budget Gommis- sion, was not present. He submitted for discussion Item I of the agenda. ñ. Drait proposal of the delegation of Poland. The text of the resolution was read in English by the Secretary. The CHAIRMAN observed that there were two problems to consider as regards this resolution :
(1) whether it was within the terms of reference of the Conference; (2) if so, to which part of the Conference it should be referred. As he had already said a few words on the resolu- tion the preceding Saturday, M. DROHOJOWSKI {Pad yielded his place to the delegate of anada. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) wished to mention that the few remarks he had made in the Programme and Budget Commission had been on a point of proce- dure. He proceeded to explain the background of the resolution. During the war, certain Polish articles had been brought to Canada, but had not been entrusted to the Canadian Government. The Canadian Government had never had the articles in its possession, it did not have them at the present time and it did not know where they were. It was, however, prepared to assist the Polish Govern- ment in recovering them in so far as possible within the laws of Canada. According to those laws, Canada had not the power to locate the articles and restore them to the Polish Government. To do this, it would have to establish the fact of possession and pass judgment on the right of property of the present Polish Government. Secondly, it would have to execute that judgement. In Canada, the pronounce- ment of judgment belonged to the courts of law and the execution of judgement to the officers of the law. He pointed out that the Polish Government had the same recourse to law as anyone else, includ- ing the Canadian Government itself, to recoverits property. This was a question of the domestic jurisdiction of Canada and he considered that it was ultra vires of the present Conference. If Unesco acted as the Polish delegation requested, it would be acting outside the Charters of the United Nations and Unesco and would do Unesco great harm, The Canadian Government objected to the reso- lution, because it implied that the Canadian Govern- ment did not enforce property rights and, if urged by Unesco, could do more than it had done or even go beyond the laws of the country. The question involved different conceptions of the powers of the State, which he hoped the Committee would not dis- cuss. At the request of the Chairman, he put his point of view into a formal motion : « That the draft resolution of the Polish delegation was ultra vires of the Gonference». M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) re-iterated what he had said ‘the preceding Saturday, that the General Committee was not competent to discuss the merits of any resolution, although it was empowered to direct resolutions to the appropriate part of the Confe- rence. He did not, therefore, intend to discuss the merits of the problem. The Polish delegation objee- ted to the situation whereby for the last two years they had been unable to recover the property of the Polish State and Nation. When the Resolution had been presented to the Chairman of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, the delegate of Canada had taken a definite stand, and at that mo- ment the Polish delegate had not been permitted to introduce his resolution. The General Committee was not strictly a legal body and he wished to give them the human angle of the question. In Poland, a great deal of reconstruction of museums had been done, wherein they had been helped by the oceu- pying authorities in Germany; they had been helped by the authorities of Soviet Russia, who had returned to them certain articles taken by the Germans and — 259 —
17.   even others taken by Czarist Russia. Yet they were unable to recover these articles in Canada. He did not claim that they had been entrusted to the Cana- dian Government, but he thought Unesco and the Canadian Government should help Poland to recover them. Professors and students in Poland, living in conditions of extreme hardship, had sent to Unesco a representative of their cultural world, the Rector of Warsaw University. He had been prepared to introduce the resolution, but had not been permitted to do so, and this had caused a painful reaction in university circles, which were the best friends of Unesco. The delegate of Canada had said that to discuss such a resolution would be a disservice to Unesco, but Polish university circles were expecting active help from Unesco. He was not proposing to discuss the merits of the case at the present meeting, but regardless of merits, thought the resolution should be directed to a part of the Conference where the Polish delegation could take a stand. He stated emphatically that they were quite familiar with Canadian law and would not try to discuss whether the Canadian political structure was correct or not, and they did not intend to raise any question which would strain their very friendly relations with the Canadian Government. The CHAIRMAN read point 3 of Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure : The functions of the General Committee are to consider requests for additional items to be put on the agenda and make a report on this subject to the General Conference. He pointed out that they were considering the request of the Polish delegation and had to report on it to the Conference. When the resolution had been submitted to the Programme and Budget Com- mission, the delegate of Canada had risen on a point of order and the Chairman had been within his rights to rule that the resolution be referred to the General Committee. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) had had the privilege of admiring the beautiful tapestries in question in Cracow before the war and would like to see them back there. He was sure that the delegate of Canada shared this view. He understood that the Polish Government had not brought suit before the Canadian Courts, which might be regrettable, but he submitted that it was not for Unesco to advise the Polish Government to bring suit. If later suits were brought by the Polish Government, it was not for Unesco to interfere in the legal process. It was an Anglo-Saxon principle, and indeed a principle of all jurists, that jurisdiction was completely independent, and it would be abso- lutely contrary to that principle if Unesco tried to influence the Canadian judges. He therefore thought it would be both improper and a waste of precious time for Unesco to take up the resolution, and secon- ded the motion of the delegate of Canada. He wished to end where he had begun by saying that he hoped the Polish Government would retrieve the articles. Mr. HARDMAN}! (United | Kingdom)! supported the views of the delegates of the United States of America and Canada. He considered it was within the competence of the General Committee to decide whether the resolution was ultra vires of the Confe- rence or not and thought they could take a straight vote on It. M. ABOUKATER (Lebanon) considered that it would be against Unesco’s charter for the Conference to make a resolution one way or the other or to make recommendations to the Canadian Government. The matter was within the compe- tence of the Canadian tribunals, to which the Polish Government could appeal. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), sym- pathizing with the delegate of Poland, pointed out that under its constitution Unesco was prohibited from interfering in the domesticjurisdiction of Member States. He therefore supported the delegate of Canada. The delegate of CHINA also considered it a purely internal matter and thought they should recommend to the General Conference that it was not within its competence. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) repeated that he would not discuss the merits of the case, but the dele- gates of the United States of America and Canafa had entered into them and he thought it would be most re- grettable if the Polish delegation was denied the right of expressing an opinion. He therefore begged thet the matter should be postponed until the following day, in order that he might reply to Canada and the United States of America, putting forward certain others matters not yet mentioned. The opinion of the CHAIRMAN was that the motion of the delegate of Canada was in order, but that a vote should not be taken on it until the delegate of Poland had been given an opportunity to speak. He therefore ruled that the matter should be held over until the next day. The meeting rose at 1 1.10 a. m.