NINTH MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947, at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Pages. Chapter II. B. 2. a. — Commission on Technical Needs in Mass Communication. 371 Chapter IL B. 1. — Removal of Obstacles to the Free Flow of Ideas Chairman : Dr. C. CHAGAS (Brazil). The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : The agenda for to-day provides for the consideration of Chapter I C.7 of the Green Book. The Working Party’s report has not yet been distributed and I shall therefore postpone the discussion of that item until this afternoon, when we shall have the neces- sary paper before us. Dr. William G. CARR (United States of America) : The United States delegation would like to intro- duce for your consideration two resolutions, which we think are in general related to the subject-matter of Chapter I. C. of the 1948 Programme : increas- ing opportunities for education, science and cul- ture. We would be glad, Sir, if you would either tell us that these resolutions may be discussed now or, if you prefer, make a ruling indicating at what point in our programme they might most appro- priately be discussed. Our difficulty and uncertainty arise from the fact that these resolutions apply not only to Chapter I. C. but in part to other sections of the 1948 Programme that are concerned with education. They are both very short, and if I may, I will read them. The first resolution reads : The Director-General is instructed to call together a meet- ing of University leaders to promote plans for the develop- ment of an international association of universities, the promo- tion of education on international relations within universities and closer co-ordination of university activities within the general Unesco programme. The second resolution reads : The Director-General is instructed to make arrangements for educational missions to be sent to Member States for survey, consultation and advice on the re-organization of educational systems, particularly in war-devastated areas, and on the deve- lopment of educational plans and practices intended to increase international understanding. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : In view of the extreme importance of Chapter I. A, I should say that these resolutions might very well be considered with that Chapter. Then again, Chapter IIT deals with education for international understanding, and it might be advisable to discuss them when that subject is under consideration. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) ; The French delegation entirely agrees with the procedure you have just mentioned, but we wonder,in view of the importance and the inter- est of the motions just submitted by the United States delegation, whether we should not refer them to the competent Working Party, that is, the Working Party on Education. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : I agree with the French delegation that the United States proposals are extremely important and I shall refer them fo the Working Party. The Working Party on Education will have time to consider these resolutions and give us their opinion on them, but there is no need for us to wait for this before dis- cussing the question. Sr. G. H. RODRIGUEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : T should like to ask the Chairman and this assembly, on behalf of the Mexican delegation, whether the proposal which I submitted at the first meeting of this Programme and Budget Com- mission will appear on the agenda for to-day, to- morrow or at some other appropriate time. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Will the delegate of Mexico let me know exactly what the proposal in question was? — 367 —    Sr. G. H. RODRIGUEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : It was submitted on the first day and was handed to the Secretary of this Commission in Spanish, English and French. The CHAIRMAN (Translationfrom the French) : That proposal, which relates to the re-organization of education to bring about better international under- standing, will be discussed under Chapter III. A — it is on the agenda. The Director-General tells me that, as this is an extremely important proposal, it should also be submitted to a Working Party, so that the technical side of the matter may be studied in detail. Weshall now turn to Chapter ILB. A Working Party report concerning paragraph IL.B.1.a. is at present being prepared, and we shall therefore postpone discussion of that section until this af- ternoon. Now we will pass to paragraph b. Have dele- gates any resolutions to submit concerning this paragraph? It has not been referred to any Work- ing Party. If there is no motion, I will proceedto c, and para- graph b is dropped from the programme. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE’(United States of America) : We expected that the introduction of this Section and Chapter would be deferred until the Rappor- teur’s report was presented to the Programme Com- mission; that report sets the whole tone for this discussion. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : I was informed by the Secretariat that paragraph b was not sent to any Working Party. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : Item b comes within the jurisdiction of the Working Party on Free Flow of Ideas. The question was raised by myself in that Working Party at two meet- ings, and on both occasions I was told that the subject would be discussed at a subsequent meeting of that Party. Two further meetings are scheduled, and I should like, therefore, to request that consi- deration of that item be postponed until it has been given attention by the Working Party. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : 1 agree; we will postpone discussion of paragraph b until we have a report from the Working Party. We pass now to item c for which we have received a report from the Working Party, document 2C/H/6. Mr. F. A. HARDY (Canada) : Mr. Chairman, on Friday last, the Working Party on Libraries drew up a list of priorities for their recommendations. That list is to be printed in a document 2C/H/9, which will probably be ready for distribution this afternoon. I should like to move that discussion on these recommendations be postponed. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : The motion of the delegate of Canada is seconded by Brazil and supported by the United States of America. Discussion on paragraph с 18 therefore postponed until this afternoon. We pass now to item d, which has not been ex- amined by any Working Party. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, paragraph d again comes within the competence of the Working Party on Free Flow of Ideas. There has been a general agreement within the Working Party on it, which will be reported in the Rapporteur’s report when thatis read. I would therefore request that this, too, be postponed until the report of the Rapporteur is available. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : The motion of the United States to adjourn the dis- cussion on item d is seconded by Cuba. Discussion on paragraph d will, therefore, be adjourned until we obtain the report of the Working Party. So far as item e is concerned, the Working Party on Copyright will meet to-morrow or the day after to-morrow, and should have its report ready by Friday. I would remind delegates that they have in their hands document 2C/37, a report of the Committee of Experts which studied the rôle of Unesco in relation to copyright. Their recommen- dationsare supplemented by a working plan submit- ted by the Director-General in document 20/37. I suggest that the Programme and Budget Commis- sion should consider, at to-day’s meeting, the general policy to be adopted regarding this question and pass a resolution based on document 26/37. This will allow the experts on copyrightto take advantage of the Working Party to discuss with the Secretariat the preparation of the plan of action and the ways in which the various Member States may assist in implementing the programme by providing infor- mation. I have been told that a preliminary resolution has already been prepared, and I therefore ask the dele- gates if they would agree to pass on, without the Working Party's report, taking as a working paper document 2C/37, which contains the results of the work of a Committee of Experts and has been pre- pared by the Secretariat. Dr. Natalio CHEDIAK (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : I asked to speak, notin order to oppose the excellent suggestion which has been made, but simply to request that the same procedure be fol- lowed as has been applied to the other items of the programme which were assigned to Working Parties. — 368 —      To-morrow and the day after the Working Party on Copyright is holding its first meetings; this is a highly technical committee, which will deal with this problem. I therefore ask that this proposal be transmitted to the Working Party on Copyright, so that the work may be co-ordinated and inconsis- tencies in dealing with this matter may be avoided. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : For over a hundred years France has taken all possible measures for the international protection of authors and artists. I would remind you that it was on the initiative of the International Artistic and Literary Association, founded by Victor Hugo, that the first International Convention, the Berne Convention, was prepared and put into effect. My country, therefore, considers it an honour and a duty to be the first to approve and support _ the proposal for an universal Convention on Copy- right. In order to decide on the means and the methods to be used we shall obviously have to await the report of the Working Party. 3 The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : The delegate of France seconds the Cuban delegate’s proposal. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : The United States strongly supports the suggestion of the delegates of Cuba and France, thatthis subject be postponed until the WorkingParty has considered it. It 1s one of extreme complexity and hardly one that can be dealt with adequately in an assembly as large as this. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : I had thought we might have a general discussion here, and wait until later for the technical advice of the experts. Га view of the remarks made by the delegates of Cuba, France and the United States, however, the discussion will be postponed, if there is no objection, until we have the opinion of the experts on this matter. We now pass to paragraph/. We have the Report of the Working Party — document 2C/H/6 — which has been distributed. Mr. F. A. HARDY (Canada) : The remarks I made on Item c apply tof. I should therefore like to move the postponement of discussion on this item. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : The United States of America and France second the motion by the delegate of Canada. Since there is no objection, discussion of paragraph/ is adjourned till this afternoon. Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : For 45 minutes we have been post- poning a number of subjects we hoped to dis- cuss. Would it not be better to discover which items on the agenda we are able to consider ? The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Allow me to remind the delegate of Greece that the Vice-Chairman occupying the Chair has only followed instructions given him by the Chairman, Dr. Beeby; I am only following the wishes of the meeting, which I do not wish to influence in any way. If you wish to postpone the discussion till we have the reports of the Working Parties, the Chairman can do nothing about it. Dr. N. CHEDIAK (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : Thereis a decision of the General Commit- tee of this Conference in Journal No. 9, page 89, paragraph 4, which says : «In order to associate the Working Parties as closely as possible with the work of the Programme and Budget Commission,the latter requests the Working Parties to give priority of consideration to the projects to be examined by the Programme and Budget Commission, and then to consider problems of a general character and the means of implementing the projects already examined by the Conference.» The purpose ofthis decision, I believe,is to divide the work in order to carry it out efficiently, and to avoid duplication or repeated discussion of the questions under consideration. I therefore support the motion of the delegate of Greece, that no pro- gramme matters which are at present being consi- dered in the respective Working Parties should be brought before this Commission until the Working Parties have reached a decision; consequently, those questions which are not referred specifically to the Working Parties should be submitted direct to this Commission; there is no reason against this. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : The Working Party on Libraries is now preparing its report with their recommendations arranged in order of priority. The delegate of Canada therefore thoughtit would be wiser to postpone the discussion until we could consider the various points with the priorities in mind. Under the terms of document 2C/BUR/3, the debates of this Commission are to be adjourned only if unavoidable. Tt is not for the Chair to give a decision when the meeting has already expressed its opinion. We are a democratic body and we should accept the majority opinion. I now turn Chapter II.B.2, paragraph a. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, purely in à spirit of co-operation, and in trying to get a procedure that works, may — 369 —
24    I suggest thatit is completely undesirable to discuss Т.В. 1, П.В 2, or II.B 3 without the report of the Rapporteur of the appropriate Working Party. There was unanimous agreement on the part of the Working Party with respect to this whole field. I understand that report is ready; it has simply not been translated or distributed, because the Working Party did not complete its work until late on Saturday night. Would it not be possible, with the agreement of all delegations here, to have that report read orally, and then to go ahead with this subject ? If there is objection on the part of any delegation, the United States delegation does not wish to press the point, but this seems to me the only way to get ahead in an orderly fashion at the moment. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : First we must discover whether the meeting agrees to replace the distribution of the written report of the Working Party by an oral reading of it. If the Commission is in favour, I have another question : whether we have to go back to Chapter II.B.1 or whether the decision can be applied only to the beginning of Chapter II.B 2, that is II.B 2, para- graph a, on page 13 of the Green Book in English. I submit to the meeting the motion proposed by the United States of America, supported by Canada and Australia, that the written report be replaced by an oral reading, either by the Rapporteur or by the Secretary of the Working Party. Will those in favour please raise their hands? I now submit the question whether we should re-open discussion on all the chapters, or whether this procedure should be applied only to Chap- ter II. B. Will all those in favour of the latter course please raise their hands? Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : I am sorry to interrupt, Mr. Chairman, but, since you do not know the nature of the Rapporteur’s report, I think it is necessary to point out that in that report the subjects involved in II. B. 1 and IL. B. 3 are treated together. The view of the Working Party was that they are intimately related. There is, in addition, a report of the Commission on Tech- nical Needs, which is covered in II. B. 2a. That report is separate from the general report of the Working Party. I am sure, from the point of view of my delegation, it makes no difference which we discuss first, but if I may suggest a re-defining of your question, I think it should be whether IL. B. 2a should be considered, and the report of the Rap- porteur in connexion with that read out, and then whether or not II B. 1 and II B. 3 should be consi- dered more or less together, after the Rapporteur's report on those aspects of the work has been read. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : The question I wish to submit to the meeting 1s whether we can consider paragraph a of Chapter II. B. 2, using as a basis for discussion a report sub- mitted by the Working Party on Mass Communi- cation. We shall then decide whether, after hearing the report, we can re-open discussion on the preceding Chapter. Is the oral report on paragraph a of Chapter II. B. 2 accepted? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I understood the earlier proposal was that the Rapporteur’s report be read. Until that is read, I cannot give any indi- cation of what I would like to do about it afterwards. Can we haveit read first, and then you could submit your question? Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, as the Vice-Chairman of the Working Party which has prepared this Report, I think T can, with confidence, assure this meeting that it would not find it inconvenient if only that part of the Report of the Working Party which deals with this little sub-paragraph at the top of page 13 of the English version of the Programme (ILB. Эа) were read sepa- rately. I think it would confuse this large meeting if the whole Report were read as one continuous document. I believe that what I am now saying is in conformity with the views expressed by the dele- gate of the United States. I think I am also right in saying that you yourself, Sir, have recommended to the meeting that procedure. Therefore my sug- gestion is that we should, without further ado, agree that the Secretariat, in the absence of the Rapporteur, should read that part of the report which deals only with sub-paragraph a. M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : 1 wish to move that we adjourn. We are not ready; the reports are not here. It would be much simpler to adjourn until we have in our hands the documents which we need. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Once more, let me say that the Chairman is only trying to act in accordance with document 2C/BUR/3 and is doing all he can to obtain either the written report of the Working Party or the report of the Rapporteur. I propose that the Secretary of the Working Party on Mass Communication should read that part of the report which deals with paragraph a., as suggested by the delegate of the United Kingdom. — 370 —      Chapter II. B. 2a. — Commission on Technical Needs in Mass Communication. The SECRETARY of the Working Party on Mass Communication : After hearing from the Secretariat a general outline of the proposed programme for 1948, the Working Party considered the Report of the Commission on Technical Needs for 1947 (document 2C/8). The Working Party expressedits appreci- ation of the value of the surveys and of the speed and thoroughness with which they had been made and of the contribution of the Experts who had considered the surveys and formulated the recommendations. The Working Party gave its general approval to the Report and recommended that the scope of the Commission on Tech- nical Needs should be extended to other countries in 1948 on the lines proposed in the Unesco Programme for 1948. The Working Party noted that no expenditure of Unesco funds was envisaged for the implementation of the recom- mendations contained in the Report, with the exception of a contribution towards the creation and maintenance of the proposed International Institute of Press and Information. The Working Party hoped that the Programme and Budget Commission would give a high priority in the programme and budget for 1948 to the extension of the scope of the Commis- sion on Technical Needs, and that the Director-General would allocate a maximum of $ 40,000 in 1948 to provide Unesco's share in the creation of the proposed International Institute of Press and Information, on condition that the necessary addi- tional funds can be found outside Unesco's budget. On the extension of the scope of the Commission in 1948, a number of members stressed the importance of including certain countries of Latin-America, Europe and India, as suggested in the programmefor 1948, and for adding other Far-Eastern countries which had suffered from the war, such as Burma, Indonesia, Malaya, and Thailand. At the second meeting of the Working Party, further consi- deration was given to the recommendations of the Experts contained in the Report, on the financial problems involved in meeting the needs established. In this connexion, consi- deration was also given to a supplementary report on these financial problems prepared by the Secretariat (docu- ment 20/85). At the end ofthe discussion, the Working Party agreed that it approved in principle the proposals contained in the Report for meeting the financial problems and took note of document 2C/85, but expressed no opinion on the detailed suggestionsof either document. The Working Party accepted as the expression of the consensusofits opinion the following proposal from the French member of the Working Party : The Working Party, having examined the relevant docu- ments, states that Unesco is not in a position to devote its own budget to help war-devastated countries in the re-equipment of their mass media. The Working Party is, however, of the opinion that it is essential that Unesco should display the greatest possible imagination in finding meansto finance the help envisaged to-day to countries devastated by the war; to-morrow also to countries whosetechnical equipment leaves much to be desired. The Committee has noted that there are two cases to be envisaged : certain countries that cannot finance entirely the expensesnecessary to reconstruct their mass media equipment, andother countries, perhaps a majority, whoare in a position to meet these expenses, but cannot obtain the necessary foreign currency. While advising each country to resort to international credit organizations, the Working Party considers it is also necessary to seek solutions less traditional and suggests : a. The creation of an assistance fund constituted by donations from private organizations, public institutions and private individuals, so as to help those countries that cannot entirely face these expenses. b. That the Director-General should call on the advice of a restricted commission offinancial experts, whose recom- mendations (in view of the urgency of the help to be provided) will be submitted only to the Executive Board so as to deter- mine within three months what ought to be envisaged, either the floating of a cultural loan (details and conditions of this loan to be determined by the Experts), or assistance, with a provision for direct compensation based on cultural and pro- fessionnal tourism, or, if mecessary, both solutions. The cultural loan or system ofdirect compensatión would be inten- ded to help the countries who only lack the necessary foreign currency, but can finance their reconstruction in their own currency. In the course of the discussion a number of members stressed the importance of finding ways for helping the countries surveyed. The member from the United States of America, speaking personally, supported this. He said that the United States felt a particular obligation to do what it could to help, because it wanted a full and free two-way flow of information between countries, and that he thought that official and private bodies in the United States would consider requests for help sympathetically, provided that the needs of mass communication were co-ordinated with requests to meet other needs, coming from other sections of Unesco and provided that priorities as between various needs were established, preferably by the countries concerned. In this connexion it is noted that at the first meeting of the Working Party, the United Kingdom member of the Working Party suggested that the implementation of the recommendations of the report should be passed to the Reconstruction Section of Unesco. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Has anyone a motion to propose in connexion with the report just read by the Secretary of the Working Party on Mass Communication? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation gives its full approval to the Report and will introduce the recom- mendations as resolutions. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Does any delegation wish to second the French motion? Greece, Czechoslovakia, Belgium and the United States of America. Dr. Encarnación ALZONA (Philippines) : Did I hear the delegate of the United States mention the war-devastated countries of the Far East — Burma and Siam? I heard no mention of my own country at all. I think it should be included. It is one of the most devastated countries in the Far East. I was not present, and I know of no Philippine dele- gate who was present, at that working Party,for our delegation is a very small one. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : There are only two separate questions involved in this report. One is the question of what additional — 371 —
24.    countries will be covered by the survey of the Com- mission on Technical Needs during 1948. The second is the question of what Unesco can do in terms of remedying the deficiencies revealed by the work of the Commission on Technical Needs. Twelve countries were covered, if I remember correctly. Out of that number, seven were European and, of the others, two were China and the Philippines. Taking the latter part first, the report makes sugges- tions about how Unesco should proceed towards drawing up a plan for remedying the deficiencies in the twelve countries mentioned. I need hardly say that the United States strongly supports the plan proposed. We believe in a free two-way flow of information between countries, and we are very well aware thatit is ridiculousto speak of a two-way flow, when the other party has no communicationfacilities. The plan proposed involves the appointment of a commission of financial experts to consider what work will come up, with their concrete recommen- dations as to what can be done. I would emphasize that that part of the work does not involve the expen- diture of Unesco's funds directly for remedying these deficiencies. The task is obviously too great to be handled in terms of Unesco’s budget. I assure my colleague from the Philippines that,to say the least, the Philippines will not be forgotten when it comes to remedying these deficiencies. If I may return, for the sake of clarification, to the first point I made, the other question is what addi- tional countries or areas will be surveyed during
1948. There the report speaks of Central and South America, of India, and I may say that, in the Working Party, I, as United States representative, supported the resolution of the delegate of India that the other Far-Eastern countries should not be neglected. I believe there was specific reference to Siam, Indo- nesia and Burma. 1 maysay that one of my personal reasons for supporting the extension of the survey was that I think it should be linked with the ques- tion of fundamental education, and that in some of the areas mentioned thereis a big problem regarding fundamental education, and it will be impossible to tackle it successfully without means of mass com- munication. Dr. Encarnación ALZONA (Philippines) : The Phi- lippine delegation thanks the delegate of the United States for his assurance that the Philippines will not be neglected in the proposed survey. The CHAIRMAN (Translationfrom the Firench) : The Secretary will now reread the recommendations included in the report, which are introduced as a motion by the French delegate; the discussion will then be upon this resolution. The SECRETARY : The portions of the report that have been read to you, and which are to be considered as resolutions, are thefollowing : (a) That the Director-General seek to create an assistance fund constituted by donations from private organizations, public institutions and private individuals, so as to help those countries that cannot entirely face these expenses. Secondly : (b) That the Director-General call on the advice of a restricted Commission of Financial Experts, whose recommen- dations (in view of the urgency of the help to be provided) would be submitted only to the Executive Board, in order to determine within three months what ought to be envisaged : either the floating of a cultural loan (the details and conditions of this loan to be determined) or assistance, with a provision for direct compensation based on cultural and professional tourism (as proposed in document 20/85); or, if necessary, both solutions. The cultural loan or system of direct compen- sation would be intended to help countries who lack only the necessary foreign currency, but can finance their recon- struction in their own currency. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : These resolutions are open for discussion. If no one wishes to speak, I shall put them to the vote. The vote was taken on each resolution separately by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Resolutions (a) and (b) are adopted. (1)(2) Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : We seem to have made substantial progress with the reading of a part of the report. Might I suggest that we read the remainder, applying to IL B. 1 and II. B. 3, as the mosteffective way of continuing our progress in this section. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Before coming to the point raised by the United States delegation, I should like to know whether any other delegations wish to submit resolutions on paragraph a of Chapter II. B. 2. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translationfrom the French) : There was, in fact, a resolution by the French delegation dealing with paragraph a of Chapter II. B. 2, but, as this resolution 1s covered by the resolutions just adopted, France withdraws it. Chapter II. B. 4. — Removal of Obstacles to the Free Flow of Ideas. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : We now turn to the point raised by the United States delegation.
(1) In final form : Resolution 1.6.3 ; vol. II, page 11.
(2) In final form : Resolution 1.6.4; vol. iI, page 11. — 372 —    The delegate of Brazil seconds the proposal that we should return to Chapter JI. B. 1 and hear the report submitted by a representative of the Working Party. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : May I draw the attention of the meeting to a point which I think is a point of order, namely, that, if we pass to another section, no further recommendations on this particu- Jar item can be made. For instance, in the report of the Working Party, the Working Party gave its general approval to the Report and recommended that the scope of the Commission on Technical Needs should be extended to other countries. That, and other matters in this report, cannot be under- taken, unless somebody will move them from the floor. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : We seem to be in great confusion. I personally feel that this other report has a bearing on IL B. 1, IL B. 2. a and II. B. 3. Could I suggest, subject to objection from any delegation here present, that this longer and complete report be read and then if, even at that stage, any delegation does not feel able to discuss the matter, we can deal with that situation (we do not have to go on to a discussion necessarily); the point raised by the Director-General should be kept open, so that,if it seems necessary to put in an additional resolution in connexion with II. B. 9. a, that can be done. The CHAIRMAN (Translation Jrom the French) : As proposed by the United States of America, the Secretary of the Working Party on Mass Communi- cation will read the report. The SECRETARY of the Working Party on Mass Communication : The discussions during these two meetings brought out clearly that :
(1) there existed a relationship between the problems of free flow of information and obstacles on the one hand, and the problems of production and stimulation of production, on the other hand; ;
(2) the members of the Working Party unanimously agreed that the future of Unesco depended to a large extent on the proper use of mass communication to bring Unesco and Unesco's ideals to the minds of men; and
(3) the Working Party agreed that the promotion of the free flow of information and the stimulation of production should be given top importance in the 1948 programme for mass communication. The Working Party therefore recommends : (a) That the Secretariat should extend and intensify its study of obstacles to the free flow of information and report to the next General Conference on action to be taken for the removal of obstacles to the interchange of educational, scientific and cultural materials, and that, in this connexion, the Secretariat should continue to co-operate with the United Nations and other international organizations. It was unani- mously agreed that a fixed sum of $ 25,000 (i. e., not subject either to increase or reduction) should be allocated for these purposes. (b) That the Director-General should be instructed to pro- ceed vigorously with the positive production and stimulation of production of programmes in the media of radio, press and films calculated to reach the minds and hearts of the peoples of the world with messages of peace and understanding among peoples. The Working Party agreed on the mainlines ofthe document submitted by the United Kingdom delegation, namely, document 2C/G/5. The Working Party unanimously recommended that a sum of $ 500,000 should be urgently allocated for this purpose. The Working Party approved the collection, collation and dissemination of information for the purpose of stimulating production and distribution in the three media. (с) That the Director-General should allocate a maximum sum of $ 40,000 to provide Unesco’s share in the creation of the proposed International Institute of Press and Informa- tion, on condition that necessary additional funds can be found outside Unesco's budget. (d) That the Director-General should allocate a fixed sum of$ 130,000 (i. e., not subject to either increase or reduction) for the extension of the surveys ofthe Commission on Technical Needs in 1948 as indicated in the First Report of Working Party G. (e) That a sum of $ 105,000 should be allocated for other activities of the Mass Communication sub-Sections and the administrative expenses proper to the sub-Sections. The Working Party unanimously approved and recom- mended for action the documents 2C/10 (Radio Experts Conference recommendations) and 20/104 All the delegates present at the Working Party were unani- mous in recommending that the total budget of the Mass Communication Sub-Sections should not be less than $ 800,000 divided as indicated above, not including the Sub-Sections share in overall administrative expenses. Prof. A PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : 1 see that $ 795,000 have been allo- cated and we are now asking for $ 800,000. 1 should like to know whether this difference is accoun- ted for in any way. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : May I suggest that this is not the proper time to discuss these budget figures? I assume that the recommendations of the Working Party would go to the Budget Sub-Commission. Therefore 1 suggest that at the moment we discuss this Report without reference to budget figures. I would further suggest — and I want to stress again, only on condition that no delegation objects to proceeding now in the face of our having only a provisional Report — that we now proceeed to a discussion of II. B.1 and more particularly ILB.la, which has reference to the removal of obstacles. Now that these two reports have been presented, we are in a position to go through this documentin the sequence in which it appears in the Book, with the exception of those projects mentioned earlier as not yet having been considered and reported on; this seems to me to be the clearest way of proceeding.
373 —    Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, without wishing to hold up proceedings, I think it is necessary to draw the attention of the meeting to three points which are relevant to programmes. First, the leaders of most delegations in their speeches at the plenary meeting of the Conference suggested that Unesco should have a limited and precise pro- gramme. Second, it was agreed, in the face of budget estimates amounting to eight-and-a-half million dollars, to limit the Unesco budget to not more than $ 8,000,000 Third, this present proposal, whether we look at it in terms of programme or budget, does suggest a doubling of the programme, and a doubling, certainly, of the budget of this particular section of Unesco’s activities. We have so far discussed the first Chapter of the Programme and we have not in any way, as far as I have been able to see, reduced the scope of Unesco’s activities or reduced the proposed Budget. We have — and the Australian delegation agrees with the action so far taken — increased it. I think that we should bear clearly in mindin our discussion that this meeting led to a further substantial increase. I am not suggesting that the Australian delegation will be opposed to such an increase in the scope of mass communication, but I do think it calls for critical examination. I should like the Commission to proceed with the discussion, but feel that this matter should be very carefully borne in mind throughout. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : May I remind you that there is as yet no motion before us which has been seconded, so that we can discuss it. Dr. CHAO Yuen-Ren (China) : In connexion with the question of figures raised by the United States, it seems to me that the Budget Sub-Commission, of which T am not a member, will probably welcome specific ideas as to the order of magnitude of funds which the Commission wishes to assign to various projects. On the other hand, since we have not all the projects before usin the figures submitted, those who submitted the figures probably did not have in mind what the total amount added up to, and theo- retically, if we proceed with accepting these figures, they may add up to something like sixteen million instead of eight million. It would then be the job of the Sub-Commission to apportion them, if these figures express the wish of the Commission; T would suggest that a more useful and practical way of proceeding would be to consider all these figures submitted, as representing proportions of the total budget, whether they do in fact add up to more than the total or not. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : We have before us a proposal by the United States of America, which raises the question whether we have sufficient technical information from the Work- ing Party to carry on the discussion. I think that, if a motion is submitted concerning paragraph a of Chapter II.B.1. we can begin discussion. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation is prepared to submit as a motion the recommendations in the interesting report we have just heard. I must say at once that the figures suggested can be considered only as an indication of the scale and importance attributed by the Working Party to the various items. The Budget Sub-Commission will later have to review these figures, revise them, as indicated by the delegate of Australia, and report back to the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a sum of $40,000 was proposed in the report to finance a centre, the exact name of which was not indicated. I think that $40,000 is intended for the foundation of an International Institute of Press and Information ; on that understanding the French delegation submits as a motion the conclusions of the Working Party. The CHAIRMAN(Translationfromthe French) : The motion is seconded by the delegates of Czechoslovakia and Belgium. It is open for discussion. I will re-read the Working Party’s recommendations dealing with paragraph a of Chapter ILB.1. The first resolution arising from the Working Party's recommendations is as follows : The Director-General is instructed to extend and intensify the study of obstacles to the free flow of information, and report to the next General Conference on action to be taken for the removal of obstacles to the interchange of educational, scientific and cultural materials; in this connexion the Director- General is to co-operate with the United Nations and other international organizations. The report goes on to state that it was unanimously agreed that the sum of $25,000 be allocated for these expenses. Before calling upon the delegate of the United States of America, I wish to say that I think the resolution of the Working Party should be limited to the question of instructions, but that it cannot fix the budget. The sum proposed can only serve as a suggestion to the Budget Sub-Commission. I consi- der that the technical opinion to be expressed by the Commission should be concerned only with the form of the instructionsto be given to the Director-General. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : I wish simply to introduce an amendment to the wording we have just heard, which will tend to  ب=   make a little more specific what is to be done. You will all agree that this amendmentis completely in accord with the letter and the spirit of the recom- mendation of the Working Party, and I would stress that that recommendation was adopted by the Working Party unanimously. The amendment I wish to suggest is embodied in a document, which I believe has been distributed to you, reference
2C/C1/12, paragraphs 1 and 2 :
1. Unesco will continue and intensify its efforts to remove existing obstacles to the free flow of ideas by word and image.
2. To that end, the Director-General is instructed : (a) To co-operate with the Economic and Social Council, the Commission on Human Rights, and the Sub-Commission on Freedom of Information and of the Press in all matters concerning freedom of information; (b) To co-operate with the United Nations in preparing for the Conference on Freedom of Information and to promote at that Conference the principles and policies adopted by the General Conference; (e) To collect and analyse on a continuing basis objective information on obstacles to the free flow of information, taking advantage of whatever information may become available through the United Nations or other agencies working in this field; (d) To make recommendations to the Third Session of the General Conference regarding additional measures to reduce obstacles to the free flow of educational, scientific and cultural materials among nations. I have a very brief comment on this. This is obviously designed to implement the constitutional provision that Unesco will recommend international agreements to promote free flow of ideas by word and image. The resolution suggested simply spells out what the Working Party agreed to. It is offered within the terms of reference of the Rapporteur’s report, that is, the frame of reference advocating the removal of deficiencies in international communica- tion and news facilities, so that a two-way flow is possible. It is also offered within the scope of the recommendation of the Working Party, that great stress be put on the production side and stimulation of production. The Working Party agreed that the freeing of the channels of information is supplementary to those other jobs. Incidentally, there was an agreement within the Working Party that the allocation should be $25,000 for this work, no more and no less. The heavy duty of reducing obstacles to the free flow of information will obviously rest with the United Nations; where there are stubborn political or eco- nomic factors involved in the field of news, it is the job of the United Nations. Our view, however, expressed in this resolution, is that Unesco should push forward in trying to reduce obstacles to ‘the flow of educational, scientific and cultural materials, as narrowly defined as this Conference wants to make that definition. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : I rise to second the motion which has been moved by the delegate of the United States. I do this partly because I want to second the motion, but also be- cause I want to take this opportunity of explaining the position of the United Kingdom delegation in regard to this particular project. Those members of this Commission who were pre- esnt at the meeting of the Working Party know that on this particular subject much difference of opinion arose between the United States delegation and our own. Others have no doubt read the somewhat sensational reports which appeared in the press on this subject, and I think it might be helpful to this meeting if, before we go further, I explain where we stand, and I can do so in a few words. It so happened that in the course of the proceed- ings of the Working Party, this subject came up first and the United States delegate pressed, as he has donethis morning,the importanceofthis particu- lar project. Now the United Kingdom delegation, as you will find later, when we discuss further para- graphs of the Working Party’s report, attach very great importance to production and the stimulation of production, on doing something that will produce immediate results in 1948 for the benefit of the whole world. We feared, from the stress which was placed on this particular item, that it was going to get ahead of our particular project, and that led to a misunderstanding. Now, some exception has been taken in this meeting this morning to the fact that in the Working Party’s report we have mentioned sums ofmoney related to each individual item. I do not object at all to what has been said from the point of view of procedure, but, looking at it as a purely practical issue, I very much doubt if the United Kingdom and the United States could have got together on a common platform in this matter if we had not agreed to discuss in a practical way how much money you are going to spend on this item. And here I want to acknowledge very whole-heartedly the most helpful attitude of the United States in this matter; we were literally poles asunder, but we came together on the basis of a figure, and we have tried to express that in the report : that, whatever money may be found for mass communication — and we all hopethat it will be the full $800,000 — nevertheless $25,000 is the sum which should be set aside for this particular purpose. Thisis a case where, passing through some rather difficult passages, we have reached complete agree- ment. wish to acknowledge it. It therefore gives me very great pleasure to second this proposal in the form in which it has been moved by the United States delegate. I submit it with confidence to this assembly, and I ask you to remember that, from — 375 —
24 A.    our point of view, the priority is indicated by the amount of money that is to be made available for this particular purpose. The CHAIRMAN (Translationfrom the French) : The Chairman will be glad to have those figures passed to the Budget Sub-Commission, but I would point out to the delegate of the United Kingdom that there is no mention in the amendment ofthe figures proposed in the Working Party’s report. Sir Henry FRENCH(United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, I fully accept what you have said. The reso- lution which has been moved by the United States delegate was, by his courtesy, discussed with me, and we agreed together that, in view of the procedure normally followed in this Commission, it would not have been proper for us to have stated the sum of money. The sum of money is, however, stated in the Report, and I cannot for a moment think that that will be overlooked when the subject comes before the Budget Sub-Commission. I do not desire in any way to amend the terms of the resolution as moved by the United States. I think it meets with the requirementsof this Commission and it is entirely acceptable to us. The CHAIRMAN : I assure the delegate of the United Kingdom that the Report of the Working Party will be passedto the Budget Sub-Commission. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation also supports the motion submitted by the United States delegation. We wish to take this opportunity of thanking the delegate of the United Kingdomfor his very impor- tant contribution to the debate. The CHAIRMAN (Translationfrom the Firench) : The discussion is open. Does anyone wish to speak ? If not, I will put the amendment submitted by the United States delegation to the vote. Is anyone opposed to the amendment? There are no objections and the amendment is therefore approved unanimously. [ will now introduce the United States amendment as a substantive motion. Will the delegates in favour of the substitution of that motion for para- graph a. of ILB.1. please raise their hands? The United States motion is approved unani- mously. (3) There is another resolution dealing with paragraph cof ILB.1. It will be read by the Secretary. The SECRETARY : This resolution will be found on the second page of the English text of document ( In final form : Resolution 2.2.2.1; vol, lI, page 13. — 376 —
9C/C1/12. It relates to ILB.1.c of the Green Book. It reads : The Director-General is instructed to study the problem of promoting by bilateral and multilateral inter-governmental agreements and by informal agreements between national exchange centres and otherwise, the increased and improved exchange of publications, both official and non-official, as between governmental and non-governmentalinstitutions and research libraries, and to submit to the General Conference a report with recommendations for action by Uneso. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Is there a seconder for this motion ? Dr. Adolf HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia) (Trans- lationfrom the French) : T wouldlike to ask the United States delegation whether, under «bilateral, inter- governmental agreements», there are included cul- tural agreements between nations? If that is so, I second the resolution. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : The answer to the question by the delegate of Czechoslovakia is a very emphatic yes. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : There is one question on this, Mr. Chairman. From my notes made earlier this morning, when we were in a more confused condition, I see that this matter is being submitted to the Working Party on Libraries. We wondered if someone from the Working Party on Libraries could give us an oral report on that now, orif the United States delegation would like to hold over this consideration. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : I think the United States delegation would prefer to wait for the report (document 2C/H/6) before conti- nuing discussion on this paragraph. We will now turn to Resolution IV, which is concerned with paragraph d and which has been included in the report of the Working Party. The Secretary of the Working Party will read it. The SECRETARY of the Working Party on Mass Communication : The Director-General is instructed to continue to colla- borate with appropriate inter-governmental bodies such as the Universal Postal Union and the International Telecom- munications Union, on such problems affecting the interna- tional use of telecommunication, postal and other channels of communication as are of direct concern to Unesco, with particular reference to facilitating the free flow of information and ideas through such channels. The CHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : Does any delegation second Resolution IV, in docu- ment 2C/C1/12 ? The Belgian delegation seconds it. The discussion is open. If no one wishes to speak, I will put this resolution to the vote. Will all those in favour of the resolution submitted by the    United States raise their hands ? No objections ? The resolution is carried unanimously. ‘*) Before going on with the discussion I would like to draw the attention of the meeting to document
20/H/9, which has just been distributed and deals with the designation of priorities relating to the Working Party on Libraries and Documentation. I ask the meeting whether we may go back to the re- solution relating to paragraph ¢ of Chapter ILB.1. We were waiting for the Working Party’s report on this paragraph, and the United States delegation has introduced a resolution regarding it. Mr. Lloyd A. FREE (United States of America) : We should be perfectly happy for this to be deferred in the light of the present procedure. I think, especially as we are proceeding with an oral report, the best method is to defer items where there is any objection raised. The CHAIRMAN : I would call the attention of the delegate of the United States to the fact that in the oral report we have heard, Item e refers to Chapter I[.B.3, which we have not yet gone into. Item ¢ refers to the whole of Chapter I.A.— it is a new para- graph to that Chapter. Item d refers to Chapter IT.B.2, which we have been discussing. I would ask you then if there is any objection to discussing at once Item d of the report of the Working Party, because that would give us the whole of Chapter I.B.2. The SECRETARY : I will read, if you wish, the paragraph from the report of the Working Party to which the Chairman has just referred. It is that the Director-General should allocate a sum, which is recommended by the Working Party to be $ 130,000. That the Director-General should allocate a sum for the extension of the surveys of the Commission on Technical Needs in 1948,as indicated in thefirst report of the Working Party. This resolution is addressed to paragraph IL.B.2 a in the Green Book. Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : I formally move that this resolution be adopted. The GHAIRMAN (Translation from the French) : The United Kingdom delegate’s motion is seconded by France. The discussion is open. Does any delegate wish to speak on the resolution proposed by the United Kingdom ? The resolution refers to a sum, and the figure suggested will be transmitted to the Budget Sub- {emulsion but will not be included in the reso- ution. ®) In final form : Resolution 2.2.2.3; vol. II, page 13. I put the resolution to the vote. As there is no objection, the resolution is approved unanimously. (5) Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, Ï want to raise a point of order. I am not sure whether you are going now right through the whole of the report of the Working Party on Mass Communication. If so, I would be very glad indeed if you could see your way to postpone discussion on the big item of production, for which we unanimously recommended $ 500,000, until this afternoon, or until some later meeting, because you will realize that in the Green Book that particular item comes a good deal later on than the ones we have been discus- sing this morning. One reason why I suggest that it be postponed for a little while is that my co-dele- gate of the United Kingdom, Mr. Priestley, who is immensely interested in this item, is unfortunately still not well. He is not present this morning and I am not sure whether he will be here this afternoon. It would be a great help to us if we could be given some indication as to whenthis item is to be dealt with. The CHAIRMAN (Translation Jrom the French) : Paragraph b of the Working Party's Report deals with the question to which you are referring. Para- graph ¢ proposes a new paragraph for Chapter I.A., and paragraph e suggests a sum to be allocated for Mass Communication activities. I think, therefore, that, as far as Chapter II.B. 1 and 2 are concerned, we have extracted everything possible from the Report which we were given orally. Since we still have a few more minutes, I propose that we take up again the questions dealt with in the Report of the Working Party on Arts and Letters, relating to Chapter I.C. 7. This document has been distributed. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman. I would suggest, from the point of view of the ordin- ary representative here, and not the representatives of the United Kingdom and United States, who seem to know these reports inside out, that it is about time that we had an adjournment. It is getting very near adjournment time, and I think it would be better to adjourn, and in future see that we have the working papers ready for the sections which we are told we are going to discuss. Prof. Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : 1 second the motion for the adjournment. The CHAIRMAN : I put the motion for adjourn- ment to the meeting. Will those in favour please raise their hands ? The meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 1.20 р. m.
(5) In final form : Resolution 2.2.1; vol. II, page 12. — 377 —