THIRD MEETING Friday, 14 November 1947, at 11 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Nomination of Officers of Drafting Committees. The CHAIRMAN recommended that the delegate of Brazil be elected Chairman, and the delegate of Australia Rapporteur, of the Administration and Finance Drafting Committee and that the delegate of Canada be elected Chairman, and the delegate of Mexico Rapporteur, of the External Relations Drafting Committee. National Commissions Working Party. The SECRETARY said that, after consulting the Director-General, it had been decided that the National Commissions Working Party would meet on Monday, 17 November in the morning and the afternoon. While the Working Party had the right, under the Rules of Procedure, to elect its own officers, the Nominations Committee recommended Dr. Milton Eisenhower as Chairman, the delegate of Haiti as Vice-Chairman and Dr. El Diwany of Egypt as Rapporteur. The Working Party would not be required to take any votes but its recommen- dations would be recorded in the Summary Reports and considered by the Commission. Since any member of the Commission was at liberty to attend the Working Party, there was no need to appoint members to the Working Party. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) suggested that the Working Party should decide on its own officers, and this was agreed. In reply to Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece), the CHAIRMAN stated that he had recommended that this Working Party should be a Sub-Committee, but that the General Committee had decided that, since the Working Party was concerned with pro- gramme matters, it could not act as a Sub-Com- mittee. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) asked that it should be recorded in the summary report that, in his opinion, the Working Parties constituted a hydro- cephalous organism which he could not understand. Contributions from Members joining in the last quarter of 1947 : Hungarian request. M. FERENCZI (Hungary) said that he had heard from his Government that the Hungarian represen- tative in London had been instructed to ratify the Unesco Constitution, but it had not been realized that Hungary would be called upon to provide
40 per cent of its contribution to the 1947 Budget, in the discussion of which Hungary took no part and from which she derived no benefit. He asked that this decision should be reconsidered by the General Conference and indicated that, if no reduc- tion were agreed, his country might not deposit the ratification until the end of the year. M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) explained that the First Session of the General Conference gave the Executive Board authority, as an emergency measure, to decide the scale of contribution from new Members. A comparatively high figure had been fixed for nations joining in the last quarter of the year because the annual Conference, held in the last part of the year, provided special facilities for new members and involved the Organization in parti- cularly heavy expenditure. The Executive Board had decided the 1947 scale and it was open to question whether the Commission was competent to modify the decision for 1947. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) pointed out that modi- fications in the scale of contributions such as those proposed bythe delegate of Hungary mightseriously affect the Budget provisions made by the Secre- tariat, particularly if other new Members made the same request. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) pro- posed that the request should be referred to the General Committee. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) pointed out that the original Member States had paid two full years’ contributions without deriving any direct benefit, since that time had been devoted to preparatory work. It had been decided, on the other hand, that 15 per cent of all sums allocated to Recon- struction would be reserved for new Members. — 556 —    It was agreed to refer the Hungarian request to the General Committee. Item 4 (d) of the Agenda : Scale of Contribu- tions (document 2C/C2/3) (continuation). The CHAIRMANsaid there were four main points for consideration : (1) the adoption of the United Nations scale; (2) the scale for Non-Members of the United Nations; (3) adjustments in the scale for Unesco; (4) rules of assessment for new Members joining during the year. Prof. AUGER (France) said that he had under- stood that the high rate of the United States of America’s contribution of 44.03 per cent for 1947 was a temporary measure which was not to continue. He was grateful to the United States of America but would be glad to see a return to more normal conditions. He noted that the 1948 scale provided for reduced contributions from all Members except the United States of America and proposed that the reduction resulting from the increased member- ship be applied to all existing Members. If the reduction were applied evenly, the United States of America’s contribution would be reduced to some 42 per cent, while that of the other Members would be slightly higher than the scales shown. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded this pro- posal. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) expressed the gratitude of his delegation for the French proposal; his country was prepared to do its utmost to help Unesco to carry on its work, but he considered that it was in the interests of Unesco to achieve a more even distribution of the financial burden. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba), while not opposing the suggestion, thought it need not necessarily be applied immediately, since the delegate of the United States of America appeared willing to bear the full contri- bution. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) considered that the matter should be discussed from the point of view of the principles involved and not on an ad hoc basis. The contributions to Unesco had been esta- blished in accordance with the four principles stated in page 2 of the Annex to document 2C/C2/3, i.e., according to the ability of each Member to shoulder the financial burden. Calculated on this basis, the United States's contribution had amounted to
46 per cent but, as it was considered undesirable for any State to contribute so high a proportion, the United States of America suggested a ceiling contribution of 44.03 per cent, it being under- stood that this figure would remain unchanged until the American contribution, calculated according to these principles, was less than this figure. Dr. WALKER (Australia) moved that the matter be referred to the Drafting Committee. Prof. AUGER (France) said that, as far as Unesco was concerned, the United Nations scale was not an ideal one, since many of the Members were not Members of Unesco and that, as long as this state of affairs continued, the United States of America’s contribution would be in excess of the ideal figure. While he did not attach any great importance to the figures he had suggested, he thought it important, as a matter of principle, that all Members should benefit from the admission of new Members; the Drafting Committee could decide the proportion of the reductions. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed with the principle stated by the French delegate. His Government's representative to the United Nations had stressed their desire to see the contributions to all international organizations more evenly distributed, so that no one country would pay more than 33 1/3 per cent of the total budget. The economic difficulties of many countries, the exchange difficulties and the fact that a large pro- portion of the wealth of the world was at present concentrated in the United States of America was fully realized, but he thought it was in the interests of Ünesco to secure a more even distribution of the financial burden; if all other Members benefited from the 1948 reductions, the United States’ contri- bution would be proportionately increased and this was clearly undesirable. The RAPPORTEUR said that, while Unesco could not depart from the United Nations scale, it was a - sound principle to apply the same reductions to all Members. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) thought each dele- gation should speak for itself on this matter; the United States of America could question the figure allotted to them if they wished. The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the motion pro- posed by France and seconded by Greece : As a matter of principle, the adjustments to be made in the 1948 scale of contributions, owing to increased member- ship of Unesco, should apply to all Members. The motion was adopted by 12 votes in favour, with no opposition, and referred to the Drafting Committee. In order to give the necessary authority to the Drafting Committee, the CHAIRMAN asked whether the Commission accepted the United Nations scale of contributions as a basis for calculation. — 557 —    Dr. WALKER (Australia) considered that the motion just adopted implied acceptance of the United Nations scale with the appropriate adjust- ments; calculation for 1948 should be based on the 1947 scale, account being taken of new Mem- bers. The Drafting Committee should consider the motion in the light of the French proposal to apply the mathematical adjustment to the 1947 scale. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) sup- ported this proposal and moved that the Drafting Committee should pay special attention to the figures proposed for new Members, with a view to ascertaining whether they had in fact been esta- FOURTH blished in accordance with the accepted principles (mentioned on page 2 of the annex to document
2C/C2/3). This was agreed. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) announced that the amount outstanding against the Mexican contri- bution was due to a mistake by the Secretariat. M. de VISSCHER (Belgium) and Dr. MENG (China) announced that their respective Governments were about to pay their contributions to Unesco. The meeting rose at 1.15 p. т. MEETING Friday, 14 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr, HAN Lih-Wu (China) Item 4 (a) of the Agenda : Receipt of the Report of the Executive Board to the General Conference on the financial administration of the Organization. Item 4 (b) of the Agenda : Review of Auditors Report. It was decided that the two items should be considered together, commencing with a general discussion on Item 4(a). Dr. WALKER,as Rapporteurof the Finance Com- mittee of the Executive Board, suggested that the meeting should take note of document 2C/C2/1 and, after discussing the various points, decide whether to recommend it for approval to the General Confe- rence. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) asked whether the Director-General’s statement, referred to on page 17 of document 2C/C2/1, had been prepared and whether it was available for members of the Commission. Dr. WALKER replied that the Director-General's statement had been submitted to the Executive Board, but the latter had not been able to include in its Report all the material before it and had merely given a review of the whole situation. The last paragraph on page 17 of the Report summar-
1zed the Director-General’s statement to the Board. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) again asked whether the document would be made available to the Commission and Dr. WALKER replied that the Commission had a right to call for any document referred to in the Report. The CHAIRMAN,referring to Item 4 (5), observed that they had three Auditors’ Reports to examine: the first Report, dated 20 March 1947; an Annex to the first Report, dated 4 July 1947, and a sup- plementary Report dated 18 September 1947. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) remarked that, from a legal point of view, only the first Report was an audit. Dr. WALKERintroduced the Reports as follows : the accounts submitted in the first Report were those of the Preparatory Commission, but it had been necessary to carry the date beyond the Pre- paratory Commission, which ended with the First General Conference, and they had decided to draw a line at 31 December 1946. The present Execu- tive Board had no responsibility for the period of the Preparatory Commission, when the accounts were in the hands of the Executive Secretary of the Commission and underits control. When the Exe- cutive Board took cognisance of the first Auditors’ Report, they recognized two facts : firstly, that the first period was not their responsibility and, se- condly, that the unsatisfactory state of affairs had — 558 —