advance of the meeting, in order that delegates should not have to make decisions without sufficient study of the document. He also raised the question of a draft resolution from the American delegation, which he had read to the meeting the day before and wondered if this had been overlooked, as it did not appear in the Report before them. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERALreplied that the Secretariat had the American delegation’s resolution very much in mind in preparing the Report, but felt that the task of the Budget Sub- Commission could be divided into three parts :
(1) a technical analysis of monies spent; (1) discus- sion and approval of financial resolutions passed by the Programme Commission (and it would be impossible to foretell how frequently the Sub- Commission would require to meet for this task), and (mm) as soon as the Programme Commission had completed its: work, the Sub-Commission would be in continual session, in accordance with the suggestion of Mr. Benton. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) pro- posed two minor changes in the text of the document before the meeting : (1) the insertion of the word «proposals» in the third line of the second page between «programme» and «reso- lutions»; (2) the elimination of the word « technical » in the fourth line of the second page, or the re- placement of this word by the word «budgetary». The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed that these alterations would make the text more general. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) explained that he had been responsible for the word «technical», as he had not wanted the General Conference to feel that the Budget Sub-Commission, consisting of only nine members, was tackling too wide a field. The CHAIRMAN asked the opinion of the meeting concerning the two alterations proposed by Mr. Ben- ton and these were agreed upon. He then asked if the meeting approved the document with these amendments and this approval was given. The meeting rose at 11 a. me THIRD MEETING Monday, 10 November 1947 at 10 a. m. M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium)Chairman : The CHAIRMAN read a telegram from the Ambas- sador of Iran regretting that the delegate of Iran was unable to attend the Conference. He then called on the delegate of Canada to report to the General Committee on the meeting of the Nomina- tions Committee which had been held on Saturday. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) said that the Nomi- nations Committee had agreed unanimously on
49 out of the 51 names listed in document
2 G/Nom./12. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed that they should take note of the list and pass straight on to the next item, as he understood that it was not the intention of the Committee to discuss the list again. Agreed. The SECRETARY drew attention to the pro- gramme for the day, as set out in the Conference Journal No. 4. He observed that the Seventh Plenary Meeting of the General Conference would be held at 4 p. m., and not at 3.30, as stated in the Journal. He also announced that the document on the Organization of Work, which had been approved on Saturday, would be ready with its Annex at the beginning of the afternoon, and he therefore suggested that it should be presented to the Plenary Conference during the afternoon meeting. Agreed. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked the Secretariat to see that the Schedule of Meetings, which they had not seen on Saturday, should be attached to the document as Annex A. The Secretariat replied that the necessary steps would be taken. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) referring to document
2C/BUR/1 dated 8 November noted that the Budget Sub-Commission was scheduled to meet only when all other meetings had stopped. As it was now suggested that the Budget Sub-Gommission should be a small select party, he wondered whether it was necessary to stop other meetings. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) recalled that the General Committee had expressed the opinion that meetings should be held concurrently, in order that the Conference might end on 29 November, but the Secretariat did not seem to have paid attention to this recommendation. The SECRETARYreplied that they had looked into the matter verycarefully indeed and had decided — 245 —    that it would be impossible to finish the Conference by 29 November, owing to the large number of meetings and documents to be examined. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) asked if it would not be possible for the Budget Sub- Commission to meet before 25 November. To this Dr. BEEBY replied thatit could meet if it was called by the Chairman. Mr, BENTON (United States of America) pointed out that if meetings were mot held concurrently, the whole Conference would be held up on 26, 27 and” 28 November while the Budget Commission met. He thought that, when the Secretariat made a decision of this kind, the General Committee should be informed. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) recalled that at the Saturday meeting of the Committee, he had asked whether the Annex containing the time-table was ready and whatit contained. The answer was that the only change was the meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission on 11 and 12 November instead of ear- lier ; this meant that the Secretariat had not found a way to bring the Conference to an early end. He thought they should keep the schedule under review and ask the Secretariat to try to avoid the situation mentioned by Mr. Benton, which meant that they would only work for two days out of nine. At the present stage, a firm decision was impossible, how- ever, but they should ask the Secretariat to explore the matter and make further suggestions according to how the Programme and Budget Commission worked. The Conference should be informed that the sche- dule was still under review. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) thoughtit would give a very bad impression if the Conference only worked for two day out of nine and suggested the Budget Commission might work during the four- day: recess. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) had four obser- vations to make and hoped they would be taken in the constructive spirit in which they had been drawn up by the Polish delegation :
(1) That it was impossible to work in the present room, owing to the noise, and he asked the Secretariat to take the necessary steps;
(2) He quite agreed with the delegate of the United States of America that their respective countries should not be al lowed to think that they were here in Mexico on a holiday, but pointed out that concurrent meetings would prove very diffi- cult for small delegations;
(3) . As regards languages, French documents were usual- ly distributed very late : at the Nominations Committee on Saturday, there had been no French documents and there was no French translation of document 2C/Nom/2 ; (#) They had heard an eloquent address by the Director- General on Saturday and the morning’s plenery meeting was to discuss his Report. He considered the Director-General's address to be an integral part of his Report, yet this speech had not been circulated in either language. Document 2C/SP/7 dated 8 November did not even consti- tute a résumé of his address and essential passages were omitted, so that the conclusion drawn was that it had been done tendentiously. Furthermore, the Journal of the day did not even mention his address. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the Journal had mentioned his address, but only briefly, because his speech was to be circulated during the morning or at the beginning of the afternoon. He regretted that he had been unable to prepare his speech sufficiently early for it to be circulated sooner. With regard to the room in which they were meeting, he entirely agreed with the Polish delegate and said that the necessary steps would be taken. Concerning the question of small delegations, he thought a com- promise was necessary in order that the Conference might terminate on 30 November or 1 December. As regards the question of translations, the Secre- tariat thought it preferable to get documents out first in the language in which they had originally been written : it so happened that most of the speeches so far had been in English, but when they were in French the French documents would come out first. He wished to mention that document 2C/SP/7, referred to by the Polish delegate, was a press report and had not been intended as a summary of his address. M. DROHOJOWSKI(Poland) considered that the Director-General's address was an essential part of the discussion on his report and thattherefore any discus- sion before the address had beencirculated was use- less. Returning to the question of translation, he re- marked that the Nominations Committee document was merely a listof names and the Englishand French text should have been distributed simultaneously. He agreed with the Director-General that a compromise should be reached between large and small delega- tions, but wished to point out that the present posi- tion was most discouraging for small delegations. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) understood. ‚the Committee's anxiety to make the Conference as short as possible, but reminded them that the chief reason for holding the General Conference in a different country each year was to enable delegates to get to know the host country and not merely to hold discus- sions within a building, as they could have done equally well at headquarters. Delegates from Europe and the Far East had generally not had the occasion to visit Mexico before and it was a fundamental con- sideration that they should be able to visit Mexican factories, schools, archaeological centres, etc., and make contacts with Mexican scientists, educators and rtists. — 246 —    Mr. HARDMANsaid he had given this question a great deal ‘of consideration and had discussed it with fellow-delegates. They had come to the conclusion thatit would be a mistake and a discourtesy towards the Mexican Government to curtail the Con- ference, even if it might be advisable from a purely business point of view. He fully understood and sympathized with the opinion of the delegate of Mexico. Mr, BENTON (United States of America) also sympathized with the point of view of the delegate of Mexico and agreed with Mr. Hardman that they must not be discourteous. He hoped that they could with equal efficiency adjourn on
30 November or 1 December and, as the idea in the United States was that the Conference would not end until 3 December, he suggested that those delegates who were busy and anxious to return to their countries as soon as possible might prefer to work through the recess and leave earlier, while others might work through the recess and take four daysholiday at the end of the Conference. He hoped the Secretariat would discuss the matter again. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) announced that at the Procedure Committee that morning there had been 8 delegates short of the quorum and they had only been able to hold an informal discus- sion. He announced that there would be another meeting on Wednesday at 10 a. m. and asked all delegates to attend. He hoped a similar announ- cement would be made at the Plenary meeting. He thought one member of each delegation might be nominated to attend the meetings of the Proce- dure Committee. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. FOURTH MEETING Tuesday, 11 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman :§Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) The CHAIRMAN announced that document
2C/BUR/1 dated 8 November — Proposals for the Organization of Work of the Programme and Budget Commission, the Budget Sub-Commission and the Working Parties — was now distributed and could be submitted to the Plenary Conference for final approval, Duration of the Conference. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL submitted the fol- lowing note on the possibility of shortening the duration of the Conference : The’ Secretariat has carefully reconsidered the possibility of eliminating the 3,1/2 days’ sittings of the Budget Sub- Commission scheduled to follow the plenary meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission,in the light of the deci- sion to have the Budget Sub-Commission sit at the call of the Chairman during the plenary meetings. These earlier sittings will be of great help in clearing the ground; but it is the considered judgement of the Secretariat that they cannot eliminate the need for more than summary sittings later. If the Conference wants the Budget Sub- Commission to submit a report that reflects balance, harmony and proportion, the Sub-Commission must have all the resolutions for the Programme and Budget Commission before it. Piecemeal budgetary review of earlier resolutions will inevitably have to be redone in the light of later resolu- tions, If the Budget Sub-Commission submits an overnight report, it is probable that the debate on it in the Programme and Budget Commission will simply be proportionately prolonged. The possibility has also been canvassed of curtailing the plenary meetings devoted to discussion of the programme, so that it would be concluded by the evening of 19 November. The Budget Sub-Commission could then meet 20-23 November (during the break in the calendar) with the hope that its report would be ready for consideration by the Programme and Budget Commission on Monday, 24 November, The General Committee will want to weigh thesealternatives. The Secretariat has also canvassed the possibility of short- ening the plenary meetings of the General Conference, now scheduled for 3 days, 1-3 December, The business to be transacted includes : Reports of Member States; Report ‘of Programme and Budget Commission; Report of Administrative and External Relations Com- mission; Amendment of the Constitution; Date and place of the next Session. It may be that this business can be transacted in 2 or
2.1/2 days, but it is not deemed possible at this time to fix a firm time-limit, It is noted that the Presidentof the Republic is scheduled to tender a luncheon to the Heads of delegations and senior staff on 2 December at 2 p. m., followed by a reception at
5. p. m. to the whole staff. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said all speakers had agreed that the Conference must produce a detailed Programme and Budget : but, while it was felt that the Programme and Budget Commission might finish by 19 November, he did not consider that they could be given any instruction. However, he thought it — AT —