TENTH MEETING Tuesday, 18 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Item 5 (b) of the Agenda : Review of Staff Regulations (continuation). Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United, States of America) pro- posed that, since Regulation 36 dealt with a finan- cial matter involving 16 per cent of the budget, it should provide for approval to be given by the Gene- ral Conference. He therefore moved that the follow- ing amendment be added after «allowances» in line 3 of the Regulation Onthe basis ofa systematic and equitable plan, after approval by the General Conference. W Pending the next General Conference, necessary rules may be established, subject to advance approval by the Executive Board and review by the next General Conference. This was seconded by Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece). Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) drew attention to the heavy drain of the various allowances on the budget, in particular the living allowance, which in certain cases exceeded the basic salary. He sugges- ted that reduction of this allowance might be consi- dered. Prof. AUGER (France) supposed that the mechan- ism proposed by the delegate of the United States of America was similar to that adopted in the case of salaries. He hoped that the General Conference would be asked to give its formal approval to these matters, and that the detailed discussion of salaries and allowances would not be added to its already over-charged programme. % The CHAIRMAN noted that the present procedure would continue for another year. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL made a statement on allowances, bearing on this Regulation and on Item 5 (¢) of the Agenda. He welcomed the assumption by the General Conference of responsibi- lity for approving the allowances system; it was right that a matter which accounted for so large a proportion of the Organization’s finances should be known to Members. It was realized that the present allowances were unsatisfactory and the whole system was under re- view. The problem was particularly complicated; Dr. Howard E. WILSON (United States of America) some staff were recruited locally, i.e., in Paris, some in other parts of France and many from outside France. At present the living allowance of $5 a day for unmarried staff and $7 for staff with de- pendents was not paid to staff locally recruited, al- though in many cases they were called upon to meet the same difficulties as those eligible for the allow- ance. This situation gave rise to considerable friction. The sudden payment of the per diem allowance to locally recruited staff would, however, dislocate the current budget and upset the budget for 1948. Unesco’s headquarters were in a country where prices were unstable and rising rapidly. A complete re-organization of the per diem allowances was under consideration but no final plan had yet been drawn up. It was hoped to bring Unesco salaries into line with those of the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies. If a common salary basis were adopted for all United Nations Organiza- tions, a supplementary cost of living adjustment would cater for differences in the cost of living in the different countries in which the offices were situated. This adjustment would vary according to variations in the cost of living index. The United Nationsalso provided for a temporary per diem allowance to be paid to staff on arrival, to cover the initial period of adjustment and were consideringa dislocation allow- ance to professional people joining the United Nationsfor one or two years, as a compensation for the contacts lost by their removal and for the risk of losing ground in their profession. The examination of the allowances situation was rendered all the more difficult by the constantly changing cost-of-living figure in France. They had, however, reached the following tentative conclusion, namely, that in order to equalize the incomes of the staff locally recruited and those recruited at a dis- tance, it would be necessary to reduce the income of a considerable part of the Secretariat. No action had yet been taken since he had been loth to take this step, particularly at the beginning of what is likely to be a very difficult winter. The question was so important that he felt justified in giving longer consi- deration toit. It was unfortunate that the Organiza- tion had not yet achieved a firm salary and — 572 —    allowances system, but even the system in the United Nations was not yet beyond reproach. The CHAIRMAN suggested replacing, in Regula- tion 36, the words «per diem allowances» by the words «other personal allowances ». The Regulation, as amended, was adopted. Regulation 37. — Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) proposed altering the final part of the first sentence to read : «with the prior approval of the General Conference ». Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) agreed with the reas- on for this proposal, but considered that, as perma- nent staff would be recruited in the coming year, it would be impossible to await the next General Conference before taking any decision on the Pen- sions Fund. The Regulation should provide for the Executive Board to decide the amount of the Pensions Reserve, subject to confirmation by the next General Conference. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed that some decision on the Pensions Scheme should be taken during the coming year. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) withdrew his original proposal and suggested adding to the existing text : «and subject to review by the General Conference.» Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded this. Regulation 37 thus amended was approved. Regulations 38 to 40 were approved. Regulation 41. — Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) proposed the deletion of the words : « Without prejudice to the acquired rights of members of the staff.» At the present stage in the Organization’s development, many regulations required revision. If this clause remained in force, there would be undesirable disparity between newly recruited staff and those who had been with the Organization for some time. The same question had been the subject of a long discussion in the Administration and Finance Committee of the United Nations which ended in the deletion of the clause. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) seconded this proposal. The GHAIRMAN pointed out that he had been reminded that, if a representative of the Staff Associa- tion were present, he would probably ask to speak on this motion. He supposed the delegate of the United States of America intended this to be a temporary matter to meet the conditions of the present transition period. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) re- marked that each General Conference had the right to alter the Staff Regulations. The matter could be considered at any appropriate future date. Regulation 41, thus amended, was approved. Item 5 (c) of the Agenda : Review of Salary and Allowance Policy and Structure. Dr. WALKER (Australia) asked why document
2C/92 was marked « Confidential», since the infor- mation it contained was similar to the published salary lists of Civil Service Departments. Referring to the same document, he also asked whether the part-time annual figures referred to the full-time posts or to the part-time occupant, and why a living allowance of $ 20 a day was paid to the members of the Latin American Field Science Office. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL in reply said that the document in question was marked « Confidential » in accordance with the Financial Regulation quoted on the front page. This word could be deleted from the Regulation when it was next discussed. The annual salary referred alwaysto the full-time pay for the post. The living allowance for the Latin American Field Science Office was a temporary measure pending a final decision on the whole future of the Hylean Amazon Project and that Field Office. The staff had reported that they were unable to live on the normal allowance and the present figure had been decided after an examina- tion of living conditions. Miss McPHEE (New Zealand) questioned the necessity for the number of staff in the Library, which was comparatively small. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said there was an error in the printing of the document. The Section referred to included the documentation and statistics for the whole Organization. Miss Mc PHEE (New-Zealand) noted that there were other staff in other Sections also engaged on documentation work and she wondered whether so many posts of this kind were necessary. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) suggested that, in view of the Deputy Director-General’s statement, the staff of this Section should not be called Librarians, if they were engaged on Statistics. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the title was used for administrative purposes to denote a particular category of official. The staff was divided broadly, according to experience, into administrative, clerical and professional grades. — 573 —    Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) thought that such designations should only be given to staff qualified to receive them. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) consi- dered that a close examination of the continuing residence allowance should be made with a view to its reduction. This item involved the Organization in very heavy expense. While the difficulties of life in Paris were realized, he submitted that the cost of living was also rising in the United States, where no corresponding increase in pay was made to the staff of the public service. This was one of the burdensresulting from the waraffecting everyone; it was undesirable for the officials of international organizations to be in a favoured category. He recalled that he had asked at the morning meeting for a review of the qualifications of the staff and he now suggested that the Director-General be asked to effect a re-classification of the personnel found to be in positions too high on the salary scale. The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of the United States of America to frame formal resolutions for submission to the following meeting. Dr. WALKER (Australia) raised further points of detail on document 20/92, particularly on the Docu- mentation of Special Interests and on the regions covered by the sub-sections of the Public Information Section. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL, replying to the first point, said that the person concerned was engaged on the preparation of material for the various voluntary organizations and groups. Many groups of teachers, students, etc., held summer meetings and required information adapted to their particular needs. With reference to the second point point, it had not been possible to find information officers to cover all parts of the world. An informa- tion officer for North America was not needed as there wasalready a liaison officer at the United Nations. Senator BROOKES (Union of South Africa) regret- ted the scant attention given in Unesco to the African continent; interest was concentrated on Europe, Asia and America, while neither Australia nor Africa was adequately supplied with information. More- over, there was only one representative of the whole African continent on the staff. Passing to another question, he added that, while the Commission was grateful to the delegate of the United States of Ame- rica for his careful and business-like guidance of the discussions on the Organization and the Secretariat, he thought the sudden application of many of the proposals now before the Commission might upset the morale and goodwill of the staff, on whom the execution of the programme depended. Many of the criticisms were valid, but it was nevertheless essential to keep sufficient outstanding men and women together to carry out the programme. He asked the Secretariat to prepare a statement on the possible cumulative effect of so many changes. With regard to the increased cost of living, the publicservice departments in many countries gave special allow- ances for this purpose; he cited the example of his own country. Dr. KESSLER (Switzerland) thoughtreliable infor- mation on the procedure adopted by governments regarding the staff of their Paris missions might be helpful to the Secretariat when considering the question of the residence allowance. The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM commen- ded the business-like document under consideration. His delegation was anxious to see a reduction in the Organization's expenses, particularly in recruitment and allowances, and he announced his intention of supporting the proposal of the delegate of the United States of America to this effect. It was clear that document 26/92 would be modified by the pro- gramme to be agreed at this Conference, by the introduction of long-term recruitment, by alterations in the geographical representation of the staff as well as by the results of any review of the staff as proposed by the delegate of the United States of America. The staff must be a direct reflection of the programme. His delegation was perturbed by the numerical allo- cation of the staff. Of the total of 590, 80 worked in the central services, 22 in Public Information,
31 necessarily on languages, 330 were engaged in secretarial work; there were 38 plumbers and only
74 engaged on the programme of Unesco. He suggested that the document be reconsidered towards the end of the Conference after the final decision on the Programme, with a view to adjusting the balance between the Sections. He wished to ensure that the programme would be carried out by a properly distributed staff. The meeting rose at 6.50 p. m.