The PRESIDENT : (Translation from the French) : You have just heard the very interesting comments of the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission. The delegate of the United Kingdom has asked to speak. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Presi- dent, we have all listened with very close attention to the brilliant personal statement by the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, in which M. Seydoux has gathered together so much of the ripe fruit which has fallen from the lips of many delegates of many Working Parties and at many meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission. If I might take this opportunity, I would like to express, not only on my own behalf, but, I know, on behalf of those who were privileged to work in the Drafting Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission, a tribute to his magnificent leadership as Chairman of that Drafting Committee, and to the great contribution he made to the pro- duction of the Report which the Programme and Budget Commission considered the other night. With your permission, I would like to move that his statement should be made use of. T do not think that we have time this afternoon to debate it, but I feel convinced — and I am now speaking on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation — that the Executive Board should be asked by the General Conference to pay close attention to that statement in planning the work of next year’s General Confe- rence. I would like therefore to move that the General Conferencereceives the statement by the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, and commends it for the consideration of the Executive Board in their planning of the work of the next General Conference. Dr. A. SOMMERFELT (Norway) : I second the proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I propose that we adjourn until nine o’clock. We will then proceed to study the Report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m. NINETEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 3 December 1947, at 9 p.m. CONTENTS Pages
38. Consideration of the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission (continuation) ; Resolutions; speeches by delegates of China, Australia, United Kingdom, Italy, United States of America, the representative of the United Nations and delegates of the Union of South Africa, Egypt, Colombia, Brazil, etc
39. Consideration of the Report of the Budget Sub-Commission on the Budget for 1948 President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico).
38. Consideration of the Report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission (conti- uation), Resolutions. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : At the end of this afternoon’s meeting the delegate of the United Kingdom submitted a motion to the effect that the General Conference should adopt the statement by the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission and recommend to the Exe- cutive Board that they should take it into account in planning the work of the next General Conference. This motion was seconded but no vote was taken upon it. Will any delegate who opposes the motion please raise his hand? The motion 1s carried. We will now consider the draft resolutions submit- ted to the Conference by the Programme and Budget Commission, in document 20/01/23, with the im- portant amendments and corrections appearing == 999 ==      in document 2G/C1/26. As agreed with the Rappor- teur, each chapter (Reconstruction, Communication, Education, etc.) will be discussed and voted on separately. (1) We have before us Chapter 1, Reconstruction. Are there any remarks on Chapter 1? If not,I shall consider it adopted as it stands. Do you agree? It is adopted. We now pass on to Chapter 2, Communication. Does any delegate wish to speak on Chapter 2? Dr. LI Shu-Hhua (China) : On behalf of the Chinese delegation, I propose the following motion. Accord- mg to the decision of the Programme and Budget Commission recorded in document 20/01/23 (item
2.2.3.3.1.), a Radio Programme Committee is to be formed consisting of twelve experts from Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czechoslovakia, China, France, Mexico, Poland, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Switzerland. The countries from the Far East appear to be China and Australia. On account of the importance of India, it seems to us desirable and necessary to increase the number of experts from the Far East by adding India. The Chinese delegation therefore moves that an expert from India should be added to the Radio Programme Committee. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I support the motion on behalf of the Australian delegation, Mr. President, and suggest that the object would be achieved by a simple alteration in the wording : replacing the full stop at the end of the paragraph by a comma, and adding the words « including India». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Are there any other remarks? As I understand the proposal of the delegate of Australia, he wishes the words «including India» to be added at the end ofitem 2:23. 3.3.1, The delegate of China accepts that. Then this item, as amended, will be put to the vote. Will any delegates who are opposed to the motion please raise their hands? Since there are no objections,the item, as amended by the Australian delegation, is adopted. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, with your permission, I would like to ask the Con- ference to look at document 20/C1/23, page 14, in the English version, item 2.3.1.5. This item was deleted and is therefore not beforo us this evening. The Conference will perhaps remem- ber that at a very early hour, just before dawn on Tuesday morning, we spent a little time considering ©) The final form of these Resolutions appears as Resolu- tion VIII A; vol. II, pages 9-28. whether or not Unesco should seek as one ofits objectives in 1948, to help the Hertziana Library in Rome. Those of us who were there at that early hour will remember an exciting match, the result of which was a defeat, by one vote, for the suggestion that this aid should be given. Now at that time we were some of us a little con- fused about the amount of money which was needed to do this small but important job; and since then the delegation of the United Kingdom has made some enquiries and it seems quite clear that the sum $ 3,000 — about one half of the sum that we were talking aboutearly on Tuesday morning— would, in fact, be enough to do this particular job. That amount could be found within the budget already vo- ted, or to be voted later to-day, as part of the total, and at the moment allocated to the Library part of our work. Now, ‘here is a small but important job of a practical kind which Unesco can undoubtedly do in 1948. This library, as most of us know, was a German library and is no longer a German library. It is at present in the hands of an inter- national organization, which is the perfect organiza- tion for running thelibrary, but which has no funds, If only it could appoint a librarian, the books and the art treasures which, as a result of the war, have been put out of the reach of art lovers and students, could be made available again for a very important part of the clientèle of Unesco. I suggest, and I apologize for troubling the Conference with what seems to be a small matter, that this is a point on which we should amend the report before us and restore 2.3.1.5., which was struck out by our Budget Sub-Commission and which the Programme and Budget Commission agreed by a very narrow majo- rity to strike out. I suggest that we put it back, with this difference : that in the English text, in the third line of resolution 2.3.1.5. the phrase wex-German libraries of archaeology» should read «ex-German Hertziana Library». That would cover just this one library, for which such a small expendi- ture of funds would not mean an increase in the total budget and would enable this really important job to be done. I beg to move, Mr. President, that we restore 2.3.1.5. in the budget, not in its ori- ginal form, but in the form I have suggested. Dr. A. SOMMERFELT (Norway) : I second the United Kingdom proposal. This library is of immense value to all students of the arts and archae- ology in Italy. M. R. BIANCHI BANDINELLI (Italy) (Translation Jrom the French) : Mr. President, on behalf of the head of the Italian delegation, who has had to leave Mexico, I wish to thank the representative of the United Kingdom delegation most warmly for — 223 —
1 ج د ج ع — He ‏ = = — — — — — — — — — — — — — — ] ] [ — — — — — ] — — — — P a e = R A I R S S e e e t e n e e           his words with regard to the Hertziana Library in Rome. This institution is very well known in all cultural circles and the Italian Government puts it to-day at the disposal of Unesco so that the services it has rendered in the past may be rendered again in the future. I am very grateful for the remarks made by the delegate of the United Kingdom, and I am sure that this appeal that the paragraph in question be in- cluded in the programme will be favourably consi- dered by all who have at heart European culture and particularly Italian culture. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : You have before you a proposal by the delegate of the United Kingdom that item 2.3.1.5. be restored, with the substitution for the phrase «ex-German libraries of archaeology» of the words «ex-German Hertziana Library». Does anyone wish to speak to this? Then we will put to the vote the item as amended. Does anyone oppose the motion for this amendment? Then the item is adopted as amen- ded by the delegate of the United Kingdom. We pass to Chapter 3, Education. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, one of the most difficult lessons which Unesco has learnt during its first year is the close connexion between its interests and those of the United Nations and the other Specialized Agen- cies with which it is co-operating to a common end. I wish to introduce in connexion with Chapter 3 on Education a resolution which is related to one aspect of that co-operation. At a recent meeting of the General Assembly a motion was passed bear- ing on the problem of teaching the aims of the United Nations and promoting activity and under- standing of the cause within that complex group of bodies. One article of that resolution is of par- ticular interest to this assembly. It reads : The General Assembly invites the United Nations Educa- tional, Scientific and Cultural Organization to assist Members of the United Nations, at their request, in the implementation of its iy with the co-operation, as required, of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and to report there- on to the Economic and Social Council. This resolution was passed too late to enter into our discussions on the programme, but I believe it is evidence of the common aims which the various branches of the United Nations serve, that the pro- gramme which we have adopted in these past weeks is in part a response to this invitation of the General Assembly. I should like, therefore, Mr. President, to move the resolution which is contained in docu- tment 20/121. In view of the fact documents are hard to find on cluttered desks, and of the fact that I should like to amend this document in two respects, I beg permission to read the resolution : The General Conference welcomes the resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations concerning teaching about the United Nations; Invites the attention of the United Nationsto the follow- ing provisions of Unesco’s 1948 programme. and there follow several programme recommenda- tions which have been approved by the Programme and Budget Commission and which will at the close of this plenary session become, I hope, the pro- gramme of Unesco for 1948. Thereare three such references. Let me read them to you, since I should like to add a fourth : The General Conference recommends that upon request from the United Nations General Assembly, National Gommis- sions or Co-operating Bodies should co-operate within the limits of their resources in encouraging the teaching of the Charter, structure and activities of the United Nations, and that efficient channels of communication should be established between Unesco National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies and the appropriate departments of the United Nations. Besides, to arrange for the conduct in 1948 of at least three, and if possible four, seminars on education, one of which will consider, in collaboration with the United Nations, education about the United Nations and its Specialized Agen- cies. To confine the enquiry on education for international understanding to teaching regarding the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies and to carry on this work in close collaboration with the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies. To these resolutions, which have been adopted, should be added the project contained in Chapter 5.4 — the Study of International Collaboration— an en- quiry in which it is recommended that social scien- tists should turn their attention to the achievements that have been made in international collaboration, and particularly in the United Nations; and one clause of this resolution recommends close colla- boration with the United Nations. This part of the resolution, Mr. President, therefore merely expresses our welcome to the General Assembly for its interest in teaching for international unders- tanding and indicates what we are already pledged to do. I should like to change the text as it appears in the roneoed copy of the next paragraph, which goes on to a further recommendation; that para- graph should now read : The General Conference instructs the Executive Board to consider the measures which might be recommended to Mem- ber States to encourage teaching programmes about the United Nations in their schools and institutions of higher lear- ning with particular emphasis on such instruction in elemen- tary and secondary schools. and finally : The General Conference offers Unesco's fullest co-operation to the United Nations, both 1n the above-stated aspects of Unes- co's programme for 1948 and in Unesco's willingness to assist = 894 =    all Member States of the United Nations in the development and implementation ofa teaching programme about the United Nations. Mr. President, I move this resolution, not only be- cause this is a programme on which we have em- barked, but also because it is the kind of co-operation which indicates how the instruments of education, science and culture may serve the purposes of the United Nations and give the peoples of the world a fuller understanding of the problems of interna- tional relations as paving the path which Unesco should learn to tread. Dr. B. MUMFORD(United Nations) : Mr. President, I have asked for the privilege of addressing you on the resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations asking your assistance in developing teaching in schools on the United Nations Charter, aims and activities, and also on the resolution now before you, which, if you approve it, will be an ac- ceptance of that invitation. In this connexion, may I point out that Unesco has six letters in its title. Very naturally you have devoted much time at this Conference to the objectives implied by the letters «Е», «S» «C» and even «0»; hence I want to take the opportunity to welcome these resolutions as a happy augury of the interest you are prepared to give to the remaining two letters «U» and «N». Turning to the resolution, as I previously stated at one of your Working Parties, some four parties will be involved in its implementation :
(1) Member Governments, National Commissions or Co- operating Bodies;
(2) Unesco as an advisory and co-ordinating body;
(3) The United Nations, in its concern over the substance of the programmes;
(4) And, lastly, but actually the most important, the school teachers and students whose interest in the United Nations we are anxious to arouse. Three decisions already reached at this Conference, and to which your attention has been drawn in the resolution before you, will provide, I believe, a strong basis for carrying into practice the objec- tives envisaged in the request from the United Na- tions. The first is your decision to develop machinery for joint three-way co-operation between National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies, Unesco and the information services of the United Nations. I would like especially to express appreciation for this development, for in my opening address I sub- mitted, in the interests of efficiency and economy, that it would be helpful if the facilities of the Nation- al Commissions were made available as far as pos- sible to the United Nations, just as the United Na- tions had made the facilities of its information centres available. to Unesco. A second decision of the Conference provides that, in the Unesco enquiry on education for inter- national understanding, emphasis in 1948 shall be on teaching about the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies; and a third decision provides a basis for what we hope will be an annual seminar on the United Nations, to be held at, or near,its headquarters. The resolutions embodying decisions on the last two projects, and the resolution now before you, all emphasize «co-operation with the United Nations». For the record, and in order to avoid misunder- standings, I would like to enlarge a little on what the United Nationsfeels are its interest and respon- sibilities in this respect, and also to touch upon certain principles and practices involved in the con- templated co-operation. The fundamental basis of the interest of the United Nations is, of course, that, as far as the infor- mation services of the United Nations are concerned, education is one of the media — but a vitally impor- tant one — parallel to press, radio and visual aids, through which information should be channelled if enlightened public opinion is to be developed. And the very success of the United Nations depends on such enlightened public opinion. Thus within the Public Information Services for the United Nations are sections for Non-Govern- mental Organizations and for Lecture Services and,in addition, a small Educational Service and Liaison Section. The tasks of the three sections include preparation of current and background information on the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies as a whole, in a form readily usable by the above- mentioned media, provision of speakers on the United Nations and supply of basic material for articles and books on the United Nations, outline lectures, study kits, ete, ete. In addition, in co- operation with Unesco and through appropriate channels, the sections will be concerned with sup- plying material on the United Nations to National Commissionsfor their consideration for use in schools. It may seem to you that such a programme over- laps to some extent that of Unesco. To minimize this danger, certain agreements were reached be- tween Unesco and the Information Department of the United Nations and approved by your Executive Board. These provide, on the one hand, that in any programme of Unesco concerned with the teach- ing about the United Nations, Unesco shall consult the United Nations — for evidently it would be illo- gical for the United Nations to delegate authority about what can be said about itself. On the other hand, the United Nations agrees that, in any of its programmes servicing schools, it shall consult Unesco. = = —     This agreement, in giving both parties consider- able freedom in the common field, still allows a certain degree of overlapping of function, though it avoids overlapping activities. Such freedom is necessitated by the facts that the two operating agencies have their headquarters three thousand miles apart and that each is responsible independent- ly to its own legislative bodies, governed by some- times overlapping terms of reference. Bearing these points in mind, it is clear that a task such as that envisaged in the resolutions before you will require considerable co-ordination and inte- gration of the programmes of the United Nations and Unesco. Furthermore, in view of the interlocking interests and the fact of the distance apart of the headquarters of the United Nations and Unesco, it is clear that each may often have to act, not only in consultation with, but also on behalf of, the other. In these circumstances, I should like to emphasize — and this is the main point which I wish to make in these remarks — that both in principle and in practice it would not be profitable to try more de- finitely to demarcate zones of responsibility for the two parties. There is a huge task to be under- taken which will require all the energies of all avai- lable staff of both organizations. What is needed is for each to place its available facilities at the dis- posal of the other. Further developments of prin- ciple with regard to definition of relative functions and responsibilities should be allowed to crys- talize out of experience. May I conclude, Mr. President, by expressing the deep satisfaction of the United Nations, not only for the kind consideration given to joint problems by delegates and Secretariat alike during this Confe- rence, but also for all the help given by Unesco during the past year. On behalf of all the depart- ments and divisions of the United Nations with which the work of Unesco is linked, and particularly with regard to these resolutions, on behalf of the Department of Public Information of the United Nations, which will be associated with Unesco in the great responsibilities envisaged, may I say that we look forward with confidence and satisfaction to working together in the coming year? Dr. A. SOMMERFELT (Norway) : Mr. President, I beg to second the motion we have before us, with the amendments made by the United States delegate. I think we ought to accept this invitation. It is our duty to accept it. We ought also to be very happy to co-operate with the United Nations in this matter of great importance to the future of Unesco. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. President, also wish, on behalf of the Australian delegation, to support this proposal. It may be remembered that among our first statements at a plenary meeting of the Conference, we said that one of the functions of National Commissions might well be to help the dissemination of knowledge not only about Unesco but also about the United Nations and the ‘other Specialized Agencies. I am grateful, too, that the United States delegate has suggested the inclusion in this resolution of a reference to the Social Science project, which we hope will lead to social scientists throughout the world taking a more definite and continuous interest in the problems in the field of the social sciences which arise from our attempt on the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies to build a new system of world co-operation. As Tar as Australia is concerned, we intend to carry out this proposal to disseminate knowledge about the United Nations at once. We shall not wait, in fact, for the resolution to reach our Govern- ment; members of the Australian delegation will take steps before they return to their country to make arrangements with the United Nations Secreta- riat so that our Co-operating Bodies can play their part in this work. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : If no other delegates wish to speak, we will vote on the resolution contained in document 2C/121 with the amendment suggested Бу the delegate of the United States of America. Do any delegates oppose the resolution? Then it is adopted. Are there any further remarks with regard to the chapter on Education which we are: considering? The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA: Mr. President : At this late hour it requires a certain amount of moral courage to speak to any of these items without having a definite amendment to pro- pose; but I am taking this opportunity of speaking to the items of Fundamental Education (3.4, 3.4.1 and 3.4.2.). I do so because it seems to me that the recommendations which this Conference is making on fundamental education constitute the most important points in the whole work of the Se- cond General Conference. These recommenda- tions,if we take them at their face value and try to carry them out, are of a revolutionary character; but nothing we have done at this Conference is more likely to affect the history of mankind in our day than these recommendations, if properly and well carried out. I believe that this is the first time in human history that the nations of the world assembled together have deliberately decided to put an end to ignorance, deliberately decided to go out in what may be called a missionary spirit to combat ignorance and help the backward peoples of the world. — 226 —     This means much to every continent, but it means something very vital indeed to Asia and Africa. The consequences of the carrying out of fundamen- tal education in our day, particularly in Asia and Africa, are incalculable. That it should be done, there is no doubt. The dangerlies in our contenting ourselves with passing resolutions and failing to carry them outin a reasonably short space of time. I know of no movement in education comparable with this, except the great forward movement of Christian missions during the nineteenth century, which has made such a ‘difference to the backward peoples of my own continent and of Asia. Mr. President, fellow-delegates, there is no revo- lutionary powerso great as the extension of education to the ignorant peoples of the world. No general strikes, no revolutions, nor even economic reconstruc- tions, can be compared in their ultimate power with the forces which a really strong programme of fundamental education will liberate. What the political consequences of this programme will be, no man can foresee. It is relatively easy for those who live in countries where the masses are already educated to agree to resolutions of this kind. It costs something, for the countries where the masses have not yet had this privilege, to make this great adventure of faith. I want to say that we in our country are ready to. make this adventure of faith in full consciousness of the fact thatits consequences are unforeseeable. So it must be with the world as a whole. We terid to lose the vision, the spirit, with which we begin our work, in two ways. We tend to lose much in undignified political wrangles, which in no way help the purpose of education; and also in too great a concentration on the necessary tasks of bud- get ‘balancing and administration. The budget exists for Unesco — not Unesco for the budget, and we should go forward with this plan of fundamen- tal education if we are to be true to the responsibi- lities which the United Natiôns and’ the péople of the world in general have handed to us. [ say these things, not because T think anyone opposes fundamental educationin principle, but lest we should think of it as something to be done very gradually — something that does not matter very much, once we have subscribed to thie principle — instead of something which must be’ the very heart and soul of Unesco during the next thirty years. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Are there any more observations on the chapter on Education? If there are no further remarks, we shall consider the chapter approved. The next chapteris No. 4, on Cultural Interchange. Does any delegate wish to speak on this chapter? The delegate of EGYPT (Translation from the French) : I have a proposal to make regarding item
4.5 — Access to Archaeological Sites. We were not present when this item was discussed, and we think that it might involve some legaldifficulty. We there- fore suggest an amended version of this resolution, to read as follows : The Director-General is instructed to consult Member States on measures designed to secure every possible access by archaeologists of all countries to archaeological sites; and, in particular, to request the International Council of Museums to put forward plans for consideration by the Third Session of the General Conference for submission to Member States. In moving this amendment, Mr. President, I would like to say that Egypt, like other countries rich in archaeological interest, has always been liberal in this respect and has encouraged archaeolo- gists to excavate in all parts of the country. I would also express our gratitude for all the efforts of archaeologists in Egypt and for the contribution they have made to history and civilization. I hope my amendment will not be taken as a contradiction of the spirit behind this proposal. All I am aiming at is to eliminate any implication of sovereignty or any legal difficulty that might be involved. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I am very happy to hear the remarks of the delegate of Egypt, which are similar to those which I myself made during the dis- cussion of this matter in the Programme and Budget Commission. I strongly support the motion pre- sented by my colleague from Egypt, and I am sure that this Conference will understand the source of our fears. M. Rémy BASTIEN (Haiti) |Treaslation from the French) : You may be surprised to hear my delega- tion supporting the two previous speakers, because you know that Haiti, compared with Greece and Egypt, has very few archaeological resources. I fully agree with the delegate of Egypt as regards the need of amending this paragraph. The laws in various countries are in fact opposed to free access to archaeological sites. = Although we in Haiti pos- sess few archaeological sites, we wish to preserve them in the best way possible. There are certain laws governing the conditions in which researches may be undertaken. I fully support the motion submitted by the delegate of Egypt. (The amended text ofitem 4.5, proposed by the de- legate of Egypt, was read to the meeting) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): Does any delegate wish to speak to the amended — 227 —    text? We are about to vote on item 4.5 in the terms presented by the delegate of Egypt. If anyone is opposed to this text, will he please raise his hand? Item 4.5 is approved as amended. Are there any other observations on Chapter 4? We pass now to Chapter 5, Human and Social Sciences. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : May I draw your attention to thefact that thetitle of the chapter has been changed to « Human and Social Relations»? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We will discuss the chapter under that title. Are there any observations on Chapter 5? The chapter is adopted as it stands. We pass to Chapter 6, Natural Sciences. Are there any observations on Chapter 6? Dr. R. GUSTAVSON (United States of America) : In connexion with the Hylean Amazon Institute, there is a matter that is rather small but at the same time quite significant, for the purpose of giving us a definite line of authority in the operation of the pro- posed Hylean Institute. In 6.3.1. we make this statement: Forthwith call a meeting of the Council, consisting of representatives ofthe nations and international organizations named in the report of the meeting of the Commission at Belem in 1957, together with representatives of any other country or international organization that may express itself as interested. And again, in 6.3.2. : Use his best efforts to assure that the Executive Com- mittee and the Survey Staff proposed in the report of the Belem Commission are set into motion as soon thereafter as possible. The problem here, of course, is making moneys available to a Council that does not yet exist. It seems to some of us that the situation would be much betterifin 6.3.3.1., line 3, after «in 1948 », we made the following correction : (a) make available the sums necessary for the meeting contemplated in 6.3.1.» (that is the meeting of the Council), (b) provide the temporary survey staff contemplated in
6.3.2. The item would then continue as at present. In this way the responsibility is not delegated to a non- existent Council; the responsibility and the autho- rity lie with the Director-General. Mr. President, I move that these changes be made. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Mr. Presi- dent, this is a matter that has been discussed at great length. The Budget and the present report of the Programme Commission are both based on the resolution agreed to by the Working Party. We had always understood that this was a proposal for Unesco to serve as a catalytic agent, and that the emphasis was on encouraging the Member Govern- mentsinterested in this very important area to assume at any early date, full responsibility for the develop- ment and conduct of the Institute. ‘This, we under- stood, was the reason for which the Budget carried a grant-in-aid for this purpose — a grant to be made to the interim Council as soon as it can be brought together. I would like to say that the fact that the Council is not yet in existence provides, surely, no ground for raising any difficulty. There are at least two other items in this programme on which we propose to make grants-in-aid : not quite such big sums, but nevertheless grants or payments to organizations which are not yet in existence. It is proposed that we should supply $ 25,000 to supplement the finance which we hope other sources will provide for a Press Institute which does not yet exist. It is also proposed that we should pay the sum of $ 10,000 to the International Congress of Mental Hygiene, which is going to prepare very important material for us in connexion with the social tensions project. There again the Congress as a legally constituted body does not yet exist, but it will exist before it receives this money and before it carries, out the work for which we are ‘paying. I therefore see no reason why the wording of the report should be altered or why the budget alloca- tion of the funds should be changed. If this pro- posal were accepted, we should have to revise the attribution of funds at present ear-marked for this most important project. The Australian delegation has always supported this project very strongly, not only because of the importance of encouraging work of this kind in the Hylean Amazon region, but also because we think it is a very important thing for Unesco to bring together Governments to tackle, together, a job within Unesco’s sphere and in the region in which they are interested. For these reasons we would prefer to see the ar- rangementalready approved by the Working Party and by the Programme Commission remain in ifs present form. Sr. R. BILBAO LA VIEJA (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish) : On behalf of the Bolivian delegä- tion, I wish to express my complete agreement with the statement made by the delegate of Australia. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Trans- lation from the Spanish) : As a country interested in the Amazon project, we want to co-operate most sincerely with the Secretariat. We wish neverthe- — 228 —    less to make it clear that we desire the Amazon pro- ject to be in existence as a reality by the beginning of 1949. As this can only be achieved through a detailed report, covering the purposes for which the Institute is to be set up and the latter’s working costs, we request that it be emphasized in the pro- gramme of Unesco that the preparatory work of governments and organizations interested in the Hylean Amazon Institute should begin as soon as possible. I venture to suggest the following amendment to
6.3.2., which now reads : «Use his best efforts to assure that the Executive Committee and the Survey Staff proposed in the report of the Belem Commission are set into motion as soon thereafter as possible.» The words «the Executive Committee and», in the first line, should be deleted. The word «there- after», in the last line, should also be deleted. The item would then read : Use his best efforts to assure that the Survey Staff pro- posed in the report of the Belem Commission are set in motion as soon as possible. Lastly, I would add, after «possible», the words : so that the report for Unesco and the interested States and organizations can be prepared by August. Dr. J. JONES PARRA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish) : I entirely agree with the Colom- bian delegate's proposal. It seems to me, moreover, that it would be more practical and convenient if, in item 6.3.1. we changed the opening words «forthwith call a meeting of the Council» to «call in March 1948 a meeting of the Council». We delegates from the Hylean Amazon region have met together to discuss this question; we have considered it in detail, including the place at which the meeting should be held, and we think that four months would give us more than sufficient time to call the meeting. Towards the end of March, therefore, the work would already be started. This proposal of mine is in addition to the Colom- bian delegate’s suggestion, which I support. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : One remark, Sir. I would express the hope that no precise dates are mentioned in this document. The Programme and Budget Commission have tried to avoid precise dates. It is sometimes extremely difficult to keep to them, and I really think it would be a mistake to mention them here. We have «Forthwith call a meeting», which means call it as soon as possible. There may be obstacles which will prevent its being called in March. Again, with reference to the request that the report of the survey should be ready in August, I would humbly suggest that it would faci- litate the task of the Secretariat if it were said, instead, that the report was to be prepared in time to be sent out for consideration at the next session of the General Conference. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (7ransla- tion from the Spanish) ¢ The Director-General knows how anxious we, of Colombia, are to co-operate with him and to fall in with his ideas. The only thing we desire is a definite statement that the preliminary survey work in the Hylean Amazon region and the preparation of the report be undertaken as soon as possible through the Field Co-operation Office of Latin America. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Brazilian delegation, as you all know, has taken a very definite and active part in the set- ting up of the Hylean Amazon project. This project belongs to Unesco. This project, born in Unesco, approved by its Executive Board, studied here by the Working Parties and approved by the Programme and Budget Commission, is an integral part to-day of the programme that Unesco is trying to evolve for mutual co-operation between the peoples of the world. The Institute will be a meeting place of scientists, educationists and anthropologists. Now is not the time to go back to discussions of detail. I have full confidence in the Director-General, who is a man of science and whom I trust. I accept as a formula of goodwill any proposal the Director-General puts before us, and I hope that at next year’s General Conference we shall pro- duce valid proof of the interest taken in these acti- vities by all the countries who group themselves round this particular Unesco project. Sr. R. BILBAO LA VIEJA (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, on behalf of my delegation I warmly support what has just been said by the delegate of Brazil. We also have complete confidence in the Director-General as regards the organization of this important project. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromt the Spanish) : Do any other delegates wish to speak to this question? Three amendments have been proposed to the chapter on Natural Sciences. The first is the Uni- ted States amendment to paragraph 6.3.3.1., which I will ask to have read. The United States amendment was read, as follows : In line 3 of the English text, after «in 1948» add: « (a) make available the sums necessary for the meeting contemplated in 6.3.1. and
(6) provide the temporary survey staff contem- plated in 6.3.2.» == (990 —    The rest of item 6.3.3.1. would remain as at present. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We also have the amendment proposed by Colom- bia, which adds to item 6.3.2. that the report for Unesco and the interested States and organizations should be prepared by August. Finally there is the amendment to item 6.3.1. submitted by the delegate of Venezuala, who wishes that item to begin : «Call in March 1948». Dr. A. NIETO CABELLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : After what the Director- General has said, I am happy to modify my amend- ment so that it will provide for the preparation of the report in due time. The amendment does not in fact seem very necessary after the assurance given by the Director-General. In accordance with the spirit of his request, however, I wish to make it clear that the survey should be undertaken as soon as possible, through the Field Co-operation Office. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) * Does the delegate of Colombia mean that he with- draws his amendment? Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia )(Transla- tion from the Spanish) : Yes, as regards the precise date. «As soon as possible» is what I want in this item, to ensure that the report will be prepared in due time. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spans] : I think that was the sense of the Director-General's proposal. Does the delegate of Colombia wish to give us a text? Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : It would read as follows : so that the report for Unesco and the interested States and organizations can be prepared in duetime. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : If no one wishes to speak further, we will proceed to vote on the various items on which amendments have been submitted. We will proceed in the numerical order of the items and start with No. 6.3.1. which the delegate of Venezuela suggested should begin with the words : «Call in March 1948 ». On a vote taken by show of hands the Venezuelan amendment to item 6.3.1. was rejected. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Since it has not obtained a majority, the amend- mentis lost, and the original text stands. We now pass to the amendment to item 6.3.2. suggested by the delegate of Colombia, which you have already heard. On a vote taken by show of hands the votes cast were
10 in favour and 10 against. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : As the votes are equal, we wil! take a vote by roll- call. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translationfrom the French) : I would like to suggest to the delegate of Colombia that we place complete confidence in the Director-General, who is respon- sible for carrying out his project in conformity with the instructions of the Conference. Let us not embark on a discussion of minor details, but leave him responsible to us for the success of the undertaking. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : I accept the Brazilian dele- gate's proposal. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : And whatdo you say with regard to your amendment, Sir? Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tionfrom the Spanish) : The amendment is withdrawn. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Consequently, if there are no further observations, the original text of item 6.3.2. stands. We now come to the amendment to item 6.3.3.1. suggested by the delegate of the United States of America, the text of which has been read to the meet- ing. I will put that amendment to the vote. On a vote taken by show of hands the United States amendment was adopted. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The amendment is adopted by 12 votes to 4. The text of item 6.3.3.1. is therefore approved in its amended form. Are there any other observations with regard to Chapter 6, Natural Sciences? Since there are no more observations, the chapter is adopted in the terms approved by the meeting. We have now completed our discussion on the programme. For the sake of formality, I submit the whole document for adoption in the terms which you have already approved. Adopted by acclamation. — 230 —
39. Consideration of the Report of the Budget Sub-Commission on the Budget for 1948. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We will now consider document 2C/125, which is the Report on the Budget for 1948 draw up by the Budget Sub-Commission, as modified and adopted by the Programme and Budget Commis- sion for submission to the General Conference, The Rapporteur thinks it would be convenient for us to begin by examining Annex B : Appropria- tions for individual projects. We are now discussing Annex B. Do any dele- gates wish to speak to this annex ? If there are no observations, Annex B is approved. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Mr. Pre- sident, I assume that the Appropriation Table (Annex A) should be adjusted following the resolu- tions on the Hylean Amazon project. The appro- priation resolution states that : For the Financial year 1948; the amount of § 7,682,637 is hereby appropriated for the purposes indicated in the Appropriation Table. The delegate of AUSTRALIA : This matter would be considered when we come to examine the Appro- priation Table. We would like a statement in more precise terms than that the Table should be adjusted. I would like to know whether we are going to approve or to discuss the Table. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We are considering Annex A : Appropriation Table. The Rapporteur thinks it would be convenient to consider Annex B at the same time as Annex A. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : This is not point of substance, but I think it sufficiently impor- tant to mention that there is a failure to reproduce in the document before us a change which was made at the meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission to the note at the foot of page 3 in the English text of Annex A. At that meeting the provision of $ 100,000 was agreed upon, to cover contingencies. In the note, as I remember it, the word «only» after «applied» was replaced by the word «primarily» and other words were added to the effect that not more than $ 100,000 might be used for contingencies. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Secretariat has a note of this wording, which
18: «The reserve is to be applied primarily to cover further increases in the cost of living and of mate- rials, provided that not more than $ 100,000 may be used for contingencies.» The delegate of AUSTRALIA : Following the resolution on the Hylean Amazon project which we have just taken and which I assume authorizes the Director-General to apply a portion of the money previously provided as a grant-in-aid to the Hylean Amazon for the purpose of employing quali- fied staff, I imagine that the mover of that resolu- tion is now ready to suggest how this sum should be adjusted. The budget previously provided in Annex D a grant-in-aid of $ 55,000, and it is now presumably intended that that amount should be reduced and that a corresponding amount should be provided in other chapters of the Budget to enable the Director-General to employ the staff required for the work that he is now being asked to do. It seems to me that it rests either with the mover of the motion, or with the Director-General, to suggest how this money should be apportioned between the various chapters of the Budget. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Mr. Pre- sident, I do not know whether the United States delegate would like to propose the breakdown of that figure in the columns of the Budget. The only suggestion I can make this time is that the appropriate adjustment should be made and sub- mitted for the approval of the Executive Board at its meeting in February. Dr. R. GUSTAVSON (United States of America) + I see the budgetary difficulties that have arisen from an attempt to get the Hylean Amazon project under way and to keep the responsibilities located until the Council can be organized. It seems to me that the suggestion that has just been made is perhaps the only feasible one, Dr, E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : The Confe- rence is required to determine the total amount to be provided in grants-in-aid. It will be neces- sary, therefore, for the Conference to vote that this particular rule in the Financial Regulations be suspended to the extent necessary to permit the Executive Board to adjust the amount shown in Annex D as a grant-in-aid to the Hylean Amazon. This will reduce, not the amount voted to the pro- ject but the amount of the grant left over to be handed to the Council after the Director-General has spent the rest of the money on staff, common services and other expenses of the project, Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) : The situation, Sir, for the benefit of those who have not perhaps followed this very closely, is that there is now a sum of $ 55,750 in Chapter 4, Grants-in-Aid. In the original motion it was intended that this sum should be given to the Council to be set up — 231 —
15 A. I B s e e e E E E   in the Hylean Amazon; now, as a result of the reso- lution passed tonight, a portion of that money will have to be given to the Council for the holding of a conference. The question is, how much will have to be transferred from Grants-in-Aid (Chap- ter 4) to Personnel (Chapter 2), and perhaps to other chapters. Can this meeting, with the infor- mation at its disposal, suggest a sum, or should it be left to the Executive Board to decide how the $ 55,750 for the Hylean Amazon project can be distributed through the chapters of the Budget ? Professor H. J. BHABHA (India) : Mr. President, it seems to me, for the purposes of this meeting, that all we have to decide now is a lump sum for the conference mentioned in 6.3.1. The rest of the sum can be left in Grants-in-Aid. As regards Annex D, all we have to do is to take the whole of the sum and allow for the amount required for the Conference, It would be quite easy for the Director-General to make a suggestion as to what would be required for item 6.3.1. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : The difficulty is that we do not know how much the figure for the Conference should be. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : May I move, Mr. President, that the Executive Board be auth- orized to suggest the allocation of thesum of $ 55,750 appearing in Chapter 4 of Annex A, and in Annex D, for the purpose of carrying out the resolutions regarding the Hylean Amazon passed by the General Conference. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : I second that motion. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Are there any remarks on this proposal ? Then the proposal of the United Kingdom delegate is adopted. Are there any further observations on the docu- ment under discussion ? If not, I will put the document to the vote. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : In the interval provided by the delegate of the United Kingdom, I think we have come to a figure which we could introduce at this moment if it were satis- factory. I suggest this because I believe it is the desire of the Conference to move rapidly; if we were to wait for a meeting of the Board in February, it would not be possible to obligate funds until that approval were given. The proposal is that out of the total figure of $ 55,750, which is now carried wnder Grants-in-Aid in Chapter 4, $ 54,250 be put in Chapter 2 under Personnel Ser- ices and $ 1,500 in Chapter 3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : This would take the place of the United Kingdom delegate’s proposal. Do you agree with the Deputy Director-General's proposal ? Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : It seems to me that this changes entirely the nature of the project. It means that throughout the whole of this year, except for the holding of the Conference, all the work of the Hylean Amazon project will lie with the Secretariat. I think the matter requires more consideration. I am also surprised that no common services should be provided for this project. Would it not be better to keep Sir John Maud’s proposal as it stands, and if necessary, in addition, autho- rize the Director-General to incur preliminary expenditure between now and the meeting of the Executive Board in February ? — Professor H. J. BHABHA (India) : It seems to methat our Latin American friends are rightly eager to get on with this project, and the Deputy Director- General's suggestion was meant to avoid the delay between the present time and the next meeting of the Executive Board. If I could hear the figures again, I am quite prepared to support them. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Mr. Pre- sident, my proposal was that $ 54,250 should be put into Personnel Services and $ 1,500 into Common Services. If I may respectfully suggest it to the delegate of India, I think Dr. Walker has found a formula here which makes it possible to avoid delay and which at the same time gives us an opportunity to make a more accurate calculation. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Presi- dent, I feel confident that the best course is to adopt the delegate of Australia’s suggestion. If these words would suit his intention, I would like to move as an additional motion the following : The Conference further authorizes the Director-General to incur necessary expenditures for this purpose before the Executive Board takes its decision. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Do you agree to the proposal put forward by the United Kingdom delegate ? Will those who oppose it please raise their hands ? As there are no objections, the motion is adopted in the terms proposed by the United Kingdom delegate. Are there any other observations on the Budget document ? — 232 —   Then I will submit to you the document as a whole. Will those who are opposed please raise their hands ? Since there are no objections, the document is approved. The Rapporteur would nowlike to speak. Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) : I wonder whe- ther you would allow me to put my mind at rest and make good an omission of which I was guilty at two o'clock the other morning, in the heat of the debate and the cold of the dawn. Thatis, may I express the thanks of the meeting to the Budget Sub-Commission for the excellent job that they did ? I saw a little of the inside workings of the Sub-Commission and T think that they are deserving of the thanks of the whole Conference. I would tike to move a vote of thanks to the Chairman and the members of that Sub-Commission.
40. Closing Speeches of the Second Session of the General Conference. Dr. CORDERO AMADOR (Costa Rica) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : Mr. President, fellow dele- gates, before reading the motion submitted by the delegation of Costa Rica, I would like to speak on it very briefly. The proposal we are putting before you is that a tribute should be paid to the Republic of Mexico in the person of Don Justo Sierra, as one of those who promoted the integral reform of education in Mexico at the end of the last century. He defined the problem of a social educational system, directed and guided by the State. He was Minister of Public Education, and only two years after he took up this office the schools in Mexico numbered
552, with 2,400 teachers. Two years later he promulgated the Primary Education Law as a result of which the schools were modernized. He increased the number of educational centres to 600. Nor did he overlook higher education. He founded the School of Higher Studies which was in fact the first higher education institution for the training of teachers for universities, training colleges and high schools. To this School of Higher Studies came distinguished teachers from Europe (we have always turned to Europe for guidance). In that school there were many illustrious men taught, among them Antonio Caso, Ferico Gambea and others. Justo Sierra re-established the universit which had been closed in 1865. Speaking in
1910, at its reopening he said that it would be an admirable source of guidance in many aspects of higher education. As you have seen, gentlemen, Sierras work was memorable. He was interested in all phases of education, from the earliest years of kindergarten to the higher university studies. He said with justice «Truth is elusive; let us seek it». And I say to you, gentlemen, so that justice must be done eventually; let us do it, albeit belatedly, in paying tribute to Mexico in the work of Don Justo Sierra, the teacher of America. He saw very clearly that the old educational principles of the eighteenth century should be amended. He solved the moral, political and social problems which, in our own day, are still at the root of education. It was his desire to bring about a universal consciousness through raising the standards of culture. It is for the above reasons that I submit for your consideration — and I hope that I can count on your support, as I do already on that of the delegates of Colombia, Ecuador, Greece, Peru and other coun- tries — the following resolution : Whereas The General Conference has upheld, among other propo- sitions, the stressing of the human and spiritual values which have contributed to the dissemination of culture and education and to the maintenance of peace between the peoples and now seeks to illustrate the objects of the Organization and render homage to those men throughout the world who have contributed to the accomplishment of the said prono- sitions; and Whereas A true teacher is an effective ambassador of education, of liberty and of peace, and inasmuch as an educationalist exemplary in his life and in his teaching purifies all around him,and of a trueteacherit may be said thatlikefire he kindles all he touches, so that we cannot harm him but should on the other hand render thanks to him for all he does to spread the light of knowledge, to illumine the intelligence and to spreadthe ideals of equity and justice; and Whereas Mexico's historian, poet and educator, Don Justo Sierra, a man of whom men of all classes must agree that he stands in the first rank, and is of outstanding reputation, a moving spirit in the moulding of the later generations whose apostle he is, duly deserves the title of «Magister in America»; and Whereas. The said Justo Sierra being, in the words of Dr. Manuel Gual Vidal, the «creator of righteousness between men», is one of those to whom homage is due from such a body as Unesco, and such homage offered to Justo Sierra on the centen- ary of his birth (26 January 1948) is by extension a tribute to Mexico, host ofthe Second General Conference ofUnesco ; and Whereas Such homage may be used to strengthen and canalize the noble work done by this body; Now therefore it is agreed That Unesco shall pay tribute to the United States of Mexico in the person of the educationist Don Justo Sierra Mendez, deeming him by reason of his exemplary life and brilliant work, one of the «Magistros in Americas. — 288 —    In thanking you, on behalf of my country for this opportunity of expressing these words of tribute to Mexico's cultural achievements. I bring you greetings from the President of one of the smallest Republics of Central America, which is nevertheless deeply interested in the work of Unesco. I speak on behalf of Lic. Teodoro Picado and also of the Minister of Public Education and of all those who contribute to education in America and do honour to the high ideal of Brotherhood born of noble friendship. I hope you will unanimously approve the motion put forward by the Costa Rican delegation. In paying tribute to Don Justo Sierra, one of world's greatest educators, you will also be paying tribute to Mexico, which deserves our respect and affection as a land of pure generosity. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegate of Costa Rica has proposed that we should pay tribute to Don Justo Sierra, as the Teacher of America. Do you approve this motion ? It is approved by acclamation. (2) Dr. Pablo F. LAVIN (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : From the point of view of the permanent values of the spirit, no international institution deserves so well as Unesco to be deemed the most powerful instrument for cordial rapprochement between the peoples for the promotion of a just and enduring peace. For in point of fact, in the chain of historical evolution Unesco is the practical embodiment of the continued and self-denying efforts of the most famed heroes, martyrs and social reformers who, in all ages, gave without stint of their best for the triumph of the highest ideals of justice. under- standing, tolerance and human brotherhood. Gethe said « What moves me most in the whole canvas of history and what most demands my gra- titude is the cultural heritage descending to each generation from the vast work accomplished by their predecessors in their endeavour, step by step, to mount the stony slopes of moral and material perfection.» 4,2 5 Wherefore, we at this time must call with fervent devotion on the names of the renowned champions who fought for brotherhood between men, and offer to them the tribute of our gratitude, our rever- ence, our admiration. Nevertheless we stand at a perilous cross-road of history, whence we can take the path leading to the triumph of the ethical ideal and thereby ensure the progress of man towards attainment of his highest destiny, or we can take the way leading to the fall () Resolution X.10; vol. IL, page 66. of our species to the lowest depths, nay, even toits final extinction. To exorcize such dangers, to make a better world possible, to strive to stamp out the deadly germs of war, there is this United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, an agent of creative action and positive work in the interna- tional community, lighting the path of solidarity and kindling in the human soul new faith in the redemption and increase of the noble, spiritual heritage of the world. That unparallelled catastrophe, the second world war, from whose appalling aftermath we suffer yet, has shaken to its very foundations the pillars of our civilization and the most edifying sentiments of the race. But, in fact, the second world war was not the climax to a long process of social disin- tegration, so that man, fallen but unwearied, could set forth again with hope on the rough track of reconstruction, secure in his new historic task of regeneration; no, this was only one episode, though the most fiery and violent, yet still but a single epi- sode in that tremendousspiritual revolution which for decades has stirred the men of our age in a vast upheaval, in their search for the best political and economic organization of society, Among a myriad doctrines, hypotheses and sys- tems, two opposed concepts of the world and life have striven for political predominance : the first, the absolutist metaphysic which lies at the root of autocracy, dictatorship, totalitarianism of every colour, which conscripts man’s will and conscience and tyrannizes over his whole life; and the other, critical relativism, the mainspring of democracy, which makes possible the development of the essen- tial freedoms, the plurality of parties and the com- plete expression of opinions and beliefs under the State ruled by law, whose norm and objective are respect for the full dignity of man and for the basic rights of his personality. The triumph of the first would destroy the ideo- logical currents of those philosophies whose char- acteristic is respect for democracy and liberty If in the whole course of history, any just and permanent contribution has been made, it is the contribution of Christianity in imposing recognition of the dignity of man. But so far its application has not been sufficiently positive and all-embracing in the material order of economic and social pro- gress. That is the great problem of our time : to harmo- nize the two essential terms of the political equa- tion, the individual and society, through a formula which shall establish the mutual rights and duties of the two. The concepts of the lofty, humanistic ethic arrived at by our philosophy of life demand — 234 —   insistently a radical change in men's minds to-day through the dominance of those psychological values which shall ensure political and economic progress along lines which recognize the inalienable rights of the individual man. There would be no just nor progressive change in the order of social and political relationships were there not an essen- tial antecedent transformation in the soul and mental outlook of man. It is thus a matter of absolute necessity that there be such a psychological regeneration of man as shall bring his soul, his brain,his basic ideas of social life into accord through a deep consciousness of genuine and fruitful socia- bility; eradicating those irrational, aggressive and selfish impulses which distort the life of nations and encouraging in every field those factors which may fashion the new democracy based on a virile concept of responsibility and collaboration. The development of personality must be led into the channels of social utility. Democracy demands a re-statement of its essential concepts, a new inter- pretation, the vigorous leaven of those edifying principles which the wisdom of the ages has en- shrined in glowing phrases : « There is no higher law than that each shall do his duty», as the founder of Positivism has said; and as America’s benefactor, Benito Juarez, said : «Peace is founded on respect for the rights of others.» For in truth, despite great moral progress, the course of social evolution has been guided by hate and discord. Freud was right in underlining, as one of the most powerful motives for war, the germs of destruction, egoism and aggressive tyranny which lie deep in the instincts of our species. Hence we are faced with the sad phenomenon that man, so far as the power of his brain is utilized in the fields of technology and science, arrives through the use of reason at discoveries and inventions ever more marvellous, so that he seems to be stealing her last secrets from Nature, but at the same time spurns the use of reason in that sphere which is the very condition of his life, the basis of his pro- gress and the mode of his felicity, that is to say, in political methods for better neighbourliness. Myths, violence, selfishness, lying and error would seem to be the false paths along which man is being driven. It is therefore a matter of urgency to apply intelligence to the civil and political organization of humanity, to the distribution of wealth, to ensuring basic economic and political rights. The institutes of culture, the tools of education and the media of propaganda, all the cultural appa- ratus designed to redeem man from his ignorance, from his anti-social instincts, from his lust for domi- nance through war, must in these sad times be mobi- lized to attain the rule of Principle and respect for Right. That is why in my view we must regard the greatest task of Unesco as the attainment, through education, of understanding, harmony and international colla- boration. That is why we at this Conference have maintained that only through the education of child- hood and youth in the ideals of peace and justice, of political and economic democracy, can the men of the future blot out war. How right was Liebnitz in his famoussaying : « Give me the children and I will change the face of the world. » To attain those ends we stress that Unesco’s chief task is to promote in every shape systems of instruction which shall guide the minds of youth into the paths of peace, collabo- ration and concord. Only through education shall we succeed in transforming the minds of warlike peoples, in creating mutual understanding and co- operation,in creating international solidarity. Only through education, by moulding the mind and con- science of the new generations, above all in those countries nurtured in the philosophy of war, hatred and absolutism, can we attain a true state of inter- national understanding. Only through education shall we resolve the problem of the relationship betweenethics and the State, notafter the fashion of German ideology or of autocratic governments which preach and practize the primacy of might over right (Der Staat ist Macht — The State is Force), where the loftiest spiritual principles regarding human rights have no meaning; but after the fashion of genuine democracy, through the rule of mutual respect, of tolerance, perhaps the fairest flower of the human spirit. In this way we shall forge the victory of the humanitarian concepts of brotherhood, standing embattled against the creed of the philosophers of violence, who, like Hegel, proclaim that «universal love of humanity is no more than a sickly figment of the mind ». Wherefore the Cuban delegation, convinced of the decisive influence of education as the basic means of achieving a fundamental conversion of mankind to the ends of peace and to the establishment of those economic rights which must form its essential foun- dations, asks of all the States here represented and of the sovereign agencies of the United Nations, a greater economic contribution to that transcendental work of progress, as it asks of Unesco very special attention, greater activity in every kind of under- taking for the education of the childhood and youth of the world, not only to redeem it from its ignorance, but to bring aboutthe reign of the moral forces and of the ideals of good and Justice. We stand face to face with a sociological pheno- menon of the utmost historical significance. The world presses on towards unity, and the wills of ع888 ل  ا ل ا ا ص R e L E : ت ب س ‎     men must be turned fo its effective achievement through legal structures whose end shall be the attainment of true justice in its loftiest forms. Butthat unity must be coupled with full respectfor the special characteristics of each people, its history and its free self-determination. Thus, as Man is already deemed subjectum juris throughout the world, true and effective force will be given to the international declaration of the Rights of Man without distinction of race, sex, language or religion, not alone because it is founded upon the ee and inextinguishable voice of conscience ut for the further reason that it is a sine qua non of those Statutes which give power and form to uni- versal mutual dependance, and make of Man a citizen of the world. Thus, in our days, the far-sighted prophetic teaching of Juan Bautista Alberdi, who expounded the need for organizing, on a democratic legal basis, world citizenship and continental citizenship in the same way as national citizenship, acquires a power then unforeseen. We are witnesses of a swift advance of the process which leads to world unity, but world unity will not take on substance nor last for long unless it is built up under the aegis of liberty, since nothing perma- nent or creative can exist under political institutions where spiritual powers and the true individuality of Man do not develop normally and spontaneously. Unity then should commend itself as a manifes- tation of the infinite variety of peoples, thus fulfilling Marti’s great thought: « The concept of world honour is not exclusive of the honour of one’s country, but asks only that one’s country’s honour be a part of the honour of the universe.» Those who to-day are forging that unity must not forget what Kant taught, inspired by Rousseau’s ideas : « There is an indissoluble connexion between the internal liberty of nations and the possibility of fitting them into a world order.» For which reason Unesco must aim, with education as its main weapon, at strengthening in every people the democratic spirit, since no international democracy can exist so long as democracy is not in the seat of authority in the majority of states. And America can boast with justice that, under the banner of the loftiest ethical concepts of Right, it has organized a whole hemisphere in a judicial system, on the democratic basis of the free determi- nation of the peoples, the equality of states, non- intervention and collective security, inspired, more- over, by the pure universal concept of the Rights of Man. As an example of the progressive development of the social and legal applications ofthe ideas of human understanding, we have the Republic of Mexico — a mighty temple of nature, where, as in a magic cru- cible, the virtues of all races are fused in the purest and noblest concept of equality, all working together in their victorious march towards advancement and liberation. To Mexico, rich in historic tradition, a treasury of spiritual and material wealth, which for decades has been in our America the standard-bearer of the movement towards social justice — to Mexico, which welcomed so warmly our greatest leaders and which offered hearth and home in days of cruel persecution to the shining lights of universal thought, as to our own José Maria Heredia, our great national poet, and to José Marti, the glorious apostle of our liberty — to Mexico may the tribute of love and admiration from the Republic of Cuba go through our lips. The Cuban delegation, which proudly boasts that its own Republic has been nurtured in a strong and glorious democratic tradition, and whose story includes famous sons who made major contri- butions to the sum total of world culture, which pridesitself, moreover, on having worked untiringly for international justice and for the eocumenical concept of international relations, we, I say, as lovers of peace and justice, reiterate the imperious necessity of Unesco’s devoting the keenest attention to ensur- ing that the educational systems of all countries shall jointly adopt new assignments or special courses designed, at every stage from kindergarten to univer- sity students, to develop the teaching of the lofty concepts of social ethics which make for peace by implanting in the minds of the coming generations that war is a crime whose evil consequences are endless, as also the concepts of the excellence and profit of true democratic values, the necessity of the practice of tolerance and brotherhood between men and peoples, and devotion to true justice as the normal standard overriding the mere force of the State — which are the sole means of ensuring peace, international democracy and the limitless progress of mankind. Let Unesco not forget that it has taken on the noblest and thus the most responsible task in this decisive hour of human history — to bring peace to an anguished world, since only through education, science and culture can a better world be made free from fear of the crime of war — a bastion of Right, a temple of justice, a pledge of majesty and grandeur — which can only be achieved through the will of Man, through the intelligence of Man, through the tolerance of Man, because finally, as the author of Fausthas said, «only he is worthy of liberty and life who conquers them every day». Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, fellow delegates, at the conclusion of this Second Session of
236 —      the General Conference, held at Mexico City from 6 November to 4 December 1947, I have the honour on behalf of the General Committee of the Conference, to submit to you a few resolutions. At the conclusion of its Second Session, held at Mexico City from 6 November 1947, The General Conference of the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization, deeply moved by the generous hospitality extended to the Organization by the Mexican authorities, appreciative, of the interest shown by the whole Mexican people in Unesco its aims and its ideals — an interest which demonstrates the fundamental bond between Unesco and the traditional aspirations of Mexico, under the enlightened guidance of its rulers, aware that the work achieved in Mexico City, in the most favourable intellectual atmosphere and material conditions, will mark a crucial stage in the programmeofUnesco's work for peace and international understanding through co-operation between the nations in education, science and culture, Adopts thefollowing resolutions : I. The General Conference Expresses. To H. E. Sr. Miguel Aleman, President of the United States of Mexico. To the Ministers. And in particular to H. E. Sr. Manuel Gual Vidal, Minister of Public Education, and his colleagues, and to H. E. Dr. Mar- tinez Baez. To H. E. Sr. Fernando Aleman, Head of the Central Depart- ment, and to all the Mexican authorities. Its deep gratitude For the cordiality of their invitation to hold the Second Session at Mexico City. For the superlative facilities which they have placed at Unesco’s disposal, allowing the meetings of the Conference to be held in the building of the Escuela Nacional de Maestros, so boldly conceived and symbolizing the pioneereffort of Mexico for popular education. And for the general assistance they have afforded to Unesco in every way to organize the Conference and to ensure its full success. u. The General Conference Thanks H. E. the President of the Senate and H. E. the President of the Chamber of Deputies for their gracious invitation to attend an Extraordinary Session of the Mexican Congress, the memory of which will ever remain with those who had the privilege of being present. Ш. The General Conference Expresses its gratitude also to the National University of Mexico and all the cultural and educational organizations in the country for their enthusiastic interest in the work of the Conference and for their assistance in spreading knowledge of Unesco's work throughout Mexico. The General Conference Most grateful for the whole-hearted co-operation afforded to Unesco by the Mexican Press during the period of prepa- ration for the Conference and during its Session. Thanks the members of the Mexican Press for the interest they have shown in Unesco, for the spontaneous enthusiasm with which they have answered the Organization’s appeal and for the wide publicity which they have given to the results of the Conference. Through their assistance the whole of Mexican public opinion, and beyond the frontiers of that country, world public opinion, have been kept informed of the daily progress of the Conference and have been enabled to realize the contribution which it is Unesco’s mission to make to the development of mutual confidence between the nations and to the preservation of peace. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The proposed resolutions are approved by acclama- tion. 6) Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, fellow delegates, I feel we are making a beginning, if only a small one, here in Mexico, towards the substitution of co-operation and reason for the brute force that should belong to another, and an obsolete, world. I hope that these Conferences will learn to believe that what is best for Unesco is best for us all, for Cuba, Liberia, and the Lebanon; yes, and for Eng- land, for Mexico and for France. This is hard, but we must learn to believe it. Our goal is a distant one. Our goal is what is best for Unesco. I should not be ashamed to take this for a slogan. Perhaps we need a slogan. Thereare times when a slogan can guide men, even in groups such as this. In my opening statement to this Conference, I said I felt Mexico to be a particularly happy choice for the place of our Second Session. At our closing meeting to night, I repeat that statement with added conviction. It has been a thrilling experience to meet in the midst of a people so devoted to education and so aware of the value of the things of the mind and the spirit. We have watched this new Training College grow into a thing of beauty around us as we have partici- pated here in its dedication in a land wherethe value of beauty is so well understood. In order to make plain to the people of the world what has been accom- plished here, I therefore propose, as the last word of the United States delegation at this Second Session of the General Conference of Unesco, the following resolution : Whereas : — the Second Session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organi- zation coincided with the dedication of the Escuela Normal in the city of Mexico; and Whereas : Resolutions of gratitude and appreciation were adopted by the Conference in recognition of the warm and cordial Latin hospitality of the Government and people of Mexico. The Second General Conference authorizes the Executive Board of Unesco to instruct the Director-General to provide ® Resolutions X.11 and 12 : vol. II, pages 67 and 68. — 237 —    or a commemorative tablet and to seek permission of the Government of Mexico to place it on the wall of the Escuela Normal as the site of this Conference, and suggests that the Director-General may wish to inscribe on the tablet, together with such commemorative words in Spanish as may seem appropriate, the words of the great Mexican patriot Benito Juarez, that have been of such inspiration to men cf goodwill in every part of the world ; so that the wording on the tablet might include the following : « The Second Session of the General Conference of Unesco met here 6 November-3 Decem- ber, 1947, under the beneficent influence of Benito Juarez, whose words were : « PEACE IS FOUNDED ON RESPECT FOR THE RIGHTS OF OTHERS. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The proposal of the delegate of the United States of America is approved by acclamation (), Thank you vary much. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, gentlemen, at the close of the Second General Conference of Unesco I feel I must express my very deep satisfaction and also my regret; satisfaction at the results achieved, due in large measure to the congenial atmosphere surround- ing the Conference, and regret at leaving this u- nique country, with its wonderful climate ands cenery, and remarkable, above all, for the character of the young race which inhabits it — a melting-pot in which two old and vigorous cultures have been fused. We have found an inspiration and an example to foliow in the spectacle of a country which, in the midst of a troubled world, has preserved its serenity and has done more than any other in launching a vast campaign against illiteracy, aimed at developing strong and healthy minds in men who to-morrow will be the defenders of peace. The Conference held in Mexico City has demon- strated clearly the benefits to be derived from the idea that Unesco should come into direct contact with all the different cultures. In the past month we have seen that what might be considered visionary is reality. We have seen living together in your beautiful country, united by the same ideal, men and women of different races, cultures, languages, ideologies and religions, all working together towards a common goal. And this, it must be fully recognized, has been made possible largely by the unbounded generosity of the Mexican government and people. For the moment I am not speaking of all the mate- rial facilities provided for us, including the splendid building put at our disposal for the Conference headquarters, but of the arduous preliminary work carried out by His Excellency the President, Licen- ciado Miguel Aleman, thanks to which nearly all Latin America has been represented in this assembly, and © Resolution X.13; vol. II, page 68. of the example I spoke of a moment ago of those people who are domg so much to carry education and culture to the most inaccessible parts of their country. This has been a powerful stimulus to those of us who seek to spread them to the remotest cor- ners of the earth. It has been an honour for me and for all of us to have as the President of the Conference Licenciado Don Manuel Gual Vidal, the Minister of Public Edu- cation of the Mexican Government, who has spared no effort to ensure the success of the meeting. We shall never forget the generous hospitality of the Government or our warm welcome from the whole people. Neither can I omit to mention the valuable co- operation given us by the Mexican Press. I think I am not mistaken in saying that the whole press of the country was interested in our work, as well as a large group of foreign correspondents, representing the principal newspapers of the world. The work done by the correspondents of the Mexican papers has been a help for which Unesco can neyer be suffi- ciently grateful. We have laid here the foundations of a new spirit of universal co-operation, which constitutes a gua- rantee of peace; and in clasping the hand of the intel- lectuals of Mexico we have shared with them the grave responsibility for watching over the world we hope to build for future generations. And so, as we take our leave, we cannot say good- bye, for we carry away with us the conviction that Mexico lives side by side with the rest of the world and that the Englishman, the Chinese, the Lebanese, the Pole, the Australian, simply because they are men of goodwill, are giving reality to the ideals pur- sued by Mexico, which are the ideals of all right- minded peoples of the world. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Gentlemen, I believe that farewells are all the better for being brief. My remarks will therefore be con- fined to a few words. Your departure from amongst us is an occasion for sorrow and regret. I would like to express the gratitude of the Mexican people and Government for the generous tributes paid to our country by the delegates of Cuba, Brazil and the United States of America, and by the Director- General. And I repeat the words spoken by the President of the Republic of Mexico on a formerocca- sion, when he said that Mexico would devote herself heart and soul to the success of this Conference, and that if anything were lacking it would be because 1t was beyond her powers to produceit. We are grateful to the Governments which have sent here to Mexico such notable representatives of — 238 —      their various cultures, so that, through our joint labours, carried out in an atmosphere of complete freedom and democracy, we have managed both to agree upon a programme of work for Unesco and to open up a path to the achievement of Unesco’s aims, for it 1s not through speeches alone that we shall achieve peace. Nor shall we achieve it through good intentions alone. Words must be translated into deeds; and that is what our Organization is doing. I want now to pay a tribute to the work of the Unesco Secretariat as well as to that of the Commis- sions, the Sub-Commissions, and all others who have not been in the limelight. As you know, they have spared no effort in the preparation of our work. They will see the fruits of their labours in the reso- lutions of this Conference. We are optimistic for the future and firmly believe that Unesco, despite its economic weaknesses (which we have discussed so extensively), is a spiritually strong organization. It is, as our French friends say, une idée force which will endure in the world and surely prove to be one of mankind’s noblest contri- butions to the cause of a just and lasting peace. We believe in Unesco because we believe that a good tree is bound to bear good fruit. Whatever may be its hesitations and errors on any particular occasion, we are sure it will never deviate from the path which it has marked out for itself. One of our aims — and a very lofty aim — is the cleansing of the minds of men in order to extirpate wars. But besides cleansing the minds of men we must also cleanse their hearts. What we need to uproot hatred from the hearts of men is not only a clear intelligence, a clear mind. We must also appeal to their moral sense. We have not only to convince man that he should not have recourse to war; we have also to ennoble his sentiments, re- educate him, convert him — as has already been said in this assembly — into a true citizen of the world. Unfortunately, it has happened all too often in the past that intellectuals, despite their moral prestige at other times, have become violently partisan as soon as the trumpet of war has sounded. We are therefore resolved to continue to work whole-heartedly to bring this Organization, into contact not only with the governments but also with the peoples of the world. And to this end it seems to us that the provisions in the programme concerning National Commissions and regional centres are eminently suited to the pursuit of the aims of the Organization. I will conclude these brief remarks by passing on the greetings which the President of the Republic asked me last night to convey. Unesco'svisit to our beloved country has been a source of deep satisfac- tion to him. He has taken the greatest interest in the Organization’s work and has been delighted that Mexico has proved to be a propitious environ- ment for an organization dedicated to the promotion of peace. As you have seen, gentlemen, Mexico is lending its efforts to this work in the belief thatit is the path of progress for the nation. It does so in an atmo- sphere of democracy and freedom. It does so in order to imbue the minds and hearts of men with the spirit of peace, confident that this noble aspira- tion will find an echo in the great heart of our race. On this, the fourth day of December 1947, I de- clare the Second Session of the General Conference of Unesco closed. The Session closed at 1.05 a.m. on Thursday, 4 Decem- ber 1947.