Dr. HAN (China) seconded the motion. The CHAIRMAN remarked that in any case the Reconstruction and Education Working Parties would hold a joint meeting and that it was only a question of who should take the Chair. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) thought the per should be on both agendas and that the Working Parties should themselves decide on the Chairman. A vote was taken, and the motion was carried by
7 votes to 1. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) asked that the decision be communicated immediately to both Working Parties. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL raised the question of limiting the 10 speakers at the morning’s plenary meeting to 10 minutes each. It was agreed that this would be unfair as earlier speakers had not been subject to a time-limit. The SECRETARY announced that Dr. R. Castro (El Salvador), who was to have been Vice-Chairman of the Social Sciences Working Party, had been named Rapporteur of the Fundamental Education Working Party, in place of Mr. Charles Johnson (U. S. A.), who had not been present. This left a vacancy for Vice-Chairman of the Social Sciences Working Party. Further, there was a proposal by Professor Wallon (France) that the group of Working Parties : Education, Fundamental Education and International Understanding should hold two joint meetings. The CHAIRMAN proposed that Sr. Adolpho Costa Du Reis (Bolivia) should replace Dr. R. Castro as Vice-Chairman of the Social Sciences Working Party. The proposal was seconded by the delegate of Mexico. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) did not think it was for the Committee to make any further suggestions for the Working Parties, which, now that they were constituted, selected their own Chairman, Vice- Chairman and Rapporteur. He suggested, how- ever, that representatives on the Social Sciences Working Party should be informally advised to support the nomination of Sr. Costa Du Reis as Vice-Chairman, Agreed. The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that mem- bers of ‘the Executive Board had to be elected as soon as possible before 23 November, and sugges- ted 19 November. The Nominations Committee must meet beforehand, and he proposed to fix the meeting of the Nominations Committee for 17 Novem- ber and the Plenary Meeting for 19 November. Agreed. Before adjourning, it was decided that the Chair- man of the Committee should extend a welcome to the representatives of Republican Spain, who were arriving that morning to attend the Conference as guests of honour, and that this procedure should set a precedent for all subsequent comparable cases. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. FIFTH MEETING Wednesday, 12 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) The CHAIRMAN announced with deep regret the death by suicide of Mr. Frank Medworth, a member of the Australian delegation. He had received a letter from Dr. Walker saying that the Australian delegation would not take part in the Conference that day, and thanking Dr. Martinez Baez and the Mexican Government for their sympathy and belp. It was agreed that the Secretary should be asked to convey the sympathy of the Committee to Dr. Walker. The next question to be discussed was that of the status of the Rev. C. E. Rupp, representative of the International Catholic Co-ordinating Committee, who was attending the Conference as an observer. The SECRETARY explained that the Committee afthe Executive Board which had decided upon the list of observers had issued an invitation to the International Catholic Co-ordinating Committee and had received an affirmative reply. Canon Rupp had been sitting at the back of the conference hall with observers from the International Non-Governmental Organizations and had expressed surprise that he — 0 — a i ] k —и н е й   was not given a place at a delegates’ table. Great importance was attached to his visit in Mexico. However, the Secretariat could not raise his status, but only give him all material facilities, such as sup- plying him with information and documents. It might be possible for him to sit with the Inter-govern- mental Organizations, such as the Pan-American Union, etc. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) remarked that there were three categories of persons attending the Conference : (1) Delegations; (2) Observers from Inter-Governmental Organizations; and (3) Obser- vers from International Non-Governmental Organi- sations. He thought that if an exception were made, it would make a bad impression on the other non- governmental organizations and therefore agreed with the Secretary, that Canon Rupp should be given all documents and facilities, but no special status, and the situation should be explained to him. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN announced that the Education Working Party had proposed a joint meeting of the Working Parties for Education, Fundamental Educa- tion and Education for International Understanding. It was agreed that this meeting should take place and that the Chairman of the Education Working Party should preside. The next item to be considered was two sets of resolutions submitted to the General Conference by Poland and Ecuador. As translations in the three working languages were not ready, it was decided they should be examined the next day and that the Committee should indicate to whom they were to be transmitted. The SECRETARY drew attention to the text of a resolution of the Social Committee (Gommittee Three) of the United Nations concerning the parti- cipation of Unesco in a United Nations project for teaching in schools about the United Nations. The text of the resolution was as follows : The General Assembly : Considering that knowledge and understanding of the aims andactivities of the United Nations is essential in promoting and assuring general interest and popular support of its works recommends to all Member Governments that they take measures at the earliest possible date to encourage the teaching of the United Nations Charter, purpoess and prin- ciples, as well as the structure and activities of United Natisns, in schools and institutions of higher learning in their countries, with particular emphasis on such instruction in elementary and secondery schools, and, invites Unesco to assist members of the United Nations, at their request, in the implementation of this programme with the co-operation as required of the Secretary-General, and to report thereon to the Economic and Social Council. Mr. PIERCE (Canada) pointed out that, while the United Nations wished to encourage teaching about the United Nations Charter, Unesco was also anxious that there should be teaching in schools about its own Charter. He was therefore in favour of accepting the invitation, while en- deavouring to avoid overlapping with the United Nations in such a programme. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, while recognizing that this was admirable work, feared an additional activity which would lead to a certain amount of expense. Dr. HAN (China) did not think that the resolution gave to Unesco the importance which it deserved, but it might serve as a basis for conversations be- tween the Director-General and the Secretary- General of the United Nations. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the matter had not yet come before the General Assembly of the United Nations and was only a recommendation of the Social Committee. It was agreed that the question should be referred to the Programme and Budget Commission for discussion. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) announced that he had received instructions from the Head ofhis delega- tion to ask the General Committee not to shorten the Conference. After seeing the draft programme of the Conference, the Mexican Government had arranged a Dance Festival on 30 November and the President was giving his reception on 2 December. He thought it would be very regrettable for dele- gates to leave before these ceremonies. At the suggestion of the delegate of the United Kingdom, the Committee took note of this informa- tion, but postponed its decision for a week, in accor- dance with its earlier decision. Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) had a question of procedure to raise. The Programme and Budget Commission had been asked to make its recommen- dations on the 1948 Programme by using a special form of resolution. He wondered whether the Executive Board had prepared a form of resolution for each programme item. If it were left to indi- vidual delegations to do this, there might be cer- tain items not sponsored by any delegation. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) explained that the Executive Board had created a Programme Committee, which had decided to recommend a special form of resolution to be usedin setting forth Conference deci- sions on the 1948 Programme, so that decisions
230    taken would be positive and concrete, giving the Board and the Secretariat all necessary information. Delegations should present draft resolutions in this. form. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) felt this reply did not meet the wholeof his question. He wanted to know whether any particular item which was not moved and seconded by any delegation would lapse, or whether the Executive Board wished to put forward each of the items as proposed and seconded by it. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) thought the position was clear : the Executive Board had finished its work when it presented the draft programme to the General Conference. It submitted the draft, not as a motion, but as a document for discussion and examination. It could be assumed that any point in the draft programme which was not the subject of a resolution, was not in the programme for 1948. It was the responsibility of the Chair- man of the Programme and Budget Commission to take what steps he deemed advisable to ensure that the will ‘of the Commission was expressed in resolutions to go before the General Conference: Mr. PIERCE (Canada) agreed with the delegate of the United Kingdom, and said that, if there were no champion for a certain item, he would be glad to see it dropped, as he felt that a sufficient number of items would in any case be sponsored. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL hoped that members of the Executive Board would consult with the Chair- man of the Programme and Budget Commission and with delegations to see that no item in the draft programme was left out of consideration. The meeting ross at 11 a. m. SIXTH MEETING Thursday, 13 November 1947 et 10 a. m. Chairman : Proposal by the French delegation. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) propo- sed that a French representative should be invited to sit with the Committee, as they were to discuss the proposal of the French delegation. He was seconded by the delegate ofNEW ZEALAND. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN welcomed M. Roger Seydoux, the delegate of France, and recalled that France had ceded its place on the Committee to Brazil. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) wished the subject of the examination of the Unesco Consti- tution to be added to the agenda, as there might be some changes to be made and other procedures introduced after one year’s experience. He was seconded by Mr. HARDMAN. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was in entire agree- ment, but suggested that the discussion should be postponed for a day or so, as there were many points to raise. To this Mr. BENTON (United States of America) replied that he hoped that it would not be postponed for too long, as he planned to sug- gest that the result of their discussions on the sub- M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) L ject should be passed to the Procedure Committee, and the latter must have sufficient time to consider the questions raised before its meeting on Monday, Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) observed that the Procedure Committee had created a small sub- committee to examine the rules and it was not to start work until it had received amendments from delegations, to be submitted within two days. Any suggestions of the present Committee should there- fore be communicated to it before Monday morning. The suggestions of the General Committee did not have to go to the Plenary Conference before being submitted to the sub-committee. The CHAIRMAN called on the delegate of France to speak on the French proposal. M. SEYDOUX (France) recalled that the Head of the French delegation had presented a motion the previous day, tending to associate the work of the Working Parties more closely with that of the Programme and Budget Commission. There was a feeling of discontent among the French delegates regarding the conditions under which — 251 —