It is also essential to the success of the objectives themselves (objectives concerned with the better- ment of man’s background and conditions of life, which are infinitely complex) that, if they are to succeed, their direction must be inspired by con- tinuous counsel from far-flung fields, and their op- erations must be based on integrated action by many agencies. Behind all these objectives, large or small, set at the request of the peoples of the world through their representatives at this or other United Nations meetings, the full energies and facilities of the United Nations and of the Specialized Agencies must be marshalled. Such is true at all times. It is especially true today, when resources are limited and needs are great. To conclude on behalf of the United Nations as a whole and on behalf of my delegation in particular, may I again thank you for your welcome and wish every success to this Second Session of the Unesco Conference. The world and the United Nations will await with hope the results of your delibera- tions. It needs your help and your inspiration. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I propose that we close the meeting now and return at 3.30 to consider Item 7 of the Agenda. The meeting rose at 12.55 p. m. THIRD PLENARY MEETING Friday, 7 November 1947, at 3.30 p. m. CONTENTS
8. Consideration of Recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of new Members :
9. Establishment of the Programme and Budget Commission and Adminis- trative and External Relations Commission
10. Establishment of Working Parties
11. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of Observers from Non-Governmental International Orga- nisations to the Conference President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon Dr. Martinez Baez to report on the de- cisions of the General Committee. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) (Chairman of the General Committee) (Translation Jrom the Spanish) : At its first meeting held to-day, 7 November, at
1 p. m., the General Committee decided to make the following recommendations to the General Confe- rence : a) In conformity with recommendations submitted to this effect by the Executive Board, the General Committee recom- mendsthat the representatives of the Republican Government of Spain should be invited to attend the meetings of the Conference in an unofficial capacity. b) Upon the request of the Principality of Monaco, the General Committee recommends that a representative of В    Monaco should be allowed to participate in the Second Session of the General Conference in the capacity of observer. c) The General Committee recommends that the Nomina- tions Committee should be invited to submit suggestions, first, for the posts of Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteur of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, the Budget Sub-Commission and the Administrative and External Relations Commission, these proposals to be transmitted to the corresponding com- missions; and, secondly, for the posts of Chairmen, Vice- Chairmen and Rapporteur of the Working Parties ; these pro- posals should be submitted to the Working Parties concerned. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Is the Conference in agreement with the proposals by the General Committee? If anyone wishes to make any observations will they speak now. I take the recommendations of the General Com- mittee as approved, and we shall now pass on to Item 7 of the Agenda, namely, the examination of the recommendations concerning the admission of new Members. Weare dealing now with document 26/5 which doubtless is already before you.
8. Consideration of Recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admis- sion of new Members. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Executive Committee of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations has recommended the admission of Switzerland, Italy, Austria and Hungary as Members of Unesco. Consequently, I ask the meeting if, having in mind this recommendation, the requests of these countries shall be admitted, and we shall pass now to a vote on this matter, in accor- dance with the terms of the document which is al- ready in the hands of delegations. We shall begin with Switzerland, following the order in which the documents are arranged. As you will see, the documents are prefaced with certain considerations and end with an agreementin regard to the admission of the country concerned. If dele- gates have any observations to make in regard to the considerations, I would ask them to make them known to me; otherwise the Chair will put the matter to a vote in regard to Switzerland. The agreement, if approved, would be as follows : That Switzerland is admitted as a Member] of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. We shall take a vote by roll-call for each of the countries concerned. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted infavour : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Czechoslovakia, China, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New
7ealand, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Turkey dnion of South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Venezuela. Absent : Colombia, El Salvador, Liberia, Luxem- bourg, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : By 29 votes in favour the admission of Switzerland as a Member of the United Nations Educational, Sciertific and Cultural Organization 1s approved. If the representatives of this country are present, will they please take their places at their respective table? Dr. Gaston JACCARD (Switzerland) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, it is with profound emotion that I express to you, to the Organization and to you as delegates to it, the thanks of the Swiss Government. Per- sonally, I did not expect this decision to be taken to-day, so that I have not prepared a speech. I shall simply allow my heart to express the deep feeling of gratitude which I and all the members of my dele- gation share at this moment. In Switzerland we have always believed that the presence of my country within the Specialized Agencies was a necessity; with our admission to Unesco we have gone a roundabout way, and we find ourselves now in an agency of the United Nations without actually being Members of the United Na- tions. You certainly can depend upon our sincere and enthusiastic co-operation, gentlemen. I believe that in Unesco, as in the other agencies, our absence would have been regretted, first by us and later perhaps by the other Members. There are certain absences which are more important than presences. Switzerland, in spite of her small size and limited population, will, I am quite sure, make a very valu- able contribution and, without wishing to be guilty of patriotic excess, I would like to recall two or three of the great contributions which Switzerland has made to humanity. Switzerland, as you all know, is the doyen of democratic republics. She has achieved the difficult feat, which we hope is only a beginning,of uniting in herself three cultures which rank amongst the “ighest in Europe and which hand in hand have worked towards a better future and the creation of a civilization almost independent of its constituents. In the field of politics Switzerland's rôle is well known. We have succeeded in creating an absolute democracy, which I might call a Christian demo- cracy, that is to say, a democracy based upon the principles which Christianity has brought to the world. In the field of culture and education, we have always considered that the education of the people hh —      D C ‏ ب ج ن ا v o . should at least temper the excesses of pure science, because, as the President of the Mexican Republic wisely pointed out yesterday, science alone could cause a certain degeneration of the world if it were not corrected and tempered by education. In Swit- zerland we attach very great importance to the edu- cation of the masses, the education of the people, which we conduct on the triple ground of our three different cultures. In the field of education, and especially higher education, I would remind you of two things. It was Calvin who was one of the first to conceive the ideal of public and largely compul- sory education. This principle was indifferently ap- plied at the time, but it now forms the basis of the admirable system which spreads throughout the whole world. With regard to universities, you know that Switzerland has one of the oldest universities in Europe, the University of Basle, which was found- ed in 1460. Switzerland is still an international centre. I shall not remind you of the rôle which Switzerland played before the war as host-country to various institutions, but allow me to remind you briefly of the part she plays to-day. In the city of Berne, ourcapital, we have the Uni- versal Postal Union, the Telecommunications Union and the International Copyright Union. In Geneva we have the International Bureau of Education, which I believe is fully represented here in this assembly. In Geneva, as well, we have the School of International Studies, which has done so much to spread certain principles of international law and right throughout the world and which includes amongstits teaching staff such distinguished figures as M. Rappard, M. Burckhardt, our Minister in Paris, and M. Mantoux. We have in Zurich the Federal Polytechnic School, which is the only institution created by the Swiss Confederation, this being usual- ly left to the different cantons. This school, which is known throughout the world, is considered to-day as one of the leading scientific institutions in the world. Because of the war, and since the war, we have created a numberof organizations which deal with some particular aspect of education. Let me mention the Institution du Livre Suisse and the different art exhibitions which have been held in Switzerland, Italian, Austrian, French,ete, and which have made of Switzerland a haven for art. I would speak also of the great work done by Switzerland in regard to editions of books, which we publish to supply the needs of certain countries formerly large-scale pu- blishers. We have Swiss editions of the German, Latin and Greek classics. I would also mention in passing the great international reviews of a non- political and generally artistic character which are published in Switzerland. So we enter into this Organization with deep gratitude, Mr. President. For us it is a cause for great pleasure, and it will be greeted to-morrow in Switzerland with the utmost satisfaction. But we do not come here with empty hands. I think that we shall make a contribution which will be useful to the whole world and which, ifit depends upon the authorities of Switzerland, will certainly be put to good use. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Just as in the previous case, we now submit for the consideration of the assembly the admission of Italy as a Member of Unesco. If there are no observations to be made with regard to the considerations which are before you, we shall proceed to a vote and, as in the case of Switzerland, the Chair proposes that the vote be taken by roll-call. We beg the Secretariat to call the roll. (The vote was taken by roll-call, Voted infavour : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, India, the Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Turkey, Union of South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Venezuela. Absent : Colombia, El Salvador, Liberia, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Secretary informs me that by the vote of 29 of the delegations present we have decided to admit Italy as a Member of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, and the Chair invites the delegates of Italy to take their place at the Conference table. M. Guido DE RUGGERO (Italy) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, it is a matter of deep satisfaction for Italy that we have been admitted to membership of Unesco and, in the name of the Italian delegation, I wish to express my most sincere gratitude for the vote taken by the Conference, a vote so flattering to my country. In the midst of the present difficulties which are still delaying Italy’s admission to the United Nations, it is a very happy omen that our country enters into international life through the greatest organization of world culture. This proves that culture marches ahead of politics and uses its natural function as a pioneer to establish new relationships between peoples. Admission to Unesco represents for Italy the resumption of the great humanist mission which it has exercised throughout the centuries in the cause of the spiritual betterment of the people, and which   the recent and hateful parenthesis of the war could not erase from the common human heritage. In thisspirit, and confident that it can contribute effec- tively to the special aims of Unesco, as well as to the great common task of fraternization of all peoples, the Italian delegation is happy to take its seat at the working table among the most eminent representa- tives of world culture, to whomit extends its heartfelt greetings. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The next case for our consideration in the admission of Austria. As in the previous cases, the Chair asks the assembly if we can submit the agreement of admission to the vote. If there are no remarks, I shall ask the Secretariat to proceed to a vote by roli-call. The delegate of Australia wishes to speak. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : On this matter of Australia I have been asked by my Govern- ment to state the Australian view that admission to membership of the United Nations Organization should follow signature of the Peace Treaties. That condition, of course, has been fulfilled in connexion with the other applications before us, but not yet, we very much regret to say, in the case of Austria. The Australian Government hopes very much that at an early date the application of its own views in this matter will lead to the admission ofAustria to all United Nations Organizations, including the Spe- cialized Agencies; and for that reason it is my duty to suggest that the wording of this motion might be changed so that Austria’s membership would be- come effective as from the date on which the Peace Treaties are signed. I must therefore beg to move the following verbal amendment which I will now read : That Austria be admitted to membership of the Organiza- tion as from the date of signature of the Peace Treaty and that in anticipation of her formal admission Austria be invited to participate in all activities of the Organization. This may appear to be a matter of form, butit is a viewpoint we would have felt obliged to adopt in connexion with other applications for membership, had it not been possible to complete the signature of the Peace Treaties in those cases. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We submit to the Assembly the amendment, proposed by the delegate of Australia, to the terms of the agreement for the admission of Austria. If any dele- gate wishes to speak in connexion with this, he is free to do so. Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Fellow-delegates, with the greatest respect to Mr. Walker and his colleagues of the Australian delegation, the United States Government does not regard the signature of the Peace Treaty as a prerequisite for admission to Unesco. On the contrary, my Government has felt that the day could not come too soon when the Austrian people would have the opportunity to participate fully in Unesco. We look forward to growing co- operation with Austria in all the fields of our work, and we would welcome that becoming effective in this Conference, in our joint efforts to use the fields of science, culture and education to further the peace and security of the world. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does any other delegate wish to speak in connexion with the amendment concerning Austria? Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. President, I am very grateful to the representative of the United States for the words he has just ut- tered, and it is not necessary for me to say much more except that I want to make clear that our attitude is that there should be no boundaries, no barriers whatsoever erected. As I said in Paris, it is the feeling in my country that there should be no cultu- ral barriers, and the sooner we have every nation represented here, the sooner we are likely to arrive at the Utopian ideal of universal peace. I do sincerely hope that this difficulty — this hesi- tation on the part of Australia — will not influence delegates, and that we shall to-day be able to wel- come our colleagues from Austria and Hungary. Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, gentle- men, the delegation of Brazil believes that the rôle of Unesco is above all to pacify the spirit and,if this is so, it would certainly be a good sign that the peace of the spirit be made before the political peace is signed. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does any other delegation wish to address the meet- ing? Since there are none, the Chair asks ¡f the amendment submitted by Australia is seconded. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : The Polish delegation seconds the amend- ment proposed by Australia. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We shall vote in the first place upon the motion as amended by the Australian delegation, which the Secretary will now read : That Austria be admitted to membership of the Organiza- tion as from the date of signature of the Peace Treaty and that in anticipation of her formal admission Austria be invited to participate in all activities of the Organization. — fi —    We shall proceed to a vote by roll-call, upon the motion submitted by Australia. We beg the Secre- tariat to call the roll. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted infavour : Australia, China, Poland. Voted against : Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela. Abstained : Haiti. Absent : Colombia, El Salvador, Liberia, Luxem- bourg, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : I think that Italy and Switzerland have the right to vote. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : According to the information given me by the Secre- tary, the Australian amendment has been rejected by a vote of 25 to 3, there being 6 delegations absent and one abstention. Consequently, we shall proceed to the vote on the original proposal on the admission of Austria to Unesco. We beg the Secre- tariat again to call the roll. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Den- mark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela. Abstained : Poland. Absent : Colombia, El Salvador, Liberia, Luxem- burg, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The resolution on the admission of Austria as a Member of Unesco is adopted by 28 votes with one abstention, six delegations being absent. We invite the Austrian delegation,ifit is present, to take its place in the hall. Dr. Hermann ZEISSL (Austria) : Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a most welcome duty for the observer who, on the instructions of the Austrian Government,is attending this Gonference, to express, on behalf of the Government of Austria and of the people of Austria, their deepest satisfaction and heir most sincere gratitude at the vote which has ust been taken. I need not say that my Government will do its est to go through with the legal formalities, as prescribed by your Constitution, as quickly as pos- sible, so as to achieve ratification within the shortest possible time. Everybody in my country wishes to see Austria pull her full weight as soon as possible. Nine years ago an aggression, almost without example in history, wiped Austria off the map. All the nerves and arteries through which Austria received inspiration from, and rendered her contri- butions to, the intellectual and artistic life of the civilized world, were cruelly cut and the country became a vast concentration camp of the spirit. Two years ago the victorious Allied Armies drove the aggressor from the soil of our country, with great sacrifices to themselves, which we shall never forget. They were supported by the Austrian Resis- tance Movement, of which support the Red, White and Red Book published by the Austrian Govern- ment has given ample proof. But it is you who have thrown open the door for us to rejoin the great world community of the spirit and to take our share in the responsibilities and the fruits of the common struggle for the moral and intellectual progress of humanity. But liberation after catastrophes like those which have befallen my country is a slow process. The last fetters have not yet been taken from wus, although we hope and trust that that day will soon come. Meanwhile, we are eager to make use of the freedom which has been granted to us. We are in close touch with the competent Allied authorities and have eradicated, and are eradicating, the last ves- tiges of Nazism; we have done away with that evil seed of Nazism — racial discrimination — which, more than any other of the ugly features of Nazism, was incompatible with the great Austrian tradition of tolerance. We have started to reconstruct and to rebuild. We should like to render thanks, in the presence of this illustrious international audience, for the efficient help given us by the various inter-Allied cultural agencies in our country. The work of the American, British, French and Soviet educational divisions, the splendid achievements of the British Council, of the Institut Culturel Francais and of the Friends of Cultural Relations with the Soviet Union are excellent examples of international co-operation, which promise well for the future. We are looking forwardsto this future with some optimism, the more so as our admission is taking place under happy auguries. The first is that it takes place in this brilliant and hospitable capital of the Mexican Republic. We consider this a most happy coincidence, because it was the Mexican Republic which, in 1938, when Austria was overrun by the aggressor, launched a firm protest with the competent authorities of the League of Nations. The Austrian people will never — UN —   forgetthis courageous and chivalrous action of the Mexican Government, which was fully backed by the Mexican people. Another happy augury seems to us to be that we are sharing the honours of the day with our Alpine sister Republic, Switzerland, one of the cradles of European democracy; with our southern neigh- bour, Italy, to whom the world owes so much of the beauty and grandeur of civilized life; and with our friendly Eastern neighbours, the Hungarians, with whom we have shared so many good and evil days in the past. If you will look at the map, you will find that the highways of Europe, from east to west, from south to north, all meet in our country. This is, if I may say so, in the cultural field a position full of promise but also full of danger. As far as we are concerned, my country is determined to be nobody's bridgs- head, but everybody's bridge, everybody's who wishes to join in the mutual exchange of idsas and of cultural values. So we are mustering the forces which we can put at the disposal of Unesco. We hopethat Austrian music will regain — or batter sitll that it has never lost — its place in the world. We hop» that the inspiration of our authors, of our singars, of our actors, of the leaders of our opera and of our theatres, will not fail us as they did not fail us in former days; and we trust that the achievement of our universities, our scholars and our research workers will continue to increase the common heri- tage of mankind. Guided by the Austrian tradition with its cosmo- politan outlook and tolerance, we hope to contribute worthily to the cause of Unesco, to contribute to peace and security by «collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture, in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and funda- mental freedoms which are affirmed for ths peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, lan- guage or religion, by th: Charter of th: United Nations. » The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The next recommendation of ths Executive Board with regard to th> admission of new M>mbers con- cerns Hungary. We submit for your consideration a proposal that Hungary be admitted as a M>mber of Unesco. Are there any observations? As there are none, we shall proceed to a vote by roll-call on the proposal to admit Hungary as a Member of Unesco. I would ask the Secretariat to have the roll called. ( The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, D:nmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Tarkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, Venezuela. Abstained : United States of America. Absent : Colombia, El Salvador, Liberia, Luxem- burg, Saudi Arabia, Syria. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) ; According to information given ms by the Secretary, we have adopted the resolution to admit Hungary as a Member State of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Galtural Organization by a vote of 27 in favour, one abstention and six absent. Webeg the delegation of Hungary to take their place at the Conference table. M. Rusztem VAMBERY (Hungary) : Mr. President and fellow-delegates : There is a remsdy for every wrong and satisfaction for every soul, as we were told by Ralph Waldo Emerson. It would, however, b> improper to express the gratitude of the Hunga- rian people for the admission of Hungary to Unesco by contrasting this honour with the refusal by the Security Council of our request for membership of th: United Nations. I fully realize that Unesco is a non-political organization affiliated to the United Nations, and that the Ezonomic and ¡Social Council was not led by political motives when,in its decision of 16 August, it raised no objection to our admis- sion to Unesco. Nevertheless, I somehow believe that this is the right road on which Hungary eventually may reach the United Nations itself. After all, without th: educational and scientific work of this Organization, the aims and ends of the United Nations are unat- tainable. Unesco and the United Nationsare linked to each other like soul and body. Nothing butthe soul makes the body alive. As Goethe has put it, Es isc die Seele die sich den Korper baut, or Napoleon, when in his mamories of Saint H>lena h> remarked, wise after the event, that th: spirit in the end triumphs over the sword. By nothing can a nation better prove its worthiness to join, as is stated in the Preamble to ths Hungarian Peace Treaty, th» family of civilized nations, with its sincere love of peace, than by its cultural accomplishments. We profoundly hope that Unesco will soon find ways and mans to put our love of peace into prac- tice by promoting mass information free of war pro- paganda. Far from nationalism in its agressive political sense, indeed, an antidote to the poison of chauvinism, that most dang>rous enemy of mankind, are the spiritual values which all nations, small and great alike, contribute to the treasury of human    E R thought. There is scarcely any country which suf- fered more disastrously than Hungary in two suc- cessive wars caused by German megalomania and the short-sightedness of her own ruling caste. In spite of this suicidal nationalism, we may claim without braggadocio that the Hungarian national spirit produced many values which cameto be recog- nized by the universal civilization of mankind. Not only have we three Nobel prize winners, not only have three Hungarians played a prominent part in nuclear science, but composers like Lizst, Bartók or Kodaly, novelists like Jokai, Mikszath or Moriez, poets like Petöfi and Ady, are well knownall over the world. Our translations of Shakespeare, Dante or Pushkin can match any others in the western hemisphere. In the United States of America alone there are 44 university and college professors of Hungarian origin. Without being nationally immo- dest [ want only to prove that you have not bestowed any ‘undeserved honour upon our downtrodden country. All T can promise you is that the Hunga- rian péople will remain faithful to traditions, of which the mathematician Bolyai Garkas, author of a non-Euclidean geometry in the early eighteenth cen- tury and Albrecht Diirer, the Germanized Hungarian painter of the sixteenth Century are as representative as the forgotten mayor of a Hungarian town, who towards the end of the eighteenth century won the Philosophy Prize at the University of Dijon. We are fully aware that only a new educational system and a scientific effort, of which this interna- tional organization is the cradle, can create what William James called the «moral equivalent of war», can sublimate the fighting spirit and offer a substi- tute for the romanticism of rapacious nationalism. This out-of-date romantic nationalism still awaits, not only the mockery of a new Cervantes, but also a new faith, because, however antiquated a faith is, it cannot disappear unless replaced by a new one. In forging this spiritual weapon of the future, we promise to be your faithful co-workers. According to an old legend Jerusalem was destroyed because the Jews did not use the word in its true sense. Similarly, the true spiritual and humane sense of nationalism has to be restored in order to prevent perpetuation of the disaster which has befallen mankind. With an amazing prevision of things to come Thomas Henry Huxley, nearly a century ago, wrote : «We live in a world which is full of misery and ignorance and the plain duty of each and all of us
1s to try to make the little corner he can influence somewhat less miserable and somewhat less igno- rant than it was before he entered it.» This, I believe, is the duty not only of individuals but of nations as well. At leastit is the logical consequence of our raison d'être, and logical consequences — to quote Huxley again — care the scarecrows of fools and the beacons of wise men. » In this assembly of wise men I dare not elaborate farther onthis tempting subject, for I vividly remem- ber what I was told some twenty years ago by G. B. Shaw, when I had the privilege of aninterview with the author and «substantiation» of Back to Methuselah. When 1 ventured to remind him that, by telling me some interesting stories of Anatole France, he had exceeded by almost an hour the time he had promised me, he replied, «I never met a professor who could listen so attentively as you do.» I know, of course, there are many professors in this assembly and, even if they are as patient as I was supposed to he, it would be unpardonable immodesty to assume that what I am telling you is as interesting as what Shaw told me. Let me there- fore summarize what I said in two words of this hospitable country, whose colours are those of my native land : Muchas gracias. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We beg to remind the Members who have been admitted during this meeting that, in accordance with the Constitution of Unesco, they will have the right to vote as soon as they have signed, accepted, and deposited their instrumentsofratification of the Constitution. ()
9. Establishment of the Programme and Bud- get and Administrative and External Re- lations Commissions. The PRESIDENT (Translation Jrom the Spanish) : Weshall now proceed to the next item on the agenda, which deals with the constitution of the commissions which have been proposed so far : the Programme and Budget Commission and the Administrative and External Relations Commission. Is it the will of the Conference that these Commissions should be set up? Fr there are no objections, the resolution to create these two commissions is adopted. (2)
10. Establishment of Working Parties. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Next we have the establishment of Working Parties. The General Committee has slightly changed the proposal which appears in document 2 C/1, in
(0 Resolution IV; vol. II, page 6. @) Resolution II ; vol. II, page ©. — 49 —   order to add one extra Party to deal with Germany and one to deal with National Commissions. Con- sequently, the Secretary will read thelist of Working Parties to be set up to examine the technical aspects of the programme, as it has been submitted by the General Committeee. The list of Working Parties was read as follows : Reconstruction; Fundamental Education; Education; Exchange of Persons; Copyright; Museums; Mass Communications; Libraries and Documentation; Arts and Letters; Philosophy and Humanities; Social Sciences; Natural Sciences; Education for Inter- national Understanding; Germany; National Com- missions. If there are no objections, we shall take as adopted the resolution to establish the Working Parties recommended by the General Committee. The resolution 18 adopted. )
14. Consideration of the Recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the Ad- mission of Observers from Non-Govern- mental International Organizations. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The next point is the consideration of the recom- mendations of the Executive Board in regard to the admission of observers from non-governmental inter- national Organizations to the Second Session of the General Conference. This is document 2C/32. This document consists of various sections and I propose that we discuss them one by one. We will egin with the first section, which the Secretary will read. The Secretary then read document 2 C/32 (Rev.): Have delegates any observations to make concern- ing the list of organizations from which it is pro- posed to admit observers to the Second Session of the General Conference? Dr. Natalio CHEDIAK (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, T should like to get one ©) Resolution IL; vol11, page 6. point clear before we approve the recommendation te admit as observers those international and world organizations listed here. What I propose is that we should approve this list without prejudice to other international or inter-American organizations which in the course of this Conference may show interest in its activities, so that they also may have access to the Conference. My point is that, if we approve only these organizations, other observers, who may not yet be here, will be prevented from participating. Therefore I suggest that we approve these but retain the right to approve the admission of other observers at any time. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does any delegate wish to speak on the proposal made by the delegate of Cuba? I call upon Dr. Huxley. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Under the Consti- tution we cannot enter into formal relations with any voluntary international organization except upon the recommendation of the Executive Board, and, though I certainly can furnish the organizations to which the delegate of Guba has referred, with every facility, documents and so forth, observers cannot be formally admitted to this Conference until the Excutive Board has so recommended. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Is the delegate of Cuba satisfied with the explana- tion given by Dr. Huxley to the effect that we need the recommendation of the Executive Board? Then we submit to a vote the following resolution: that there should be admitted as observers the representatives of the institutions the names of which have been read by the Secretary. If there is no objection, these organizations are admitted. (% The Executive Board has recommended the admis- sion of the six international students organizations with which Unesco is in contact. As the documents are not yet ready to allow us to continue this meeting with the discussion of the Director-General's Report, the meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 5. 10 p. m. @ Resolution V ; vol. II, page 7.