which was the basis of the Rules, and which in many instances was extremely defective. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA disagreed. She thoughtthe submission of an incomplete report would be a confession of failure and reminded them further that all Member States of Unesco were entitled to submit amendments to the Constitution, which should be done six months before the General Conference. The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA agreed that discussion of the present report should be continued. Speaking for himself, he would like an opportunity, which he had not so far had, of submitting an amendment to a specific item. The CHAIRMAN accordingly proposed that they continue the discussion of the report so as to be able to submit it to the Executive Board. The delegate of INDIA hoped that, when the report was forwarded to Member States with a request for any amendments, the amendments sug- gested by the present working party would be borne in mind. The SECRETARY was perfectly ready to accept the proposal of the delegate of India. He only wished to point out the necessity of reaching a decision, whether that decision came from the Exe- cutive Board or from the Conference: for so far the only document approved was document Unesco C/26 (approved at the First General Conference). The CHAIRMAN proposed that they continue the discussion of the report at 3.30 p. m. The meetin; rose at 11 a.m. FIFTH MEETING Monday, 1 December 1947, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman : Sr. Gual VIDAL (Mexico) The delegate of INDIA proposed that Rule 24 be deleted. The delegate of CANADA seconded this pro- posal. The CHAIRMAN said that he, too, was in favour of deleting this Rule, especially since changes in form often entailed changes in substance. Rule 24 was deleted. Section VI (Rules 25-31 ). = Presidency. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA explained that the Sub-Committee had not suggested any amendments to this Section and made a formal motion that it be adopted. The delegate of CHINA seconded the motion. Section VI was approved, Section VII (Rules 31-37). — Commissions and Committees. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA noted that a modified rule (Rule 31) and a new rule (Rule 32) were included in this Section. Rule 31 set up the procedure of the present Genera. Conference; it had been considered preferable to establish a general rule which would permit the widest latitude in establishing any subsidiary bodies needed in the course of the Conference. The dele- gate explained that Rules 33, 34, 35 and 36 remained unchanged. The SECRETARY pointed out that Rule 36 applied to subsidiary bodies of the Conferenee, and that the work of such bodies had often been hampered at the 1947 Conference by the absence of the quorum (dealt with under Rule 47). Hence he proposed that the words «Rule 47 excepted» be added after «in Sections IX, X, XI, XII and XIII of these Rules of Procedure ». The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA proposed an amendmentin the form of an addition to Rule 36 : provided that the quorum of any Commission or Comittee is present and provided further that the ‘Chairman may at his discretion proceed with the business of any Commission or Committee or subsidiary body unless his attention is drawn to the absence of the quorum. The delegate brought forward the following argu- ments in favour of this amendment : small committees — 625 —      often could not arrive at any decision under the quorum rule now in force; moreover, he consi- dered it unjust that the active members of a working party should be prevented from making decisions by the negligence of other members who did not attend the meetings. The delegate of INDIA said that it had been unani- mously agreed that the quorum rule should be modified. He felt, however, that the appropriate place for such a modification was Rule 47. He pro- posed the following text : The quorum for meetings of subsidiary bodies of the Con- ference shall be one quarter of the total number of States represented in the body concerned, provided that in no case shall it be less than five. The delegate of CHINA pointed out that even five might at times be an onerous requirement, as some sub-committees were composed of only five or six members. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA preferred the proposal of the Union of South Africa to that of India, because it was more flexible, and, in his opinion, would permit the accomplish- ment of more preliminary work. The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM felt that the quorum rule should be changed for subsidiary bodies only, not for plenary meetings of the Confe- rence and the Commissions. In the case of subsi- diary bodies, however, he thought that they should not take important decisions with only five members present. The CHAIRMAN explained that Section XII of the document applied to plenary meetings of the Conference and not to those of Commissions. Hence he felt that Rule 36 was the appropriate place for the amendment. The delegate of the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA was of opinion that it would be better to do without a quorum than to reduce it too greatly, as suggested by the delegate of India. After replying to several other questions of detail, the CHAIRMAN asked if it was agreed to approve Rule 36 with the amendment proposed by the Union of South Africa. Rules 31-35 were approved without change. Rule 36 was approved with the amendment proposed by the Union of South Africa. Section VIII (Rules 37-40). — Secretariat. After a comment by the delegate of the Union of South Africa, it was decided to alter Rule 39 to read as follows : The Director-General, or a member of the Secretariat anpointed by him, may at any time, with the approval of the President, make to the Conference, Commissions, Committees and subsidiary bodies... Rule 39 was approved as amended. Rules 37, 38 and 40 were approved without change. Section IX (Rules 41-42). — Languages. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA explained that, although the Sub-Committee has wished to amend paragraphs (a) and (b) of Rule 41, it had not been able to reach a decision on this matter. In paragraph (a), it had been proposed to add Hindustani as an official language. The Sub-Committee felt that, on the one hand, Hindustani was an important language, spoken by a very large numberof people and, on the other hand, that its adoption as an official language would not entail any great increase in expense or in the work of the Secretariat. It had, however, been argued that, if Hindustani were adopted as an official lan- guage, there would be no reason for refusing to adopt several other equally important languages. In paragraph (b), the addition of Spanish as a working language had been proposed, but in this case also no unanimous decision had been reached. After an exchange of views, it was decided to adopt Section IX with the exception of Rule 41 (a) and (b). With regard to the latter, mention would be made in the report that the Committee was divided on this point and was unable to come to a decision. The Executive Board, to which the report would be submitted, could then transmit it to the Member States, requesting their comments. Section IX was approved subject to the above reser- vation on Rule 41. Section X (Rules 43-44). — Records. On the proposal of the delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM, it was decided to delete from Rule 43 the words «to all delegates », which were redundant. With this correction, Section X was approved. Section XT (Rules 45-46). — Publicity of Meetings and Resolutions. On the proposal of the delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM, it was decided to add at the end of the second paragraph of Rule 45 the words : «and the minimum necessary number ofofficials ». Section XI was approved with this correction. — 629 — ho A   Section X11 (Rules 47-57). — Conduct ofBusiness. On the proposal of the delegate of INDIA,it was decided to make a slight change in the text of Rule 47 to read as follows : At a plenary meeting of the General Conference, a majo- rity of the members represented at the session shall constitute a quorum. Section XII was approved as corrected. Section XIII (Rules 58-68). — Voting. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA then made some comments on Rules 58 and
67. Rule 58, as now worded, in her opinion, only set up the procedure adopted during this Con- ference, which had, apparently, been satisfactory. With regard to Rule 67, she explained that the expe- rience of other international organizations, such as the United Nations, had shownthe need to demand a complete ballot. The only alternative would be to vote for each elective place separately, which would be a very long process. The delegate of INDIA did not favour this system’ He throught that in many cases one might want to vote for a particular candidate without wishing to vote for any ofthe other candidates. Since the ballot would be incomplete, one would then be forced not to vote at all, to the obvious detriment both of the candidate whom one wished to elect and of the accu- racy of the vote. The delegates of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA and of VENEZUELA also agreed that it would be preferable to vote for each candidate separately. The ballots should indicateclearly what places were vacant and who the candidates for each place were. The delegate of FRANCE suggested that Rule 67 should be drafted as follows : In casting ballots... each place to be filled. ballot shall be used to fill each vacant post. The SECRETARYproposed the following text : When several elective places are to be filled, a separate ballot shall take place for each place. The person obtaining in the first ballot the absolute majority of votes cast shall be elected. In the second ballot, a plurality shal! be consi- dered sufficient for election. A separate Several delegates then expressed the opinion that this was a very complicated question and that it would be better perhaps not to make any change in this section, but only to set out in the report the points of view expressed. The Executive Board could then ask the Member States for their comments at the time when this document was referred to them, The delegate of FRANCE thought that, in con- nexion with nominations to the Executive Board, it wasnecessary to choose outstanding personalities ra- ther than representatives of Member States and: that therefore the system of single ballot was parti- cularly desirable in this case. The delegate of VENEZUELA thought, concerning Rule 594, that it would bebetterto say « non-govern- mental agencies» rather than to have a reference to Article XI, as the text had it. The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM replied that it would be better not to take a decision on this question, because the Administrative and External Relations Commission had decided to modify and revise the Constitution so as automatically to invite to the Conference all international organizations. At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, Section XIII, as amended (with the exception of Rule 67) was adopted. Section XIV (Rules 69-73). — Admission of New Members. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA explained that this Section was in conformity with the Unesco Constitution and the United Na- tions Charter and that the Sub-Committee had made no changesin it. Section XIV was adopted. Section XV(Rules 74-78). — Election ofMembers ofthe Executive Board. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA explained that the only amendment made by the Sub-Committee was the deletion of the words ein closed session» in Rule 74. Section XV was adopted. Sections XVI and XVII were adopted without amendment. The delegate of INDIA suggested that the Commit- tee should express its gratitude to the delegate of the United States of America, who had so efficiently directed the Sub-Committee's work, to Sr. Gual Vidal who had so ably conducted the Committee's debates. and also to the members themselves for having finished a task which, at first sight, had seemed so tremendous. The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m. == 630 —