The CHAIRMAN : The Programme as a whole, as amended, is approved. We still have, I am sorry to have to tell you, the matter of the Revolving Fund. The documents are 2C/C1/22 and 2C/C1/22 Rev. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : I think this is a matter which can perhaps be taken in the Plenary Meeting. I move that it be taken there. The CHAIRMAN : It is moved that it be taken in the Plenary Meeting; seconded by the delegate of France. I put it to the meeting. That is carried. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : If there is no further business, Mr. Chairman, I am sure the Commission would like somebody to express ourvery grateful thanks to you for the way in which you have presided over ourvery difficult proceedings and debates, and I would like, on behalf of the Commission, to extend to you our thanks for it. The vote of thanks was carried by acclamation. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you very much indeed. I have no answer to that. But might I, at this stage, before we do disperse, express our appre- ciation of the assistance we have been given by the Director-General and his staff. The Director-Gene- ral, I think, has shown courage and wisdom in speaking when he thought he ought to, and has shown even more remarkable restraint in not speaking when he felt he should not. We have also to thank Mr. Ascher; much of the success of these meetings has been due to the words that he has poured into myear. Finally, I would like to express our very deep appreciation to all the technical assistants — the work of the interpreters is still a miracle to me — and to the other members of the Secretariat whose work has been equally useful although perhaps less public. The meeting rose at 1.45 а. т. оп 2 December 1947. NOTE — BUDGET SUB-COMMISSION The Budget Sub-Commission held twenty-two meetings, as shown in the Calendar of Meetings on page 19. With the exception of the first three, these meetings were held in secret and therefore no Summary Records are published. At the conclusion of its work, the Sub-Commission submitted a report to the Twenty-first Meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission, which appears in the record of that meeting on page 531. The annexes to this report, being the Appropriation Resolution for the Financial Year 1948, Appro- priation Table, Grants-in-Aid forming part of the Appropriation Table, and Information Table, are given, in their definitive form as approved at the Nineteenth Plenary Meeting of the Conference, in volume II, « Resolutions adopted during the Second Session ofthe General Conference », on pages 29-33.     SUMMARY REPORTS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION FIRST MEETING Wednesday, 12 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) opened the meet- ing at 4.20 p. m., but proposed that it should adjourn until 5 p. m. as most of the members were attending the plenary meeting. Probably at 5, when the plenary meeting would be over, enough members would be present to form a quorum. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) seconded Dr. Martinez Baez’ proposal. Prof. AUGER (France) emphasized the importance of this Commission. Its work was paralysed. The plen- ary meeting was, at the time, considering the total budget figure, but this Commission also had impor- tant matters to discuss. He asked for his remarks to be included in the summary report of the meeting. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) assured him that his comments would appear in the summary report. Dr. Martinez Baez would himself remind the General Committee of the Conference of the importance of this question. In reply to Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) stated that seventeen members formed a quorum. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that the Commission should wait until the end of the plenary meeting; two new members had already arrived since the opening of the meeting. The meeting adjourned until 5.10 p. m. Item 2 of the Agenda : Election of Chairman, Vice-Chairman aud Rapporteur. In accordance with the suggestion of the Nomina- tions Committee, Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ proposed that Dr. Han Lih-Wu (China) should be elected Chairman, Dr. Howard E. Wilson (United States of America), Vice-Chairman, and Senator E. H Brookes (Union of South Africa), Rapporteur M. DORGET(France), Dr. RIVAS SACCONI(Colom- bia) and Dr. RODRIGUEZ (Cuba) supported the pro- posal, and all the nominees were elected unopposed. Dr. Han Lih-Wu (China) took the Chair. E The CHAIRMAN thanked the Commission and asked the Vice-Chairman and the Rapporteur to take their places. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) regretted the absence of Dr. Walker, the delegate of Australia, and proposed a vote of sympathy, to express the Commission's regret. Sr. EVANGELISTA (Philippines) seconded the proposal. As there was unanimous agreement, the CHAIR- MAN decided to send a message of condolence to Dr. Walker on behalf of the Commission. He informed the Commission that all the mem- bers were in possession of document 2C/19 showing the dates of the meetings scheduled for the Commis- sion, and of the provisional agenda (document 20/17 (Rev. 2)). He requested the Secretariat to give some explanation of this document. The SECRETARY mentioned that document 20/19 had been previously circulated and was not contained in the folders distributed that day. He explained that the working papers for the Commission had been issued in English and French but that it had not so far been possible to distribute the translation in the three languages. He apologized for this delay, and mentioned that the documents relating to financial matters, in particular, would be distri- buted at the last moment because they had had to be prepared after the meeting of the Executive Board, held at the beginning of the General Conference. Item 3 of the Agenda : Agenda (!, The CHAIRMAN then proposed that the Commis- sion should consider document 2C/17 (Rev. 2) containing the agenda. Adoption of the
(1) The Agenda of the Administrative and External Relations Commission appears as Annex I to the Commission's Report, to be found in volume II, page 37. — 551 —        The SECRETARY pointed out that the agenda had been drafted last August, and that the amend- ments suggested by the Executive Board had been incorporated in document 2C/17 (Rev. 1) but that, as a result of consultations which had taken place since the beginning of the Conference, further amendments had been included in document 26/17 (Rev. 2). Miss Mc PHEE (New-Zealand) favoured the adop- tion of document 2C/17 (Rev. 2), which she consi- dered more logical than the first draft. She stated that small nations would not be in favour of the appointment of sub-committees. M. DORGET (France) supported the adoption of the agenda as it appeared in document 26/17 (Rev. 2). M. ABOUKATER (Lebanon) supported the New- Zealand proposal. Dr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) asked whether, after adopting document 20/17 (Rev. 2), the Commission would procedeed immediate- ly to the discussion of its administrative organi- zation. The CHAIRMAN inquired whether there were any objections, and, as there were none, document
2C/17 (Rev. 2) was adopted without amendment. Organization of the Commission. Mr. DUNTON (Canada) read a draft scheme for the organization of the Commission. This docu- ment was immediately distributed in English to all the members present. The CHAIRMAN asked whether there were any objections to the Canadian proposal. Sr. EVANGELISTA (Philippines) seconded the proposal. He was particularly in favour of item
4 of the Canadian proposal and suggested that the members selected for the two drafting committees should be nominated by the Chairman on the follow- ing day, and that their names should be submitted to the Commission for its approval. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) stated that it might perhaps be necessary to appoint drafting committees to study the various aspects of the agenda for the Commission. Mr. ROSENTHAL (United States of America) reminded the meeting that the question of consti- tuting drafting committees had previously been discussed at the Paris Conference. He agreed that two drafting committees should be appointed : one for administration and finance, to consider items 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda; and the other to study external relations questions, that is items 7,
8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. It was distinctly understood that these two committees would have no authority and would be entirely subordinated to the Commission itself. Mr. DUNTON (Canada) hoped that these drafting committees would be formed at the earliest possible moment, and that the results of their work would be distributed by the Commission. The RAPPORTEUR wondered whether it would not be advisable to delete the word «initial» in the Canadian proposal. The CHAIRMAN asked whether this amendment met with the approval of the delegate of Canada. The Canadian proposal, thus amended, was then adopted. The CHAIRMAN stated that he would, on the following day, submit to the Commission a list of nominations for the two drafting committees. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) said that the plenary meeting had reached agreement on the budget figure and that the question of finance would appear on the agenda the next day. The CHAIRMAN proposed that the meeting should adjourn until 11. a. m. the following day. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) pointed out that, if the Commission met the following day at the same hour as the plenary meeting, there might well be no quorum. M. de VISSCHER (Belgium) asked whether it would not be possible to hold the meeting even without a quorum. M. DORGET (France) observed that this Commis- sion was exceedingly important, and he was strongly opposed to the proposal made by the delegate of Belgium. If the Rules of Procedure (Rule 62) were not observed, the small nations would suffer. Dr. MONGE (Peru) seconded the Belgian proposal. Mr. ROSENTHAL (United States of America) declared that he was absolutely opposed to holding a meeting without a quorum. The CHAIRMAN put the question to the vote and the proposal was rejected by 12 votes to 2. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) proposed that the Commission should meet the following day, at the conclusion of the plenary meeting. — 552 —    Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) pas out that each delegation consisted of at east two members, and that, consequently, it would be possible for the Commission to meet the following morning at 11 a. m. SECOND The proposal of the United States of America was carried.’ The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m. MEETING Thursday, 13 November 1947, at 11.45 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Appointment of Drafting Committees. In accordance with the request which had been made after the adoption of the Canadian proposal, as amended, the Chairman submitted to the Com- mission the countries nominated for the two draft- ing committees :
(1) Administration and Finance : Australia, Brazil, Czechoslovakia, India and the United States of America;
(2) External Relations : Canada, China, France, Mexico and the United Kingdom. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) approved this list of coun- tries, but was anxious that the members of the Commission should be able to take part in the work of the drafting committees. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) supported this pro- posal. The proposed list of countries was adopted. Dr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) pointed out, with regard to Item 8 of the agenda, that the Nominations Committee and the General Committee of the Conference had arranged for a Working Party to consider the question of Nation- al Commissions and Co-operating Bodies; this Working Party would, therefore, be able to begin work immediately and later submit a report on this matter to the Commission. The CHAIRMAN stated that arrangements had been made for such a Working Party, but it had not yet been set up. The Commission would be informedof the position the following day. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) remarked that it would be helpful for the Commission to establish contact with this Working Party with a view to to-operation. The SECRETARYsaid that he had been informed of the appointment of this Working Party, but that the dates for its meetings would only be known the following day, after consultations. Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) drew attention to the fact that the principal document for discussion by the Commission that day was document 2C/C2/1, dated 10 November 1947, containing the Report of the Executive Board to the General Conference on the financial administration of the Organization ; this document had been produced in only one language and had been distributed to the Commis- sion too late to be studied thoroughly. He therefore ventured to ask the Director-General : (1) to give the Commission special priority for the production of documents when the time came for it to make its report to the General Conference on the question of the Budget; (2) to distribute documents for discussion to the members of the Commission at least 24 hours in advance. He also asked the Chairman to indicate at the end of each meeting which items of the agenda would be discussed at the following day’s meeting. The CHAIRMAN agreed with the Australian delegate’s proposals and also stated that docu- ments would in future be translated into the three languages. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) took up again the subject on which he had spoken at the plenary meeting; it was extremely difficult for the Executive Board to assemble a quorum, since the members did not all live in Paris, Unesco’s headquarters and were sometimes unable to attend meetings, it was therefore advisable that deputies should be appointed by the General Conference to replace members who were unable to be present. There would be the following advantages in such a system : — 553 —