FOURTH PLENARY MEETING Saturday, 8 November 1947, at 11. 15 a. m. CONTENTS
12. Submission by the Chairman of the Executive Board ofthe Director-General’s Report on the Activities of the Organization ‎البدهم.٠ 51
13. Discussion of the Director-General's Report : Speeches by the Director- General and delegates of India, the Philippines, the Netherlands, Haiti and ¡Greece muertes+NO ‎زمهمىو 54 President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico). The PRESIDENT (Translation Jrom the Spanish) : The meeting is now open. In the course of the present meeting we shall discuss item 10 of the agenda, and the Chairman of the Executive Board will present the Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Orga- nization. Dr. Martinez Baez will speak on behalf of the Executive Board.
12. Submission, by the Chairman of the Exe- cutive Board, of the Director-General's Report on the Activities of the Organi- zation. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Vice-Chairman of the Exe- cutive Board) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : Mr. Pre- sident, fellow-delegates : The Constitution of Unesco confers on the Chairman of the Executive Board the duty of presenting to the General Conference, with or without comments, the annual report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organi- zation. The Board has learned with the greatest regret that its Chairman, M. Vietor M. Doré, has been prevented by his ambassadorial duties in Brussels from making the journey to Mexico for this General Conference. Throughoutthe first year of its existence the Executive Board has had the good for- tune to be presided over by a man whose personal- ity is the embodiment of those ideals of interna- tional understanding for which Unesco stands. The members of the Board have requested me, on this occasion, to express, not only our sincere regret that M. Doré is not able to be here, but also on great appreciation of his services to the Board and to the Organization as a whole. The Executive Board composed of eighteen men drawn from different, countries and different cultural regions, is itself an essay In international understanding; and it is in no small measure due to M: Doré’s presidency that this essay has been completely successful, and that the members of the Board have worked together from the beginning in a spirit of closest harmony, despite their different viewpoints. When the Director-General's Report . was sub- mitted to the Board, in accordance with the Consti- tution, the Board decided that, in the absence of ¡ts Chairman, the task of presenting the Reportto the Conference, and of making such comments as appear necessary, should fall to myself as one of the Board's Vice-Chairmen. I therefore now have the honour to present to you the First Annual Report of the Director-General on the Activities of the Organization, covering the period since the First General Conference ; and. as requested by the Board, to offer the following comments. The Director-General’s Report is primarily a record of the work of the Secretariat in the past year, and only brief references are made to the activities of Member Governments and their National Commis- sions, and of the Executive Board. The Reports sub- mitted by Member Governments to this Conferenc will no doubt indicate such steps as may alread == 1 —   have been taken by them towards discharging the responsibilities they have assumed along with the privileges of membership of the Organization. At the same time these reports will assist us to remember that Unesco consists not merely of its Secretariat, Executive Board and General Conference, but also, and more fundamentally, of the Governments and peoples of the States which, as parties to the Consti- tution of Unesco, «are agreed and determined to develop and increase the means of communication of their peoples and to employ these means for the purposes of mutual understanding». It seems equally desirable that the Director- General's Report should be supplemented by some account of the work of the Executive Board, one of the three organs provided by the Constitution of Unesco. The Board is submitting to the Conference a separate report on the financial administration of the Organization, in accordance with Regulation 19 of the Provisional Financial Regulations, and that report includes reference to the discharge by the Board of certain specific responsibilities in the finan- cial field, which were laid upon it by various deci- sions of the Conference. To avoid unnecessary repeti- tion, I shall not, in the present statement, discuss any financial matters, but rather shall attempt to give you a concise outline of the action taken by the Board to discharge those duties imposed upon it by the Constitution and the First General Conference. Under the Constitution, the Executive Board, acting with the authority of the General Conference, is responsible for the execution of the programme adopted by the Conference ; and has to prepare the agenda and programmeof work of the General Con- ference. The Constitution also provides that the Con- ference shall take decisions on programmes drawn up by the Executive Board. In practice the day-to- day work involved in the execution of the programme, in preparing the agenda for the Conference and in developing proposed programmes for the future activities of the Organization, is the responsibility of the Secretariat. The role envisaged for the Exe- cutive Board in this connexion under the Consti- tution would appear to be to guide the Director- General and, when necessary, to provide him with instructions, in relation to the work of the Secretariat as a whole. The Executive Board may also be required to interpret the decisions of the Conference, whenever changing circumstances render such interpretation necessary; and the programmes drawn up by the Board for consideration by the Conference, together with the plans prepared for the Conference by the Board, should reflect the Board’s continuous pre- occupation with the important policy issues that arise in the course of the year. The First General Conference placed additional responsibilities on the Board in relation to admini- strative and financial matters. For instance, the Reso- lution on the Organization of the Secretariat required the Director-General to obtain the Board's approval of his plans «for developing an eflicient organization and for adapting 1t to changing programmes and needs» ; and laid down certain «facts, directives and principles », which were to guide not only the Direc- tor-General, but also the Executive Board in carrying out this task, particularly in relationto the selection of staff. Again, Regulation 21 of the Staff Regu- lations approved by the Conference requires the Director-General to obtain the Board's approval of a classification plan and salary scales for members of the Secretariat. The Board's approval is also re- quired for the system of staff medical and hospital benefits, under Regulation 26, for the determina- tion of children's education, installation and per diem allowances, under Regulation 36, and for the establishment of a Pensions Scheme under Regu- lation 37. In addition, under Regulation 19 of the Provi- sional Financial Regulations, the Board was required to consider, through its Finance Committee, the Auditors” Report, and to prepare for the General Conference a general report on the financial admi- nistration of the Organization. In conformity with Regulation 4, the Finance Committee of the Board was required to examine the Director-General's Budget for the coming year and to report on it to the General Conference. Finally, it will be recalled that the First General Conference, after approving the general lines of the Programme for 1947 and fixing the total of the Budget for the year, entrusted to the Executive Board the tasks of determining the particular programme activities to be com- menced in 1947, approving a revised Budget to give effect to them, and fixing the scale of contributions and the currencies in which they were to be paid. Without questioning the necessity of imposing these special responsibilities upon the Executive Board in this first and critical year of Unesco's existence, when the administrative foundations had to be laid, my colleagues on the Board desire me to point out that the time and energy consumed by the administrative responsibilities of the Board have left all too little margin in which to consider the many important policy issues arising within the Organization. However, in view of the progress made on the administrative side, and the experience which both the Director-General and the Board have gained in 1947, the members of the Board hope that it will prove possible for them, in the coming year, to devote much moreoftheir attention to the major issues of Unesco policy, as distinct from  ليودع   purely administrative matters. Indeed, in view of the difficult times in which Unesco must live. it would appear that the Executive Board must apply the special qualifications, for which its members were selected, to the consideration and guidance of Unesco's policy in the period between General Conferences. The responsibilities placed on the Board by the General Conference would have justified a larger number of meetings in the earlier part of the year than was in fact practicable, since members of the Board live in various countries, some at great dis- tances from Paris, and few are in positions which permit them to give the greater part of their time to Unesco. The Board accordingly decided to estab- lish a standing committee, which would meet more frequently to guide the Director-General in the revision of the 1947 programme and budget, and in the development of the Secretariat. The Board decided that the Standing Committee should also serve provisionally as the Finance Committee and Nominations Committee prescribed by the Pro- visional Financial Regulations (Regulation 4) and the Staff Regulations (Regulation 8) respectively. The Standing Committee held three sessions, in January, February and April. The Executive Board, which had met during and after the Paris Confe- rence, met again in April 1947, and held further sessions in July and November, prior to the opening of this Conference. At the July meeting, the Board decided that the Standing Committee had served its purpose and that the time had cometo establish separate Committees on particular phases of the Board's work. The Standing Committee was accord- ingly discharged, and] separate Finance and Nomi- nations Committees were established. These Com- mittees, and others on Cultural Reconstruction, on Non-Governmental Organizations and on the Pro- gramme, respectively, have in recent months relieved the full Board of much detailed work, and their continuance will assist the Board to find time for the policy issues that should be its primary concern. At the same time the Board proposes, in the ensuing year, to take action under Article V. B. 10 of the Constitution, and to establish a small panel of financial and administrative experts who can be consulted by the Board and its Committees from time as may be required. The Governments of the Member States know already the results of the Board's work in 1947. The Programme for 1947, finally approved by the Board in April, was distributed to Governments, and is printed as an Appendix to the Proceedings of the First General Conference. The Budget for 1947 was also distributed, and the changes subsequently effected through transfers within the Budget are explained in the Board's Report on the Financial Administration of the Organization, which will come before this Conference. The same Report records the action taken by the Board to discharge its many other responsibilities in the field of Unesco’s finance. The proposed Programme for 1948, submitted by the Board for consideration by this Conference, is also in your hands. The Board has prepared an agenda and programme of work for the Conference, and has considered the extensive documentation to be placed before it. A number of the documents distributed contain proposals by the Board; others are proposals submitted to the Conference by the Director-General and will in some cases be accom- panied by comments made by the Board. Among the proposals formulated by the Board are recommendations for the admission of four new Members, not yet Members of the United Nations, namely, Switzerland, Austria, Italy and Hungary. Their applications have been submitted to the Eco- nomic and Social Council, which has raised no objection to their admission to this Organization. The application of Monaco has also been submitted to the Economic and Social Council, but no reply has yet been received. The Board is also submitting to the Conference a new plan covering Unesco’s relations with non- governmental organizations. During 1947 the Board has devoted much attention to arrangements for collaboration with the United Nations, its Spe- cialized Agencies and other inter-governmental or- ganizations. In the course of the year, the Board was obliged to fill temporarily the vacancy caused by the resi- gnation of the Hon. Archibald MacLeish, who has rendered oustanding service to the Organization and whose inability to continue to serve on the Board is a serious loss to Unesco and the cause of great regret to all his former colleagues on the Board. The Board learned with satisfaction that Mr. Mac Leish would, however, be attending the present Conference as a member of the United States delegation. In accordance with Article V. A. 4 of the Constitution, the Board, in July 1947, appointed Mr. Milton Eisenhower to serve as a substitute for Mr.MacLeish until the Second Session of the General Conference, which will elect a member for the remain- ing two years of Mr. MacLeish's term of office. The Board is authorized, subject to decisions of the General Conference, to adopt its own rules of procedure. The rules made by the Board during the First General Conference were tabled at the time, and the Board now submits, for the infor- mation of the Conference,its present rules of proce- dure, which embody some amendments adopted in he course of the year.    In all this work the Board has beengreatly assisted by the Secretariat. These observations on the work of the Board since the First General Conference are intended to sup- plement the Director-General’s Report now pre- sented to you. The Board has decided not to offer any comments on the contents of the Report on this occasion, except to express the hope that the General Conference will carefully consider the progress made in 1947 and give clear instructions as to the work to be undertaken in the year that lies ahead. The programme proposals drawn up by the Board for consideration by the Conference were formulated in July 1947. They represent a further stage in ihe definition of Unesco’s proper sphere of activities, wuich was begun by the Preparatory Commission and continued by the First General Conference and by the Board whenit approved the Programme for
1947. The Board does not regard this process, which is one of selecting, from among all that Unesco might do, those things that are most impor- tant and most urgent, as being yet completed. Since the programme proposals for 1947 were drawn up, all peace-loving peoples have been greatly disturbed by the evidences of growing inter- national tension, and by the suspicion and mistrust that exist between the nations at this time. With this in mind the Executive Board invites the General Conference to examine and discuss the proposed programme, in order that Unesco’s resources may be concentrated upon those activities that are most closely related to its purpose, as laid down in Article 1 of the Constitution. The Executive Board also expresses the hope that the Conference will find it possible to issue firm and detailed instructions relating to the programme and its close correlation with the Budget, in order that the Board and the Director-General may have the clearest guidance about the work to be pursued in the coming year.
3. Discussion oí the Director-General's Report The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I now call upon the Director-General, Dr. Julian Huxley. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Delegates to the General Conference of Unesco : Before speaking to the presentation of my Report, 1 should like to express on behalf of Unesco our great pleasure in . . . о № . being here in Mexico and our thanks to the Mexican Governmentfor their hospitality. The generous offer of the Mexican Government to act as host to the Second Session of Unesco’s General Conference was gratefully and unanimously accepted by the Paris Conference; and since then the Mexican authorities have done everything in their power to make this Conference a success. I would remind the Conference that Mexico has been a Member of Unesco since the earliest days of our Organization. Unesco has had a distinguished Mexican as one of the Vice-Chairmenof its Executive Board and recently a National Commission has been set up for Mexico. I myself,if I may indulge in personal reminiscence, have had the good fortune to visit this country twice in the last two years, when I was able to realize at first hand what [ was already intellectually aware of, namely, the leading position of Mexico in certain aspects of modern painting, in those aspects of fundamental education which have been included under the term «rural education» and, of course, in the field of pre-Columbian archaeology. During my visits I made new discoveries, suchas the flour- ishing condition of modern music in Mexico and the remarkable publications being produced by the Fondo de Cultura Economica. 1 also made a number of personal contacts which I value deeply. I would only mention here the Mexican Foreign Minister, Sr. Torres Bodet, who was, when I first met him, Minister of Education; Sr. Alfonso Reyes, who was among the most popular of all the delegates at the Paris Conference, a man both loved and res- pected, whose absence from this year’s Mexican dele- gation on account of ill-health we all deplore; Sr. Alfonso Caso, the distinguished anthropologist and archaeologist, who, with the versatility so often to be found in Latin American countries, is now Minister of National Resources; Sr. Lombardo Toledano, who has devoted himself with such dis- tinction to the cause of the workers in this and other countries; and the two great painters Diego Rivera and Jose Clemente Orozco. This remarkable building, which the Government has put at our disposal for our meeting, is visible proof that architecture in Mexico is flourishing and that the authorities, by dedicating it to educational purposes, are alive to the importance of the arts in the social system. 1 would like to pay my tribute of personal admiration to it, as one of the most ori- ginal and at the same time beautiful examples of contemporary architecture. Our Constitution lays down that the location of the General Conference shall vary from year to year. You will all of you appreciate that this involves a heavy burden on the host Government, and also that it is no light task to transport the core of the Secre- tariat and to organize a meeting far fromits perma- nent headquarters. However, I have always been clear in my own mind that the principle was a good
1*: -=x -: C U E — l (   one. It enables the host country and region to experience the happy responsibility of being the centre and focus of an important world organi- zation, while at the same time it enables delegates from all other parts of the world to realize at first hand the distinctive culture, the achievements and the problems of another country and another region from their own. In parenthesis, I venture to say that in this particular case there are many lessons to be learned from a consideration of the astonishing achievements andalso the imperfections and failures of the unique pre-Columbian civilizations ofthe Americas. I am confident thatthe experience of this Confe- rence — the first to be held away from our head- quarters in Paris — will amply justify the principle of moving from our permanent headquarters each year. I will now pass to my main topic : the position of Unesco at the close ofits first year. I do not intend to summarize my Report, which is already in your hands, but to make a few general comments, while at the same time reminding dele- gates not already familiar with Unesco’s work of some of its main features. Unesco appears to me as one of the great images of hopein the difficult and indeed often depressing and threatening world picture of to-day. In Unesco the delegates of over 30 nations, diverse in race, in religion, in ideology and in economic and social background, have reached agreement on an extensive programme. That programme has. consisted, not of empty pronouncements or the theoretical proclamation of principles, but of a set of definite concrete projects, designed to further Unesco’s purpose in the pursuit of peace over as wide a field as possible, and to yield tangible results within a limited time. I will remind you of a few of the most interesting. Thereis the reconstruction of the educational, scientific and cultural life of the war-devastated countries, including their facilities for efficient work in press, radio andfilm, and including also much of our essen- tial work in regard to fellowships and exchange of persons and skills throughout the world. Then there is fundamental education for the illiterate masses. There is our work on copyright, aimed at preparing for a single new comprehensive conven- tion; our aid to the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations on the general principles under- lying human rights; the steps taken towards the creation of an Institute of the Hylean Amazon, which would be the first example of an international research and survey institute devoted to the problems of a particular climatic zone; the setting up of machinery, which I think is going to proveefficient,
5 of collaboration for the attainment of Unesco’s aims concerning radio and press; the seminar held this summer in Paris, where teachers from many countries met to discuss better methods of education for international understanding; the fact that we have arranged for the distribution of many films ofspecial interest to Unesco, andalso collaboration with the United Nations in setting up a United Nations Film Board; the essential first steps towards the establishment of an International Theatre Institute; grants-in-aid to international scientific and other bodies for work connected with Unesco’s aims; and particular, small, but important experi- ments in collaboration of radio networks with an experimental programme on Unesco topics. Although Unesco has not tried to define a theo- retical philosophy, agreement that these projects and others in the programme are desirable has all kinds of general implications. The first and most general implication is, I think, the simple one that international co-operation is best achieved by the practical process of co-operating internation- ally. And a second is that one method open to Unesco — and perhaps the most efficient — of achieving mutual understanding is by actually working together to meet definite educational, scientific and cultural needs. As for more particular implications, let me illustrate some of them, first from one concrete example. Forthis I choose Fundamental Education, which has rightly been given major importance in our Programme. We have already had proof in many areas of the world of the desire of the masses for fundamental education, which assures us that in carrying out our projects we shall be co-operating with the people, not imposing a programme on them from above. We have had agreement, from the Conference and the Executive Board and the experts, that our fundamental education campaign must be, like our work in reconstruction, part of a general attempt to lay that minimum foundation which is necessary or Unesco’s efforts to come to full fruition. We have had agreement that literacy is not enough, but that efforts must be made to improve health and knowledge of hygiene, to promote greater understanding and greater technical competence in modern scientific methods of production, in agriculture and industry, to provide satisfaction through arts and crafts, to inculcate the meaning of national and world citizenship. And we have had agreement that, since ignorance is so often correlated with poverty and ill-health, campaigns for fundamental education must be based on a raising of the material and physiological standards of life and living.       So by way of Fundamental Education we arrive at the idea of «positive peace», so eloquently set forth by Mr. Mac Leish last year at the Paris Confe- rence. Peace (I am using my own words, not Mr. Mac Leish’s) is not just the avoidance of this or that war or occasion of war, not even the avoidance of warin general; it is, ideally, the realisation of the pos- sibilities of life ina world which is basically peaceful because it is unified and because the main causes of war have been removed. We cannot attain that essentially peaceful world unless we think, not only of direct education for peace, but also in terms of equality of educational opportunity for all, as set out in our Constitution, and also in terms of the « general welfare of mankind » mentioned in the Preamble to our Constitution. Do not letus forget that in this year 1947 a. D,, over half of the world’s 2,000 million inhabitants are illiterate and that the ignorant and illiterate cannot understand themselves or their place in the world, much less other people or the general aims of life. Abraham Lincoln said that the Union could not exist half-slave and half-free; Unesco cannot operate effectively in a world which is half slave to ignorance, half free through education. To sum up, there is agreement that in this enor- mous sphere of fundamental education Unesco cannot avoid undertaking activities which are only indirectly and in the long run related to peace and security. And the same applies in many other fields of Unesco’s competence. As has already been said in our draft programme, peace cannot be taken by storm. It can only be fully realized in the long run by the process of de- veloping mankind in the actual ways and practices of peace. Before passing on to other implications of our Programme, I would like to refer back to Unesco’s Constitution and its noble Preamble, which can so often serve as a touchstone for our activities. I would like to remind all here of the remarkable work done by the London Conference, at which Unesco was constituted, in defining the purposes of Unesco and the methods of realizing them. The purpose of Unesco, as laid down in the Constitu- tion, is «to contribute to peace and security». This primary purpose is further defined by the methods laid down, namely «by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture... without distinction of race, sex, language or religion ». Further, the Preamble gives a second formula- tion of our purpose, in which the objective of «the common welfare of mankind» is added to that of «international peace ». The Preamble also proclaims Unesco’s belief «in full and equal opportunities of education for all» — which together with the statement in the Constitution that Unesco will «give fresh impulse to popular education and the spread of culture» and «advance the ideal of equality of educational opportunity without regard to race, sex, or any distinctions, economic or social», is a full justifi- cation for a comprehensive fundamental education programme. It also proclaims a belief «in the free exchange of ideas and knowledge», and pillories «the doctrine of the inequality of men and races» as a major cause of the last world war, together with « the denial of the democratic principle of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men». The Constitution, in its detailed setting forth of the methods by which Unesco should realize its purpose, specifies that it must «maintain, increase and diffuse knowledge», which, together with the statement in the Preamble that Unesco believes «in the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth», provides the basis for Unesco’s encouragement of science and learning. We read again in the Preamble that «the peace must be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intel- lectual and moral solidarity of mankind» — a thing which is impossible of attainment without a con- siderable raising of the material and mental standard of life. The Constitution also commits Unesco to «the conservation and protection of the world’s inheritance of books, works of art and monuments of history and science» and to «preserving the independence, integrity, and fruitful diversity of the cultures» of Member States. And, of course, there is the most important method of all — that «of advancing the mutual knowledge and understanding of peoples ». From these statements in the Constitution and Preamble you will perceive that Unesco’s field of action is inevitably immense — and also that it cannot hope to achieve its purpose without a great deal of what I maycall foundation-laying, preliminary work designed to make it possible eventually for peoples to understand each other and to live full and peaceful lives. This preliminary work, of course, includes the reconstruction of the scientific and cultural bases of existence in war-devastated countries. Why is this so? It is obvious, I think, that an enormous section of the world’s population, which is suffering from chronic malnutrition or illness or parasitic infection, cannot take much interest in world affairs or in understanding other peoples : they have not the energy. Those who are so poor and so economically insecure that their main pre-occupation is with next day’s dinner and next week's rent, cannot be expected to be concerned
56 =      very much about democracy or a fuller life : they have more immediate matters to occupy their attention. Even in more advanced societies, where basic physiological and material needs are largely met, huge numbers of people still live stunted or frustrated lives. The frustrated and maladjusted are full of repressions; they are also fertile soil for the growth of international misunderstanding and of war, since they are all the time seeking to justify themselves by creating scapegoats outside their group, and by finding outlets for their own repressed aggres- siveness. Unesco, in fact, cannot fulfil its purposes ade- quately, cannot operate with full effectiveness in the presence of widespread ignorance, poverty, ill- health, superstition, apathy or emotional frustra- tion. Andsince poverty and frustration are often asso- ciated with the pressure of population upon the means of subsistence, Unesco mm its quest for peace must,I think, though naturally jointly with the other Specialized Agencies and with the United Nations, concernitself with the question of material resources and their utilization, and must also eventually work out a population policy. Furthermore, poverty and frustration often lead peoples to submit to various forms of Fascist tyranny in the desperate hope of escaping from their troubles. But this is to jump out of the frying-pan into the fire, for Fascism means the exploitation of a majority by a minority. It is based on a lust for power which can never be satisfied, which in- evitably involves intolerance and the creation of scapegoat enemy groups and implies a fanatical nationalism whichis almost bound to lead to aggres- sive imperialism and itself increases the risk of war. But if Unesco is at a disadvantage at the present moment in certain circumstances of the modern world, it has one intrinsic advantage of an overriding nature. Material resources and wealth can only be shared by being parcelled out physically among those who compete for them, and power all too often involves some subordinate group over which it can be exercised. But the things in which Unesco deals — science and art, truth and beauty, inventions andideas — all these can be freely shared without diminution, and indeed can be multiplied in the process. It is they which give man his fullest satisfactions; and in the long perspective, human progress is based upon what I might call the self-reproducing property of the things of the mind and spirit. However, do not let us forget — and here I am merely restating what I have previously said about the inhibiting effect of poverty and ill- health upon Unesco's activities — that this multi- plied sharing of science and culture through educa- tion cannot be realized without a foundation of material things which in their turn can only be shared by physical distribution, so that each leap forward to newpossibilities of mental and emotional enrichment demands a fresh material and physiolo- gical spring-board. This, I think, is where science is called upon to lay its most important role in Unesco’s programme. For, while science aflords some of the highest intellectual satisfactions possible, and while it provides an almost ideal example of international co-operative effort and mutual understanding, it is also the main, perhaps the only, means of effecting radical advance in the material and physio- logical aspects of civilization; it is, indeed, an indispensable tool for the realization of human progress. I was indeed glad that M. Maritain stressed this aspect of science yesterday, in opposition to those ignorant obscurantists who claim that its advance should be checked because it has been misused for militaristic or destructive ends. I am glad also that he stressed the function of science as pure discovery of new knowledge — in opposition to those who fear it and the enlightenment whichit brings — and that he further pointed out the need for Unesco to safeguard the freedom of the scientist against bureaucratic pressure and military secrecy. The creative arts, on the other hand, appear to be chiefly of value to Unesco because they can liberate the human spirit, release men from various frustrations and repressions, and can express their aspirations and emotions in a creative and satis- fymg way. However, I do not wish to make a sharp distinc- tion between science and art. One implication of Unesco's very existence is that the mind of man is one and indivisible, and that it is only at our peril that we try to separate its cognitive and emotional aspects, to divide intellectual activity from contem- plation, or to keep science and art in distinet com- partments. Over-emphasis on anyone distinct func- tion of mind is not only wrong, but, as M. Maritain said yesterday, dangerous, for, as he also said so finely, the total effort ofthe spirit is needed for all true advance. I was greatly cheered by the main thesis of M. Maritain’s most notable address, namely, that Unesco must concentrate on agreed action and the practical principles implicit in that agreement and in that action, because it is here that the fullest co-operation is possible. Thus,as already mentioned, all the nations of Unesco have agreed on the need for fundamental education; but if they were called upon to give their reasons for that agreement, they — 55 +    might well find themselves in serious disagreement. The corollary of all this, as I see it, is that the purpose of Unesco will best be realized by practical co-operation on certain types of projects. Many of these projects will be immediately or directly concerned with the preservation of peace and with mutual understanding. But many others will imply a certain central and long-term aim for the human species as a whole — the aimof combining man’s resources of knowledge and beauty, of creative activity and will and aspiration, to make life a more satisfying enterprise, a nobler adventure, a richer experience, and one which shall be for humanity at large instead of for a tiny fraction as at present. Now, in so far as Unesco can put this into people’s hearts and minds as the most satisfying aim of life, it will be turning them away fromfinding satisfaction in selfish exploitation or narrow nationalism, away from all obsession with mere power, whether per- sonal or collective, and so will put them on the path of peace. In so far as Unesco can make people realize how immense and how glorious are the possibilities, both material and spiritual, which are open (o man through education, science and culture, in a peaceful world, it will give them the most powerful spur to rid themselves of war and the threat of war. I hope, therefore, that this session of the General Conference, like last year’s in Paris, will continue to demonstrate that delegates from all the regions of the world, with the most diverse social and ideo- logical backgrounds, can yet agree to co-operate whole-heartedly over the wide range of Unesco’s field of competence. That will be the best answer to those gloomy fatalists who seem to be firmly convinced of the impossibility of reaching inter- national agreement and of the inevitability of war, the best disproof of the intolerant incomprehension which preaches hate instead of the need for under- standing, the best possible example of positive peace, of peace in action. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegates who have requested to speak in the course of this meeting in connexion with the Report are the following : the delegates of India, the Philippines and the Netherlands, and they will speak in the order I have indicated. I call upon the delegate of India. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) : Mr. Pre- sident, fellow-delegates : I should like to express, in the first place, the gratification of the Indian delegation at our meeting in this beautiful city, itself a vivid example of the inter-cultural co- operation for which Unesco stands. No doubt you have listened to the report of the Director-General with muchinterest and you have read also the account which has been circulated to us. If we sometimes feel that there is evident satisfaction on the part of the Director-General with the work achieved in the past year, that is not to be mistaken for any easy complaceney on his part. The work of the Or- ganization bad to be begun under great difficulties in the first year. The administration had to be reorganized, and the programme could not start until after April. 1f you make allowances for all these things, you will find that the amount of work done by Unesco in the first year is impressive, both in quantity and in quality. It has co-operated with other organizations in the development of cultural reconstruction. The Conference on Fundamental Education in Nanking, where twelve different nations participated, gave a great impetus to the spirit of education in backward areas. The progress achieved in the sphere of natural science is also remarkable, though we cannot say that progress on the side of creative arts or philosophy and humanistic studies is equally so. We have done something for those who are atterd- ing school, something also for scientific specialists. But for the large masses of men and women who are neither school pupils nor scientific specialists, who have got the controlling voice over people’s destiny, where our instruments are the press, the radio and the film, I cannot say that the results which we have achieved are equally impressive. The Director-General in his address to you pointed out that we should work for a balanced harmony between sciences and humanities. 1 may be forgiven if I suggest that there is in the Secretariat itself a perhaps unconscious prejudice in favour of one side to the neglect of the other to some extent. I am referring to the particular project which I think was put forward by a committee of experts on Phi- losophy and which was transferred from the Phy- losophySectionof the Secretariat to the department of Social Sciences. There is a fundamental distinc- tion between a philosophical approach to problems and a purely scientific approach to problems. There is no questionthat the world level has to be raised educationally and sanitarily and physically. We do require the help of science. It has done wonderful things and its co-operation will have to be utilized by us if we want to improve the health, sanitation, the physical fitness and the education of the masses of the world. There is absolutely no denying it. But for what purpose are we going to utilize all these things? That is a fundamental problem. Only the other day, Sir Henry Dale, presiding over the British Association in Dundee, said : «The belli- gerent use of science has undergone a rapid transfor- ET    mation, turning it into a weapon and a combatant in itself, released from afar for the undiscriminating ugliness of death and destruction at rapidly growing ranges on an ever-increasing scale». That was his statement in 1947 when presiding over the British Association meeting at Dundee. The answer came from Dr. Shaple, whostated : « Our civilization is endangered by strong physics and weak sociology». In other words, he seems to believe that, just as we were able to control nature by an understanding of nature, we shall be able to control man, to control human nature, by an understanding of the human rules of society. I am afraid the solu- tion is not so simple. We can control physical nature because it is inanimate ; it is not human. But to control human nature requires much more than a mere understanding of man’s rules of society. Many of our great statesmen had a perfect knowledge of man’s rules of society. They have utilized the instrument of propaganda, all the means that we have at our disposal for guiding human nature. They have utilized it by pandering to emotional and material creeds of large masses of men and drilling them into primitive patterns of a narrowfixed régime or creating nationalism —that is what they have succeeded in achieving. Science is an instrument — natural science may become a dangerous instru- ment. Social science may become an equally dan- gerous instrument. What we require is real guid- ance in the proper way to utilize this great power which natural science and social science place at our disposal. One of ourprojectsis the re-education of Germany. May I in all humility suggest that what we require is a re-education of the whole of humanity to-day? Whatis it that we are attempting to achieve? This increased mechanization, a mechanization which exalts force, which exalts numbers, which exalts money, has converted human beings into machines who repeat orders, who execute them, who lose the innate dignity of man for which Unesco stands. We talk of collecting folk-songs — folk-songs on gramophone records. Where are the singers? We are trying to collect our monuments and museums. Does our way of life promote the men of genius who can build the monuments? Learning 1s in libraries, songs in gramophone records, monu- ments in museums. We have to produce men, but we are fast approaching on the other side the terrifying picture of the termite man. We should try to respect human individuals who give importance to the innate dignity of the human soul, and see to-day that manis not lost in the en- tanglements of society or his nation. I am told that in one of the most advanced coun- tries of the world, the largest number of deaths occurs by suicide or motor accidents among intel- lectuals. It is because we are unable to feel the faith of the spirit that we want to lose ourselves in noisy demonstrations, detective stories or crossword puzzles. That is what has happened to humanity and, unless we are able to re-educate man, make him attach himself to another kind of environment than that which is called the environment of nature and necessity, unless we are able to re-educate him to a realization of spirit and freedom, this steady flow, this relentless decline into the abyss, cannot possibly be arrested. I should like to say that it was a pleasure for us,as it was for everyone here, to welcome those countries which were affected by the war, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Switzerland. I have no doubt that in years to come — very soon, | hope,after the Peace Treaties are completed — we shall be in a position to welcome Germany and Japan also into this great assembly of the world’s culture. But we know that Soviet Russia is not a member of this assembly. She is suspicious. We see, when we listen to the debates and discussions in the United Nations Assembly, or to the abuse hurled at each other by the great nations of the world, that humanity is deeply di- vided. We fought the war to attain that greatest of all freedoms, freedom from fear. Have we attained it? We fought the war; two years ago we won the victory. Are men's hearts at peace? Do they feel no apprehension for the future? The future is trembling before us and everyone tells us that another conflict, which will be an atomic, bacteriological, biological kind of war, will lead to the destruction of many parts of our inhabited world. We are suspicious, we are distrustful, we are afraid of one another, two years after the war; and the situation to-day is not much different from what it was in 1939. What is the good of hiding our heads in the sand, of shutting our ears to obvious facts? What can Unesco do in this perilous condi- tion of humanity? Is it to be an expensive irrele- vance, or are we going to contribute something effective towards dissipation of fear, towards dis- sipation of those clouds of misunderstanding which now hangover the whole world? In what particular manner will Unesco be able to dispel this atmosphere of suspicion, distrust and fear? We have stated the answer in our Preamble, to which the Director- General referred. The Preamble says : « The great and terrible war which has now ended was a war made possible by the denial of the democratic prin- ciples of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of man, and by the propagation in their place, through ignorance and prejudice, of the doctrine of the inequality of men and races». «The doctrine «= 69 —=    of the inequality of men and races» : — is it not time for us, who claim to be champions of the right, who have fought for the democratic way of life, to descend into our very depths and ask ourselves whether we are truly democratic, whether we are not only serving the ultimate faith which we happen to profess? The great Catholic historian, Lord Acton, said : «Power has a tendency to corrupt. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. Great men are nearly always bad men». May I tell you that power may be political power, it may be economic power? If you concentrate political power in the hands of a few individuals, if you purchase your security by becomingthe absolute slaves of those few individuals, the dignity of the human being is lost, and your life is one of slavery. Power may be attained by politicians on account of their position, but power mayalso be obtained by the rich people of the world on account of their wealth. Are there not cases among the democracies of the world where there is this kind of economic monopoly? This kind of high finance, this business which is controlling intel- lectual life, which is, so to speak, taking away our stamina, is it not economic Fascism? If political dictatorship is one kindof Fascism, economie dicta- torship shows equally a Fascist tendency. How are we to get rid of political dictatorship as well as economic dictatorship? I must also say that here, in Unesco, you stand for cultural equality, for the belief that every culture has a capacity to nourish the spiritual life of man, that every one of them will have to be respected, appreciated and accepted by us. But are we not all using our political and economic power to impose our way of life or to say that we have the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth? Is that not cultural Fascism, I ask again? You remember what Mark Twain said about the British : «The British are mentioned in the Bible : «Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth’. » 1 wonder what Mark Twain would have said had he been writing to-day? Most of us have such an effortless sense of the superiority of our ownculture that we forget that there are other people in the world. In this connexion I may be forgiven if I refer to what Unesco itself has been unable to do as yet. In the Secretariat, which consists of 557 people, western Europe and the English-speaking people of the British Commonwealth and the United States of America hold 514 posts out of
557 — less than one-sixth of the world’s population holding 92 per cent. of the appointments in the Secretariat. You find there thatone type of culture is represented, not the Latin-American, not the Middle Eastern, not the Indian, not the Chinese. I find that Africa and Asia, those two large continents, have 2 per cent of the appointments there; the Middle East has 2, China and neighbouring coun- tries 7, India and neighbouring countries 3 — alto- gether 12 out of 557 appointments. If this is not an illustration of an effortless sense of superiority of Western European and American culture, what else is it? I am not trying to criticize the Secretariat. 1 know that many of the people there are free from anykindof cultural or racial prejudice, pre-eminently the Director-General. I know that, because the headquarters of Unesco is in Paris, it is essential to recruit the lower-grade staff there. I know that in many of those other countries the most intelligent men are not in a position to be spared from the work in which they happen to be employed and I knowalso that the efficiency of this institution cannot be allowed to suffer for the sake of geographical and cultural distribution. But I do ask, making allow- ance for all these things, whether a serious effort has been made to give due representation to the different geographical and cultural regions. Middle Eastern, Latin American, Chinese and Indian’ cul- ture stand for more than three-quarters of the world’s population andis it fair that they should be represented here by 7-8 per cent? If we are to show that our Organization is of a global character, that it is inter-cultural, that it takes account of all peoples of the world, it must be the special effort of this Organization to recruit competent men from the different regions and give the lie to this impres- sion that it is merely an Anglo-American concern. It is not my desire to criticize, for I should be criticizing myself as a member of the Executive Board; but speaking as a delegate of my own country, I say that is a deplorable state of affairs, and every effort shall be made to get rid of it. People will turn round and ask me « What about your country?» I should like to say, gentlemen, that I happen to be a member of our own Constituent Assembly. It is our desire, and we have achieved it, to write a Constitution which will be demoeratie in the political, economie andcultural senses of the term. We are not trying to build up a Fascist state. You will be surprised to hear that in our Cabinet more than half the representatives are of the non-Hindu community, thoughthe Hindus constitute
85 per cent of the population. Here in our dele- gation to-day you will find that a majority of the people are non-Hindus. What about the incidents that are happening in India? I am not trying to justify or excuse myself. Weare paying the penalty for thesins of our past. We have to pass through this penance of pain on accountof certain iniquities for which we are ourselves responsible. I would — 60 —    ask you to remember how long it took England and Scotland to settle down as one country; and that after America won its independence she had to go through one of the fiercest wars of history before she could settle down. Try to look at things as they are happening. 1 want to emphasize that the peoples of the world must take control of the situation : they must not allow themselves to be bullied and worked upon by iniquitous propaganda. They must be in a posi- tion to realize that we are against the people being sacrificed to satisfy vanity or ambition. Deep in men’s hearts is this earnest desire for peace. If we in this Conference are not able to satisfy that deep desire, if we give the initiative to politicians, if we merely make ourselves pawns in the game of world politics, is it fair to us? We are a non-poli- tical organization. We know no differences of race or nation. We stand for allegiance to the great ideals of art and beauty, of learning and culture. Cannot we give an example to the political organiza- tions of the world, and try to take into account the real ambitions of the people? If Unesco does that, we shall all be happy. As a member of the Indian delegation, it is my pleasure to say that we shall be happy to support all the activities of Unesco, and contribute to the best of our ability to each one. But we want to be assured that there is strict control of expenditure, that there is no wastage, no leakage, and that money is not being frittered away in all sorts of activities which are not germane to the purpose of Unesco. We want the present activities to be continued, and a balance to be struck between the two different types of culture, scientific and artistic. We want greater effort to be made so far as mass communica- tions are concerned, and we appeal to the people and to the heads of their governments to stand for one world, even though it may mean betrayal of the interests of their own governments. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): I call upon the delegate of the Philippines. Sr. Emilio ABELLO (Philippines) : Fellow dele- gates, I bring you the greetings of the people of the Philippines and of their President, General Manuel Roxas. We of the Philippines are happy that this important conference is being held in Mexico — a country with which we have historic and cultural links. These bonds have created among us an abid- ing friendship for the people of Mexico — a feeling which neither distance nor time has dulled. We remember with grateful appreciation the courtesies and honours accorded by the Mexican Government and people to our late beloved leader Manuel Luis Quezon, first President of the Philippines, on the occasion of his visit to this great country. We remember with deep gratitude the heroic contribu- tion of the gallant officers and men of the Mexican Air Force towards the liberation of our country from enemy occupation over two years ago. These are memories we shall long cherish and which will remain deep in the minds of our people. We do not forget those who aided us in the darkest hour of our history. I have just come from the session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. There, at Lake Success and Flushing Meadows, the nations are wrestling with grave political and economic pro- blems, and are seeking by their solution to achieve peace and international security. We are all agreed, however, that it would be a grievous error on our part to overlook the educational, scientific and cultural aspects of peace. If these aspects are neglected, every political compromise, every attempt at eliminating the threats to peace in this or that trouble spot will be just stopgap action, makeshift patching of a world that will never remain united; for the basic material we must work with is men. The citizen of to-morrow can make or break any plan into which have gone all our wisdom and our faith. And the citizen of to-morrow is growing up to-day. Unesco must strive so that the generation to which we shall bequeath the international organization has, first, a social background, where co-operation among menis the rule instead of the exception; second, an education upholding peace and international friend- ship among its main tenets ; third, a cultural pattern richly diversified, yet basically unified; fourth, a thorough scientific grounding, which will mean not only man’s mastery of his natural environment, but also man’s acceptance of the dispassionate methodology of science as his basic intellectual equipment, thus eliminating those ignorant preju- dices and emotionalized reasonings which are the ready tools of those who would create tension and war. Unesco, if it remains faithful to the ideals set forth in its Constitution, will become the indispens- able factor and the builder of peace. It will be the spearhead directing the movement for inter- nationalism and co-operation in the world. It will be the clearing house, the central agency for all educational, scientificand cultural information, which it will be its privilege to make available equally to all races of the earth. These are great and difficult tasks, but with the enthusiastic support of all nations Unesco can succeed. My government, having adhered to the charter of Unesco, believes in its objectives and will work = 160 ===    towards realization of the ideals on which the Orga- nization is founded. My delegation is particularly glad to note that Unesco has given due recognition to the inter-relation of all the higher human acti- vities. We are happy to see that natural science has not been allowed to divorce itself from the rest of man’s intellectual activities, as it has had a tendency to do in many countries. Natural scientists take up a false position when they insist on isolating them- selves from the other intellectual and creative acti- vities of man. In these post-war days, where so much of war-time emotionalism remains, the scientist must endeavour to impart his calm and dispassionate outlook to the layman. The method of science must not be used exclusively in the laboratory. We need it perhaps more in our life among menas an anchor- age which will prevent us from being swept away once more by the evil winds of race hatred, ignorance and prejudice. It is a pleasure to us to inform the Conference that the Philippines, in their desire to co-operate in this valuable world-wide undertaking and in their desire to implement the purposes of Unesco, have by Congressional action created a National Commission for Ünesco matters, in order to supplement the working of the international body in the Philip- pines. The Philippines, if I may say so, are well qualified for several reasons to carry out the ideals of Unesco. Chief among them is the unity in diversity which may be said to characterize our culture. Our culture dates back to the Shri Vishayan and Madjapahit Empires of antiquity. Our forbears were those pioneering, seafaring Malayans of old, who had a culture of their own. From China we borrowed a great part of her classical civilization. Spain gave us the civilization of the West, and the United States introduced the nascent culture of the New World. We, I believe, of all Asiatics, understand best the culture of the West, though we are the children of the East and belong to the East. Ours is a case, therefore, which proves that cultures can blend harmoniously. A blending of cultures can be achieved on a world-wide scale, taking a few basic international and humanitarian ideals as a common core, each country being free to pursue its own cultural life as a separate entity but never in complete isolation from the others. A system of voluntary co-operation as between diverse cuitures should be our goal, not rigid regimentation and uniformity. Another working principle of this Organization worthy of note is the emphasis on mass communi- cation. It is a guarantee of future success that Unesco recognizes that the work it does must reach not the elect alone but the great masses of the world's population. Otherwise it is doomed to failure. I would like to inform the Conference that my government has already started education on a mass scale through the medium of the radio. The biggest radio station in the Philippines, owned and controlled by the Government, has established a University of the Air, through which it broadcasts lectures of an informative and educational nature to the mass of the population. We also have an adult education office, charged with the duty of pursuing a campaign for the education of our adult population no longer able to go to schools. This project, started long before the war, had a faculty on wheels travelling throughout the country, car- rying with it films and teams of lecturers. This feature of our educational system has suffered a temporary set-back because of the war. Our adult education campaign is in need of thorough rehabi- litation because of loss of equipment. Our Uni- versity of the Air would need aid from Unesco. We need materials, records, scripts to expand this programme and to give instruction compatible with and in pursuance of Unesco's aims. The destruction of our libraries and museums has been complete. For the rehabilitation of these indis- pensable weapons of education, culture and science, we need the under standing of Unesco and of men of goodwill throughout the world. The destruction wrought by the war must not, however, cause youto conjure up a picture of com- plete educational desolation. For, in spite of the war, the enrolment in our schools has increased by 100 per cent. We have about three million pupils. Our government, a firm believer in edu- cation for its citizens, has appropriated 37 per cent of its budget for education alone. However, we need laboratories, libraries, books and equipment to restore our educational system if only to its pre- war status. The Philippines have for a long time been a reci- pient nation. We have profited much from infil- tration of both Oriental and Occidental culture. Because of the destruction to our physical equip- ment wrought by the war, we shall for some time be again a recipient country. However, the amal- gamation of the diverse influences to which I have referred has created in the Philippines a culture and civilization which we offer to the world both as an experience and as an example. We are parti- cularly interested in aiding our Asiatic brothers who are still under the yoke of colonialism. Colo- nial countries where illiteracyis rampant need imme- diate aid, for ignorance is a scourge which can easily lead men to accept the frenzied ways of war instead of the calmer but more difficult path of peace. Above all, there is need in many Asiatic =. 68 — e e — A S T I ,     countries for development of the media of commu- nication, so that the dissemination of knowledge and information may be facilitated. Our country therefore stands ready to make one assurance and one pledge : to make full, effective and valuable use of the opportunities granted by Unesco and other United Nations agencies for our national reconstruction and advancement; and for this we need the assurance of your help. And our pledge is to try, as early as possible, within the measure of our resources, to contribute to the ad- vancement of the world and particularly of the less fortunate of the Asiatic countries. We shall incul- cate in our people a sense of oneness with the world. We want to take an active part in this international undertaking. We renounce the policy of isolation in culture, science and education. We have given our pledge to co-operate with all nations, with all peoples, and we shall not fail. The PRESIDENT (Translation [from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of the Netherlands. Dr. J. C. KIELSTRA (Netherlands) : I acquit myself of an agreeable task in extending the thanks of Her Majesty’s Government and of the Nether- lands delegation to Mexico and her Government for the friendly hospitality with which they have re- ceived this International Organization. This country
1s a worthy meeting-place for a Conference which aims at the raising ofcivilization andat the spread- ing of cultural goods over countries and peoples hitherto without them. If is as though ‘we were pilgrims when, looking back in Mexico's history, we remember that not far fromthis capital are the old buildings, partly in ruins now, ofthe convents of Tlaxcala and Huejotzingo, where the first reli- gious and intellectual education was given to the Indian inhabitants of this country; when we recall that in this city the first printing-press on this continent was put to work, and that until the pre- sent day it holds the oldest University of this hemi- sphere, the National University of Mexico; or when, regarding the present, we think of the campaign zainst illiteracy that is being waged here in Mexico; or see how Mexico honours art and science and strives after an increase in welfare by the develop- ment of hygiene and by other means; or see how she fights against the threefold evil of disease, ignorance and poverty, where could we better come together than here? The Netherlands understand and admire such a struggle for the improvement of circumstances. The Netherlands delegation has the honour to represent a country which has suffered seriously from the war. We are still wrestling to emerge from the damage, both material and spiritual, caused — 63 by that war, and we have to envisage problems as perhaps never before in our history, as we work at the political, economic and cultural reconstruction of the Netherlands and Indonesia or at the adapta- tion of the West Indian territories to new ideas which have arisen during and since the war. Eco- nomic and financial circumstances remain critical, while cultural life also suffers from the present material difficulties. We have to make up the arrears of four years, and the lack of material resour- ces prevents us from doing this at the rate we should desire. However, we feel able to surmount our difficulties. In more than one place we see and feel some progress — thanks also to the assistance of our former Allies and of other countries — and this again is a stimulant to greater effort, as is also the prospeet of being able to co-operate with this very United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, founded by the United Na- tions. The establishment of Unesco stirred enthusiasm in our country. A National Advisory Committee has been created and has already started work. With great interest the Netherlands people learned of the plans the General Conference drew up in Paris, and it is with eagerness that it looks forward to their realization. The Netherlands are prepared to co-operate with all their energy in carrying out the aims of Unesco. The Netherlands, as is well known, ‘have always aimed at strengthening international relations. They feel nowadays that co-operation, as general as possible, is more necessary than ever before. They therefore rejoice at the admission of new Members to Unesco since last year’s meeting, and they regret the differences in ideologies which prevent some other nations from joining. Is this abstention inevitable, I venture to ask? Notwith- standing differences in ideology, could not practical co-operation in the field of Unesco’s task be achieved, Just as friendship and co-operation among indivi- duals of different character can exist, provided they recognize and respect each other’s qualities ? It is not for me to answer these questions, but the more close and comprehensive our co-operation in achieving Ünesco’s aims, the more beneficial will be the results of our work to the world. Her Majesty's Government would highly appre- ciate the earliest possible execution of as much as possible of Unesco’s programme. This delegation, however, allows itself to emphasize that, to achieve this, a practical method is demanded. This means working out such plans as exactly as possible. We admire the idealism of Unesco’s general aims; nevertheless, only practical planning on limited lines will yield the results we all want.    I venture, therefore, to ask whether it is not advisable for this Organization to confine itself to a certain number of subjects instead of expanding its activities. This would make rational and wise use of the funds available. I shall not repeat what I said before when sup- porting the French amendment to the Agenda. I would only observe that the Netherlands delega- tion, although regretting this necessity, finds itself obliged to maintain a somewhat critical attitude towards the proposals for 1948, especially concern- ing the expansion of Unesco's activities and the financial consequences this may involve. There is another matter I want to stress. At the Paris Conference last year, the Head of the Netherlands delegation, the Minister of Education, Dr. Gielen, drew attention to the serious problem created by the present cultural state of Germany. He pointed out that in Germany important groups are from a cultural point of view completely isolated, since the Germans, in consequence of their one- sided national-socialist education, have no know- ledge of ideas prevailing in the democratic world. Although the Occupying Powers have made valuable efforts with important results, the Netherlands delegation is of opinion that the cultural isolation of Germany is a danger to Western civilization, and this is a permanent cause of concern to the Netherlands Government. The fragments of their Weltanschauung, to which most Germansstill adhere, regarding the relations between States and people, power and laws, community and individual, matter and mind, personal responsibility and the morals of the group, need fundamental alteration before really democratic relations, or even a normal autho- rity under an Occupying Power, can convey any real meaning to the German people or give them a sense of inward conviction. The Netherlands might help in this direction. From of old they have been in touch with the French, British and German minds. The Netherlands people have proved able to digest the cultural tide of three nations without falling into imitation. They have learned to understand the spirit of all three. In turn they have in various degrees in- fluenced the cultural development of surrounding nations. It would be regrettable if the experience which the Netherlands nation has acquired during centuries were not used in the solution of the German pro- blem, particularly as the Netherlands people — in religious circles as well as in educational, cultural and social organizations — have shown a lively interest in the solution of this problem. To a limited extent, perhaps, the Netherlands could contribute to the education of German youth. We have scientific and educational experts at our disposal specially qualified to contribute to this aim. We should therefore appreciate it if the Unesco Secretariat could study the question how Germany might be opened up to educational and cultural influences from the democratic world, and we are prepared to throw our full energy into that purpose. However, when undertaking this or any other work within the scope of Unesco, it remains neces- sary to consider the spiritual basis of the culture of the nations who together built this Organization, and still more the criteria which the various civili- zations will have to apply in accomplishing their task of contributing to universal peace. The Netherlands delegation is firmly convinced, as is Her Majesty’s Government, that religion is a most important part of this spiritual basis. Therefore, this delegation recommends that in future the reli- gious forces of mankind should be taken into con- sideration to a greater extent and that religious organisations should participate in Unesco’s work. The Netherlands delegation 1s of opinion that in this way Unesco’s aim will beserved efficiently. Religion, morals and science, may they co-operate more and more closely to the benefit of mankind. May Unesco be the symbol of such co-operation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I now call upon the delegate of Haiti. M. Arthur BONHOMME (Haiti) (Translation from the French) : 1 am the representative of a country which is very small, but which has experienced every kind of suffering known to any people throughout the world. As this item on the agenda calls for a discussion of the Report on the activities of Unesco during the year 1947, I believe that, as the repre- sentative of the Republic of Haiti, I can very well speak here to tell you what is in the heart of a small people and what are its hopes in face of the attempt you are making here to establish peace and justice in the world so that men may cease destroying each other and no longer cause suffering to each other. What we intend to do is something very fine, and we have already begun our work. I realize full well that you represent almost all the countries of the world. You are able here to sit down one beside the other at the same table, to hear and understand one another, and to seek means of preventing war and bringing a little happiness to the world. It is a fine task that Unesco has under- taken, but I am filled with anxiety because I know that in the past there have met assemblies of men similar to this one; representatives of different nations have come together to prevent war, but — 64 —      history proves that even within such assemblies war was in the hearts of those present. Again, I am filled with anxiety because we here have a terrible responsibility. We are to-day assuming the responsibility of representing the suffering masses, of representing oppressed, under- nourished and ill-clad peoples; and all of us here are well-clothed and well-nourished; we enjoy the privileges of the world, yet we represent millions who are suffering and need help and deliverance from their troubles. We know that the scourge of war ravages, not statesmen, but these same people, who are dragged into war to serve as cannon- fodder. We can do much if, as statesmen, we sympathize with the masses, with all who need help and assis- tance. We can do much for them provided we throw ourselves whole-heartedly into the work in a spirit of love of man and of justice. Thereport presented by Mexico bears these words «Justicia; Sabiduria». — We have to choose. We are statesmen who have abandoned the principle of trying to find peace through war. We arestates- men who want to create peace by justice, and justice cannot exist without a spirit of sacrifice. That is why I ask you all to consider carefully the activities of Unesco during the past year. I certainly cannot omit to congratulate this Orga- nization to which we belong, as well as those who have been entrusted with bringing it safely to port. But we all know that in this world there are manyreefs, particularly when one is seeking peace. Throughout the century-old history of the world men have always failed when they sought to secure peace. To-day we are seeking peace through edu- cation. That is something completely new, and we can hope for results because we are indeed working on the cultural plane, on the plane of ideas, on the plane of help fo our neighbours. By fol- lowing this path we shall perhaps arrive at peace. But have we followed the right road ? It seemsto me that, in the light of the responsibility we bear, it might be wise to make some changesin the general policy of Unesco during the coming year. The first change would be to eradicate from our hearts our personal interests and the particular interests of each State. If we want peace, we must practise justice. The policy of states has never been a policy of justice, because justice consists in doing unto your neighbour as you would have him do unto you. We know that the policy of states has always been a policy of defending selfish in- terests, of being suspicious, protecting oneself against wolves and acting as a wolf oneself. Is this the policy which is being followed here? Do we come here to perform this seemingly impossible task — 6 of giving assistance to those who need it, with the particular interests of our own States in our hearts? Have we come here to protect ourselves against attack by other States? Are we here to establish influence over other States? Have we come here in a spirit of worldly politics or in a spirit of cultural pacification and international education? I think that we have to examine our consciences. We must somehow get out of ourselves, because I have noticed that national politics are being practised here. This must not be a meeting of politicians trying to defend the particular points of view of their Governments, while our people are suffering and thirsting for peace. I was grieved when I passed through Cuba to see starving people living amongst those who “were well-fed. I was very distressed when I saw women sitting on the ground with babies in their arms, women who had no support and no assistance. I was anguished when I saw here in Mexico these same scenes of poverty; and these scenes are repeated throughout the world. You, gentlemen, are all representatives of those suffering mas es. Are these thoughts and reflections, which may seem a little strange to you, because the political spirit is still prevalent, are these thoughts not enough to bring us back to self-examinat on and to make us seek means of offering the world a genuine example of statesmen who can completely forget the interests of their States and think of humanity which is thirsting for peace? Allow me another observation. Are we not ‘in danger here of falling into the pitfall which" so many national and international organizations have already fallen into, the pitfall of man’s egoism. The history of the world shows that very often, when men have met in the pursuit of an ideal, they have preferred to satisfy their selfish individual interests. We know that certain States are reproached with being excessively bureaucratie. Many institutions, even religious institutions, throughout history have fallen into the snares of bureaucracy. Groups of men have been formed to attain an ideal, but unfor- tunately these groups have thought of their own particular interests. I put the question, a little brutally perhaps, but it is the root of the problem : Does Unesco wish to accomplish a noble task, does Unesco wish to enlist as many people as pos- sible to carry out that task? What is the task? It is to bring peace to the minds of men, to bring peace through the re-educa- tion of those who have been led astray by false ideologies, by violent ideologies, by inhuman ideo- logies, by criminal ideologies, by egoistic ideologies. This can only be done by education. But in carrying out this work of education, have we not fallen into   the same trap by wanting to take so many precau- tions and wanting to collect as many bureaucrats as possible to achieve a result which it might be pos- sible to reach more quickly with less expense ? I think that Unesco has before it much experience to profit from. Already men have devoted their whole lives to bringing peace to the world, men have devoted themselves to bringing education to the masses. We know what has already been done throughout the world; we know of the work done in China, we know of the work done in Mexico, in the Philippines and in India, we know what the many missions and foundations have already accom- plished. Cannot we profit by this experience rather than set up this great administrative edifice, which,as the Chairman of the Executive Board said, has absorbed efforts which we could have made to a more prac- tical purpose, by directing them to purely adminis- trative ends? This is the point of view which I wish to submit to you, gentlemen, in the name of the Republic of Haiti. Our nation is composed of unfortunate people. We have four and a half million people; four million of them are human beings like you and me, but human beings who have nothing; they are blind because they cannot read; they have no learning; they suffer from all kinds of diseases; they are hungry; they are poorly clad; they are a people who cannot nourish themselves and who are obliged to emigrate to the neighbouring republics, but when they go to those republics they constitute a danger to society from the point of view of health. We want to change the condition of our people. Already in the past we have had to suffer, we bave even experienced war; but we want peace. When Unesco undertook to set up peace through educa- tion, Haiti saw a great hope, but whenit came to realizing this hope and we were told that the Govern- ment of Haiti would itself have to finance its pro- jeets, we were greatly disappointed. It is not that we do not want to help, but we cannot, and this has led us to examine how Unesco is carrying out its plan for peace in the world. We have seen that it was indeed something very good, we have seen that it was a fine attempt, but we at once felt that administrative bureaucracy was absorbing what the nations were contributing, and we thought we could serve a useful purpose here in telling you this truth. Gentlemen, what you aim to do 1s fine; you aim to establish peace upon earth. You have now had one year of existence; you have achieved much, given much, even sacrificed yourselves, but will you allow a small country to make a few suggestions? Do you not think that to establish peace there must be justice, and that justice in this case would be to forget the individual interests of each of your countries and think of the suffering masses? Forget those individual interests that the resources which might be used to save the masses; snatch those resources away from the tentacles of an octopus-like bureaucracy. My words may not satisfy you, but I think they may be of value to Unesco, and I say that, if all of us here apply this justice, we shall achieve real results. A Mexican newspaper has said that Unesco's Budgetof $ 6,000,000 was a budget that could only buy a few bombers or a cruiser. But we have no cruisers or bombers; we think rather of what we have, our impoverished ignorant masses, and we see that a budget of $ 6,000,000 could educate twenty million men. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Greece. Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, the Hellenic Government has instructed me to express its most sincere thanks to the Mexican Government for the initiative it took, already almost a year ago, in inviting us to meet here in this beautiful country; it is here, in an atmo- sphere as congenial as it is clear, that we can appre- ciate to the full the harmonious interdependence of both the autochthonous and Mediterranean ancient cultural traditions; it is here that we can admire the splendid cultural and educational movement of Mexico. As we extend a still wounded but very friendly band to our Mexican colleagues, we recognize in them, as we have done from the very beginning of Unesco’s work, not foreign characteristics, but a people whose culture is very close to our own, since it is founded upon the same principles of liberty and democracy. The indelible imprint of thes: axioms of culture on the hearts and spirits ofthe people of this continent, whom we admire for their unselfishness, that imprint of what our forbears called kalon, will, I am sure, invigorate by hene- ficial contributions the work of this Conference, which will always be known as the Mexico Gonfe- rence. Fellow-delegatas, this is a very grave moment; the eyes of the civilized world are upon us. The world is looking for an inspiration from us as well as an attitude, which will prove that in all its acts and in all its work, our Organization maintains the strictest principles of moral and intellectual integrity. This twofold cultural integrity implies absolute respect for the spirit of our Constitution, the underlying significance of which is being more and more fully understood by the intellectuals of our Member ==‘) —    a a States; and we do not forget that it is this cultural integrity which breathes even in the ruins of all ourcivilizations. We congratulate ourselves upon having been the founders of the basic idea of cultural reconstruction, which is an essential condition of all cultural pro- gress. We shall always be proud to have waged a long struggle for this idea to govern Unesco's acti- vities; but does cultural reconstruction mean only material and economic reconstruction? How this inspiring idea ofcultural reconstruction has expanded and been completed since the first Conference in 1945 and how much it has been responsible for in the spiritual and psychological fields! Wise measures which have been taken, — well known to all of us within these walls — encourage us to take part in this Conference with more faith, more faith in a cultural democracy of the nations, on the condition that we are all unceasingly active in pro- moting the true, the beautiful, the good, which are the only foundations of any culture worthy of the name, the human and humane pillars of the temple of peace. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Since there are no more speakers on my list, the meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 1.30 p. m. FIFTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 10 November 1947, at 11. 20 а. т. CONTENTS Pages.
14. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation) Speeches by delegates of Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom, United States of America, the Lebanon and New Zealand. ................... 67 President : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium).
14. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen : Up to now, I have on my list of speakers the following countries : Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, New Zealand, Australia, Lebanon and China. Czechoslovakia and the Union of South Africa have also asked to be put on the list. We shall now continue our debate and I call upon the delegate of Brazil. Prof. P. De BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, gentle- men : Two years ago the Constitution of Unesco was signed. The ratifications which followed have imposed on all of us a noble and important task, a task laid upon us by all the peoples of the world, a task which has been given for the first time to an international organization, that of establishing, through the united efforts of all peoples, peaceful relationships between men, The Preamble to our Constitution tells us that, since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed; and it follows that, to enable us to achieve our task, peace must be founded on the intellectual and moral soli- darity of the human mind. This is not the peace of armies, nor the peace of economic agreements. It is the peace of the mind and heart. How shall we bring about this intellectual and moral solidarity so that we can base our peace upon it? What is the technique to apply in the world of to-day, in a world divided in all its aspects, a world where there is no common faith, no common language, no common policy and no common eco- nomy? If we examine the statistics, what do we find? In the field of religious faith, about ten different creeds are opposed one to the other; the minds and — 6; —