(2) That certain changes in the structure and functions of the Secretariat must be effected, without making additional appointments, to ensure the greatest concentration of funds and personnel on Programme work; Requests the Budget Sub-Commission to consider the above Resolution in the light of general budgetary considerations and in the light of the following factors :
1. That a long-term appointment policy is likely to be approved by the General Gonference;
2. That the General Conference is resolved to reconsider the geographical distribution of the staff of the Secretariat ;
3. That the Director-General is to be asked to consider the gradual reclassification of staff according to qualifications for the posts in question;
4. That the programme adopted by the General Confe- rence will inevitably affect the size, structure and functions of the Secretariat in 1948, Sr. EVANGELISTA (Philippines) found it difficult to understand why only one out of 600 Secretariat members was from the Philippines. There was no question of selfish national reasons but a belief that the principle of geographic distribution of personnel must be followed if Unesco was to stand faithfully for international ideals and represent the cultures and education of all nations. No cristicism of the present situation was implied but to accept it was one thing, to allow it to continue was another. The Philippine delegation felt that correction of the present inequitable geographical distribution must be given the highest priority in the consideration of the matter before the Com- mission. The Rapporteur had prepared a draft resolution representing the consensus of opinions expressed by the delegates at previous meetings. His draft was distributed to the members of the Commission. The CHAIRMAN ruled that, as it was necessary to adjourn the meeting immediately so that dele- gates might attend a plenary meeting, no action should be taken on the resolution presented by the delegates of Australia, the United States of America and the United Kingdom until the meeting on Friday morning, when the remaining speakers would also be heard. The meeting rose at 6 p. m. THIRTEENTH MEETING Friday, 21 November 1947, at 9.30 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). The CHAIRMAN had two reports to make : he had received a letter from Dr. Walker, conveying the thanks of the Australian delegation for the sympathy of the Commission at the death of Mr. Medworth. Secondly, the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission had requested that the Admi- nistrative and External Relations Commission should consider the question of grants-in-aid as soon as possible, so that its opinion could be taken into account when drawing up the 1948 Programme and Budget. With the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, he had decided to submit the matter to the General Committee, which would indicate which part of the grants-in-aid programme the present Commission should discuss, Dr. WALKER (Australia) had no doubt that the Chairman’s procedure was correct, but wished to mention that the Executive Board had drawn up proposals, contained in document 2C/75, to be sub- mitted to the General Conference, concerning rela- tions with Non-Governmental organizations to whom grants-in-aid had been made. The Budget Sub- Commission would not wish the Commission te decide on the size of the grants, as these would be in the nature of payments for work carried out in connexion with Unesco’s programme. If the Com- mission approved this principle, the Budget Sub- Committee would then only consider specific grants- in-aid within that category. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the dele- gate of Australia and thought they should finish with the question of principle. The CHAIRMAN said that that was what he and the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Committee had intended to recommend. item Bc of the Agenda : Revision of Salary and Allowance Policy and Structure (con- tinuation.) Mr. CHRISTENSEN (Norway) observed that the Commission had been considering document 2C/92 — 579 —
37.      for the last seven days. Herealized the Organization was a new one and that geographical distribution could not be brought into effect in one year of rush work. The Deputy Director-General had painted a very good picture of the situation and it had been suggested that his speech should be given wide circulation. He had described the conditions in which the Secretariat had worked last winter, but other people had had to work in the same conditions. He imagined that people must be better off with Unesco in Paris than in their own countries, or they would not stay there. The Deputy Director-General had mentioned that, because the United Nations was to hold its Assembly in Paris next year, Unesco might have to hold its General Conference in August or even in July and this would mean great difficulties for the Secretariat. He thought that the Director- General might be asked to make it clear to the Confe- rence that such a date was impossible. He pointed out that the Secretariat, which knew the situation better than the Executive Board or delegates, should make suggestions regarding changes in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure. Unesco should not be thought of as an experiment, but as a lasting organization, whereas the Constitution and Rules were an experiment. The Secretariat was permanent, whereas the delegates at the General Conference often changed, so it was for the Secretariat to give impetus to the Organization and to prepare the work of the Conference to avoid waste of time. Many difficulties had been encoun- tered during the past year, for example, the Organi- zation needed enthusiasts in various fields, but they were often liable to over-emphasize the importance of their own profession or subject and had to be curbed without their feelings being hurt; otherwise it would be harmful to Unesco’s prestige. Question- naires had been sent out and weeks were needed to find the necessary material to answer them : he therefore thought they were too extensive to be use- ful. Another difficulty was the selection of persons for investigations in the field and Unesco must make sure that these were aware that they represented an Organization which was at the service of the country in which they were working. As regards thestaff of the Secretariat, documents before the Commission showed that the question of their welfare had received due consideration. Many of them needed help, advice and guidance, but they must have initiative and show ability to solve their own problems, if they were to help solve the vaster problems of the world. With regard to salaries, it was most desirable thatthe staff should be contented and well provided for, but it must be remembered that all Unesco’s administrative expenses had to be covered by the suffering humanity for which it was working. Document 26/92 was marked «conf- dential» but could not remain so long, as Member States had a right to know howtheir contributions were being used and would compare the salaries with those of their own staff, particularly those in Paris. Besides salaries, other remuneration had to be borne in mind. No less than five kinds of allowance were listed in document DGB/18/47 and both these and salaries were all free of taxation. On page 33 of document 2C/92, it was shown that there had been an 18 per cent increase of salaries to meet therise in the cost of living. He pointed out that many people had to meet the increased cost of living with no corresponding increase of salary. The Organization needed staff inspired by the ideals of Unesco even if they had to share the hard conditions imposed by the world crisis. Unesco must inspire confidence in its efficacy and economy. He therefore believed he was acting in the interest of Unesco in proposing the two following resolutions :
(1) Whereas it is considered desirable to assure an efficient functioning of the Secretariat, Whereas it is considered important that the Secretariat should operate on a sound economic basis, It is resolved * That experts in organization and efficiency be engaged for the purpose of streamlining the staff and organization of Unesco, and with a view to reducing the cost of administration
(2) Whereas it is considered of the greatest importance that a sound and adequate system should be established for the various remunerations of the staff of Unesco, i It'is resolved : That a study be made of the various grades of salaries for the Unesco staff in comparison with the average of salaries paid by the various Governments to their officials with corres- ponding education and qualifications, particularly those living in Paris; That a new gradation of salaries based on such averages be worked out and submitted to the Executive Board for consideration by the next General Conference; That the question of allowances be reconsidered on the basis of similar ee by the various Governments and that this study, together with the suggestions, be likewise submitted That all permanent appointments to the staff of Unesco made before the General Conference has acted upon names submitted in the above respects, be subjectto such decision as that Conference might reach. Prof. AUGER (France) said that the excellent speech of the delegate of Norway would shorten his own and he secondedit in general, agreeing especially about the questionnaires and the organization of work. As regards the living conditions of the staff, he agreed that, while it was necessary to look after them, the staff should not be enabled to live on a scale too much in contrast with that of the country they were in. With regard to the proposed engage- ment of experts to study the conditions of the staff, he hoped this would not mean an increase of staff. He hadlistened with interest to the speeches of the — 580 —   Deputy Director-General, the delegate of Brazil and the delegate of the United States of America. The French delegation considered that the administrative organs should be at the service of the Programme, that a better geographical distribution was needed and a better balance between the administrative staff and those responsible for the Programme. He supported the two resolutionsof the United Kingdom delegation and the resolution of the Australian delegation, with two reservations : in the third paragraph of the Australian resolution, he thought it a mistake to shut the Secretariat in too closely by refusing an increase of personnel; he therefore proposed the insertion of the word «substantial» before «expansion». As regards the United King- dom resolutions, he did not agree with the last paragraph (4) which, although not inexact, should be discussed with item 6 of the Agenda. The French delegation was very moved by the suggestions of the delegates of Brazil and the United States of America regarding living conditions for the staff; the problems encountered by Unesco in Paris were delicate ones, as they were for any inter- national organization, wherever its headquarters were; the United Nations also had its housing pro- blem. He thought there was every advantage in studying ways of obtaining better living conditions and promised that the Director-General would have the co-operation and assistance of all relevant French departments. Dr. WALKER (Australia) observed that they had a number ofresolutions before them, some of them to be submitted to the Conference for decisions and others merely being recommendations for the Com- missions. He suggested that they vote on the recommendations, and those to be submitted to the Conference would have to be submitted to the Drafting Committee. As regards the Australian proposal, he could not accept the addition of the word «substantial», proposed by the French dele- gate, as he thought the presentstaff would be ade- quate for the next year. As regards the Norwegian proposals, these should be considered by the Drafting Committee before submission to the Conference. Although agreeing in principle, he did not support the actual proposals. Referring to the last paragraph of the second resolution concerning permanent contracts, he thought that firm salaries must be offered in order to obtain good people, although allowances could be subject to change. With regard to the engagement of experts, the Executive Board had already decided to establish a small panel of expert advisers and he hoped the Conference would not set up an additional one; further, the Director- General was the chief administrative officer and had already spoken of seeking expert advice. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied to questions raised by delegates. He noted the inte- resting comments of the delegate of Brazil regarding administration and the danger of having too strong a hold on top and overburdening the staff with too rigid administrative procedures. The Secretariat was aware of this danger, but the Commission had seen the Auditors’ Report and would appreciate the necessity of adequate controls, so that the Director- General could take full responsibility for the actions of the Organization. He thought there was still some misunderstanding regarding distinction be- tween the administrative and programme personnel It was impossible for the so-called programme personnel to carry on the programme, unless they had full translating, roneo and conference services, otherwise their work would be of no avail. With regard to the American delegate’s precise question as to whether the Secretariat had considered establishing a fully-fledged co-operative, great difficulties had been encountered, as they had no authority to use the funds of the Organization for this purpose, and wondered if it would be possible to attach a clause to the resolution concerning the Revolving Fund, explaining that they needed working capital to set up the co-operative. The same thing applied to the housing question. It had also been asked whether a special exchange rate could be obtained from the French Government. The matter had never been raised formally with the French Government, but the Secretariat would do so if the Conference wished. As regards the necessity for the staff to make purchases on the black market, he reminded the meeting that, although salaries were stated in dollars, payments were made in francs and the staff only received the official exchange rate. With regard to relations with the French Govern- ment under the Agreement on Privileges and Immu- nities, Unesco had the happiest personal relation- ships with the individuals concerned and the French Government had been very co-operative regarding exemption from French taxation, but difficulties had been encountered concerning the importation of food ; a recent cable confirmed that a shipment was still held up by the Customs authorities. They must, however, consider the language of the Agreement, Article VI stating that the Secretariat was exempt from duties on articles for its official use, and Article X laying down that the Director-General and senior staff would be accorded immunities; it was therefore wondered how the Organization managed to consume all the goods imported for the co- operative. He thanked the delegate of Norway for his excellent speech and, referring to the payment of children’s allowances, remarked that they were based on — 581 —
374             Regulation 36 ofthe Staff Regulations, established by thelast General Conference. The developmentofscales pu was in accordance with the scales of the United ations and other international bodies, based on the rate of pay of the League of Nations. As regards the allowances, the whole system was under review and the daily allowance was to be replaced by a more satisfactory system. No one was yet eligible for the education allowance, which would comeinto force in March 1948. The installation allowance was not paid to anyone without a permanent contract. The inerease of 18 per cent on salaries was a rectification of a mistake made in March 1946, when salaries had been reduced by 15 per cent. It had been asked that salary scales should be stated as subject to re- examination by the next Conference, but this would make it difficult to obtain good people, as required in other recommendations of delegates. The CHAIRMAN observed that the Rapporteur had been asked to incorporate all the resolutions in a single resolution and he therefore called upon him to present it. The RAPPORTEUR mentioned that it had been a very difficult task, but that he had done his best. To meet the Brazilian proposal, he had added para- graph (f), and he had incorporated the two United States ‘resolutions, ‘and part of the Australian and United Kingdom resolutions and also earlier Mexican and Indian resolutions. The Resolution started with an appreciation of the work done by the Secre- tariat and then advocated the obtaining of permanent staf! and the elimination of waste expenditure and unsuitable staff. Certain points had been left out : ‎لان the Deputy Director-General’s speech should be circulated, because if this were done delegates would ask that theirs should be circulated also; (2) the suggestion of the United Kingdom that reduction should be made under Chapter 2 of the Budget; (3) the Norwegian proposals, which he had left out becauseit was his personal opinion that they had had a most thorough debate on the subject and the Director-General should be given a chance before a Committee of Experts was created : such a Com- mittee would paralyse all action while their reports were awaited. If the resolution was approved by the Commission, he proposed that it should be transmitted to the Drafting Committee. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the report with the reservation that the Norwegian proposals should be transmitted both to the Draftmg Com- mittee and to the Budget Sub-Commission. The report was then read : The General Conference desires to place on record (1) its appreciation ofthe services rendered by the Secretariat in circumstances of extreme difficulty, (2) its conviction that the period of improvisation is drawing to a close and that every effort should now be made to build up a permanent staff with as adequate security as possible, while at the same time eliminating all wasteful and unnecessary expenditure, and eliminating from the Secretariat such members as have not shown themselves equal to their task. To this end the General Conference resolves z (a) That at the earliest possible time the Director-General shall initiate a long-term appointment policy; в (b) That, in recruiting, more attention shall be paid to the factor of equitable geographic distribution than has been the case heretofore and that the Director-General avail himsölf of the assistance that may be provided by the United Nations, Member States and National Commissions or co-operating bodies; (c) That immediate steps be taken by the Director-Generaj to replace the present daily living allowance by a system of allowances which ensures a more equitable reflection in staff compensation of those variable and special costs that are not covered by compensation in the form of salary, and which must be covered to assure the staff an adequate standard of living; d That the Director-General immediately undertake a re-examination of the staff with a view to ensuring that only such persons as are definitely qualified for the tasks to which they are assigned shall be retained on the staff; and (e) That the Director-General shall at the earliest date possible dismiss persons whom he deems not competent or whose services are unsatisfactory; f) That the Director-General shall re-open negotiations with the French Government with a view to endeavouring to obtain such concessions regarding import duties, exchange rates and other matters affecting the cost of living in Paris, as may permit the better functioning of the organs of Unesco and in particular the Secretariat. The Administrative and External}Relations Commission desires to draw the attention of the Budget Sub -Commission to this resolution, and especially to those points that directly affect the Budget for 1948. The CHAIRMAN requested Dr. Martinez Baez of Mexico, Professor Photiades of Greece and Mr. Ash- faque Husain of India to try to combine in one single resolution all the proposals that had been made regarding staff questions, and to present it to the next mecting. The meeting vose at noon.