FIRST MEETING Tuesday, 11 November 1947 at 4 р. т. CONTENTS Election of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur. Adoption of the Agenda Chairman : Dr C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) Election of Chairman and Rapporteur. Prof. Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Vice- President of the General Conference) (Translation from the French) : Gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 60 of our Rules of Procedure, each Commission and Committee must elect its chairman, its vice- chairman and its rapporteur. The Nominations Committee has suggested three names to the Programme and Budget Commission and this Commission must now elect its officers. The three names submitted by the Nominations Committee are : for Chairman, Dr. C. E. Beeby (New Zealand); for Vice-Chairman, Dr. Carlos Chagas (Brazil); for Rapporteur, M. Roger Seydoux (Franee). Does the Programme and Budget Commission wish to support the three names suggested by the Nominations Committee ? Are there any comments ? The nomination of Dr. Beeby is seconded by the delegations of the United States, Mexico, Greece and Colombia, Dr. Beeby is unanimously elected Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. Dr. Beeby took the Chair. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you, ladies and gen- tlemen, for the honour you have done me. I will accept this honour on one condition. The running of a meeting ofthis kind is not going to be very easy, especially when one is running it by telephone,as it were ; and, with so many different nationalities, it is quite possible that a chairman may, quite unwittingly, give offence or wrong impressions, or speed things up when they should go slow, or slow them up when they should go fast. I shall be happy to occupy this position on condition that you will tell me of any way in which, through stupidity or inadvertence, I offend you. Then I can go ahead and break all the rules, assured that you will tell me when I have offended. The next business, is the appointment of a vice-chairman. Are there any nominations ? The delegate of Mexico and the delegate of the Union of South Africa have seconded the appoint- ment of Professor Carlos Chagas (Brazil) as Vice- Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. Will those in favour say «Yes» ? Agreed. In that case, we congratulate Dr. Chagas. Perhaps I may say at this momentthat I propose, with your consent, to ask Dr. Chagas if he would be good enough to undertake the rather onerous responsibility of maintaining some kind of contact with the Working Parties. It has been suggested at the General Committee that a position of this kind might be very desirable, and Dr. Chagas, in addition to taking the Chair when I am not here, will — if you are agreeable — maintain general liaison with these Working Parties, which are not sub-committees of this Commission, but will have a certain amount of two-way contacts with the Commission, If any of your delegations or any members of the Working Parties want to communicate with this Commission, perhaps they wouid be good enough to get in touch with Dr. Chagas. I now call for nominations for the position of rapporteur. Since there are no other nominations, M. Seydoux (France) is unanimously elected Rappor- teur. — 275 —    Dr. CHAGAS(Brazil) (Translationfrom the French) : I wish to thank you, on behalf of my delegation, for the honour which the Commission has done it, and at the same time to say that I am at the full disposal of delegations and hope to be of real service to our much esteemed Chairman. Adoption of the Agenda. The CHAIRMAN : The next business is the adop- tion of the agenda. You have before you document
2C/91. You also have document 2C/BUR/1, Pro- posals for the Organization of the work of the Programme and Budget Commission, the Budget Sub-Commission and the Working Parties. That was passed, you remember, at the General Committee this morning. In document 2C/91 there is a point to be inserted. After No. 3. there should be an item, 3 (a) Discussion of general programme policy and consideration of a total budget figure. There are one or two points here that I might Еexplain. Will you look at document 2C/ BUR/1? I am speaking now on behalf of the General Committee of the Conference, which first passed this document. You will notice on page 1 an item, 1 (d), which reads : «The Commission will establish a Budget Sub-Commission of not more than nine members to consider the budgetary impli- cations of the programme proposals and resolutions of the Commission, to give a budgetary review of the non-programme items of the budget, and to report its recommendations to the Commission.» This is a rather different procedure from the one originally intended for the Conference. The situa- tion was somewhat altered when the French reso- lution, you remember, was passed on the first day of the Conference, that one of our first jobs should be to adopt the total figure. The total figure will first have to be passed by this Commission and then by the Plenary Conference. That gives the Budget Sub-Commission a rather different job from that we had anticipated for it. It becomes a much more technical job than it was before, and it will not be concerned with the fixing of the final budget figure. It was thought, therefore, by the General Committee that it might be wiser to have quite a small Budget Sub-Commission of fairly expert people, who could examine the budget in detail, m relation to the proposals put forward by this Commission on ‘the Programme. That is why the General Committee has suggested a small select committee for the budget. We are not asked to set up that Budget Sub-Commission to-day, but I thought I had better mention to you the reasons that lie behind the General Committee’s decision to make this change. Item 3 of document 20/91, you will notice, is concerned with a calendar of meetings. There are one or two points here that I should like to ex- plain. If you will turn over to the calendar, which forms the last two pages of document 2C/BUR/1, you will-see the time-table of the plenary meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission. You will see that this afternoon we are down for a dis- cussion on general policy. That is merely a sug- gestion, and I am entirely in your hands as to how the meeting shall conduct its business. To-morrow morning thereis the consideration of the total budget. Now, at that point, after consideration of the total budget, we shall have to adjourn to allow for a meeting of the Plenary Conference, in order finally to pass our budgetfigure. Thatis not actually down here. The idea for this afternoon was that, apart from mentioning any specific figure, there may be members who would like to speak about the programme in general, not specifically on de- tailed points ofthe programme, which we shall deal with as we go through these two chapters, IA and IB of the Green Book, «The Programme of Unesco in 1948». We thought that this discussion on general policy should not deal specifically with those points, but you may raise any general points you may wish. At the same time, between now and lunch-time to-morrow, we should have before us, proposed by someone, a figure for the total budget. = I suggest,if you are agreeable, that in this general policy dis- cussion any delegation may speak once only, to express their views, until all have had the opportu- nity of doing so; then, at some point, some delega- tion, I presume, will bring forward a definite mo- tion that the total budget figure shall be so much. At that point, everyone will have the right to speak again on the new motion, I think those are the only points on the agenda I wanted to explain. After that meeting we will establish our Budget Sub- Commission. The Budget Sub-Commission — if you look again at the programme — may meet at any timeafterit is set up, on the call of the Chair- man. It will be for the Chairman of that Sub-Com- mission, when appointed, to summon it at any time he wishes. On the second page of the time-table you will find that there are four days specifically set aside for the Budget Sub-Commission. It may be that they will not use all that time; it may be that they can telescope their meetings. But that time has been allotted and further meetings of this full Commission at a later date will consider the impli- cations of the report from the Sub-Gommission. I think that is all I have to explain. Would some- one move that the agenda be adopted? It is moved by the delegate of Czechoslovakia, and — 276 —   seconded by the delegate of China, that this agenda be adopted. The matter is now open for discussion, ladies and gentlemen. After this first meeting, which is mostly a matter of formal speeches, I hope we can all get together for the rest of the session in a more compact group. Any discussion of the agenda? I call upon the delegate of the Union of South Africa. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) Mr. Chairman, I do not want to hold the meeting up, but this is a matter of procedure. Will it be per- missible, in these discussions, for me to substitute a specialist in each particular case when different chapters are under discussion, or mustwe be re- presented by one single delegate for the whole proceedings of this Commission? The CHAIRMAN : Again, I am in the hands of the meeting, but, as Chairman, I should not have the slightest hesitation in saying that any member of a delegation, adviser or specialist, may speak for his delegation. I myself would feel like ruling, if you agree, that each country should have the right to speak once to a motion, and then to any amend- ment which may follow from it. Are you in agree- ment? I will take it, then, that each country may speak only once to any motion, although it retains the right to speak again if an amendmentis proposed. Any further discussion or further questions on the agenda? Then I put the motion that this agenda be adopted. All those in favour say « Yes». Adopted. Consideration of Programme Policy and Total Budget Figure. Our next businessis the point we have inserted — Item 3 (a), Consideration of programme policy and total Budget figure. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole matter of the programme is now open for your discussion. We did not think, in the General Committee, that any motions would be put at this first meeting, but it is entirely, of course, for the meeting itself to decide and for delegates to say. Is there any delegate who wishes to speak now on this general matter of the programme? The delegate of Haiti. M. Arthur BONHOMME (Haiti) (Translation from the French) : To judge by the speeches made here it seems that it will be necessary to make a few changesin the general programme. lam sorry that the Working Party on Fundamental Education has not yet finished its work, which should provide us with a new outlook. In this matter of funda- mental education, I am particularly interested in the rôle of governments and individuals, which is dealt with in Chapter V of the Programme. The Regional Conference at Nanking, when studying the Chinese Pilot Project, immediately considered that it would be necessary for Unesco to take steps to set up an international fund, to be used for the assistance of states not able to afford fundamental education projects. This proposal was approved by the Nanking Conference and transmitted to the Fundamental Education Working Party of this Conference. With regard to the execution of the pilot project in Haiti, a plan has been submitted to the Fundamental Education Working Party, which would enable Unesco, or a special organization, to finance this project. This plan has already been discussed at this morning's meeting. The Cana- dian delegate remarked that, if Unesco were to under- take to share in the expenses of the pilot project in Haiti, this would violate one of Unesco’s prin- ciples; it is the same principle to which I refer, and which is stated in paragraph 2 of Chapter V : « Unesco in action should increasingly come to mean Member States in action». There are here two conceptions; the first, by which Unesco will not take direct action itself as an organization, but will inspire action by the Member States in all their work for peace. As far as the Haiti project is concerned, however, it would appear that there must be direct action by Unesco. The Government of Haiti is willing to participate to the extent of 50 per cent in the project, but it wants to be helped, either by a special agency or directly by Unesco. If it were to be a special agency, then the Government of Haiti hopes that it would act through the medium of Unesco; if it were to be Unescoitself, then naturally it would be direct action by Unesco. Therefore it seems to me that this principle must be modified. I am a man of action and I believe that, as in war, so in peace, action is indispensable. It seems to me that Unesco is hesitating to commit itself to action. À proposal was made by the delegate of the United States of America, that a large scale propaganda campaign should be launched through- out the world to spread peaceful ideas. When a country wants to go to war, when the totalitarian states are planning their policies, they know how to put their ideologies into practice and to spread them abroad so as to deceive and seduce. If they can be so clever in the cause of evil, why cannot we who are working for a good cause have the same energy and dynamic force in working for good as they have in working for evil? — 277 —
184   I think that the fears which were shown at first with regard to Unesco’s interference in the affairs of countries were unfounded. I noticed fears that Haiti's susceptibilities might be offended by Unesco’s interference. If we want to work in whole-hearted co-operation, these fears must not exist. If Unescois to bring about whole-hearted collaboration between States, irrespective of national politics, all these suspicions must disappear. We shall be very happy if, through this co-operation, something can be ‎يعد in our country and I think the same is true of any other country. I am not making a criticism but a suggestion, which will help the realization of the Haiti project for Haiti and many others as well. Moreover, I believe that, if Unesco itself acts, it may avoid what I have already drawn attention to, the absorption of energy and funds by too big a bureaucratic ma- chine. Of course we must have an administration, but we must be able to control it. I believe that this principle of Unesco's urging Member States to action implies that all the funds raised for Unesco will go into a bureaucratic machine. I think Unesco should take in hand certain projects and that at least part of Unesco’s budget should be devoted to the implementation of certain of those projects. Part of the budget must be used for the realization of projects and not for bureaucratic purposes. In the General Report of last year’s work it is said that for the first year we were obliged to con- centrate on administrative questions and that it had not been possible to deal fully with fundamental problems, but that it was hoped that this coming year we should be able to attack these problems. I think that this year, if the budgetis to be increased by more than $ 2,000,000, we must think in terms of solving these fundamental problems. That is why I bring this principle to the conside- ration of the General Conference. It will have to be considered becauseit is already being discussed in the Fundamental Education Working Party. That group has before it the three following pro- posals. Firstly, that there should be a Unesco International Fund to help all countries which need to undertake fundamental education campaigns. Unesco will have to take action. Secondly, there is the pilot project for Haiti, in which, it has been proposed, Unesco should take a direct part. Thirdly, there is the suggestion that through the interme- diary of different international or national organiza- tions, private or public, agreements should be made for the execution of these pilot projects. I believe that these three new means of Unesco’s action should modify the existing principle, the principle by which Unesco in action would increasingly come to mean Member States in action. The CHAIRMAN : Are there any further speakers on the subject of the Programmeas a whole ? Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of America) : I do not wish to speak on that matter but I have a motion to propose. Mr. Chairman. fellow-delegates, I believe that this afternoon very few of us are prepared to discuss the matter of the Programme or the total figure with any assurance. I think all of us would appreciate the opportunity to have discussions with the Rapporteurs and mem- bers of the Working Parties with whom we may have contact, in order to formulate very definitely the attitude that we wish to take on the matter of the Budget figure and the Programme. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I should like to move that we now ad- journ until to-morrow morning. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone who will second that? Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : I will second it. The CHAIRMAN : It is seconded by the delegate of the Union of South Africa. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to the motion for adjourn- ment? Before I put that motion, with which you are in obvious agreement, may I point out to all of you that the timing of this particular Commission is going to determine the timing of the whole Confe- rence. We are going to find ourselves at a point where everybody will be waiting for us, and wondering why we have not finished. I think it would be very desirable if we could possibly manage to arrive at a total budget figure by lunch-time to morrow. You may find it im- possible, and from that point of view I am rather sorry to see the meeting stop this afternoon, but I realize you have not had enough time. I do not know whether you wish to-morrow to have a time-limit for speeches, or whether ordinary self-control will achieve the desired end, but you will realize that this is a very full programme, and that we are pressed for time. The motion has been put that we now adjourn. Will those in favour please say Aye. Very well, ladies and gentlemen, we now adjourn until 11 o'clock to-morrow morning. The meeting rose at 4.55 p. m. — 278 —