this would unbalance the scale ; however, since there was no other figure avarlable but that shown, the course taken seemed to be the only possible one. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) understood that the foot-note meant that the contributions of India and Pakistan would be decided later. If this belief was not correct, he would make a formal motion to that effect. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) considered that Pakistan should be treated in the same way as any other state which was a member of the United Nations, but not of Unesco; the scale should there- fore be completed without including Pakistan. Any other course would be unjust to India. The RAPPORTEURsuggested that, in view of the division of the former State of India, the position of Pakistan was not exactly as described by the delegate of Egypt. The foot-note should be left unchanged. On the motion of INDIA, seconded by Egypt, it was approved that the contribution for India should be considered subject to such readjustment as might be necessary ; if Pakistan joined Unesco, the 4.60 per cent would represent their joint contribution and would be distributed between them in accordance with the action taken by the United Nations. In the unlikely event of Pakistan not joining, it would be open to India to raise the question of revision in its favour in accordance with the principles of the scale of contributions. A vote was then taken on the scale of contribu- tions contained in the Committee’s report and it was approved. (©)
(5) Resolution IX, Annex II (1); volume II, page 38. The CHAIRMAN recalled that Hungary had also raised the question of its quota for 1947. The decision they had reached applied to 1948 but its principle might also be applied to 1947. M. FERENCZI (Hungary) said that, since he understood that a reduction had been made in the scale for the four new Members, he would not press the question of his country’s percentage for 1947. However, he could not accept the contribution assigned to Hungary as a definitive estimate. The CHAIRMAN said that the scale had already been voted upon and approved and the delegate of Hungary had not submitted any motion to change it. Report of the Commission to the General Conference. In introducing the draft of the Commission’s Report, the RAPPORTEUR made two reservations :
(1) the numbers of annexes referred to in the text might need to be changed ; and (2) provisional state- ments had been made on the one or two questions whicn were still outstanding. Thetext of the report was thenread ; its adoption was moved by the Rapporteur and seconded by the United States. The delegates of EGYPT and FRANCE moved that no votes be taken until a definitive text had beenestablished. Since no delegates wished to present criticisms for inclusion in this definitive text, the CHAIRMAN moved the adjournment. The meeting rose at 1.10 p. m. TWENTY-THIRD MEETING “ Friday, 28 November 1947, at 11 a. m. Chairman : Dr. Howard WILSON (United States of America). Resolution on a consolidated United Nations : Unesco Budget. The CHAIRMAN said that the United Nations representative had pointed out that, although consi- deration of item 9 (b) of the agenda had included a discussion of document 2C/76, addendum 1 and the revision of this addendum, no resolution had
0) The twenty-second meeting, scheduled for Thursday,
27 November 1947 at 3 p. m., was cancelled. — 607 been passed. The United Nations representative would welcome the passing by the Commission of a resolution on a consolidated United Nations Unesco Budgetsimilar to that passed by the General Assem- bly. The following resolution to this effect was before the meeting : The General Conference :
(1) Calls upon members to take measures to ensure on the national level a co-ordinated policy oftheir delegations to Unesco, the United Nations and the different Specialized    agencies, in order that full co-operation may be achieved between the Organization and the Specialized Agencies, and in particular, to instruct their representatives in the Economic and Social Council and other organs of the United Nations, as well as in the governing bodies of the other Spe- cialized Agencies, to use every effort to ensure the common study of reports, programmes of operation, and budgets or budgetary estimates referred to in paragraph 3 of this resolution ;
2. Requests the Director-General to give constantattention to the factor of the relative priority of programme projects in consultation with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, and to consideras a matter of urgency the further steps which should be taken to develop effective co-ordina- tion of the programmes of Unesco, the United Nations and its organs and the Specialized Agencies.
3. Instructs the Director-General to present each year to the session of the Economic and Social Council preceding the opening of the regular session of the General Assembly a report on the past activities of the Organization, as well as a programme of operations for the subsequent fiscal year, in order to enable Unesco in consultation with the Economie and Social Council and other Specialized Agencies to promote the most efficient and practical use of the resources of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, by recommen- dations concerning the definition of responsibility for a specific project and concerning priorities for action. A. Instructs the Director-General to transmit the budget or budgetary estimates of Unesco for 1949 and for each year thereafter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations before 1 July of the preceding year, in oder that the Secretary- General may incorporate these budgets or budgetary estimates as information annexes in his annual budget estimates for transmittal to the General Assembly, together with such summaries as he may deem appropriate and useful;
5. Instructs the Director-General to consult with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies through the Co-ordination Committee and in consultation with the Advi- sory Committee, in order to prepare recommendations for the Third Session of the General Conference concerning : (a) measures for achieving greater uniformity in pre- sentation of the budgets of the United Nations and of the Specialized Agencies with a view to providing a basis for comparison of the several budgets; (b) the fiscal year and schedule of meetings of the Specialized Agencies in their relation to the procedures envisaged in paragraph 3 above; (с) the feasibility of improved budgetary co-ordination between the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies.
6. Instructs the Director-General, in consultation with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies through the Co-ordination Committee and, where appropriate the Advisory Committee, to promote the development of simi- lar budgetary, administrative and financial practices in the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. The CHAIRMAN explained that in paragraph 4 the date given for the presentation of the budget to the United Nations was impossible for Unesco; the Deputy Director-General bad therefore suggested replacing the words «before 1 July of the preceding year» by «the earliest possible date». The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that 1 July was an impossible date-line for Unesco, since the programme could not be approved by the Executive Board until sometime m July, and approval of the programme was a necessary preliminary to the preparation of the budget. If the date of the Conference was changed, the whole cycle of work would of course be different. No precise date for the presentation of the budget could be given until the date of the next General Conference had been settled. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) thought it important that the Conference should recommend collaboration with the United Nations on the lines suggested by the General Assembly. While accepting the Deputy Director-General’s state- ment, he wished to add to this amendment the words «previous to the next session of the General Assembly of the United Nations». He also sug- gested adding in line 5 of paragraph 3 the word «preliminary», to read : «as well as a preliminary programmeof operations... ». He moved the adop- tion of the resolution with these amendments. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL accepted- these amendments, although he pointed out that if the General Assembly met before the middle of Sep- tember, the date-line suggested in this amendment would also be impossible. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) seconded the pro- posal. The resolution, as amended, was adopted. (1) Item 11 (c) of the Agenda : Consideration of the policy of relationships with internation- al Non-Governmental Organizations (2C/C
2/10). a. Directive concerning relationships with international non-governmental and semi-governmental organizations. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) explained that the Directive was substantially the same as the recom- mendations contained in the report of the Execu- tive Board Committee on relationships with non- governmental organizations. There were, however, a few changes to which he drew attention. Section I (Plan of Relationships) was substantially the same as Section A in the Executive Board's Committee's report except that paragraph (3) provided that privi- leges such as grants-in-aid or the granting of office space would only be accorded where formal agree- ments had been concluded. It did not necessarily follow that any organization which had concluded a formal agreement with Unesco should automati- cally be granted office space. Sections II and III were unchanged. Section IV provided that the Exe- cutive Board should inform Member States of the
(1) Resolution IX, Annex VII (10); vol. II, page 57. — 608 —    organizations with which Unesco was considering entering into relationship. An addition to Section V (A) (a), enabled the Executive Board to invite repre- sentatives from organizations with which Unesco had consultative arrangementsto attend the General Con- ference as observers. Invitations would thus be sent before and not during the Conference. Sections V (B) was unchanged except for the substitution of the last paragraph for one sentencein the original report. Section V (C) sought to define formal agreements and Section VI was a new addition providing for the whole scheme to be reviewed by the General Confe- rence and adjusted if required. He movedthe adop- tion of the Directive. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) said that any organization with which Unesco had con- sultative arrangements, was entitled to send obser- vers to the General Conference and that, there- fore, the suggestion in section V (A) (a), that such invitations were subject to renewed scrutiny by the Executive Board was inadvisable and should be deleted. Referring to the second paragraph of sec- tion V (C), he suggested the deletion of the words : «Such advisory...» The experience of the Inter- national Institute of Intellectual Co-operation had shown that it was frequently desirable for some advisory committees to continue indefinitely. He cited the International Students’ Organization as an example. Any reference to a time-limit should be omitted. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) accepted the second amendment. With regard to the provision for invi- tations to be issued by the Executive Board, this had been included at the suggestion of the Secre- tariat; the Conference might be held in buildings in which it would not be possible to accommodate observers from each organization. It was intended that the Board should invite representatives of each organization as a matter of courtesy, sending a letter of apology if it were not possible to seat them all. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) thought the procedure should be clearly defined. Wherever the Conference were held, it should be possible to find enough chairs for representatives of such organizations. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) accepted the deletion in section V (A) (a), of the words « On the invitation of the Executive Board ». Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) considered that the wide definition given to the word «humanitarian» in the last paragraph of section II (d) tended to be too general. He wished to ensure that each orga- nization would be examined on its own merits and not accepted according to a general formula. He therefore suggested including after the word «Unesco», «in each case severally». Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) accepted this amend- ment although the whole document implied that each organization would be given individual consi- deration. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) suggested a diflerent form of wording to be added at the end of the paragraph «it being understood that each such organization will be considered separately ». This amendment was accepted by the delegates of POLAND and the UNITED KINGDOM. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) considered that all resolutions should be couched in general terms. In his view, section HIZ(c) covered satisfactorily section (d) which could, therefore, be deleted; it was unnecessary for Unesco to adopt resolutions passed by the Economic and Social Council, particularly when the spirit of the resolution was incorporated elsewhere in the document. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) disagreed with the deletion of section IT (d); concessions to the United Nations policy on Spain should be explicitly stated. Moreover, he was not sure that organizations meet- ing the conditions of section II (d) automatically met those under 1 0 and vice versa. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) moved the deletion of section II (d). This was not seconded. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that, in order to bring section V (C) into line with similar resolutions, it should begin with the words : «The Director-General, with the approval of the Executive Board.» This amendment was accepted. The resolution as amended was adopted. *) (b) Directive Concerning Payments to International Non-Governmental and Semi- Governmental Organiza- tions. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), introducing the document, said that the Directive was based on a previous directive. Hitherto, a clear distinction bad been drawn between contractual payments and grants-in-aid ; the first was given for services ren- dered, the second was used to stimulate international co-operation and advance the aims of Unesco. In both cases, money was leaving the organization and it was necessary for the General Conference to
(2) See page 611.   — 609 —   see for what purposes these sums were being used. Paragraph (2), therefore, provided for the total sum spent in contractual payments and in grants-in-aid to be presented to the Conference in the budget. As the various sums would be divided among the sections, a special statement showing the total pay- ments would have to be included as an annex. It was also not easy for the Director-General to state exactly what sums had been allocated to contractual payments and it was possible that the paragraph might require re-wording. The Commis- sion should also decide, in connexion with para- graph (3) (a), whether contractual payments should only be made to organizations enjoying consultative status, or whether other organizations might also be included. Paragraph (7) was new and required the Executive Board to establish criteria governing contracts and grants-in-aid. He moved the adop- tion of this document. Dr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) seconded the motion. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested reversing the order of paragraphs (2) and (3). Referring to the original paragraph (2), experience had shown that the distinction between contractual payments and grants-in-aid should be maintained and recognized in different principles of admini- stration. He accepted the conditions applying to grants-in-aid, but considered it highly desirable that the Director-General should have discretion to use the funds of the organization for contracts orser vices, when these could be perfor med effi- ciently and economically outside the Organization. He therefore proposed the following text to replace paragraph (2) : The General Conference shall, from year to year, consider the approval of a total sum from its Budget in the form of grants-in-aid to international non-governmental and semi- governmental organizations; ‘this figure to be contained in an annex to the Budget. The: Director-General will report at the end of each year as to the arrangements and payments made on a contractual basis. This text maintained the clear distinction between grants-in-aid and contractual payments, allowed greater flexibility for contractual payments and provided for an annual report to the Conference. This wording was accepted subject to the as- surance given by the Deputy Director-General that the prior approval of the Executive Board would be obtained before any contractual arrangement was concluded. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), referring to para- graph (3) (a), considered that, since the approval of the Executive Board was necessary for all contracts, the Director-General should be free to make contrac- tual arrangements with any non-governmental or semi-governmental organizations. He, therefore, moved the replacing of the words «which save in exceptional circumstances shall» by the words «whether or not they have been.» This was seconded by Prof NIELSEN (Denmark). Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) was unable to accept this amendment since it was impor- tant that such arrangements should have a solid basis, Organizations which were worthy of contracts from Unesco should be linked to the Organization's work and should have consultative status. The present wording provided for contractual payments to be made exceptionnally to other organizations and this was sufficient. The United Kingdom amendment was defeated. The resolution, as amended and with the para- graphs re-arranged as recommended by the Deputy Director-General, was adopted. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) suggested that Section II (d) of the first directive should be remo- ved from its present context and given as an appen- dix. The CHAIRMAN ruled this proposal out of order, since discussion onthe first part of the docu- ment was over, but agreed that it be noted in the records of the meeting. The delegate of FRANCE pointed out that there was no quorum. Île asked for the resolutions just adopted to be discussed at a later meeting in view of their importance and the small number of votes recorded. As a five minutes’ recess still failed to produce a quorum, the meeting adjourned. The meeting rose at 1 p. m.