language should be considered an official language. Is this in accordance with the resolution or not ? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen, we had understood that the aim of the proposal submitted by India included the Arabic language. The Arabic language is in the same position as the others. It is merely a matter of an official request to be submitted to the Director- General. Otherwise there is no objection to includ- ing this language as an official language. The meeting is adjourned until 3.30 p.m. The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m. EIGHTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 3 December 1947, at 3.30 p.m. CONTENTS
36. Discussion of Resolution Submitted bythirteen Latin American delegations, Pages concerning the Use of Spanish as a Working Language of Unesco... 204
37. Consideration of the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission. 218 President : M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium).
36. Discussion of Resolution submitted by thirteen Latin American delegations concerning the use of Spanish as a Working Language of Unesco. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We shall now proceed with the discussion of the items on our agenda. Item 2 raises a rather delicate problem, and that is the use of a third working language. We are concerned here with the language to be used, as the text says, in committees, where all documents have to be translated. Therefore this proposal not only has a practical aspect, but raises a financial problem. We already have two speakers on our list : the delegates of Mexico and Peru. I call upon the delegate of Mexico. Sr. GUAL VIDAL (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Gentlemen, you have before you a proposal formulated by various Latin-American countries in favour of the adoption of Spanish as a working lan- guage. This means that the present Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure, sub-paragraph (b), should be drafted in such a way that, besides the two working languages English and French, we add Spanish. The Mexican delegation, on behalf of the countries which have signed this proposal, does not wish to burden you with long and laboured arguments, for we are agreed that, in principle, the proposal is beyond assail. We should believe that the ideal would be a single working language, if we had not seen the simultaneous interpretation system in operation at this Conference. Through simulta- neous interpretation, which, as you have decided, will be used in future conferences not only in plenary meetings, but in the commissions and sub-com- mittees, the use of several working languages will enable all delegates to express themselves in their own tongue. I do not think that anyone would maintain that he can express himself as well in a foreign language as he does in his own. It is not necessary to convert the Conference into a veritable Tower of Babel, when available mechanical elements such as we are now utilizing enable us to understand each other better. Nevertheless we wished, in order to avoid lengthy discussion, to anticipate somewhat the arguments which we all know can be adduced against our pro- posal. Naturally there is the economic argument. n the Report by the Sub-Committee on Rules of Procedure,it is said that the adoption of Spanish as a working language would cost approximately $ 340,000 in years when the Conference met away from Paris, and about $ 250,000 when it met in Paris. We do not understand howthese high figures were arrived at. They seem to us to be exaggerated and perhaps we could be informed whence they come, — 204 —    I am positive that we have not spent $ 340,000 extra here in Mexico in order to conduct this Confe- rence in Spanish. It is a point which could be made clear. But, independently of the figure itself, it seems to us that economic or financial considerations are not sufficient to refute the arguments we present in favour of Spanish. We are not referring to argu- ments which might be based upon the virtues of our language, or upon the fact that one of the greatest works in world literature is in Spanish. Arguments of this type, I think, might be stronger than those which I myself can present. Against the financial or economic argument there is much to be said. It is true — and we were among the first to recognize and affirm it — that the Budget of the Organization is very small. It is also true that the figure of $ 8,000,000, now somewhat reduced, is insufficient. But we have also affirmed, very reasonably that, because we have very little money, we should spend it wisely, and I think that the exact understanding of each other at this Confe- rence is a matter on which parsimony might do much harm. Twelve countries at this Conference have Spanish as their official language, and I need not remind you here that all countries are equal. We are not dealing with the problem of one country having such and such a population and another country another population, Noris it a matter of one country being powerful or weak either politically or economically. It is a question of a working language for the Confe- rence, for the delegates who attend it, and for most of these the official language is Spanish. Naturally, this is no argument against any other working language, and my delegation would not wish it to be so understood. French is the language in which many of us studied at school and we wish French and English to be maintained as working languages. But we ask of all the Member States which are gathered here, that Spanish also be recognized as a working language. It is further said that, once Spanish is adopted as a working language, it would not be possible to resist pressure from other countries, who also might wish that their official languages be used as working languages. To this the Latin-American countries reply that we do not see what other country, repre- sented here, is in the same situation as the Latin- American countries. But, if there were such a country, this other language should, of course, be adopted. Continuing with the financial or economic argu- ment, one of the practical goals of Unesco is — and you, gentlemen, have very rightly said so — to try to obtain the greatest possible number of countries — 20 as Members of Unesco. We know that in Latin- America there are still eight countries who have not yet joined Unesco. Four are here as observers, the other four are absent altogether. I am of the opinion that it would be an incentive to these countries — I have heard some say so — to join Unesco, if Spanish were to become a working lan- guage. It would enormously aid exchanges of views with them. A common objection raised is the loss of time, and it always seemed to me a very strong argument, in view of the time taken up by interpre- tation. But, now that we have adopted simulta- neous interpretation, which proves how advances in science can be utilized to further the goals of peace, the argument of loss of time losesits weight, provided that the simultaneous system is used not only at plenary meetings but in Committees and Sub- Committees. Finally, I do not wish to repeat what has already been expressed when we were dealing with official languages at this morning's meeting — there is no need to refer this question for the United Nations to settle. We alone should decide it. Sr. A. TEALDO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : On behalf of the delegation of Peru I warmly support the request of the Mexican delegate. At the last plenary meeting, this assembly approved the adoption of anylanguage as an official language at the request of the Member State. It was the Indian request that Hindustani be made an official language which prompted the generous amendment by the delegation of the United States. This was a fine gesture, and it did not surprise us to find the United States in the vanguard of cultural democracy. We are now discussing, I hope briefly, the adop- tion of Spanish as a working language. This is not the occasion for invoking historical and cultural reasons, norfor citing political arguments on behalf of our present plea. We shall not refer to the
200 millions who speak the language of Cer- vantes — I mention Cervantes, not as an argument but simply to avoid repetition. Nor do I stress the consideration owed to Latin America or the fact that, if Unesco had beenin operation in the sixteenth cen- tury, when Spain was the foremost powerin the world, Spanish would have been the very first of working languages. Our reasons are stronger and more concrete. Apart from absent countries, 25 per cent of our Members here present use Spanish as their language. This means that, if we do not adopt this language as a working language,fifteen or more delegations may have to participate in the Confe- rence in the Lebanon in 1948 under clearly unequal conditions. Hindustani has now been adopted as an official language and, along with Arabic, Spanish too, whichis spoken bytwenty countries, including
5 —    Spain, should be admitted. This is only logic. We cannot say, like India, that the adoption of Spanish as a working language will cost nothing, but we might draw attention to the large number of peoples who speak Spanish, as against the large number of dollars its use would cost. There is no other valid argument against the Mexican proposal than the economic argument, as we saw this morning whenthe question of procedure raised by the United Kingdom delegation was defeated. Nevertheless, we cannot accept these economic reasons; we feel that the influence of Unesco cannot spread if Spanish does not become one of the working languages of the Organization. If the languages of Shakespeare, Mark Twain and Rabelais are spoken here, let us have the language of Cervantes spoken also, no matter what the cost. The investment will yield magnificent dividends; it will be a wonderful business enterprise — millions and millions of dollars of recognition and of justice. The delegation of Peru requests that the Mexican resolution be approved, and that an indulgent ear be lent to those who argue against purely economic considerations. M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, ladies and gent- lemen, in bringing to the motion just presented by the delegate of Mexico, the President of the Confe- rence, the warmest support of the Lebanese delega- tion, I speak on behalf of a small country, many of whose sons now belong to America. In my own opinion no consideration of a practical or financial order should prevail against the enormous impor- tance of adopting Spanish as an official and working language of Unesco. As you have just heard, we are here as one of a number of delegations from countries young and strong, with a future before them, and able to make a tremendous contribution to the work of peace here as well as at Lake Success. I believe it would be in the interests of the cause we all serve not to hesitate for one moment, but to adopt Spanish as a working language by a unanimous vote. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. President, fellow delegates, I listened with great interest and admi- ration to the speech by the delegate of Mexico. He said that no one could really oppose this motion, Certainly, I myself am in favour of the principle of the motion. The Spanish language is spoken, I understand,by nearly 200 million people in twenty countries. I do not understand Spanish myself, but from what I know of it I greatly admire the beauty and music of the language. There is no reason why it should not be used as a working language in the future. For the same reasons, I do not see why Chinese should not be used as an official language. I may add ‘that, if the Conference approves the use of Spanish as a working language, I reserve the privi- lege of asking the Conference also to approve of the use of Chinese as a working language. Whether or not we should take an outright vote on this motion, whether or not we should make a further study of the matter, and whether or not there should be various stages and steps in fulfilment of this motion, I ask for your serious consideration. I understand that the United Nations, of which weare a Specialized Agency, has had similar motions in the past few years, and, so far as Tam aware, there was an understanding this very year at the United Nations that an enquiry might be made into the ques- tion of the use of Spanish as a working language. Of course, Unesco need not be bound by the United Nations in any such decision as to the use of an official language as a working language. But, as we all know, there are administrative and other questions which should, I think, be looked into before we make a quick decision. “Therefore I move the following resolutions : Whereas the General Conference of Unesco has considered the proposal of the delegations of Latin-American countries that Spanish should be made a working language; Whereas the Conference, while appreciating the force of the arguments made on behalf of any language used by a considerable proportion of the world's people, also recognizes the administrative difficulty and financial burden involved in increasing the number of working languages in Unesco; and Whereas the problem of working languages is one which concerns the United Nations and all Specialized Agencies; The General Conference resolves :
1. To refer the proposal that Spanish be made a working language of the Unesco General Conference to the Executive Board, together with the draft revision of the Rules of Procedure and documents pertaining thereto;
2. To suggest that the Executive Board consult the Coordination Committee of the United Nations and Spe- cialized Agencies on the problem of working languages and formulate proposals to submit to the next session of the General Conference of Unesco. Before I sit down, I take this opportunity to voice my respect for the culture of Latin-American coun- tries, and especially Mexico. The Mexican people have been very kind to us, and we owe this tribute to their culture; I would like to see the study of Spanish extended and for my part I would be glad,if in the future, there could be simultaneous translations from both Spanish and Chinese. Sr. Gonzalo GUELL (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : After the proposal presented by the dele- gate of China, I do not intend to make a lyrical apology for the Spanish language. We all know that modern linguistics study all manifestations in this field, the evolution of the mind, etc., and when — 206 —    we speak here of language being an expression of culture, we can never forget, either China with its thousands of years of history, or India with its roots in eternity, or the Arabic world, or any of the nations here, represented, But the first argument which the delegate of China presented with regard to Spanish, to the effect that China, as well as many other nations, might request that ‘their own language also be considered as a working language, does not, in my opinion weigh sufficiently heavily against the object we are pursuing through the use of working languages. That is the efficient running of an international conference and, when we speak of efficiency, we have in mind not only the number of countries speaking the language in question, but, most important, the number of delegations representing those peoples and present at the international conference in question. Now what is the case with regard to Spanish ? Some day we shall have here in our deliberations Spain and eight Latin-American countries, who at present are not here with us. Not only for those nations but for all nations, Spanish will serve as a necessary working instrument. To exclude Spanish would hamper the thought and expression of these countries, for Spanish would be a working instru- ment not only for the Spanish-speaking countries, but also for the Portuguese, Italians, Roumanians, Filipinos and all countries whose tongues have their roots in Latin. The strictly cultural viewpoint does not call for a debate in this august assembly, which represents the élite among contemporary thinkers. We are all agreed that the thoughts and the emotions of men have reached the sublime when uttered by a St. Teresa or a St. John of the Cross. In Hito- grauja, Luis de Leon and Alfonso the Wise, they found the perfection of human goodness and human wisdom. For all these reasons I would urge that the Spanish language stands for certain ideals of goodness, beauty, religion, freedom and democracy, and when I speak of these twenty American nations, who are anxious to collaborate in the work of Unesco, and to lend’ their co-operation in the reconstruction of the post-war world, you will all understand me, for all of you have received the direct message of America. This great and noble Mexico is the synthesis and symbol of the great American nation with its gospel of peace and virtue. That is why, gentlemen, we ask Unesco to vote on the resolution presented by the Latin-American nations. It is true that an economic problem will arise, but we wish to raise that problem. We are convinced that it is not so serious as the Secretariat thinks. We wish this Conference to express its feeling on this matter, for, if the Conference adopts Spanish as a working language, its work will by facilitated, permitting the delegations of twenty nations to express their thoughts and to carry out effective work in the pursuit of Unesco's aims. Mr. James MARSHALL (United States) : Fellow- delegates, as we examine this question, I hope we can join together in trying to decide what will be best for Unesco. I may say for the delegation of the United States and for the National Commission in the United States, of which Mr. Eisenhower is Chairman, that the constant effort of each individual is to discover and to determine what is best for Unesco. The question we ask ourselves is never « What is best for the United States ?», but « What is best for Unesco ?». It is the judgment of the United States Government, of the National Commis- sion and of the delegation here that what is best for Unesco will, in the long run, be best for the United States, even if seemingly against short-term inte- rest. This is our attitude, and I will testify per- sonally to this Conference that, in my two years and more of responsibility for Unesco on behalf of the United States Government, I have only once, in the case of one individual, heard the issue injected into the discussions on Unesco of « What is best for the United States. ?» Now 1 am going to show you why the proposal advanced here by Minister Gual Vidal and his asso- ciates is very much in the interests of the United States. Spanish is, of course, the most important foreign language in the United States. In the State of Arizona, where T am a resident, Spanish is a legal language, and the debates in the State Legislature are conducted in Spanish as well as in English. Millions of my fellow-citizens speak Spanish. I accept the powerful argument that there are twenty nations in the world to-day, including the Philip- pines and Spain, in which Spanish is the legal language; that is more than English, French and several other languages put together. And, of course, over and above all this, from the standpoint of the United States, is the fact that the Spanish countries of Lafin America are our neighbours, and we have a’ bond ‘in common with them that we hope will grow increasingly close with the years, a bond which is certainly second to no other bond actual and potential between the peoples of the world. Thus it is in the interests of the United States to foster and promote this proposal. In fact, the argument is so powerful that, if there were to be only two working ‘languages in this Conference, Spanish, from the standpoint of the United States, should be the second working language, and not French. If we are to have only two working — 207 —    languages, every United States interest would make us favour Spanish as the second working language. I need not remind you of the speed with which Spanish is spreading in the schools of the United States. My own father, at the University of Minne- sota, was a Professor both of French and Spanish, and the overwhelming proportion of students at the University of Minnesota fifty years ago were students of French. That is not true to-day, nor is it true in other areas throughout the United States. There are 900 American students right now in this city, studying in the schools of Mexico, and there are over 2,500 scholars from Latin America studying at our colleges and universities. And this trend is growing and will continue to grow, and legislation is now about to pass our Congress that will still further accelerate it. So, before we precipitate ourselves into further discussions along these lines — and they are difficult discussions because they involve legitimate questions of pride and prestige — before we continue further, I ask this Conference to consider what are the counter-arguments, and are these counter-arguments in the interests of Unesco, and will they help us determine what is best for Unesco? First, unhappily, there is the economic argument. I cannot agree with the Peruvian delegate that it is fatal to inject economic arguments into a confe- rence of scholars, intellectuals, scientists. I think the scholars and intellectuals of the world must face up to this economic argument, if they are to carry their weight in the world in which we are living, and if they are to face up to the realities of the problems affecting such organizations as this. It is an important argument that this proposal may cost 4 per cent or 4 1/2 percent or 5 per cent of a budget which 1s already very tight and very closely knit, in which there is no margin, in which we do not have enough funds for the much needed work of building and of rebuilding in the areas which have been destroyed by the catastrophe of recent years. And when we consider a percentage of this kind for this one thing, for the benefit largely, as was suggested by previous speakers, of the better working of this Conference, I contend that we must pause and contemplate the problems of our budget in relation to the type of effort which will prove most productive. This morning the Indian delegate, in his advocacy of Hindustani as an official language, talked of the
400 million, people of his country, and I would favour proposals — and if they were intelligent proposais, zel them run into millions or tens of millions of dollars and I would still favour them — when they concern the 400 million, and the 800 million and the billions ofpsoples of th» world whom Unesco must reach.peop We must resist proposals for the few and proposals that appeal to pride and national interest, and we must support proposals that will help us to inter- pret Unesco broadly to the many. There is a second reason for which the United States delegation opposes this proposal, and it was brought out by the Chinese delegate. This pro- posal is more than a cultural proposal and it 1s more than an economic proposal. It is also a political proposal. Other of the United Nations organiza- tions are also concerned with exactly this same pro- posal. No other United Nations organization has yet adopted Spanish as a working language. It would be my guess that the representatives of the Spanish-speaking countries here in this Unesco Conference are more at home in French and in English than their compatriots who are representing their countries in many of the other United Nations organizations. It would be natural to this conference of educators, scholars and intellectuals that the Spanish countries would tend to select delegates who are familiar with one or the other of these second languages. If we here precipitate on the other United Nations organizations a decision as a fait accompli by which we accept Spanish as a working language, we shall pose for these other organizations a problem not only in regard to Spanish, but in regard to other of the world languages. And because of these implications, which are broader, really, than those of our own Conference, we of the United States delegation second the proposal of the dele- gate of China thatthis resolution be referred, through the Executive Board of Unesco, for discussion with the appropriate Committee of the United Nations. This language question is obviously of concern to these other international organizations. We do not share it alone and should not, in my judgment, make alone a decision which involves so much money and creates such a precedent. In this and other respects, this proposal differs greatly from the proposal this morning of the Indian delegate. I hope, therefore, that this Conference will join with China and the United States in the request to the Executive Board to consult the Co-ordination Com- mittee of the United Nations and Specialized Agen- cies and report back on this important subject a year hence. Dr. AGUILAR PAZ (Honduras) (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegation of the Republic of Honduras supports the motion of the delegation of Mexico that Spanish should become a working language. The Republic of Honduras, which has been a Member of Unesco since its establishment and has ratified its Constitution, has come here in good faith to express our willingness to co-operate, and — 208 —    our approval of the principles Unesco supports, prin- ciples of culture, science and education. For this reason we have to take account of the principle of growth, and the addition of a language confirms this right to group development enjoyed by all the nations here represented. The rejection by this Organization of the Mexican motion, which is supported by so many of the dele- gations here present, might be looked upon as an act of discrimination, and Unesco, which is combating discrimination throughout the world, should cer- tainly not set such an example in its own Confe- rence. Many nations have spent millions and have lost millions of lives in a war which was fundamentally fought for selfish ends. They spared nothing to achieve victory. The nations here present have initiated a cultural battle throughout the world, and have launched a great enterprise, the greatest possible entreprise of all, the spread ofculture, science and education; and that is why I believe that eco- nomic arguments should notfigure in the discussion of these questions. There is no room here for literary allocutions, for all the delegates are already enlightened and weil- informed enough to interpret the ideals of peace and co-operation and the need for their effective implementation in our pursuit of the peace we hop: to secure. I hope that by a majority of votes, if not unani- mously, they will approve the motion presented by the delegate of Mexico — signed by ail the Spanish- American countries — that Spanish may be one of the working languages. The growing child we call Unesco will later on reward you for your contribu- tion to the enrichment and the perfecting of the peoples. In the future Unesco's work will prove whether man carries within him an angel that he conquers and adopts and can attain his ideal and approach perfection, or whether he is an imperfect being destined to live for ever in a chaos of hate. M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from ths French) : 1 believe that all delegates here in this assembly fully appreciate the very delicate problem which we are dealing with here to-day. We heard a little while ago a very touching speech by M. Vidal, and the very convincing arguments which he has put forward in favour of the Spanish language- even supposing that any Frenchman needs convincing on that point. It is beyond doubt that, as a language of civilization and culture, and a language spoken by millions of people, the Spanish language occu- pies an exceptional place in the world. But the problem of Spanish as a working lan- guage is not only one ofculture, it is mainly a tech- nical question which raises, as has already been pointed out certain administrative problems very diffi- cult of solution. It seems to me extremely difficult, at the present time, at the end of our session, to reach a=solution of this problem without knowing the opinion of the United Nations and of the Spe- cialized Agencies, with which Unesco must as faras possible align and harmonize its administrative structure and technical organization. Taking into account these considerations, the French delegation, which certainly recognizes a Spanish problem and that this problem is an important one, believes that it must be studied carefully and swiftly in all its aspects — the cultural, and even more, the technical; and therefore it sup- ports the Chinese proposal. Dr. Ranulfo CASTRO (El Salvador) (Translation from the Spanish) : Education, science and culture should not be subordinated to economic questions or technical questions. On the contrary, technical, economic and administrative matters as well as other aspects brought up here by the delegates who have opposed the Mexican motion, should be vehicles through which to achieve education, science and culture for the whole world. The delegation of El Salvador enthusiastically supports the Mexican motion, and we support it not for sentimental and racial reasons, but simply because we have a statistical criterion. At present eight Member States of Unesco have Spanish as their official language. Unesco is carrying on intense propaganda for all countries of the world to become members. Among those there are, as was pointed out by my Latin American colleagues before me, twenty Latin American countries. Later on there will be Spain, and the Romance countries will find themselves hampered in their efforts if they do not have Spanish as a working language. Here in Unesco what counts is the votes of na- tions and not the size of population, and we can add to this other essential arguments which might serve as an answer to the doubt sown in our minds by the delegate of the United States. Whatis best for Unesco? Will Unesco growstrong- er when all the countries of the world which speak Spanish, that is the American countries, join Unesco? In my opinion there is no doubt funda- mental education is one of the most important ques- tions and is to be attacked directly by Unesco. Latin America, aware of the urgency of this question, will give very valuable support to this project. I must point out that the arguments ofthe delegate of the United States were all in our favour, and only a question of procedure divides us. While he, with China, wishes to refer this question to the Executive Board, we on the other hand wish that the General Conference, which is the sovereign power of Unesco = 200 —      should decide this question now. It would be worth also taking into account that the adoption of Span- ish as a working language for Unesco would mark the highest possible act of homage to Cervantes, whose fourth centenary is now being celebrated. The delegate of the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Translationfrom the Spanish) : In reality, the masterly arguments of the head of the Mexican delegation are overwhelming, and more than overwhelming, in influencing opinion in a matter so important for Unesco. The argument that almost a third of the members of Unesco speak Spanish is an incontro- vertible one, which in itself should be enough to establish the justice of accepting Spanish as a work- ing language. The technical aspect has been raised and certainly claims our attention, but the principal purpose of technique is efficiency. We seek the diffusion and exchange of cultural ideas and the Spanish-speaking Members of Unesco have in all ages made important contributions to culture, civili- zation and progress. The arguments presented by the delegate of Mexico are sufficient, and I have absolute faith that those arguments will appeal to the conscience of all representatives of Unesco. This is a matter of conscience and justice. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the Director-General. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: I wish to refer large- ly to the financial questions which have been raised, but also to questions of general principle. May I say first of all that I feel very strongly that what the delegate of the United States has said should be over-riding, namely, that the first principle is to seek that which is best for Unesco as an orga- nization. My understanding has always been that what Unesco is aiming at is the one world, to use Mr. Wendell Wilkie’s phrase, of the future, in which diverse cultures of the world shall be united in harmony instead of in rivalry. It would seem to me, therefore, that our basic aim should be to reduce the number of working languages to the minimum, which is one. That is what we are attempting to do in our work in funda- mental education. Where we are working in a country with large numbers of existing languages, we seek to provide education in an auxiliary lan- guage, which will be common to all the inhabitants of that region. I may be wrong, but that has always been my view as to what should be aimed at, although it is not practicable at the moment, in an interna- tional organization which is seeking for a unification of world cultures. Then there is a second principle, which has been rightly stressed, in my opinion, by many delegates from Spanish-speaking countries, namely, the prin- — 210 —    ciple of securing greater efficiency at meetings and especially at the meetings of the General Conference. So long as there are a large number of delegates speaking a particular language,it is clear that great- er efficiency will be secured by the use of that language as one of the working languages of the Conference. There is also, however, the other prob- lem of efficiency in spreading the aims of Unesco and the results of its deliberations, and there the size, of population, and not merely the number of separate nations and delegations involved, should play a part. I would remind you that in the United Nations, where the geopraphical distribution of nations speaking different languagesis approximately though not entirely the same as in Unesco, they have arrived at a formula rather different from what we have now or what is proposed by the Mexican delegation. They have five languages, into which simultaneous interpretation is effected at the Conference and certain documents are translated throughout the year. As I say, it would seem to me that, if we are seeking a compromise between our ultimate aim of reducing our auxiliary world language to one, whether English or French or Spanish or Hindus- tani or anything else, and our desire for efficiency, especially at the Conference, we should seek to keep the number down to the present number of two only and,if the question of the number of dele- gations at the Conference were to have any great weight, then it might be desirable to consider the substitution of Spanish for French as one of the two working languages. However, that is merely my personal view, and I do not wish it to weigh with the Conference. I do not think — and here I feel rather strongly — that any question as to the cultural value, the nobility or anything else of a literature in a particular lan- guage should weigh with us in deciding this matter. We are not discussing the cultural value of any language or any culture as against any other culture. We are discussing what is the best and most efficient method whereby Unesco may carry on its work. I would like to give you a few facts about the cost involved. These figures are naturally approximate but, as a biological scientist, I always prefer to think in terms of round figures, approximations, orders of magnitude, rather than figures worked out to the last cent. The cost of what we have done at this Conference in providing Spanish as a third working language, both in interpretation and in documents, is approxi- mately $ 50,000. That low cost has been made possible because we have recruited almost all those    concerned with the Spanish language here in Mexi- co. If we are to undertake a similar task next year at Beirut, it would involve the transport of a large number of translators from Latin America, and the cost would be approximately doubled. It would be about $ 100,000. If we were to do what the Mexican resolution asks, namely, make Spanish a working language throughout the year, the cost would be approximately a quarter of a million dollars. However, there is one relevant point to which I would like to draw your attention. The cost of providing for what I personally regard as the greatest contribution to efficiency at the Conference — namely, simultaneous translation in the major meetings of the Conference — the additional cost of providing Spanish as a simultaneously interpreted language at the Conference under the conditions which have prevailed here, with the host country providing the equipment, has been only $ 4,000. The cost of the technical equipment has been a little over $ 2,000. The cost of providing simul- taneous translation in more than one room would, of course, be greater, partly because of the technical equipment and to a lesser degree because of the number of people involved. But you can take it thatthe cost of providing simultaneous translation plus equipment in one extra language for the Con- ference would be not more than $ 10,000. Now that is an order of magnitude which I personally feel would, as expenditure, make a very valuable return in the efficiency and goodwill of any Conference we held. I would like to say two things here : firstly, I personally feel that, if Spanish is admitted as a third working language, either throughout the year or for the Conference or only for simultaneous interpretation during the Conference, it would be extremely difficult, to say the least, to resist the claims of the Chinese language to be put on the same footing. And,if the Soviet Union were to become a member of Unesco, it would be equally difficult to resist the claims of Russian to be put on the same footing with Chinese and Spanish. But there again, I would feel that the cost of providing simultaneous translation into these five languages, as is already done at the United Nations, would be money well spent. Finally, with regard to the principal motion before you, I would remind you that there is a Co-ordi- nating Committee of the United Nations and its Spe- cialized Agencies, which has been specially convened to get the utmost possible co-ordination between the different Specialized Agencies and the United Na- tions Organization. TI attended the first meeting and Dr. Laves attended the second, and I think we are really pledged to secure the greatest amount of co-ordination. I would therefore strongly plead that, even if we take a decision in principle here, we should make it subject to consultation through the Co-ordinating Committee with the other Spe- cialized Agencies and with the United Nations Orga- nization itself. I have a note here from Dr. Laves to say that, as I think I made clear, the figure I quoted of a quarter of a million dollars as the cost of the Mexican resolu- tion, if introduced, would not include the cost of publication and printing, but only the ordinary roneoed documents. Spanish printing would be ap- proximately another $ 125,000. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans- lation from the French) : Mr. President, fellow-dele- gates, if we were dealing here only with the pres- tige of the Spanish language and paying tribute to the culture of the Latin American and Ibero Ameri- can people, Brazil would raise its voice most warmly and emphatically in support of the Mexican motion and in favour of the further dissemination of the Spanish language with the great treasures which it has to offer. If we were only making here a friendly gesture to the Ibero-American and Latin American Republics, to our sister Republics in South America, the Brazi- lian delegation would strongly supportthis proposal and, in concert with the twenty Republics, back them in the task which we are all here to fulfil. If I had only to let my heart speak freely, I would ask you to accept without reservation the motion which the Mexican delegation, on behalf of several of the Spanish American delegations, has to-day submitted. But Brazil, since the inauguration of Unesco, has taken up a very definite stand that pre- vents the present delegation from agreeing to any further increase in the number of working lan- guages. Weaccepted the principle that we should reduce the number of working languages to the number we now have, when, after the numerous conferences in London, we selected French and English as the working languages. Nobody wanted to secure special prominence for French or English over other langua- ges. We did not intend that either the Anglo-Saxon or French cultures should have any predominance over the Hindu, Chinese or Spanish cultures. All we were trying to do in selecting these two languages was to secure harmonyand closer union among countries all over the world. International practice often de- mands certain sacrifices from us and we all have to make certain efforts. I do not in any way under- rate the effort we are now requiring from all the twenty republics of South America. We are convinced that these republics feel, as we do, that Unesco is — 2—
14.      not a field of linguistic competition,a field of contest, wither national or political. Unesco is designed to unify the action and thought of all peoples. We do not believe that all those twenty Spanish-speaking republics will insist that their own language become a working language before they draw nearer to us, and aspire to those noble ideasof freedom which are embodied by Unesco and its efforts. We are certain that, in our coming efforts, those twenty republics will be ready and willing to co-operate so that the goal of peace and the raising of the standards of culture and edu- cation may be attained within the framework of Unesco. I do not think we need fear the reactions of cer- tain countries on grounds of prestige or vanity to the limitation of the number of working languages. I believe that for the present we should refer this question for study to the Co-ordinating Committee and, conditionally to this, the Brazilian delega- tion is not at present in a position to vote for the motion that the delegations of the Spanish American Republics have presented. We shall simply vote for the motion which was presented by the delega- tion of China, and we feel convinced that this gesture will in no way suggest to the delegations which submitted the proposal that Spanish should be a working language, that there is any divergence from that unconditional solidarity of heart and spirit which links us with them all. Prof. A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates : In the field of the mind and the heart, which are the true spheres of Unesco, the delegation of Greece cannot in any way ignore the intellectual relation- ship which links our civilization to the Spanish- speaking countries. This Mediterranean culture, dear to usall, cannot overlook the language of Ibe- rian culture in matters of intellectual co-operation. We have forgotten, I believe, that the question before usis that of full comprehension, which should prevail over all other considerations in our delibe- rations, and I believe that we should not hesitate to increase certain expenditure or to spend certain sums on behalf of that full comprehension which can only be advanced by the adoption of Spanish. We shall vote therefore for the Mexican proposal, for it seems to us that this proposal is one which is in full conformity with the ancient traditions which Greece holds dear. Sr. CORDERO AMADOR (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 should tike to begin by stating that the solution which Dr. Huxley has suggested to us is not one which is altogether acceptable to the Spanish-speaking countries. To Dr. Huxley and to many delegates tlie economic question is of primary importance. But what does money matter if it means that Unesco is to open up a whole new world to its ideals? What does it matter, this question of money,if, with the adoption of Spanish, Unesco will progress towards the attainment of peace? Some- times we have regretted mot having spent money beforehand. Many lives and much money would have been saved, and Europe would not be devastated as it is to-day, if the democratic countries, which performed such feats of valour against the Fascist states, had not hesitated earlier to spend money. This means that we should not attach too much importance to the economic expenditure involved. Dr. Huxley's reference to Wendell Wilkie was apt; chaos will reign if Unesco does not make it possible for all the countries which have weight in spiritual and cultural matters to make their ideas known in their own language. Unesco’s function is to propa- gate ideas in the greatest possible number of langua- ges ; as far as Spanish is concerned, thereis a question of justice also, because Spanish gave to Europe new orientations, new understanding and a new way of life. In the dark days Latin America did not shirk from contributing its blood and its treasure to the peace of the world. We beg, therefore, that a language which has always been so important should become a working language. If, as the Mexican delegation so justly requests, we were to substitute Spanish for French, we could also substitute French for English and then we should find ourselves with only one language. In the Latin American continent there are very many people who understand only Spanish. In Europe the multiplicity of frontiers and the inter- mingling of peoples make the learning of languages easier, but for us it is quite another question; and so it is not only for the convenience of delegates to Unesco but also that propaganda can go to the heart of America, that Unesco should adopt Spanish as a working language. Gentlemen, I believe that, if you vote in favour of the Mexican motion, you will have contributed to the peaceof this continent, to a better understanding in the American continent of what Unesco aims at, and will especially have helped America to cherish democratic ideals. America has known how to make sacrifices and it is willing to do so, not for any sentimental reasons but on grounds of justice. America turns its eyes to Europe and learns from the experience of Europe, but America makes its contribution in the value of a language which the great and glorious Conquista- dors brought here and which to-day is one of the greatest vehicles of culture. Spanish is a language of cultureand a language oí science, and, if Unesco <tands for the spread of — 212 —    education, culture and science, in justice it should adopt Spanish as a working language. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : The United Kingdom representative has made several very unpopular and unsuccessful speeches in the course of this Conference, and I think we all of us feel that it is time we came to a vote. The only reason why I rise to speak now is that I believe that we of the United Kingdom, who are bound to vote in favour of the Chinese amendment, do not wish to do so without having a word of explanation. Weheard earlier what struck me as a very gallant, speech from the representative of the United States in which, in effect, he said that, although the United States had a great interest in voting in favour of Spanish as a working language, nevertheless he thought that the interest of Unesco must be pre- ferred to that interest, and that therefore he would vote for the Chinese amendment. Now, the United Kingdomis not in that position. I stand before you, Mr. President, in all shame as one who has spent a delightful four weeks in this country, quite unable to speak a word of Spanish which anybody who understood Spanish could understand, but who was constantly received with generosity by those who had taken the trouble to learn either my language or French. Therefore the United Kingdom 1s in a position in which it would very much like not to prefer its own interests, which are to have English and French, but to make a gesture to those of our colleagues here who are Spanish-speaking; but, nevertheless, Mr. President, I do think we must try to see the question which is before us this afternoon as not the same question which was before us this morning, involving cultural considerations, but as a business efficiency question. I do not suppose that any of those who have spoken so eloquently in favour of Spanish this afternoon will be moved for one moment by anything I say from voting against the Chinese amendment; but I do ask them to believe me, as a representative of the United Kingdom and think as a representative also of all those who feel bound to vote for the Chinese amendment, that, in so doing, we do appreciate the position of our Spanish-speaking friends. We greatly regret that we are not in a position to suggest that English should be struck out as a working lan- guage, and Spanish and French remain, and we appreciate the delicacy of the position of a person like myself, who cannot speak Spanish, in the presence of so many Spanish-speakers who have taken the trouble to understand English. In voting, therefore, as I am bound to do, for the Chinese amendment, I would ask all those who vote against us to appreciate the spirit in which we vote and the fact that, underlying our disagreement on this matter, there is a fundamental agreement about all that has been said of Spanish culture and Spanish civilization. Sr. GUAL VIDAL (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : We are grateful to all the non-Spanish- speaking countries for the cordial sentiments expres- sed by delegates who have declared that they will vote against Spanish as a working language. We are grateful to them for these kind expressions, but I must also tell them that we are not requesting a vote of international courtesy. I should tell those gentlemen who have spoken in the sense that we should not let an idea of extreme nationalism with regard to the aims of Unesco predominate, that our only purpose is to serve Unesco’s interests here and that, in requesting that Spanish be a working language, we have done so working towards the goals of Unesco and only for working efficiency. I recog- nize that it is unfortunate for us that Spanish has been suggested when we have already English and French — that is, if $ 250,000 are going to be spent because of the Spanish language. I would ask you, gentlemen, whether, at this moment, if we were discussing here which should be the working languages, your opinion would not be contrary. To be just, Unesco cannot adopt an atti- tude such as we have seen here in this Conference, namely, that what has previously been decided is a good decision and therefore cannot be improved. Of course, the Spanish language has been suggested in the third place; but if you want us to tackle this matter from a strictly Unesco point of view and a strictly technical point of view, we are willing to do so. We are here twelve Spanish-speaking countries, and these twelve Spanish-speaking countries who are already members of Unesco are requesting those whom they consider as equals that the language which they speak be adopted. That is, we do not wish that the burden of speaking in a language other than our own be imposed upon us. That is why we insist upon our proposal, because it is a strictly technical proposal for the Conference. You have heard this same thought expressed by other delegates much more adequately than I can express it. It is not a question of millions of men in other countries. Two hundred million men are not going to come from another country and attend a meeting of Unesco — that is why the statutes say that only five delegates can come, and these five delegates of each of the Member States are the ones who must come to an understanding here in this Conference — whetherit is here in Mexico, Paris, or Beirut — they are the ones who count. Therefore it is not strictly national interests that apply here, and we do not wish to become in- volved with political interests. That is why we do not
14 4 — — = и я    E E E E E E E E E _ — — — e     wish to go to the United Nations with ‘this matter. Webelieve in Unesco, and you have seen how people of Latin America support the aims of Unesco; but we believe in a autonomous Unesco, an independent Unesco, a Unesco which will not be bound by poli- tical ideals. I would remind you, gentlemen, that even in the United Nations, we do not find all the countries here represented in Unesco ; consequently, these decisions should be our own decisions; we are here simply speaking the language of science and culture, and we do not want the language of politics to be spoken here. That is why our proposal is not political but non-political ; and why we defend it. That is why it is a strictly technical proposal. Thatis why our proposal correspondsto the ideals of Unesco and is the only way in which we can presentit. Sr. Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, I shall not embark upon a eulogy of Spanish literature, nor of the enor- mous contribution which the Hispanic world and Spanish thought have made to culture and mankind. These considerations have been expressed much more forcefully by my colleagues of Latin America. I shall simply try to refute some of the arguments which have been advanced here against the proposal from the LatinAmerican countries; but before that I wish to render my tribute of gratitude and admi- ration to the honourable delegate of Greece, who is a faithful interpreter of the source of modern occidental culture. The delegate of China, upon making his proposal, stated that, if we adopt the Spanish lan- guage, he would request that China’s be adopted also, and his powerful argument rested upon the millions of inhabitants of his country. With all due respect to Chinese culture, we consi- der that proposal unwise from a technical point of view, because there is only one delegation in this Conference speaking Chinese, while there are twelve which speak Spanish, so that the proposal of China, which the United States and the United Kingdom support so readily and happily, is not a proper one. The proper one is ours, which is sound technical- ly. I wish to refer now to some of the arguments used by the delegate of the United States. He said that we should consider what is best for Unesco. He very eloquently pointed out the convenience of adopting Spanish. He even said that, if we were to have only two working languages, Spanish should have priority over French. We were hoping therefore that he would make a concrete proposal acceptable to us. That is, that he would have the courage of his own convictions — but he twisted his argument, so to speak, into eco- nomic language, and calculated the cost to be 4 or 5 per cent of the present Budget. Since in this Conference on culture, cultural aspects are being laid aside to embark upon economic aspects, we find ourselves obliged to deal in the same kind and if we adopted Spanish as a working language, there would be almost the certainty and at least a probability that the other eight republics which speak Spanish would join Unesco, and the member- ship of those republics would signify, besides their cultural co-operation, economic co-operation. That would naturally increase the revenue of Unesco. Another argument employed by the United States delegation has been that none of the other organiza- tions which depend upon the United Nations has yet approved the adoption of Spanish as a working language. This argument does not seem fo me a weighty one, because, of the several organizations which depend upon the United Nations, one must take the initiative, and the fact that others have not taken the initiative doest not mean that we should refuse it. The delegate of the United States also hoped that the Latin American republics would select delegates speaking languages other than their own. This is a very important point, because it means that the men of the highest culture in Spanish speaking coun- tries would be forced to learn English or French. In my country, and I may sayit is true in many other Latin American countries, there are great intellectuals who do not speak English or French, but who know their own language very well indeed ; and these intel- lectuals,if they were to come to a Conference where they did not know Spanish, would find themselves at a disadvantage. The United Kingdom delegate has just admitted that he does not speak Spanish, We have therefore a very clear example of the convenience of Spanish also being a working language — in order to place the delegates of the Spanish-speaking countries on an equal footing with those who speak French or English. With regard to the suggestion to referthis proposal for study by the Co-ordinating Committee of the United Nations, and with regard to what has been said in the course of the debate, that we should first submit our decision for the approval of the United Nations, I do not agree at all, because, as was pointed out at this morning's meeting, there is nothing in Unesco’s Constitution which obliges us to submit this to the United Nations. On the other hand, there is the question of prin- ciple, the principle of self-respect, the principle of love of freedom. My delegation has addressed a letter to the Director-General, requesting the amend- ment of paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article II, which pro- vide that, when the United Nations suspend mem- bership of a nation, that nation will automatically — 214 —      be suspended from Unesco, and that when a nation is expelled from the United Nations, that nation will be expelled from Unesco. This Article, whose amend- ment we request, and I beg your pardon for men- tioning it here, is offensive and is, one might say, a veto on the universality of culture. This Organi- zation it not a political organization and consequently it should not deprive any countryofits benefits, nor should the Organization be deprived of the cultural co-operation of a country, which for political reasons is expelled from the United Nations. For this reason, I do not understand in the present case, when there is nothing in the Constitution to prevent our taking this type of resolution independently of the United Nations — I repeat, I do not understand why mem- bers of this assembly, who will always be members of the Assembly of Unesco, and who are accustomed to intellectual work — scientists, philosophers, humanists, in other words, people accustomed to thinking — should become the tools of a political organization. I would now like to consider some of the reasons advanced by the Director-General. He has quoted figures which, as a matter of fact, are somewhat different from the $ 340,000 which the document spoke of. Before analyzing these figures, I wish to refer to two other statements of the Director- General, in which he says that we should not only consider the number of delegations, but the size of populations. Even though I spoke before on this matter, I believe we should insist upon this, because, as the delegate of Mexico said, the popula- tions will not come here to deliberate. It is the delegates who come here, and if Latin America at present has twelve nations here, we can say that is a third of the Conference. We are being placed at a terrible disadvantage. No less than a third of the nations are at a disadvantage without Spanish as a working language. With regard to the figures, the Director-General is more competent than any of us to know about these figures, but when we go to Beirut, if Spanish is approved as a working language, the sum would be only $ 100,000, which is different from $ 340,000, of which we spoke this morning. I end by appealing to delegates present to consi- der with sympathy the desire of a young, new con- tinent, and to apply the famous words of Canning about calling in the New World to restore the balance of the Old. The Latin American continent wishes to co-operate with Unesco and I hope that members of the other delegations will regard with sympathy this desire of ours, and not try to dissuade us from our desire, so that we have to leave this Organization. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : May I make two small corrections ? I said it would be necessary to take population into account only if we were considering, not the work of the Conference, where I entirely agree we would have to take the delega- tions into account, but when we were considering the publishing of our documents in the extra lan- guage. Consequently, the figure of $ 100,000 referred not to the approximate cost of carrying out the resolution of the delegation of Mexico, but to the cost of doing at Beirut what we have done here, namely, employing simultaneous translation and interpreters and publishing documents in Spanish as well as English and French. It did not refer to the publication of documents in Spanish throughout the year. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : It is difficult for meto speak against the use of Spanish as a working language, because at the moment I am studying hard to make it my working language. After most of the opponents to Spanish will have left Mexico to-morrow morning, I am looking forward with great eagerness to staying here for many years. Nevertheless, I feel we must vote for the Chinese amendment for the following reason. I think the adding of a third full working language should be decided by the parent organization, the United Nations, or at least after discussion in the Go-ordi- nating Committee. If the question before us were whether we would follow the United Nations prac- tice of introducing Spanish into simultaneous interpretation, I would feel differently, because that, on the one hand, would avoid the expense of some $ 375,000 involved — if I have the figures right — and on the other hand it would permit the full use of Spanish in our discussions. We all recognize the immense benefit that would bring us. I hope that we will have an opportunity of considering that possibility later. Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) : Mr. President, those of us who have not spoken have listened with very great interest to this debate, and by now we have heard enough, I think, to make up our minds on this very difficult question. I am very conscious, and I am sure everyone here feels the same, of the tremendous amount of work we have to do, and I do ask if you would now receive a motion that the vote be taken. Dr. P. LAVIN (Cuba) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : The delegation of Cuba does not rise to make a speech, for we believe that many splendid speeches have been heard in defence of the argumentof the delegate of Mexico. We want to make it clear for the record that we support most warmly the Mexican proposal, so brilliantly expounded by the delegates of other Latin American countries. We realize — 215 —   the need, — not only in the cultural order, which we are not discussing here, but in the practical order also, in the development of the work of this Conference, as the Chairman of the Mexican delega- tion so eloquently pointed out, — for recognition of the Spanish language. We have at this Con- ference an ever-growing number of Spanish-speak- ing countries represented. From this point of view the delegation of Cuba, without invoking at this moment the great merits of Spanish in the cultural field and in the field of progress, declares that it warmly supports the Mexican proposal. Prof. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark) : Since the closure of the debate has been demanded, I shall be very brief. I think it would be advisable, how- ever, for the voice to be heard of a country the lan- guage of which is neither English, nor French, nor Spanish. I am very grateful to the Mexican delegation for telling us that they are not asking for a vote of courtesy. This gives us freedom to take a decision without seeming to be ungrateful to this magni- ficent country, which has received us here so warmly. There is one other short point I wish to make. The speech of our colleague from Ecuador, I think, to some extent distorted an argument put forward by the delegate of the United States. It is, of course, not for me to defend that argument, but I think the point Mr. Marshall made was that the choice between Spanish and French would be perhaps in favour of Spanish as far as his own coun- try was concerned. It was not a question of the role of the languages in Unesco. Several delegations from Spanish-speaking coun- tries here claim the use of their language as a natu- ral right. I think one might say that for each separate country of Spanish America the situation is exactly the same as for the delegates of countries like my own, who have to speak here a language which is not theirs. There can be, in that con- nexion, I think, no question of a natural right to some language or another. I feel very strongly myself the difficulty of having to use a language that is not my own, but I am in the same situation as many of our colleagues here in this Conference. And I think we might say that we have joined Unesco whole-heartedly, without regard to that difficulty, and we can appreciate the fact that eight Latin American countries have done the same. The only argument put forward in this discussion which I admit freely I do not like was the argument that we should use the introduction ofthe Spanish language as an inducement to other Latin American countries to join us. Of course, if we could agree to use one language, as the Director-General said, that would be the most efficient method. I think myself that it might be possible, having regard to the present situation. I now speak of the case where we have only two working languages and of the possibility that the delegates sent to Unesco might be able to understand both languages and to make them- selves understood in one of them. That would save us much time in the small working parties and other bodies of that sort, where we have to have consecu- tive interpretations. But I have never ventured to put forward such a proposal; I only refer to it be- cause I want to make these discussions at our Confe- rence as effective as possible. I think that, even if we have two working languages, it should be possible for Member States to choose their delegates with due regard to the representation of all branches of culture, science and education, in such a way that they should be able not only to do their work in the various fields of Unesco, but at the same time know at least one of the present working languages. For that reason, I think, on behalf of my own delegation, I shall support the Chinese amendment. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen, there is one last speaker in- scribed on our list, and that is the delegate of Bolivia. I would be most grateful if he would be kind enough to take into account the late hour. Sr. BILBAO LA VIEJA (Bolivia) (Translation from the Spanish) : T only wish to make a brief remark on the negative nature of a truly inconsistent argument which appears in this Chinese amendment. It has reference to taking the discussion of the question to the Co-ordinating Committee of the United Nations. Evidently, if we had taken up a similar attitude from the beginning of our deliberations, we should have achieved very little. Our work has lasted for four weeks. Debates, deliberations, dis- cussions, resolutions, and so on would have had to be submitted to the United Nations. I find nothing in either the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure which calls upon us to adopt such an attitude. This is a fundamental question; it is a question of uniting peoples in the ideals of Unesco. Apart from the purely technical standpoint, it is a matter which affects the very purposes and principles of Unesco. Finally, the arguments that have been advanced with regard to the cost involved in making Spanish a working language do not impress me at all. I won- der what would happen if I were to propose that we reduce the working languages to one only, and then take the advice of Mr. Benton and in turn advise the British, American, Canadian and other delegates that their countries should send only delegates who know French perfectly, or reciprocally recommend — 216 —      to the French that they should only send to these meetings delegates who know English perfectly. I thnk, therefore, that these arguments are incon- sistent and we could in no way approve the Chinese proposal. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I think the time has now come to pass to a vote. The position of all the delegations has been made clear. We have many further items on our agenda, and I am afraid that we shall not be able to conclude our work in time if we continue in this way. The question now is whether we are to vote first upon the proposal referring to the Spanish language or on the amendment proposed bythe Chinese dele- gation, which may be considered as having priority. My opinion is that the amendment should come first. Later, perhaps, the various points of view may be harmonized. Therefore shall we first pass to the vote upon the proposal submitted by the Chinese delegation, which is more or less in the way of a preamble. The Director-General wishes to address you. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : If the original mo- tion should be carried, I would remind you that this means either voting an increase in the budget or a cut in the programme. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now ask the assembly to vote first on the amendment submitted by the delegation of China. Those in favourof that amend- ment will please raise their hands. Sr. GUAL VIDAL (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 request a roll-call. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : A roll-call will be taken as you request. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted infavour : Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, France, Haiti, India, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay. Voted against : Bolivia, Colombia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Greece, Lebanon, Mexico, Peru, Turkey, Venezuela. Absent : Liberia, Luxemburg, Saudi, Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of China has been adopted by 20 votes to 12. ) @ Resolution X. 7; vol. IT, page 64. We now pass to another item on the agenda — Item 4 — Consideration of the report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. But, first, the delegate of Uruguay wishes to explain his vote. Dr. Julian NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : 1 accepted the Chinese proposal as a compromise. In the sixth plenary meeting of this Conference, 1 stated the viewpoint of my country with regard to the working languages of Unesco... The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I must point out to the delegate of Uruguay thatit is not parliamentary usage to explain a vote after it has been taken, except in the case of an abstention. It is clearly understood that, in conformity with all parliamentary usage, your declaration will be noted in the minutes. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 accept the president's correction, as the purpose of this explanation of my vote was precisely that it should appear in the Conference records. The text of the delegate of Uruguay's Statement follows: I will nowgive the grounds for my vote, which as yet I see no reason to change. At the Sixth Plenary Meeting I gave the point of view of the Uruguayan delegation regarding Unesco’s working languages, a question which is not as easy as it looks. I must now stress the same view. I know that my remarks are not always anodyne, but I also know that,as the Italians put it, «Л tempo é galantuomon. My country has sought nothing for itself, and has directed the whole of its efforts to maintaining without partiality the common interests of all. This is the first time I have mentioned my country, though I could several times have quoted its progress in social, educational and cultural matters Let that suffice. The natural wish to see Spanish included among the working languages remains subordinate to fac- tors which cannot be overlooked. In an institution like Unesco, the common interests must always pre- vail over those of a particular party. I have heard a number of remarks on the same lines. The first thing to be recalled is the danger of creating a precedent for the use of other working languages on grounds of prestige; and I emphasize that factor of prestige. The second point to be remembered is that, according to our Rules of Procedure, the language of the country where the General Confrence is held must be used. Think what would happen, say in Warsaw, or in Rome, where it would be necessary to provide for interpretation, translation and printing in four languages : Spanish, French, English and, in addition, Polish or Italian. — 217 —    Thirdly, what I have just said brings us to the question of the enormous amount of time lost and the very great increase in permanent expenditure on salaries and equipment, which, according to the Secretariat's calculations, would amountto a further $ 360,000 per annum for a single additional lan- guage; it seems often to be overlooked that the use of working languages is not limited to General Conferences. In the Constitution of Unesco it is laid down that its French and English versions are equally authori- tative. Logically that means that those two langua- ges are equally permanent and obligatory; per- sonally I regret the practical impossibility of the adop- tion by the General Conference of a single language, whose exclusive use would be decided by a vote of three-quarters or five-sixths of all Member States. Leaving aside the question of prestige, which is already adequately dealt with by the recognition of Spanish as an official language of Unesco, the pro- visional solution of the whole question lies in the right to speak at General Conferences in any desired language, provided, as laid down in Article 32 of our Rules, the speaker himself arranges for interpre- tation into one of the two working languages. This procedure allows the ideas of an outstanding man or of any given State to reach everyone, although such a man or representative of a particular State speaks neither working language. To this I would add the provision I suggested in the Sixth Plenary Meet- ing, that Spanish-speaking countries should con- tinue to receive in their own language, basic docu- mentation and all necessary material for informative and educational publicity regarding Unesco. This compromise represents a victory, although not yet a total victory, for the legitimate aspirations con- tained in the proposal submitted by almost all the Latin American delegations. I will ask the President to have the whole of this statement included in the proceedings of the Confe- rence.
37. Consideration of the Report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now pass to Item 4 — Reportof the Budget and Programme Commission. First, however, we have received a letter from the Polish delegation, in Spanish, and I will ask the Secretary to read it. The SECRETARY (Translation from the Spanish) : In a letter dated 2 November 1947; the Head of the Polish delegation writes : Mr. President: Throughout the lifetime of Unesco we have seen two different viewpoints set forth in our organization with regard to its main activities. The nations which accepted the greatest sacrifices in the war against Fascim, the countries most brutally devasted, wish to see in Unesco an organization for international aid for cultural reconstruction. The repre- sentatives of the United States of America have adopted a contrary course. Under pressure from countries which did not suffer invasion, and primarily under the pressure of the United States, there have been excluded from the programme of Unesco all projects which would enable Unesco to help more effectively in the cultural reconstruction of countries devasted by war. The lack of understanding of the needs of these countries found expression in the liquidation of UNRRA, and in the refusal to consider international aid for devasted conntries other than as a philantropic act. Again, it was seen in the desire of the United States to hold a monopoly of such aid. A certain sum was proposed by the Secretariat for the purpose of immediate cultural reconstruction. The draft budget submitted to the General Assembly reduced that sum to $ 175,000 (document 2C/C1/SC2). The Polish delegation, as the representative of a country which suffered most from the late war, expressedits disappoint- ment at the facts mentioned above and declared that it would abstain from voting the Budget of Unesco for 1948. I have the honourto request you, Sir, to communicate the contents of this letter to the General Conference, and take this occasion to assure Your Excellency of my highest esteem. Theletter is signed by M. Wierblowsky, Ambassa- dor of Poland and Head of the Polish delegation to the Second Conference of Unesco. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of América) : I should like to say a word, not as a delegate to this Conference, nor as an official representative of the United States, butas a private citizen who has the privilege of representing the educational, scientific and cultural forces of my country. Thousands of private citizens in the United States have, in the fullness of their hearts, contributed more than $ 100,000,000 for educational reconstruction in war-devastated areas. So deep are their convic- tions, so sincere is their desire to do all they can for less fortunate peoples, that even ill-considered statements at this Conference will not cause them to diminish their efforts. It has been understood from the first, from the meeting in London and the writing of the Charter, that Unesco would not be a relief agency, but would provide information and guidance to make private efforts in this field more fruitful. If Unesco were to undertake direct relief activities, those must certainly detract from the present incen- tives to private effort. The end result could be, and — 218 —    in my judgment would be, greatly diminished total aid in this whole field. Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I cannot believe that the efforts of the American people in educational rehabilitation require defence on my part. Their actions in the future, as in the past, will speak for themselves. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Personally I am of opinion that this is a simple com- munication on the part of the delegation of Poland and should not be debated in this assembly. How- ever, I am an indulgent Chairman andall I can dois to ask the delegate of Norway to be as brief as possible in his comments on this point. Dr Alf. SOMMERFELT (Norway) : I can only corroborate what the American delegate says. As one who has taken part in Unesco’s work since the beginning, I know that the matter ofaid to devastated countries was very much discussed in London. The result was as indicated by the American delegate. Not that the delegates in London were not convinced that certain countries had suffered much more than others and that great help would have to be given to them, but it was their conviction that it would not be possible for Unesco to have such a big budget as to make it possible to aid, in any efficient way, the devastated countries, and if we were to do only fragmentary work, we might do more harm than good. We might prevent the private help which has been so generously furnished from America. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We shall now proceed with the study of the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission. I cali upon the Rapporteur of that Commission, the dele- gate of France. At the sametime I invite Mr. Beeby, delegate of New Zealand and Chairman of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, to take a seat upon the platform. M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in submitting the draft Programmeof Unesco for 1948, I have the honour to impart to you certain personal observations made in my capacity as Rapporteur and Chairman of the Drafting Committee, on the working methods employed this year in the Programme and Budget Commission. These observations are also the outcome of numerous contacts I have had during the last weeks with delegations, which have commu- nicated to me their impressions and in certain cases their criticisms. My observations, corroborated by most delegates with whom I have discussed this matter, refer, in the main, to the excessive number of meetings held simultaneously, to the excessive outflow of docu- ments, the defective organization of the Working Parties, and the of lack correlation between the Exé- cutive Board and the Programme and Budget Com- mission. I wish to point out here that the remarks I shall make in this survey are not addressed to the Director-General or to his staff, who, both in Paris and here, have made a tremendous effort for the organization of this Conference, in order that it should take place under the best possible conditions, an effort to which I wish to render tribute, both as Rapporteur and as delegate of France. The number of simultaneous meeting calls for little comment. A cursory examination of the Journal of the Conference, gentlemen, will show you at once that the delegations here present which had to participate in the Programme and Budget Com- mission and in the Commission on Administration and External Relations had further to attend three or four Working Parties, when they had not also to be present at a meeting of the Budget Sub-Commis- sion or a drafting committee. When we consider that, of 31 Member States which have attended this Conference, 15 had less than 5 representatives and had at the same time to provide a chairman or rap- porteur, we are bound to conclude that it has been practically impossible for the small delegations to participate in the working parties and committees, although they had designated and appointed spe- cialists to attend them. As regards documents, I must also express misgiv- ings which are shared bya large number of delega- tions. A delegate who wanted to take cognisance of all the documents issued up to 28 November would have had to study 53 0 reports, notes and resolutions, representing 3211 pages — a figure four times as high as during the First Conference in Paris. It is estimated that by 20 November the Secretariat had already used four and a half million sheets of normal- size paper. This ever-increasing flow of documents has added to the work of the delegations. Quite a few of them were distributed at the very last minute and were not always published simultaneously in the three working languages. Moreover, the agendas, of which many delegations were only informed on the very morning of the meeting, have not always been kept to and could not be, as the documents were not ready for discussion and the preparation of the work of the committee was very often made impossible. The discussions at meetings, greatly speeded up by simumtaneous interpretation, made it ex- tremely difficult for delegationsto take an active part in what was going on. We can now fully appreciate the effort we had to exert — all of us — 1n order to pronounce on an amendmentto paragraph 3 of Chapter II of document — 219 —
2C/116,after having to find a paragraph among four, five or six different texts, sometimes very hard to com- pare : The Green Book, Blue Book, the Report of the Working Party, the resolutions of delegations, amendments presented at meetings, etc. Which of us was not forced to abstain from speaking because the discussion had closed before he could collect and compare the various texts that were being debated ? Most of the delegations have also been somewhat puzzled by the new system of Working Parties. True, the organization of working parties had been recommended by the Executive Board, proposed by the General Committee of the Conference and ap- Javed by the Programme and Budget Commission. ut it may be mentioned that this document, such an important one for the smooth working of the Commission, was approved amid general in- difference at the end of a meeting, on whose agenda it was not even included. On the other hand, the experts on the Working Parties very soon found that their deliberations were purely academic, since the time-table of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission was drawn up in such a way that votes were taken before the Rappor- teurs had had the time to apprize themselves of the views of their colleagues. Finally, the delegates voting in the Programme and Budget Commission have complained that they were obliged to take decisions on technical points without having first been able to ascertain the opinion of their technical advisers. An atmosphere resulted within the Conference which the General Committee was able partly to dissipate by adopting a Resolution asking the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission to make the fullest possible use of the Working Parties’ conclusions, and calling upon the latter’s chairmen and rappor- teurs to present the results of their discussions them- selves. That compromise solution allayed certain anxieties, but led to valuable time being lost, and the delegations, particularly in the first week, had a rather unfortunate impression of vagueness. These mistakes would have mattered less if the Programme and Budget Commission had not suf- fered during the first two weeks from a lack of corre- lation with the Executive Board, reflected in a certain absence of leadership, by which the whole Conference was affected. The Green Book is a typical example ofthis lack of direction. The Programme of Unesco for 1948 — document 2C/3 — which it is not for us here to approve or criticize — contains on its cover the words : «Submitted by the Executive Board for the study of the Second Session of the General Conference held in Mexico.» The members of the Programme and Budget Commission might therefore have expected the Acting Chairman of the Executive Board, or his deputy, to explain to them how this document had been conceived, drawn up and, as the case might be, amended, as well as indicate to them point on which discussion might well turn and any reserva- tions or recommendations the Board had to make in respect of the document. No such statement was forthcoming : the Green Book, which contained interesting features, was abandoned to its fate, and the delegates who first approved it without debate have since wondered whether the Executive Board’s silence was not equivalent to a disavowal of pater- nity. These criticisms, for the most part justified, must lead to a revision of the working methods followed this year. By proposing on 29 November a Resolu- tion on the organization of the Third Session of the Conference (document 2 C/116), the delegate of the United Kingdom has already, I believe, shown the path we ought to follow. It is for the Executive Board to studyat a future session working methods which will allow all the delegations, more particu- larly those with a small number of members, to par- ticipate effectively in the committees and commis- sions of the Conference. It may be opportune to inform the Executive Board, for information only, of the points which seem to deserve its attention. As regards docu- ments, if we want to have the competent services of the Member States and National Commissions, and if delegations are to take an active part in the work of Unesco, it will be necessary : to limit strictly the number and length of texts; to avoid as far as possible the mimeographing of documents, which tire the reader; to watch very carefully the quality of translations, in which there was some improvement in Paris, but which still leaves much to be desired. Finally, we should assure the simultaneous distri- bution of all documents in the working languages, and circulate them to Member States and delegations in time. Thisis not the place to study the question of docu- ments in detail. However, it may be well to note that many delegates recommend the adoption of a single document for the Programme and Budget Commission, a brief and coherent document pre- sented in such a manner that the programme and the budget can be easily compared. As regards the form of the Programme, some delegations favoured a classification by sections, others an arrangement under major projects, similar to that of the Green Book this year. The two forms of arrangement have each their advantages. The former is more usual and also — 220 —      more concrete, and is familiar to the scholars, teachers and writers whom Unesco must interest in the first place. It is also the form suited to discus- sion by the Conference. The second form is more in accordance with the general aims of the Organi- zation. It avoids dividing services into watertight compartments and is more easily grasped by the Press and the public. The best method would seem to be a combina- tion of the two. Division into sections would seem preferable for projects related to education, natural sciences, social sciences and the humanities, on condition, however, that we are dealing with concrete tasks to be carried out in each of these fields and not merely with a division into the main university disciplines. On the other hand, arrangement under projects is best suited to everything which concerns mass communication, cultural interchange and the dis- semination of ideas. After very careful discussion, this twofold arrange- ment was the one at which the Drafting Committee finally arrived. The Programme and Budget Com- mission approved it. It might be desirable to give it some permanence in order to enable Member States and the National Commissions to follow the work of the Organization more easily. It would also be desirable, as proposed by the delegation of the United Kingdom, that amendments or new proposals of Member States should be trans- mitted to Unesco before the opening of the session, in order that the Secretariat may compile a docu- ment, in which either the Programme and Budget would be combined or the one would be included in the document as an annex. It may be that we should even make it obligatory that resolutions and substantive amendments modifying the implemen- tation of a current project, or establishing a new project for which a large appropriation is required, be forwarded to the Secretariat before the Confe- rence or be accepted during the session only up to a dead-line to be fixed by the President. Finally, in orderto facilitate discussion at meetings, more definite rules should be laid down as to the form of amendments. These might be confined to basic Programme documents or to resolutions submitted under specific conditions, and men- tioning, as far as possible, the approximate appro- priation involved. The setting up of a big Programme and Budget Commission has proved satisfactory. The same applies to the Budget Sub-Commission working side by side with the Commission on the basis of a total sum fixed at the beginning of the Conference. On the other hand, the question of Working Parties would appear to call for reconsideration, and will be one of those matters which the Executive Board should place on its agenda. Whatever the advantages of the system proposed this year, it is to be feared that teachers, scholars, writers, artists and journalists, who ought to be associated more and more closely with the work of Unesco, will not collaborate whole-heartedly if they do not feel that the procedure we adopt enables their views to be taken into consideration. It would seem desirable, therefore, to return to a method which would permit of consultation with delegates and their experts before the Programme Commission meets. A few sub-commissions, though a few only, which might correspond to the main sections proposed by the Drafting Committee, would — it seems to me — be perfectly suitedto carry out this study and revision of the Programme, which, by the way, would become less overburdened as one Conference followed an- other, since it would not be necessary to reconsider the whole of the past [year’s work on each oeca- sion. There has undoubtedly been insuflicient liaison between the Programme Commission and the Execu- tive Board. This is not the place to consider how co-ordination could be effected within the Secre- tariat. That is a matter for the Director-General and his Deputies. Nor is it the place to consider how liaison should be effected between the Pro- gramme Committee of the Executive Board and the administration of Unesco. Butit is patent that the Programme and Budget Commission should receive more help from the Executive Board, which should see that the draft Programme, when sent to Member States, is accompanied by a commentary and that at the beginning of the Conference its point of view is elucidated by its Chairman. In addition, the members of the Programme Committee of the Executive Board might aitend meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission and help their less informed colleagues with their views and advice. The Programme and Budget Commission, in addition to finding its work facilitat- ed, would feel that there was continuity from year to year, and that the Executive Board was concerned both with the implementation of the Programme adopted by the Conference of the preceding year and with the preparation of the following year’s pro- gramme. These, fellow-delegates, are the observations on the methods of work of the Programme and Budget Commission which I have the honour to offer you and which should, in my opinion, be considered by the Executive Board. I propose in conclusion that the report of the Programme and Budget Commission be adopted. — #21 —    The PRESIDENT : (Translation from the French) : You have just heard the very interesting comments of the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission. The delegate of the United Kingdom has asked to speak. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Presi- dent, we have all listened with very close attention to the brilliant personal statement by the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, in which M. Seydoux has gathered together so much of the ripe fruit which has fallen from the lips of many delegates of many Working Parties and at many meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission. If I might take this opportunity, I would like to express, not only on my own behalf, but, I know, on behalf of those who were privileged to work in the Drafting Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission, a tribute to his magnificent leadership as Chairman of that Drafting Committee, and to the great contribution he made to the pro- duction of the Report which the Programme and Budget Commission considered the other night. With your permission, I would like to move that his statement should be made use of. T do not think that we have time this afternoon to debate it, but I feel convinced — and I am now speaking on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation — that the Executive Board should be asked by the General Conference to pay close attention to that statement in planning the work of next year’s General Confe- rence. I would like therefore to move that the General Conferencereceives the statement by the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, and commends it for the consideration of the Executive Board in their planning of the work of the next General Conference. Dr. A. SOMMERFELT (Norway) : I second the proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I propose that we adjourn until nine o’clock. We will then proceed to study the Report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m. NINETEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 3 December 1947, at 9 p.m. CONTENTS Pages
38. Consideration of the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission (continuation) ; Resolutions; speeches by delegates of China, Australia, United Kingdom, Italy, United States of America, the representative of the United Nations and delegates of the Union of South Africa, Egypt, Colombia, Brazil, etc
39. Consideration of the Report of the Budget Sub-Commission on the Budget for 1948 President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico).
38. Consideration of the Report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission (conti- uation), Resolutions. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : At the end of this afternoon’s meeting the delegate of the United Kingdom submitted a motion to the effect that the General Conference should adopt the statement by the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission and recommend to the Exe- cutive Board that they should take it into account in planning the work of the next General Conference. This motion was seconded but no vote was taken upon it. Will any delegate who opposes the motion please raise his hand? The motion 1s carried. We will now consider the draft resolutions submit- ted to the Conference by the Programme and Budget Commission, in document 20/01/23, with the im- portant amendments and corrections appearing == 999 ==