FOURTEENTH MEETING Friday, 21 November 1947, at 9. 30. a. m. CONTENTS Chapter III. A. 5. — History of Science and Culture Chapter IV. B. Chapter IV. C. — Social Implications of Education, Science and Culture. 424 — Conservation of Natural Resources Chapter II. D. 2. — Philosophy and Humanistic Studies Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). The CHAIRMAN : The business for this morning is to continue consideration of Chapter II.D.5 of the Green Book, document 2C/3, on Natural Sciences. The documents on which we are working are 2C/L/4 and 2C/L/5. The point we were discussing was Chapter IL.D. 5, paragraph e. We had finished all the points arising from the Working Party’s report on paragraph c, but I had not asked if anyone else had further matters to raise on it. If there are no points to raise on that, we have dealt with it. II.D.5, paragraph d : «Assist in the establishment and maintenance of international stock-rooms for the materials of scientific research. » Prof. H. J. BHABHA : I want to draw your attention to the fact that this item which we are discussing is connected with Chapter V.C. There are two alternatives before us : either we can postpone this item and take it later with V. C., or we can take V. C. now. The CHAIRMAN: We will postpone consideration of II.D.5.d. The delegate of Colombia wishes to move a motion which covers Chapter III. A. 5, the paragraph beginning «Continuiug preparatory work...» Chapter III. A. 5. — Culture. Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : The motion is as follows : History of Science and The Programme and Budget Commission, aware of the vital necessity for a wider understanding of the scientific and cultural aspects of the history of mankind, of the contribu- tions which every people has made to the advance of civili- zation, and of the vast sweep of biological and social evolu- tion,in orderto foster international understanding by awaken- ing the strong sense of human descent, recommends that Unesco should continue to explore the ground in 1948 for the preparation, by suitable scholars, of books on this subject at different levels, for example university, school, popular, etc., as suggested in document 2 C/106. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second this ? It is seconded by the delegate of Mexico and supported by the delegate of France. As no one wishes to speak to this motion, I shall put it to the vote. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (1) That completes Chapter IIT.A.5. Chapter IV. B. — Social Implications of Edu- cation, Science and Culture. The CHAIRMAN : We will now pass to Chapter IV.B. — The Social Implications of Education, Science and Culture. The document in this case is 20/L/5. The delegate of Australia. Mr. Neville WHIFFEN (Australia) : In opening the examination of Item IV.B.1, I wish to indicate that, although the Natural Sciences Working Party has concluded its work on this subject, there may
(1) In final form : Resolution 5.7 ; vol. II, page 27.    be various fields covered by other Working Parties. The subject of the popularization of the social implications of science has been dealt with in part by other Working Parties, and they may have resolu- tions in course of preparation. If this is so, perhaps the Chairman could call upon the Chairmen of these Working Parties to advise him to-day before the section is closed. The Natural Sciences Working Party submits two resolutions. Before presenting them I wish to indicate that that Party has considered the implications of many recent scientific developments for our social and international welfare. They must be apparentto all, and a study of the recent increases in the tempo of scientific research in many fields, including nuclear physics, communications, transpor- tation, biological science, etc., should convince all delegates of the considerable duty placed upon Unesco in studying these on an international basis. I accordingly wish to move two resolutions, the first of which is : The Programme and Budget Commission instructs the Director-General :
(1) To prepare, in co-operation with appropriate interna- tional organizations, a summary report on the work in the popularization of science being carried on by national organi- zations already in existence; and to circulate this report to all Member States in the hope that countries not possessing organizations for popularizing science may be encouraged to establish them.
(2) To stimulate the preparation and exchange of subject- matter which will make a positive contribution to the popu- larization of science, prepared by various agencies.
(3) To draw the attention of governmental and other national and international information services to the many possible methods ofpopularizing science, by means of radio, film, pamphlets, competitions, book clubs, science clubs, and other means. Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of America) : The United States delegation wishes to second this motion with a great deal of enthusiasm. I should like to say, for the benefit of the delegates, that the Science News Service of the United States has made known to the Working Party the fact that it is willing to send the Science Newsletter, which records the achievements of science all over the world, to these science clubs wherever they may be in the world, free of charge, and it is our hope that other organizations may do something similar. The CHAIRMAN : I am sure the Commission is very appreciative of the generous offer which has just been made. Does anyone else wishto speak to this matter ? If no one wishes to speak, I shall put the motion. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is passed. ©) — €) In final form: Resolutions 5.6.1., 5.6.2., and 5.6.3; vol. 11, page 26: Mr. Neville WHIFFEN (Australia) : The second resolution reads : The Programme and Budget Commission, convinced that the study of the social and international implications of scien- tific development is of considerable importance in the pro- gramme of Unesco, recommendsthat, in orderto initiative an active programme and to give ultimate effect to the recommen- dations of the European and North American Expert Panels : (a) The Director-General should at once formally request all National Commissions (or Governments in cases where these have not yet been established) to initiate panel studies, group discussions, and major debates throughouteach country to stimulate the thinking of scientists and others along these lines, and eventually to report back to Unesco. These dis- cussions should voice the opinions of representatives of the natural sciences, the social sciences and the humanities. It is desirable that Unesco should propose common specific sub- jects of a critical nature (such as those listed in document Nat. Sci./34) so as to have similar discussions in all countries. Unesco should then co-ordinate the results of these discus- sions with those of the investigations of such bodies as the Committee on Science and Social Relations of the International Council of Scientific Unions, the World Federation of Scien- tific Workers, the World Engineering Conference, the Inter- national Studies Conference, the Commission on the History of the Social Relations of Science of the International Union of the History of Science, and other appropriate bodies, and in due course send them to National Commissions and give them a wide general distribution. (b) The Director-General of Unesco should bring to the attention of the Secretary-General of the United Nations the paramount importance of a wide understanding of the social implications of current scientific developments. (ce) Unesco should finance basic research on the social relations of science as shown in recent and earlier history, by establishing at least three fellowships for representatives of at least three nationalities within the general programme provided for fellowships. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to second the motion ? It is seconded by the delegate of New Zealand. May I point out with regard to the last item, (c), «that Unesco should finance basic research... by establishing at least three fellowships », that we have proposed the allotment of ten fellowships altoge- ther. Does the meeting think it would be wise at any one point to name a certain fixed number of fellowships for any one particular purpose ? I want to draw your attention to the fact that we have only ten Unesco fellowships altogether, and you must consider what you want to do with these ten before you decide that three should be used for any parti- cular purpose. The delegate of the United States. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, I wonder if the mover and seconder would agree to delete the names of specific organizations in this resolution, as we have done in previous ones, and simply substitute the words «co-operation with appropriate agencies 25     The CHAIRMAN : The mover and the seconder are quite prepared to delete the names of specific organizations. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : T have a suggestion : I think what the Chairman has said about fellowships
1s very pertinent and I wonder whether the mover and seconder of the motion would agree to substitute the words « seek to obtain fundsfor at least» so many fellowships. I think if they would agree to that it would make our programme easier. The CHAIRMAN That is, instead of «esta- blishing » insert «seeking to obtain funds for». That would not rule out the possibility of some of the ten fellowships being given to this purpose. So will you replace the word «establishing» by the words «seeking to obtain funds for» ? Is there any further discussion ? If there is no discussion, may I put that to the meeting ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (3) Are there any further motions in the report of the Working Party on Science that you wish to raise in connection with IV (6) ? If not, are there any other matters at all in connexion with IV (b) ? May I point out that there may be other Working Parties submitting motions under IV (b) which are not concerned directly with science, so we cannot say we have finished completely with IV (5). Have you any material on IV (c) ? Chapter IV. С. — Conservation of Natural Resources. Mr. WHIFFEN (Australia) : We have some points to raise, Sir. The documentation is contained in the Green Book ; there is nothing except to endorse what is in the Green Book. Might I suggest that, as the Working Party negatived Items IV.C.4 and 5 and I have a resolution dealing with those items, we take Section IV.C.6. first, as our resolution dealing with 4 and 5 depends on that ? Dr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, the delegation of Mexico wishes to present a resolution dealing with paragraph 6 of Chapter IV.C. of the Green Book. We believe that the problem of the conser- vation of natural resources is of the greatest impor- tance and we propose the following resolution : The Programme and Budget Commission recommends that Unesco accept the invitation of the Economic and Social Coun-
(8) In final form : Resolutions 5.6.4 ; vol TI, page 26 ;
5.6.5 and 5.6.6 ; page 27. cil of the United Nations to participate in the preparations for and deliberations of the Conference of Experts on Natural Resources which will be held shortly, in accordance with the proposals mentionned in ‘document 2C/79, page 1. The CHAIRMAN : It is seconded by the delegate of Colombia. It is, in effect, a resolution approving the principle stated in the Green Book. Is there anyone who wishesto speak to it ? If no one wishes to speak, I will put the motion. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried.) I understand that the next motion is concerned with items 4 and 5. The delegate of Australia. Mr. WHIFFEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, dealing with items IV.C.4 and 5, the United Nations Organi- zation, through its Economic and Social Council, has requested the delegates of the Natural Sciences Working Party to consider the details of the Confer- ence on Resources Conservation and Utilization which is expected to meet during 1949 in the United States, and 1s mentioned in the previous resolution. This Commission has just approved of Unesco giving advice and helping to make this Conference as effective as possible. Having approved of this action, I do not feel it is desirable for Unesco to come in ahead and call another conference dealing with the Protection of Nature. The Economic and Social Council will not be pleased if Unesco calls upon Member States to send delegates to a conference a few months ahead of their own conference. Member States will give priority to the United Nations conference on account of its more urgent nature. Apart from the possible overlapping of subjects discussed and delegates concerned, it is felt that one or other of the confer- ences would suffer. Even if Unesco funds were not required, as some members of the Working Party have suggested, there would be a drain on Member States, both of funds and scientists, all in a period of twelve months. It is difficult to appreciate, in any case, how an international conference can be held without requiring a contribution from Unesco, if Unesco calls the conference. The request for the conference came to the Secre- tariat from a conference held in Brunnen, Switzer- land, and called by the Swiss League for the Protec- tion of Nature. This body has no powers of commit- ment for the countries concerned. I do not wish to oppose entirely at this stage the holding of such a conferenceto consider the formation of an International Organization for the Protection of Nature, but I do wish to defer consideration until
126 —    after the conference of the United Nations Organi- zation. There are obvious fields of overlapping, as indi- cated in the United Nations document E/139 from the Economic and Social Council, page 6. In Part I of the conference to be called by the United Nations the problems covered are «the major new techniques of land and forest conservation, including soil and range use, land reclamation and drainage, protection of fish and wild life. » In view of the resolution just passed by this Commission, I wish to move : In view of the resolution to provide support for the United Nations Conference of Experts on Resources Conservation and Utilization, and the possible overlapping of subjects and of experts attending if any other Conference on the Preservation of Nature were to be held,it is resolved that the proposal to hold an International Conference for the Preservation of Nature be postponed for examination at the Unesco General Conference next following the close of the United Nations Conference indicated above. In view of this, no action should be taken until then on Items 4 and 5. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to second this ? It is seconded by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : Mr. Chairman, I want to mention that, some months ago, there was, at Brunnen, a conference of experts in this field. Representatives of many governments who are interested in the preservation of nature came together there and, after long discussion, they asked unanimously that Unesco should call, in July
1948, a Conference on the Preservation of Nature. When Unesco has been called upon to give help to another international organization, I think it is Unesco's duty to give its good services and that it is not necessary to wait for the Third Session of the General Conference to take a decision on this point. As all the experts in the field of the Preservation of Nature asked Unesco to convene this conference, I think Unesco should do so. The cost will be nominal and the moral support gained for Unesco will be very great. In the Working Party the matter was discussed, and a decision taken with only four votes against five. I ask now that the request of the Brunnen Conference that Unesco should convene such a conference be accepted. The CHAIRMAN : The Director-General would like to say a word on this matter. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : As delegates will doubtless realize, IT have long been personally interested in this matter of the conservation of nature and of wild life, but I do not wish that in any way to aflect my judgment in the matter. I have heard what the delegete of Australia seid. Iam very familiar with what happened at Brunnen- I have had numerous conferences with the Secretary of the Swiss League and other persons interested, but I must say that I think, after taking all matters into consideration, probably the best way would be to get the matter, as it were, on our agenda this year, allowing the Secretariat to make some prepa- ration for the conference, but to hold it simulta- neously with the big United Nations Conference in 1949. I had the opportunity, when passing through Lake Success on my wayto this Conference,oftalking to Mr. Owen of the Economic Department of the Economic and Social Council, under whom the preparations for this big conference of the United Nations are going forward, and he assured me that in general they were going to deal with major resources such as soil, hydraulic electricity, industry and so forth, and naturally mainly with their econo- mic aspects. He said that they were not proposing to deal in ‘any detail with the questions which are covered by 4 and 5 here : the protection of nature and what you might call the protection of landscape. On the other hand I do know that various matters dealing with nature protection in that sense are on the agenda of this big conference. I would, there- fore, suggest that it would be economicalif delegates could attend both conferences — either have them absolutely simultaneously or one immediately after the other, at any rate, at the same period and in the same place in 1949. The CHAIRMAN: Does anyone else wish to speak to this motion ? The delegate of India. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : Sir, it seems to me that the emphases in the United Nations Conference and here are slightly different. The emphasis in the United Nations Conference is going to be primarily on the economic aspects of the matter. Here, the emphasis is rather on the scien- tific and cultural aspects. We have known, within human memory, certain species which have become extinct. If you want to do anything about such species, clearly you will have to take action as soon as possible. The extinction of species does not wait on the holding of conferences. I therefore feel that we could — as we are already agreed on the substance of the matter — with perhaps a slight change of words in the Australian proposal (if Australia would agree to it), unite on this matter. What I propose is that we adopt the suggestion made by the Director-General that the conference be held in connexion with the United Nations Conference. If that suggestion is acceptable, then I shall not move an amendment. ir     The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : May I add one rather important word just to clear delegates’ minds. The delegate of India quite rightly referred to the danger of extinction of certain species; but as I understand the matter, and as the Brunnen Conference under- stood the matter, the general need in relation to the protection of wild life is something much broader : it is that there should be international management of wild life, thus positively to encourage those species which are in danger of dying out, or which should be made to multiply, and to try to eliminate theft. I would therefore regard this as a very important and wide subject, not only concerned with the preser- vation of rare species, however important that un- doubtedly is. Mr. WHIFFEN (Australia) : In reply, I wish to suggest that the wording should be changed in the sense that if no conference were held before 1949, that would permit the Unesco conference to be held with the United Nations conference and enable the Secretariat to examine the proposal further. If the seconder will agree, I will alter it to mean the confer- ence should not be held before the United Nations conference, which will enable it to be held at the same time ; if it was decided later that it was possible, all the delegations could cover both subjects, but this is a little doubtful. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I hope the resolu- tion will be a little less restrictive than that. We should have to do a gooddeal of preparation for that conference; if it was going to be held in the spring of 1949 we should want to know now that we had the mandate to call it. The CHAIRMAN : I am not quite clear whether the delegate of Australia and his seconder have agreed on the form of the motion. Australia, have you definitely changed your motion now, to read to the effect that no conference shall be held before
1949? Mr. WHIFFEN (Australia) : I have suggested, if the seconder agrees, that no conference be called by Unesco, before the United Nations Conferenee. Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) : (Tran- slation from the Spanish): T think that if the delegate of Australia, who submitted the proposal, and the delegate of the United Kingdom, who supported it, agree, we might add the following to the resolution : That the General Conference should authorize the Director- General to prepare the meetings of the two conferences either simultaneously or successively, so that the action of Unesco in this sense shall not be interrupted, as requested by the Brunnen Conference. The CHAIRMAN: It is for the delegate of Australia to say whether he wishes to accept the alteration or not. Mr. WHIFFEN (Australia) : Yesterday we were told the Organization was already overloaded with preparationsfor conferences and panels, and I do not see how we could possibly support the holding of another conference. The Director-General specifically asked us yester- day not to consider holding any other conferences for this reason, and I therefore do not wish to change my motion, that the conference should not be held before 1949. Ido not wish to include a recommen- dation that the conference be held. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : As I understood the delegate of Colombia, there was no question of hold- ing the conference before 1949. If I understood him, it was that we should hold the conference in
1949 in relation to the holding of the United Nations Conference, so that he was concerned only with preparations in 1948 for the conference in 1949. The CHAIRMAN: Thedelegate of Australia informs me that he and his seconder agree to maintain the motion in its original form, which I will read to you now : This Commission directs that the proposal to hold an International Technical Conference on the Preservation of Nature be postponed for consideration at the Unesco General Conference following the completion of the United Nations Economic and Social Council Conference, and therefore that all activities proposed in IV. C., paragraphs 4 and'5, also be postponed until then. Is there any discussion? Does the delegate of Colombia wish to move an amendment? Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : I suggest the following amend- ment, if the delegate of Australia and his seconder agree : The Programme and Budget Commission requests the General Conference to authorize the Director-General to pre- pare the International Technical Conference for the Preser- vation of Natural Resources, to be held immediately after the United Nations Conference. The CHAIRMAN : The mover and seconder do not agree to that change, so it would have to be taken as an amendment. But I think that I would rather take it as a complete negative of the Australian motion. That is, rather than accept this as an amendment, if you do not agree with the Australian motion, you will vote against it and then bring this up as a separate motion if the Australian one should be lost. Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : I think preparations for the #25 —        Conference could be initiated by the Director- General now in order that it may be held immediately after the United Nations Conference. This also includes the viewpoint of the Australian delegate that it is only after the United Nations Conference that this other conference can be held. But prepara- tions could be begun now. The CHAIRMAN : I think that is not quite the statement of the Australian delegate. The Austra- lian delegation has not moved that we approve the holding of a conference after the United Nations Conference. It moves that the whole consideration of whether we should hold one or not at that time shall be deferred until the next Unesco General Conference. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, I wouldlike to ask the Director- General to make a statement about the relation of this work to the programme of the Food and Agri- cultural Organization. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : This work, as I see it, has relatively little connexion with that of the Food and Agricultural Organization except with regard, for instance, to agricultural pests — which is a matter, I think, that such a conference would probably not consider. In any case, in any such international conference sponsored by Unesco we naturally always take steps to see that the sister agencies concerned are invited to participate and to submit ideas for the agenda. In the same way, the United Nations Resources Confer- ence has, I understand, invited all the Specialized Agencies — I am not sure whether it has invited them in the same way as it has invited us, but I think this is the case — not only to take part in the conference, but also to assist in the preparation of the agenda. It is because I do not wish to see this aspect of nature conservation, conservation of resources, relatively or totally neglected — which it would be unless Unesco took the initiative, because quite certainly FAO, or WHO or ILO will not do it, and I have Mr. Owen’s assurance that it will occupy very little of the agenda of the United Nations Resources Conference — that it seems to me that the suggestion made by the Colombian delegate is the wisest. I think we should take steps — which need be only very small during
1948 — to prepare for the holding of our conference in the spring of 1949, in relation with the big conference on the economic aspect of major resources held by the United Nations. The CHAIRMAN : I have received a notice o motion from the delegate of the Netherlands which reads as follows : It is resolved that, in accordance with the request of the Brunnen Conference, the Director-General be authorized to convene a conference at the moment that seems best to him. I must accept this also as a complete negative of the Australian proposal. It is a notice of motion. If the Australian motion does not pass, I will give the right to move further motions first to the Colombian delegate and thento the Netherlands delegate. Does anyoneelse wish to speak? Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : May I say one word. I have here before me the resolutions of the Brunnen Conference, and I think there is some misunderstanding about the purpose of the confer- ence for which the Brunnen Conference has asked. I should like to quote two points from these resolu- tions :
1. The draft of a provisional constitution for an inter- national union for the protection of nature has been approved unanimously by the delegates of the Brunnen Conference.
4. Unesco is requested to convene a congress at Paris in July 1948 to discuss, and finally adopt, a constitution based upon the draft constitution agreed upon by the dele- gates at Brunnen. You see, therefore, that this is not a mere technical conference but a conference of a very special nature. A provisional constitution has been drafted and Unesco is asked only to sponsor the meeting at which a union for the protection of nature will be constituted. I think that is a question quite apart from other conferences. Unesco has been asked to help, and I think the Director-General should decide when the conference should be held after he has spoken with the people who convened the Brunnen Conference. Dr. Milton EISENHOWER (United States of Ame- rica) : I would like to ask another question of the Director-General. Would the only responsibility of Unesco be to convene this conference which might lead to the establishment of another international organization for which Unesco thereafter would have no responsibility, or would Unesco have a continuing responsibility towards nature conservation? The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I understand that the former is true : that once this organization had been established, Unesco would have no primary responsibility in the matter; and that if any matters concerning nature conservation came up before Unesco, they would then be referred to this organi- zation. = I think it would probably be necessary, in order to assist in the preparation of the conference, to have some expert who would go through the whole mass of legislation which already exists on the subject in order to help prepare the agenda. But that is another matter. — 499 —    M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation fully realizes the importance of all matters concerning the preserva- tion of nature and natural resources, and it realizes that this question comes wholly within the scope of Unesco’s work. Therefore it warmly supports the proposal submitted by Colombia. Mr. WHIFFEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, the delegate of the Netherlands has indicated quite clearly that the conferences should not come toge- ther — that they are quite separate. The delegates whoattend the Conference on Conservation of Nature would be naturalists, people concerned with wild life, and not with the economic aspects. The Direc- tor-General has indicated that the Secretariat is fully engaged in the preparation of work during
1948. Therefore, I wish to urge strongly that the conference be held afterwards and held as a separate one. [I propose that the conference be held, but that consideration be given to the matterlater on and that a separate conference be held. The CHAIRMAN : We will now proceed to the vote. I will read again the Australian proposal, which is : That this Commission recommends that the proposal to hold an International Technical Conference on the Preser- vation of Nature be postponed for consideration at the Unesco General Conference following the completion of the United Nations Economic and Social Council's Conference, and there- fore that all activities proposed in the Programme (2C/3), Chapter IV (c), proposals 4 and 5, be postponed till then. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is lost. The delegate from Colombia may now move his motion if he so wishes. Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : I think the proposalof the delegate of the Netherlands could be discussed before mine, since it corroborates it. The CHAIRMAN : You give way to the delegate of the Netherlands. Does your seconder, the delegate of Mexico, agree? Dr. M. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : It does not seem to me that there is any contradiction between the proposal submitted by Colombia and that submitted by the Netherlands. Consequently it seems to me that we could very easily combine them. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Colombia, without withdrawing his motion, has ceded the right of way to the delegate of the Netherlands. Does the delegate of the Netherlands wish to speak to his proposal? I will read it again : It is resolved that, in accordance with the request of the Brunnen Conference, the Director-General be authorized to convene a conference at the moment that seems best to him. Might I suggest that, in the interests of clarity, we should changethat to : «to convene an international conference on the Protection of Nature»? Dr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : I agree. The CHAIRMAN : The resolution now reads : It is resolved that, in accordance with the request of the Brunnen Conference, the Director-General be authorized to convene an International Conference on the Protection of Nature at the moment that seems best to him. Is there anyone who seconds that? It is seconded by the delegate of Mexico, supported by the delegate of Colombia and the delegate of South Africa. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to this? The delegate of Australia. Mr. Neville WHIFFEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, I wish to speak against the motion and to indicate thatif this conference was going to be held in 1948, priority A would have to be given to it. I feel that in the Unesco programmethis should not have prio- rity A. The species which are spoken of as becoming extinct within the next two years are hardly likely to be affected by any conference of Unesco. Surely, if the people who attended the conference in Switzer- land know which species are likely to be extinct, they can take action in their own countries to prevent it. Therefore, I think it should not be given priority A, and according to the United Nations papers I have read, the subjects of soil erosion, forest conservation, and fish and wild life protection would clash with the United Nations Conference. I therefore feel that it should not have Priority A, and if it does not, it cannot be held in 1949, which means that it could be held in 1950 in accordance with my resolution. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I would say that, as Director-General, after this discussion, I would cer- tainly not think fit to hold it in 1948. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : On a point of order, I move that the motion be put to the vote. The CHAIRMAN : It is moved that the matter be put to the vote. Seconded by the delegate of New Zealand. We will now proceed to vote by show of hands. The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (5) I take it that the delegate of Colombia does not now wish to raise his original motion.
(5) In final form : Resolution 6.9.2 ; vol. II, page 29. — 130 —    Dr. E. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : I think that if the date for the International Technical Conference on Conservation of Natural Resources is in the hands of the Director- General, we need take no further action. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wish to raise any further matter concerned with paragraphs 4 and 5 of Chapter IV.C. of the Green Book? If there is no one, our consideration of paragraphs 4, 5, and 6 is completed. The rest will be dealt with under Social Sciences. If there is no further resolu- tion concerned with Chapter IV.C. on the Natural Science side, we will pass on. The next matters raised in the report of the Natural Science Committee are those under V. C., Grants-in- Aid. On this important point, I am not sure of the procedure to be followed, but, before I give any ruling as Chairman, I would be glad to know your opinion on a certain point. You will remember that Chapter V deals with the relation of Unesco to its Member States, the United Nations and its bodies, and to Non-Governmental Organizations. If you look at 2C/BUR/1, page 3 in the English text, you will see that under (d) it says : Although Chapter V of the Programme should be referred to the Administrative and External Relations Commission, that should not prevent the Programme and Budget Commis- sion from discussing the respective rôles of Member States and the Secretariat in the execution of the Programmeof the Organization. That is, we are specifically given in Chapter V, if we wish it, the right to discuss the respective rôles of Member States and the Secretariat in the execu- tion of the programme of the Organization. We are not given specifically, by that document, the right to deal with relations with non-governmental orga- nizations. Whether that means that we have or have not the right to deal with the giving of grants to those organi- zations, | am not quite sure. Ihave here, however, a note from the Secretariat in these terms : «The question of grants-in-aid and relation to non-govern- mental international bodies is on the agenda of the Administrative and External Relations Commission. It is clear from the documents and from talks with officers of that Commission that its concern is with formal and procedural questions, what should be the subject of agreements or contracts, what has to be deemed a truly international organization. I am told by the Secretariat that the Admini- strative and External Relations Commission will work on guidance from this Commission on the substantive question :«Are the purposes for which grants are proposed appropriate to Unesco's programme ?» I have had a discussion myself with the Chairman of the Commission, who seemed to consider that that was the opinion of his Commission, but we did not, I admit, come to a final decision, and I understand that they were this morning discussing something of this matter of relations with non-governmental organizations. It seems to me inevitable that at some stage we must consider, from a programme point of view, these grants-in-aid. On the other hand, I would have been happy if I could have discussed this matter at the General Committee before it came up here, but unfortunately there was no meeting of the General Committee this morning. Now the matter is brought up in specific form by a resolution which I have had put before me by the United States dele- gate. Perhaps it will bring this discussion to a head if the United States delegation would read the motion. Mr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of America) : The motion that we have is long. It has not been translated into other languages. Other delegates tell me that this is a simple matter, but it still seems to me to be complicated. I suspect that the introduction of our motion will get us all tangled up and my feeling is thatif we let this matter go over to the next meeting, we might get it cleared up without causing confusion in this Commission. The CHAIRMAN : I think the United States dele- gate is right. May I ask the United States delegate if he would be good enough to bring this matter up at the General Committee to-morrow morning, andif the Secretariat would putit high on the agenda, we could get it settled for to-morrow morning. Are you now willing to pass on to the considera- tion of the Report on the Chapter dealing with Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, II.D.2 ? The relevant document 18 2C/J/2. There are also certain resolutions brought up after this document was reconsidered, which are contained in 2C/J/3 — Resolutions of the Mexican delegation, and 2C/J/4 — Resolutions of the Umted States delegation. Prof. H. J. BHABHA (India) : Sir, I just want to draw the attention of this meeting to a resolution passed in the Natural Sciences Working Party, which, however, does not come under the items you have considered; I was wondering whether you would like to take now a resolution on scientific aspects before you pass on to a new subject ? Itisa resolution which comes under several different headings, and as the programme is arranged, you clearly do not want the time of delegates to be wasted by separate propositions under each of these headings. I may state that in the Working Party this motion was moved by the United Kingdom delegate, seconded by Colombia, and carried unani- mously. It appears in document 2C/L/6. — 431 —    The CHAIRMAN: If you would not object, I think it would be as well to hold it over, and you can move it in relation to any one of the items you have mentioned when they come up. It is not before the meeting in writing. It does contain references to a whole number of matters — book coupon schemes, scientific films, exchange of persons, move- ments of scientists across frontiers, a world register of scientists and so on; and I think if they were read aloud to the meeting at the moment, they would merely be confusing. I think we should bring it up at the appropriate time. Chapter II. D: 2. — Philosophy and Humanis- tic Studies. The CHAIRMAN : I am now willing to receive any motion contained in document 2C/J/2, which is the Report of the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. These motions refer to separate items in the Green Book and, therefore, I am willing to take any motion concerning II.D.2, so long as it is contained in the Report of the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, since Professor Sommer- felt, Rapporteur of the Working Party, is not present here,it falls to me as Chairmanof the Party to submit the various resolutions adopted by the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. I think we should take them one by one. The first resolution reads : The Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies of the General Conference, assembled in its first meeting, in the light of documents 2C/36 and 2C/36 Annex A, on the role of philosophy and the humanities in the work of Unesco, resolves as follows :
1. Unesco will in 1948 undertake, in the Humanities and Philosophy, a programme of enquiry into the huma- nistic aspects of the cultures of the world, along the lines suggested in 2C/36 Annex A, pp. 7-8, which is broader in conception and distinct in method from the enquiry into Tensions affecting International Understanding undertaken by the Social Sciences Section.
2. The Director-General is instructed to : (a) address a series of questions (such as those listed on page 8 of the documentcited above) to scholars and experts of the Member States of Unesco; (b) submit the results of this enquiry to a meeting of experts called by Unesco to discuss them and to recommend the next steps to be taken. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. It is seconded by the United States delegates. Dr. Samuel RAMOS (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) г 1 think that all the delegates have before them document 2C/J/3, in which my delegation sets forth its reasons for supporting this resolution taken by the Working Party, on the enquiry into the inter- penetration of cultures. The delegation of Mexico considers this a most important task for the realiza- tion of Unesco’s aims, and we consider it to be of a scope which makes it desirable for other Sections also to be concerned in the matter. Consequently, I move before the assembly the approval of the resolution in question. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Mexico is seconding the resolution contained in 2C/J/3, which is the same as that in 2C/J/2. Does anyone wish to speak to this ? This motion is put forward by the delegate of France and seconded by the delegate of Mexico. If no one wishes to speak, are we ready to vote on it ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (6) M. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, there is a question I would like to ask concerning resolution 2. I do not know whether you think this question should be submitted to the Programme and Budget Commission, because it deals with the changing of the title of this section. The English title remains unchanged, but the Spanish and French titles are changed. In French it would become : «Section Philosophie et Civilisations», and in Spanish «Seccion Filosofia y Civilizaciones». I am not sure if this change of title concerns the present meeting. The CHAIRMAN : I see no reason why this should not be discussed here if you wish. It would not perhaps take the form of a resolution to go before the General Conference, but it might be taken as a resolution to be put before the Director-General for his consideration. I think that would be a satisfactory method. If the Director-General knew the opinion of this Commission, I am sure he himself, in the arranging of the section, would take full and most sympathetic consideration of it. The General Conference could scarcely be expected to be interested in it in a Plenary Meeting, so if M. Maritain wishes to move here the motion at the bottom of page 2 of the English text, beginning « The Committee appoin- ted... >, I am open to receive it. Does anyone second that ? The delegate of the United States. Does anyone wish to speak ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. We will refer that to the Drafting Committee, and ask them to take such action on it as appears to (©) In final form : Resolutions 5.3.4. and 5.3.2. ; vol. Il, page 26. — 432    them appropriate in terms of our general programme. Thank you. M. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : We now come to resolution No. 3, which I would like to submit on behalf of the French dele- gation. The Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, in the light of document 2C/35, — Report of the Second Session of the Drafting Committee on the Principles of Human Rights — and document 2C/77 — Report on Publication — esolves that :
1. Unesco will in 1948 undertake the publication of the volume of essays described in documents 2C/35 and
2. the Director-General is instructed : (a) to appoint an editor of the volume ; (b) to seek publishers for this volume in the various languages indicated in the above documents, or to undertake publication on behalf of Unesco, if that course seems desirable; (c) to consider the possibility of publishing translations in all the languages it deems most appropriate to serve the cause ofpeace. The CHAIRMAN : Is that seconded ? States of America. Dean Richard McKEON (UnitedStates of America) : Mr. Chairman, in seconding this motion I believe it might be appropriate to say a word about the nature of the volume which is contemplated. It grew out of a series of answers to a questionnaire which Unesco sent out in the months of February and March. The enquiry was undertaken in collabora- tion with, or in response to an invitation from, the Commission on Human Rights of the Economic and Social Council. A great many replies were received, which were made the basis of discussion by a Com- mittee of Experts held in July. The proposed volume will contain a digest of the enquiry, the positions that were taken in the various parts of the world, and some eight or nine essays, including essays by M. Maritain, Sr. Madariaga, and Prof. Laski and Prof. Carr of England, and will, in the opinion of the editors, constitute a contri- bution to discussion of an .extremely tangled pro- blem. In the opinion of the group that has worked on the problem, therefore, it is both a theoretical and a practical necessity. The United The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone else wishto speak ? If not, may I put the motion ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried, ‘”) M. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : In the same discussion on the same topic, the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies has not actually submitted a resolution, but
(7) In final form : Resolution 2.3.3.1. ; vol. II, page 16. rather a recommendation, which I shall read. You can find it in document 2C/J/2, page 4. On the basis of documents Phil/9 and 2C/36,the Working Party recommends that Unesco should in 1948 initiate a wider and deeper philosophical survey, employing a method similar to that used for the 1947 survey of the philosophical bases of Human Rights. The Working Party approved the provisions outlined in document 2C/36. This survey would bear upon the concepts of political philosophy implied in ideological controversies over the mean- ing attached in different countries to terms like freedom, democracy, law, right, justice, equality, etc. I think it would be extremely valuable for the Programme and Budget Commission to endorse these recommendations of the Working Party. Dean McKEON (United States of America) Mr. Chairman, the report of the Rapporteur of the Working Party indicates no formal resolution at this point. The record that I have is somewhat different, since I introduced a resolution at this point which was passed, I believe unanimously. It is contained in document 2C/J/4, page 2, and if I may, rather than raise the question of the accuracy of the report, I will introduce this resolution as a substitute for the general recommendation made by M. Maritain, The CHAIRMAN : The resolution of the French delegation has not been seconded. Is this sugges- tion acceptable to the French delegate ? If so it can be taken as seconding the French resolution. M. MARITAIN (France) (Translation from‘ the French) : Itis acceptable. The CHAIRMAN : The mover has accepted the motion in the particular form contained in document
20/J/4. The delegate of the United States. Dean McKEON (United States) : The resolution which I move reads : (a) Unesco will in 1948 continue a programmeof enquiry into the philosophic principles of human rights. (b) The Director-General is instructed to :
1. appoint an expert to lay the grounds of the enquiry by setting forth the issues in which fundamental concepts (liberty, democracy, right, law, etc.) are involved in current ideological conflicts as well as the history of oppositions which turn on interpretation of those concepts;
2. request the National Commissions, learned societies, and other suitable bodies to co-operate in enquiries along the lines so indicated;
3. call a Committe of Experts to study the replies and draft a final report;
4. consider the fashion in which the results of this enquiry may secure wide dissemination in order to assist international understanding and peace. The devices recommended here in detail are those which were followed in the earlier stages of this enquiry and proved extremely effective. For this reason we propose a continuation of a similar co- operative enterprise. — 133 —      The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion which has been moved and seconded. Is there any discussion ? The vote was taken by a show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : The motion is carried. (8) The meeting stands adjourned until 11 a.m. to-morrow. The meeting rose at 11.40 a. m. (®) In final form : Resolution 5.2. ; vol. II, page 25. FIFTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 November 1947, at 11 a.m. CONTENTS Chapter II. D. 2. — Philosophy and Humanistic Studies (continuation) Chairman : The CHAIRMAN : I have to make an announce- ment. The General Committee at its meeting this morning made a very strong request to this Commis- sion that we attemptto finish our first consideration of the programme by Monday night. That will involve a night sitting on Monday, which I am calling for 9 o'clock. We shall have three sittings on Monday. Unless we finish by then, the Budget Sub-Commission cannot possibly do its work, and the whole Conference cannot end by 3 December. The Section of the Green Book that we are consi- dering this morning is Chapter IT.D.2 — Philosophy and Humanities. The relevant papers are 2C/J/2 and 2C/J/4. The delegate of France was speaking when we adjourned, so I call upon M. Maritain to continue. Chapter II. D. 2. — Philosophy and Humanis- tic Studies. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : The last point we were dealing with was Resolution No. IV, submitted by the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. With your permission, I shall read the first paragraph and then the other two. Here is the first paragraph : Taking into consideration the suggestions made by the experts who met in Paris in September and the conclusions reached at the Round Table Discussions on Philosophy in Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). Mexico, the Working Party on Philosophy and Humanistic Studies proposes :
(1) that in order to offer a solution for problems con- nected with international bibliography and documentation, Unesco should complete the working agreement with the International Institute of Philosophy récommended by the experts. Here we have an amendment submitted by the United States delegation, which was accepted by the Working Party, and which you can find in document
2С/1/4. It relates to the first paragraph. I have not this document on my table and I would be very grateful to Dr. McKeon if he would be kind enough to read the text of his amendment to the first para- graph of this resolution. Dean Richard McKEON (United States of Ame- rica) : The amendment to which Prof. Maritain refers generalizes the original motion to include three pilot-projects, which are mentioned in document
20/36. The amended form of the first paragraph of the resolution is therefore :
(1) That in order to offer a solution for problems connected with international bibliography and documentation in philo- sophy, history and linguistics, Unesco should complete the working agreement with appropriate international organiza- tions recommended bythe experts. The effect, therefore, is to extend bibliographies in philosophy to linguistics and history.