TWENTY-FOURTH MEETING Friday, 28 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr, HAN Lih-Wu (China). The CHAIRMANrecalled that at its previous meet- ting the Commission had considered document,
2C/C2/10 concerning relations with international non-governmental and semi-governmental organi- zations, Two Directives had been proposed and the delegate of France had asked permission to make further suggestions on the subject of this document. Prof. AUGER (France) drew the Commission's attention to the end of paragraph V.C of the first Directive where it was stated that : Formal agreements shall only be concluded with inter- national non-governmental and semi-governmental organi- zations exclusively concerned with questions within the scope of Unesco and capable of making an effective contribution to the achievement of its objectives, as contained in the programme of the Organization. He was in favour of the deletion of the word «exclusively». There were many organizations(e. g. youth organizations) whose activities corresponded only in part to Unesco’s aims. If they were too exelu- sive, they might prevent the conclusion of agree- ment with such organizations. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was not prepared to accept this amendment. If formal agreements were concluded with organizations whose activities were not in entire conformity with those of Unesco, there was a risk of weakening the value of the formal agreement. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) was of the same opinion as the United Kingdom delegate. The French amendment was put to the vote and defeated. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) then proposed that the text should read : Formal agreements may be concluded with international non-governmental or semi-governmental organizations in so far as these organizations are working in a field directly within the scope of Unesco's interests. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) saw little difference between this proposal and that of the delegate of France and therefore opposed it. He pointed out that apart from formal agreements Unesco was free to conclude arrangements for closer relations with a great number of organizations whose activities were only indirectly related to those of Unesco (e. g. Boy Scouts organizations). He consi- dered however that formal agreements should be restricted to certain well-defined organizations. Prof. AUGER (France) drew attention to para- graph 3 of section I, which provided that formal agreements would be necessary where grants-in- aid and the provision of office space and secretarial facilities were concerned. Unesco would not there- fore be able to make grants-in-aid to organizations with which it had not concluded formal agreements. In view of this he would support the Indian pro- posal. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) pointed out that Unesco was always free to conclude contractual agreements with any organization by which financial support could be given. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) stated that there was a difference between his amendment and that of the French delegation. Nevertheless he agreed that the word «exclusively» was too’ rigid. If an organization devoted nine-tenths ofits resources to activities within Unesco’s scope and one tenth to other activities, that was no reason for refusing to conclude a formal agreement with it. The Indian amendment was put to the vote and defeated. Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) proposed that in paragraph 7 of the second Directive there should be added, after the word «shall», the words «taking into account the provisional principles already adopted by the Executive Board in document 2C/6 » This amendment was approved. Document 2C/C2/10, as amended, was ap- proved. (1) Report of the Administrative and Financial Drafting Committee. M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) recalled that: the Commission had referred to the Drafting Committee
(1) Resolution IX, Annex VII (17), Appendices I and II; volume II, pages 59 and 61. — 611 —
39.   E E E       certain of the Financial Regulations. He pre- sented these singly : Regulation 4 : The Committee proposed for this regulation the following text :
1. The budget shall be voted on the basis of a summary table under the headings of : I. General Policy. II. General Administration. III. Programme operations, sub-divided by major activities. Each of the headings to be broken down by objects of expenditure (personnel, travel, etc.), on the model of the attached annex, it being understood that this presentation shall not exclude the administrative grouping or merging of programme units.
2. A detailed table shall be attached to the summary table setting out specific information concerning proposed expen- ditures on individual projects, similarly broken down by objects of expenditure. This text was approved. Regulation 7 : The drafting committee proposed the addition of the following sentence : Funds withdrawn from the Revolving Fund shall be repaid within the current year from contributions received and in no case later than the end of the ensuing financial year. This was approved. Regulation 13 : The Drafting Committee made the following recommendations : « We recommend that the following Regulation, which, with verbal changes, is Financial Regulation, No. 25, of the United Nations, may be added to the Financial Regulations of the Organization as Finan- cial Regulation No. 13A (or No. 14, in which case the subsequent Regulations will have to be re- numbered) No contract, agreement or undertaking of any nature involving a charge against the Organization exceeding $100 (U. S.) shall be entered into, or have any force or effect, unless : (a) Credits are reserved in the accounts to discharge any obligation which may come in course of payment in the financial year under such contract, agreement or undertaking ; (b) The charge is a proper one against the Organization; and (c) Proof has been provided that the service is for the benefit of the Organization and the cost thereof is fair and reasonable. The Auditors shall be invited to draw the attention of the Executive Board to any case where, in the opinion of the Auditors, any charge has been improperly made or was in any way irregular. This was approved. (2) M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) stated that the Drafting Committee proposed to add to the resolution appro- proved without amendment by the Commission in
(3) Resolution IX, Annex III; volume II, page 47. docume 2C/02/4, pages 10 and 11, the follow- ing words : The Executive Board shall decide the currency in which the contributions of the States joining the Organization during. the coming year shall be paid. This proposal was approved. (3) M. PEISSEL (Secretariat) then submitted for approval by the Commission the following resolu- tion, of which the first two paragraphs had been submitted by the United States delegation and the third by the United Kingdom : The General Conference resolves :
1. That the Secretariat be commended for the highly improved financial statements presented this year;
2. That, to ensure necessary record-keeping during the current year, on the basis of which a more adequate financial statement can be developed for 1948, the Director- General is instructed to arrange for the presentation of financial statements to indicate expenditures and obligations by programme and project and by quarters of each financial ear. у 3. In order to assist Member States to formulate their decisions on the Budget for the following year, the Director- General shall supplement the information required under Regulation 4 (d) of the Financial Regulations by presenting to Member States a statement by programme and project of expenditure and obligations incurred during the first three-quarters of the financial year as this is prepared, to- gether with an estimate for the last quarter of the year, assum- ing that the General Conference is held in that quarter. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed that in paragraphs 2 and 3 the words «by pro- gramme and project» should be replaced by the words «in accordance with the form of the budget ». The amendment was accepted and the resolution, as amended, was approved.) Payment of Contributions. The Commission next considered a resolutiou originated by the delegate of URUGUAY in the following terms : The General Conference instructs the Director-General, in consultation with the Executive Board, to recommend to the Third Session ofthe General Conference any measures necessary to ensure pay- ment of contributions from Member States, bearing in mind the provisions of Article 19 of the Charter of the United Nations, which reads as follows : A member of the United Nations which is in arrears in the payment of its financial contributions to the Organization shall have no vote in the General Assembly if the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contribu- tions due from it for the preceding two full years. The Gen- eral Assembly may, nevertheless, permit such Member to vote if it is satisfied that thefailure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member. This resolution was approved.(5)
(3) Resolution IX, Annex II (2); vol. II, page 40. ® Resolution IX, Annex II (4); vol. II, page 40.
(5) Resolution IX, Annex II (3); vol. II, page 40. — 019 —    Consideration of the Report of the Committee on the Financial Administration of the Organization. The Commission decided to delete from the text submitted to it paragraphs II 4 and II 5. The report as amended was adopted. (©) Staff Regulations. The SECRETARY recalled that at an earlier meet- ing the Commission had examined Regulations
11,21, 26,28, 29, 35, 36 and 37, The Drafting Committee had also reconsidered all the Regulations with the exception of numbers
7 and 41. After a short discussion the Staff Regulations were adopted in their new form. (?) The Commission then examined the following proposal by the Secretariat : The Director-General is instructed to transmit to Member States, as of 30 June : (a) a list showing the names and nationalities of staff members of the Organization; (b) a breakdown of the staff by nationalities; (с) а list specifying the posts within each organizational unit of the Secretariat setting out designation and grade. This proposal was approved. (3)
(6) Resolution IX, Annex II (5); vol. II, page 40.
(7 Resolution IX, Annex V; vol. II, page 52. (® Resolution IX, Annex IV, A (9); vol. II, page 51. Consideration of the Commission's Report. Various small amendments were made in the draft report submitted by the rapporteur : On page 2, the words «Budget Control» to be replaced by «Financial Statement» ; On page 3, the addition of the following items to the list : Aid to Spanish children and students in exile, Budgetary Co-ordination between the United Nations and Unesco ; On page 4, the insertion of a sentence to state the Commission drew the attention of the General Conference to the directives on relations with international non-governmental organizations. The report, as amended, was adopted. (©) Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) proposed that there should be inserted in the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference a rule providing that the Executive Board should decide each year the list of Non-Member States to be invited to send observers to the General Conference. This proposal was seconded by the delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM, supported by the delegate of AUSTRALIA and approved. The meeting rose at 6 p. m. % Resolution IX; vol. II, page 34.