FOURTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 Novembre 1947, at 11.30 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). Resolutions on Staff Questions. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) announced that, with the help of the delegates of Greece and India, he had drafted a resolution the previous evening, combining the various proposals on staff questions submitted to the Commission; the Secretary of the Commission had also been very helpful. It was decided,after discussion, that the proposal, which had been drafted in English, should be read and discussed paragraph by paragraph. The Introduction and paragraph (1) were adopted. Paragraph (2) was read and discussed by the Commission. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) remarked that the question of «regional distribution» mentioned in this paragraph was not sufficiently specific; for example, it was customary to include in the general term «Latin America» at least twenty countries which were, in some cases, completely different in character. It would be better to provide for «geo- graphical distribution». Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), wished to emphasize that it would be more accurate to substitute the word «supervise» for the words follow closely» in the English text., Prof. PHOTIADES(Greece) stated that 1 {had been decided the previous evening, as the delegate of Uruguay had wisely suggested, to use the expression «geographical distribution ». As regards the matter raised by the delegate of Brazil, it would be advisable not to use too rigid an expression in this instance, as a constitutional question within the scope of the Director-General was involved. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) wished to point out that the draft resolution had been considered in detail the previous evening and that he was against any change in the wording; the suggestion from the delegate of Brazil introduced an entirely different idea from that expressed in the resolution : the part to be played by the Executive Board was entirely passive underthe terms of the text under discussion, but it would be an active part if the amendment proposed by the Brazilian delegate were accepted. Paragraph (2), as amended, was adopted. Paragraph (3) was read and discussed by the Commission. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) asked for an explana- tion of the meaning of the «other institutions > mentioned in paragraph (3). Were they national, international, scientific or other institutions? Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) said that, in drafting the resolution, he had used the word « institutions » to cover cerfain universities of very wide academie range and entirely independent of their respective governments, from which it might be possible to seek advice in recruiting competent staff. He asked for the word to be written with a capital «I» in the text. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United. States of America) consi- dered that the expression «other Institutions» was not sufficiently precise. If Unesco were to maintain relations with universities, independently of the National Commissions, the way would, to some extent, be opened for action also independent of the Com- missions; it was therefore desirable that Unesco's relations with universities should be established through the National Commissions, The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the Director-General should be able to seek assistance from any quarter in recruiting competent staff;it was indeed necessary that he should have this privilege. This resolution might be considered as advice to the Director-General containing certain recommendations to him on his general administra- tive policy. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) proposed the follo- wing amendment: Or, where there is no National Commission, other educa- tional, scientific or cultural Institutions. He wished to emphasize, however, that it was better to act through the National Commissions when they were in existence. Prof. PHOTIADES(Greece), replying to the objec- tion raised by the delegate of the United States of America, reminded the meeting of the article in the Unesco Constitution providing that the Director- General had full liberty of communication. This system of giving the Director-General complete — 583 —
374.             discretion proved efficient in dealings with purely official National Commissions; it was indeed advi- sable that the Director-General should be entitled to consult independent universities which were not under the control of the National Commissions. Dr.KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed with the delegate of Greece and the Deputy Director- General, but would prefer a less ambiguous expres- sion than «and other Institutions», for Member States were not Institutions; he proposed that the words «and other sources of information» should be substituted. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew atten- tion to the fact that if «or» were changed to «and», it would be necessary to apply to all sources of information. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) proposed that the conditional mood should be used instead of the future tense ; this would make consulta- tion possible but not obligatory. Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) agreed with the dele- gate of the United States of America so far as con- cerned the expression «sources ofinformation »but he saw no objection to substituting «or» for «and»; this would ‘leave the necessary discretion to the Director-General. Dr. R. WALKER (Australia) considered that it was necessary to consult National Commissions and Member States in selecting candidates, as they possessed specialized organizations dealing with such matters, whereas the great universities often had no such machinery. The delegate of Australia therefore proposed that the words «or other Institutions» should be omitted. The SECRETARY wished to point out that the purpose of the delegate of India, who had proposed this resolution, but who was not present, had been to stress the fact that the Director-General should recruit staff not on personal recommendations, but through organizations, institutions, etc. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) said that he favoured the expression «other sources of information», as he had himself encountered serious difficulties, in certain countries, with purely official National Com- missions. He also emphasized that there were some very old universities which had been able to develop special machinery for the selection and recruitment of the necessary staff. M. ABRAHAM(France) supported the proposals from the Deputy Director-General and the delegate of Greece. He said that the field covered by Unesco was so wide that,if a rigid form of words were used, the Director-General might be prevented from obtaining valuable advice. He proposed the following amendments to the French translation of the resolution : winvité d» instead of «chargé de» and «impartiale» instead of wavec droituren. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) mentioned the possibility of errors in the French text, which had been translated in haste; this matter would be dis- cussed later. The CHAIRMANstated that an adequate transla- tion would be made subsequently; the meeting was now voting on the English version. With the amendment : «If necessary...», para- graph 3 was finally adopted. Paragraph (4) was read and discussed by the Commission. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) commented on the time allowed for action : if the Director-General were asked to institute the review «as soon as possible », it would be impossible for him to submit his report in February, as he was asked to do in paragraph (4). Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) suggested that it would be advisable to omit the word «integrity», which had an ethical connotation, and which was therefore likely to involve difficult enquiries regard- ing the conduct of the staff. He also proposed that the word «fair» should be substituted, in the English text, for the word «even», as the former was closer to the meaning of the word « équitable » in the French version. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) wished to point out that paragraph (4) was based on two proposals which he had previously submitted to the Commission. He said that he was in favour of retaining the word «integrity» for the following reasons: (a) it was a word which had been carefully consi- dered by the United Nations Commission ; (b) italso implied that the members of the staff were to observe the undertaking they had given to act as good international officials; (c) the word appeared in Article VI of the Unesco Constitution. Thedelegate of the United States of America raised no objection to the substitution of the word «fair» for the word «even». He also pointed out that this paragraph in the resolution was a condensation of two proposals submitted by the United States delegation and did not entirely reproduce the intention of those pro- posals. The paragraph referred to «replacing or re-grading» certain unsuitable members of the staff;
584 —    it was entirely illogical to speak of «re-grading» incompetent people and it would be preferable to dismiss them. The delegate of the United States therefore proposed that the words «or re-grading » should be omitted. Lastly, he proposed that the part of the text cor- responding to the second proposal from the United States delegation should be separated and included as a separate paragraph in the resolution. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) stated (1) that so far as the word «integrity» was concerned, he had nothing to add to the remarks of the delegate of the United States of America; (2) that he agreed that «fair» should be substituted for «even »; (3) that the second proposal from the United States delegation should be included as a separate paragraph, in accordance with the United States’ suggestion. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) remarked that an enquiry regarding the moral qualities of the international staff of Unesco, as recruited through governments or international organizations, seemedto be intended. Who would be responsible for such an enquiry, and would it be private and confidential? This suggestion appeared to throw suspicion on the international Secretariat and it was therefore desi- rable that it should be omitted. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico), speaking on behalf of the Drafting Committee, stated that he had been instructed to include various informal resolutions similar to those of the United States of America. In reply to the objection raised by the delegate of Brazil, he wished to emphasize that the Director- General might have justifiable doubts about the competence and integrity of certain members of the Staff. It was not correct to say that recruiting had been done by the Executive Board, which,in fact, had only been informed of the appointment of the officials and had had no partin making the appointments. Unesco should, therefore, not hesitate to undertake a wide enquiry concerning the staff. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) explained the intention of his suggestion; he agreed with the substance of the resolution, but was anxious to modify the wording; it was possible to achieve the desired result without going into details which might injure Unesco in the eyes of the public. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) remarked that, on the other hand, if this text were adopted, the Director- General's power to select, remove and replace staff would be strengthened ; his difficulties in this matter were well known. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) considered that para- graph (4) was incomplete, as the Commission was also concerned in this matter. M. ABRAHAM (France) asked that the wording should be altered to read «with a view to re-grading the members of the staff or, if necessary, replacing them ». The CHAIRMAN announced that this question would be considered at a subsequent meeting, together with the second resolution from the United States delegation. The motion by the delegate of Brazil was rejected. The amendment by the delegate of the United States of America was adopted. Thefirst part of the amendment by the Canadian delegate was withdrawn; the second part of his amendment was adopted. The amendment of the delegate of Czechoslovakia was rejected. Paragraph (4) was adopted, with the foregoing amendments. The following text of the resolutions so far adopted was read : The General Conference: While appreciating the difficulties involved in the recruit- ment of staff and in organizing the Secretariat during 1947, and noting the action taken by the Executive Board and the Nominations Committee of the Executive Board during that year, considers that every effort must now be made to build up a permanent staff with adequate security, while at the same time avoiding wasteful and unnecessary expenditures. To this end, the General Conference resolves : en That at the earliest possible time the Director-General should initiate a long-term appointment policy, subject to the Staff Regulations in force. it 2. That in the selection ofstaff due importance be attached to the consideration of geographical distribution. In this connexion the Director-Generalis instructed to take adequate measures to improve the present unsatisfactory situation, and the Executive Board is requested to follow closely the implementation of this policy.
3. That in implementing the recruitment policy the Direc- tor-General should avail himself of all possible assistance from the United Nations, the Specialized Agencies, Member States, National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies, or, if necessary, other sources, with a view to ensuring integrity of selection on an impersonal basis.
4. That the Director-General is instructed to institute, as soon as possible, a review of the experience, qualifications and achievements of present staff members with a view to replacing those staff members who do not measure up to the high standards of competence, integrity and efficiency which must be expected of staff members of Unesco, or whose services are no longer required in the light of changesin the Programme approved for the year 1948; and, further, to request the Director-General to report on the progress achieved in this review to the Executive Board at its meeting in February 1948, and to complete the review by 31 March
1948. In this connexion, the Executive Board and the Director-General should also bear in mind the consideration of fair geographical distribution. The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m. — 585 —