FOURTH MEETING Wednesday, 19 November 1947, at 10 a. m. Chairman : Dr. Esther C. BRUNAUER (United States of America) Referring to Rule 34 of the «Rules of Procedure for the General Conference», the CHAIRMAN asked the members of the Sub-Committee to consider whether or not it was necessary to draw up verbatim records of meetings of Committees. With regard to Rule 36, she felt that it would be indispensable to specify exactly which resolutions required ratification by the Member States. The Sub-Committee then considered the proposal put forward by the United Kingdom concerning a change in the order of the Rules. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) pointed out that, in the order now adopted, the General Committee of the Conference was dealt with in Section V, whereas the Commissions and Committees were not dealt with until Section XII, which seemed somewhat illogical. He indicated the order which he would like to have adopted and, after some discussion, the following decision was reached : Sections I and II would remain unchanged ; In Section III, Rules 17 and 18 would be deleted ; Between Sections III and IV, a new Rule 17 would be inserted, giving a general outline of the structure of the Conference ; Section IV would deal with the Committees of the Conference and would contain the provisions now appearing in Rules 17, 18, 58 A, 58 B, 20, 25, 26 and 27, which would, naturally, be re-numbered. M. MONTAGNIER (Secretariat) asked that the new Rule 17 should be so worded as to allow a certain flexibility in the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the new Section IV, the Sub- Committee agreed that the Committees of the Con- ference should be listed in the order in which they were constituted; they would therefore appear in this Section in the following order : Credentials Committee ; Nominations Committee; Committee on Procedure; General Committee of the Conference. Since the new wording for the original Rule 18 proposed by the United Kingdom was not satisfac- tory to the Sub-Committee, it was decided that a new wording should be drafted. With regard to the Rule in Section IV bearing on the duties of the Nominations Committee (original Rules 58 B and 20), the question arose whetherit was really possible to ask this Committee to suggest candidates for the General Committee of the Con- ference. If so, the Nominations Committee would have to meet on the opening day of the Conference, After an exchange of views,it was decided that, in spite of the difficulties entailed, this procedure sould be adopted for the time being. The following wording was proposed for the new Rule 20 : The Committee on Procedure shall consist of one represen- tative from each of the delegations present at the Conference. The Committee shall elect its Chairman and its Officers and shall immediately advise the Conference of the results of this election. This wording gave rise to certain remarks. The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOMproposed thatit should be specified that : « The Committee on Proce- dure shall elect its Chairman and its Officers, taking into account the suggestions of the Nominations Committee ». It was decided that the text of the rule should be redrafted. The new Rule 23 (originally Rule 25) also gave rise to certain problems. In accordance with a proposal by M. Montagnier, it was decided that the new rule should stipulate that the President and Vice-Presidents of the Conference might appoint members of their respective delegations to replace them, whereas the Chairmen of Committees, might only be represented on the General Committee by the Vice-Chairman of the same Committees. The meeting rose at 11.15 a. m.