(2) That certain changes in the structure and functions of the Secretariat must be effected, without making additional appointments, to ensure the greatest concentration of funds and personnel on Programme work; Requests the Budget Sub-Commission to consider the above Resolution in the light of general budgetary considerations and in the light of the following factors :
1. That a long-term appointment policy is likely to be approved by the General Gonference;
2. That the General Conference is resolved to reconsider the geographical distribution of the staff of the Secretariat ;
3. That the Director-General is to be asked to consider the gradual reclassification of staff according to qualifications for the posts in question;
4. That the programme adopted by the General Confe- rence will inevitably affect the size, structure and functions of the Secretariat in 1948, Sr. EVANGELISTA (Philippines) found it difficult to understand why only one out of 600 Secretariat members was from the Philippines. There was no question of selfish national reasons but a belief that the principle of geographic distribution of personnel must be followed if Unesco was to stand faithfully for international ideals and represent the cultures and education of all nations. No cristicism of the present situation was implied but to accept it was one thing, to allow it to continue was another. The Philippine delegation felt that correction of the present inequitable geographical distribution must be given the highest priority in the consideration of the matter before the Com- mission. The Rapporteur had prepared a draft resolution representing the consensus of opinions expressed by the delegates at previous meetings. His draft was distributed to the members of the Commission. The CHAIRMAN ruled that, as it was necessary to adjourn the meeting immediately so that dele- gates might attend a plenary meeting, no action should be taken on the resolution presented by the delegates of Australia, the United States of America and the United Kingdom until the meeting on Friday morning, when the remaining speakers would also be heard. The meeting rose at 6 p. m. THIRTEENTH MEETING Friday, 21 November 1947, at 9.30 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). The CHAIRMAN had two reports to make : he had received a letter from Dr. Walker, conveying the thanks of the Australian delegation for the sympathy of the Commission at the death of Mr. Medworth. Secondly, the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission had requested that the Admi- nistrative and External Relations Commission should consider the question of grants-in-aid as soon as possible, so that its opinion could be taken into account when drawing up the 1948 Programme and Budget. With the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, he had decided to submit the matter to the General Committee, which would indicate which part of the grants-in-aid programme the present Commission should discuss, Dr. WALKER (Australia) had no doubt that the Chairman’s procedure was correct, but wished to mention that the Executive Board had drawn up proposals, contained in document 2C/75, to be sub- mitted to the General Conference, concerning rela- tions with Non-Governmental organizations to whom grants-in-aid had been made. The Budget Sub- Commission would not wish the Commission te decide on the size of the grants, as these would be in the nature of payments for work carried out in connexion with Unesco’s programme. If the Com- mission approved this principle, the Budget Sub- Committee would then only consider specific grants- in-aid within that category. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the dele- gate of Australia and thought they should finish with the question of principle. The CHAIRMAN said that that was what he and the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Committee had intended to recommend. item Bc of the Agenda : Revision of Salary and Allowance Policy and Structure (con- tinuation.) Mr. CHRISTENSEN (Norway) observed that the Commission had been considering document 2C/92 — 579 —
37.      for the last seven days. Herealized the Organization was a new one and that geographical distribution could not be brought into effect in one year of rush work. The Deputy Director-General had painted a very good picture of the situation and it had been suggested that his speech should be given wide circulation. He had described the conditions in which the Secretariat had worked last winter, but other people had had to work in the same conditions. He imagined that people must be better off with Unesco in Paris than in their own countries, or they would not stay there. The Deputy Director-General had mentioned that, because the United Nations was to hold its Assembly in Paris next year, Unesco might have to hold its General Conference in August or even in July and this would mean great difficulties for the Secretariat. He thought that the Director- General might be asked to make it clear to the Confe- rence that such a date was impossible. He pointed out that the Secretariat, which knew the situation better than the Executive Board or delegates, should make suggestions regarding changes in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure. Unesco should not be thought of as an experiment, but as a lasting organization, whereas the Constitution and Rules were an experiment. The Secretariat was permanent, whereas the delegates at the General Conference often changed, so it was for the Secretariat to give impetus to the Organization and to prepare the work of the Conference to avoid waste of time. Many difficulties had been encoun- tered during the past year, for example, the Organi- zation needed enthusiasts in various fields, but they were often liable to over-emphasize the importance of their own profession or subject and had to be curbed without their feelings being hurt; otherwise it would be harmful to Unesco’s prestige. Question- naires had been sent out and weeks were needed to find the necessary material to answer them : he therefore thought they were too extensive to be use- ful. Another difficulty was the selection of persons for investigations in the field and Unesco must make sure that these were aware that they represented an Organization which was at the service of the country in which they were working. As regards thestaff of the Secretariat, documents before the Commission showed that the question of their welfare had received due consideration. Many of them needed help, advice and guidance, but they must have initiative and show ability to solve their own problems, if they were to help solve the vaster problems of the world. With regard to salaries, it was most desirable thatthe staff should be contented and well provided for, but it must be remembered that all Unesco’s administrative expenses had to be covered by the suffering humanity for which it was working. Document 26/92 was marked «conf- dential» but could not remain so long, as Member States had a right to know howtheir contributions were being used and would compare the salaries with those of their own staff, particularly those in Paris. Besides salaries, other remuneration had to be borne in mind. No less than five kinds of allowance were listed in document DGB/18/47 and both these and salaries were all free of taxation. On page 33 of document 2C/92, it was shown that there had been an 18 per cent increase of salaries to meet therise in the cost of living. He pointed out that many people had to meet the increased cost of living with no corresponding increase of salary. The Organization needed staff inspired by the ideals of Unesco even if they had to share the hard conditions imposed by the world crisis. Unesco must inspire confidence in its efficacy and economy. He therefore believed he was acting in the interest of Unesco in proposing the two following resolutions :
(1) Whereas it is considered desirable to assure an efficient functioning of the Secretariat, Whereas it is considered important that the Secretariat should operate on a sound economic basis, It is resolved * That experts in organization and efficiency be engaged for the purpose of streamlining the staff and organization of Unesco, and with a view to reducing the cost of administration
(2) Whereas it is considered of the greatest importance that a sound and adequate system should be established for the various remunerations of the staff of Unesco, i It'is resolved : That a study be made of the various grades of salaries for the Unesco staff in comparison with the average of salaries paid by the various Governments to their officials with corres- ponding education and qualifications, particularly those living in Paris; That a new gradation of salaries based on such averages be worked out and submitted to the Executive Board for consideration by the next General Conference; That the question of allowances be reconsidered on the basis of similar ee by the various Governments and that this study, together with the suggestions, be likewise submitted That all permanent appointments to the staff of Unesco made before the General Conference has acted upon names submitted in the above respects, be subjectto such decision as that Conference might reach. Prof. AUGER (France) said that the excellent speech of the delegate of Norway would shorten his own and he secondedit in general, agreeing especially about the questionnaires and the organization of work. As regards the living conditions of the staff, he agreed that, while it was necessary to look after them, the staff should not be enabled to live on a scale too much in contrast with that of the country they were in. With regard to the proposed engage- ment of experts to study the conditions of the staff, he hoped this would not mean an increase of staff. He hadlistened with interest to the speeches of the — 580 —   Deputy Director-General, the delegate of Brazil and the delegate of the United States of America. The French delegation considered that the administrative organs should be at the service of the Programme, that a better geographical distribution was needed and a better balance between the administrative staff and those responsible for the Programme. He supported the two resolutionsof the United Kingdom delegation and the resolution of the Australian delegation, with two reservations : in the third paragraph of the Australian resolution, he thought it a mistake to shut the Secretariat in too closely by refusing an increase of personnel; he therefore proposed the insertion of the word «substantial» before «expansion». As regards the United King- dom resolutions, he did not agree with the last paragraph (4) which, although not inexact, should be discussed with item 6 of the Agenda. The French delegation was very moved by the suggestions of the delegates of Brazil and the United States of America regarding living conditions for the staff; the problems encountered by Unesco in Paris were delicate ones, as they were for any inter- national organization, wherever its headquarters were; the United Nations also had its housing pro- blem. He thought there was every advantage in studying ways of obtaining better living conditions and promised that the Director-General would have the co-operation and assistance of all relevant French departments. Dr. WALKER (Australia) observed that they had a number ofresolutions before them, some of them to be submitted to the Conference for decisions and others merely being recommendations for the Com- missions. He suggested that they vote on the recommendations, and those to be submitted to the Conference would have to be submitted to the Drafting Committee. As regards the Australian proposal, he could not accept the addition of the word «substantial», proposed by the French dele- gate, as he thought the presentstaff would be ade- quate for the next year. As regards the Norwegian proposals, these should be considered by the Drafting Committee before submission to the Conference. Although agreeing in principle, he did not support the actual proposals. Referring to the last paragraph of the second resolution concerning permanent contracts, he thought that firm salaries must be offered in order to obtain good people, although allowances could be subject to change. With regard to the engagement of experts, the Executive Board had already decided to establish a small panel of expert advisers and he hoped the Conference would not set up an additional one; further, the Director- General was the chief administrative officer and had already spoken of seeking expert advice. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied to questions raised by delegates. He noted the inte- resting comments of the delegate of Brazil regarding administration and the danger of having too strong a hold on top and overburdening the staff with too rigid administrative procedures. The Secretariat was aware of this danger, but the Commission had seen the Auditors’ Report and would appreciate the necessity of adequate controls, so that the Director- General could take full responsibility for the actions of the Organization. He thought there was still some misunderstanding regarding distinction be- tween the administrative and programme personnel It was impossible for the so-called programme personnel to carry on the programme, unless they had full translating, roneo and conference services, otherwise their work would be of no avail. With regard to the American delegate’s precise question as to whether the Secretariat had considered establishing a fully-fledged co-operative, great difficulties had been encountered, as they had no authority to use the funds of the Organization for this purpose, and wondered if it would be possible to attach a clause to the resolution concerning the Revolving Fund, explaining that they needed working capital to set up the co-operative. The same thing applied to the housing question. It had also been asked whether a special exchange rate could be obtained from the French Government. The matter had never been raised formally with the French Government, but the Secretariat would do so if the Conference wished. As regards the necessity for the staff to make purchases on the black market, he reminded the meeting that, although salaries were stated in dollars, payments were made in francs and the staff only received the official exchange rate. With regard to relations with the French Govern- ment under the Agreement on Privileges and Immu- nities, Unesco had the happiest personal relation- ships with the individuals concerned and the French Government had been very co-operative regarding exemption from French taxation, but difficulties had been encountered concerning the importation of food ; a recent cable confirmed that a shipment was still held up by the Customs authorities. They must, however, consider the language of the Agreement, Article VI stating that the Secretariat was exempt from duties on articles for its official use, and Article X laying down that the Director-General and senior staff would be accorded immunities; it was therefore wondered how the Organization managed to consume all the goods imported for the co- operative. He thanked the delegate of Norway for his excellent speech and, referring to the payment of children’s allowances, remarked that they were based on — 581 —
374             Regulation 36 ofthe Staff Regulations, established by thelast General Conference. The developmentofscales pu was in accordance with the scales of the United ations and other international bodies, based on the rate of pay of the League of Nations. As regards the allowances, the whole system was under review and the daily allowance was to be replaced by a more satisfactory system. No one was yet eligible for the education allowance, which would comeinto force in March 1948. The installation allowance was not paid to anyone without a permanent contract. The inerease of 18 per cent on salaries was a rectification of a mistake made in March 1946, when salaries had been reduced by 15 per cent. It had been asked that salary scales should be stated as subject to re- examination by the next Conference, but this would make it difficult to obtain good people, as required in other recommendations of delegates. The CHAIRMAN observed that the Rapporteur had been asked to incorporate all the resolutions in a single resolution and he therefore called upon him to present it. The RAPPORTEUR mentioned that it had been a very difficult task, but that he had done his best. To meet the Brazilian proposal, he had added para- graph (f), and he had incorporated the two United States ‘resolutions, ‘and part of the Australian and United Kingdom resolutions and also earlier Mexican and Indian resolutions. The Resolution started with an appreciation of the work done by the Secre- tariat and then advocated the obtaining of permanent staf! and the elimination of waste expenditure and unsuitable staff. Certain points had been left out : ‎لان the Deputy Director-General’s speech should be circulated, because if this were done delegates would ask that theirs should be circulated also; (2) the suggestion of the United Kingdom that reduction should be made under Chapter 2 of the Budget; (3) the Norwegian proposals, which he had left out becauseit was his personal opinion that they had had a most thorough debate on the subject and the Director-General should be given a chance before a Committee of Experts was created : such a Com- mittee would paralyse all action while their reports were awaited. If the resolution was approved by the Commission, he proposed that it should be transmitted to the Drafting Committee. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the report with the reservation that the Norwegian proposals should be transmitted both to the Draftmg Com- mittee and to the Budget Sub-Commission. The report was then read : The General Conference desires to place on record (1) its appreciation ofthe services rendered by the Secretariat in circumstances of extreme difficulty, (2) its conviction that the period of improvisation is drawing to a close and that every effort should now be made to build up a permanent staff with as adequate security as possible, while at the same time eliminating all wasteful and unnecessary expenditure, and eliminating from the Secretariat such members as have not shown themselves equal to their task. To this end the General Conference resolves z (a) That at the earliest possible time the Director-General shall initiate a long-term appointment policy; в (b) That, in recruiting, more attention shall be paid to the factor of equitable geographic distribution than has been the case heretofore and that the Director-General avail himsölf of the assistance that may be provided by the United Nations, Member States and National Commissions or co-operating bodies; (c) That immediate steps be taken by the Director-Generaj to replace the present daily living allowance by a system of allowances which ensures a more equitable reflection in staff compensation of those variable and special costs that are not covered by compensation in the form of salary, and which must be covered to assure the staff an adequate standard of living; d That the Director-General immediately undertake a re-examination of the staff with a view to ensuring that only such persons as are definitely qualified for the tasks to which they are assigned shall be retained on the staff; and (e) That the Director-General shall at the earliest date possible dismiss persons whom he deems not competent or whose services are unsatisfactory; f) That the Director-General shall re-open negotiations with the French Government with a view to endeavouring to obtain such concessions regarding import duties, exchange rates and other matters affecting the cost of living in Paris, as may permit the better functioning of the organs of Unesco and in particular the Secretariat. The Administrative and External}Relations Commission desires to draw the attention of the Budget Sub -Commission to this resolution, and especially to those points that directly affect the Budget for 1948. The CHAIRMAN requested Dr. Martinez Baez of Mexico, Professor Photiades of Greece and Mr. Ash- faque Husain of India to try to combine in one single resolution all the proposals that had been made regarding staff questions, and to present it to the next mecting. The meeting vose at noon.    FOURTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 Novembre 1947, at 11.30 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). Resolutions on Staff Questions. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) announced that, with the help of the delegates of Greece and India, he had drafted a resolution the previous evening, combining the various proposals on staff questions submitted to the Commission; the Secretary of the Commission had also been very helpful. It was decided,after discussion, that the proposal, which had been drafted in English, should be read and discussed paragraph by paragraph. The Introduction and paragraph (1) were adopted. Paragraph (2) was read and discussed by the Commission. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) remarked that the question of «regional distribution» mentioned in this paragraph was not sufficiently specific; for example, it was customary to include in the general term «Latin America» at least twenty countries which were, in some cases, completely different in character. It would be better to provide for «geo- graphical distribution». Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), wished to emphasize that it would be more accurate to substitute the word «supervise» for the words follow closely» in the English text., Prof. PHOTIADES(Greece) stated that 1 {had been decided the previous evening, as the delegate of Uruguay had wisely suggested, to use the expression «geographical distribution ». As regards the matter raised by the delegate of Brazil, it would be advisable not to use too rigid an expression in this instance, as a constitutional question within the scope of the Director-General was involved. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) wished to point out that the draft resolution had been considered in detail the previous evening and that he was against any change in the wording; the suggestion from the delegate of Brazil introduced an entirely different idea from that expressed in the resolution : the part to be played by the Executive Board was entirely passive underthe terms of the text under discussion, but it would be an active part if the amendment proposed by the Brazilian delegate were accepted. Paragraph (2), as amended, was adopted. Paragraph (3) was read and discussed by the Commission. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) asked for an explana- tion of the meaning of the «other institutions > mentioned in paragraph (3). Were they national, international, scientific or other institutions? Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) said that, in drafting the resolution, he had used the word « institutions » to cover cerfain universities of very wide academie range and entirely independent of their respective governments, from which it might be possible to seek advice in recruiting competent staff. He asked for the word to be written with a capital «I» in the text. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United. States of America) consi- dered that the expression «other Institutions» was not sufficiently precise. If Unesco were to maintain relations with universities, independently of the National Commissions, the way would, to some extent, be opened for action also independent of the Com- missions; it was therefore desirable that Unesco's relations with universities should be established through the National Commissions, The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the Director-General should be able to seek assistance from any quarter in recruiting competent staff;it was indeed necessary that he should have this privilege. This resolution might be considered as advice to the Director-General containing certain recommendations to him on his general administra- tive policy. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) proposed the follo- wing amendment: Or, where there is no National Commission, other educa- tional, scientific or cultural Institutions. He wished to emphasize, however, that it was better to act through the National Commissions when they were in existence. Prof. PHOTIADES(Greece), replying to the objec- tion raised by the delegate of the United States of America, reminded the meeting of the article in the Unesco Constitution providing that the Director- General had full liberty of communication. This system of giving the Director-General complete — 583 —
374.             discretion proved efficient in dealings with purely official National Commissions; it was indeed advi- sable that the Director-General should be entitled to consult independent universities which were not under the control of the National Commissions. Dr.KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed with the delegate of Greece and the Deputy Director- General, but would prefer a less ambiguous expres- sion than «and other Institutions», for Member States were not Institutions; he proposed that the words «and other sources of information» should be substituted. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew atten- tion to the fact that if «or» were changed to «and», it would be necessary to apply to all sources of information. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) proposed that the conditional mood should be used instead of the future tense ; this would make consulta- tion possible but not obligatory. Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) agreed with the dele- gate of the United States of America so far as con- cerned the expression «sources ofinformation »but he saw no objection to substituting «or» for «and»; this would ‘leave the necessary discretion to the Director-General. Dr. R. WALKER (Australia) considered that it was necessary to consult National Commissions and Member States in selecting candidates, as they possessed specialized organizations dealing with such matters, whereas the great universities often had no such machinery. The delegate of Australia therefore proposed that the words «or other Institutions» should be omitted. The SECRETARY wished to point out that the purpose of the delegate of India, who had proposed this resolution, but who was not present, had been to stress the fact that the Director-General should recruit staff not on personal recommendations, but through organizations, institutions, etc. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) said that he favoured the expression «other sources of information», as he had himself encountered serious difficulties, in certain countries, with purely official National Com- missions. He also emphasized that there were some very old universities which had been able to develop special machinery for the selection and recruitment of the necessary staff. M. ABRAHAM(France) supported the proposals from the Deputy Director-General and the delegate of Greece. He said that the field covered by Unesco was so wide that,if a rigid form of words were used, the Director-General might be prevented from obtaining valuable advice. He proposed the following amendments to the French translation of the resolution : winvité d» instead of «chargé de» and «impartiale» instead of wavec droituren. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) mentioned the possibility of errors in the French text, which had been translated in haste; this matter would be dis- cussed later. The CHAIRMANstated that an adequate transla- tion would be made subsequently; the meeting was now voting on the English version. With the amendment : «If necessary...», para- graph 3 was finally adopted. Paragraph (4) was read and discussed by the Commission. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) commented on the time allowed for action : if the Director-General were asked to institute the review «as soon as possible », it would be impossible for him to submit his report in February, as he was asked to do in paragraph (4). Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) suggested that it would be advisable to omit the word «integrity», which had an ethical connotation, and which was therefore likely to involve difficult enquiries regard- ing the conduct of the staff. He also proposed that the word «fair» should be substituted, in the English text, for the word «even», as the former was closer to the meaning of the word « équitable » in the French version. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) wished to point out that paragraph (4) was based on two proposals which he had previously submitted to the Commission. He said that he was in favour of retaining the word «integrity» for the following reasons: (a) it was a word which had been carefully consi- dered by the United Nations Commission ; (b) italso implied that the members of the staff were to observe the undertaking they had given to act as good international officials; (c) the word appeared in Article VI of the Unesco Constitution. Thedelegate of the United States of America raised no objection to the substitution of the word «fair» for the word «even». He also pointed out that this paragraph in the resolution was a condensation of two proposals submitted by the United States delegation and did not entirely reproduce the intention of those pro- posals. The paragraph referred to «replacing or re-grading» certain unsuitable members of the staff;
584 —    it was entirely illogical to speak of «re-grading» incompetent people and it would be preferable to dismiss them. The delegate of the United States therefore proposed that the words «or re-grading » should be omitted. Lastly, he proposed that the part of the text cor- responding to the second proposal from the United States delegation should be separated and included as a separate paragraph in the resolution. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) stated (1) that so far as the word «integrity» was concerned, he had nothing to add to the remarks of the delegate of the United States of America; (2) that he agreed that «fair» should be substituted for «even »; (3) that the second proposal from the United States delegation should be included as a separate paragraph, in accordance with the United States’ suggestion. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) remarked that an enquiry regarding the moral qualities of the international staff of Unesco, as recruited through governments or international organizations, seemedto be intended. Who would be responsible for such an enquiry, and would it be private and confidential? This suggestion appeared to throw suspicion on the international Secretariat and it was therefore desi- rable that it should be omitted. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico), speaking on behalf of the Drafting Committee, stated that he had been instructed to include various informal resolutions similar to those of the United States of America. In reply to the objection raised by the delegate of Brazil, he wished to emphasize that the Director- General might have justifiable doubts about the competence and integrity of certain members of the Staff. It was not correct to say that recruiting had been done by the Executive Board, which,in fact, had only been informed of the appointment of the officials and had had no partin making the appointments. Unesco should, therefore, not hesitate to undertake a wide enquiry concerning the staff. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) explained the intention of his suggestion; he agreed with the substance of the resolution, but was anxious to modify the wording; it was possible to achieve the desired result without going into details which might injure Unesco in the eyes of the public. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) remarked that, on the other hand, if this text were adopted, the Director- General's power to select, remove and replace staff would be strengthened ; his difficulties in this matter were well known. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) considered that para- graph (4) was incomplete, as the Commission was also concerned in this matter. M. ABRAHAM (France) asked that the wording should be altered to read «with a view to re-grading the members of the staff or, if necessary, replacing them ». The CHAIRMAN announced that this question would be considered at a subsequent meeting, together with the second resolution from the United States delegation. The motion by the delegate of Brazil was rejected. The amendment by the delegate of the United States of America was adopted. Thefirst part of the amendment by the Canadian delegate was withdrawn; the second part of his amendment was adopted. The amendment of the delegate of Czechoslovakia was rejected. Paragraph (4) was adopted, with the foregoing amendments. The following text of the resolutions so far adopted was read : The General Conference: While appreciating the difficulties involved in the recruit- ment of staff and in organizing the Secretariat during 1947, and noting the action taken by the Executive Board and the Nominations Committee of the Executive Board during that year, considers that every effort must now be made to build up a permanent staff with adequate security, while at the same time avoiding wasteful and unnecessary expenditures. To this end, the General Conference resolves : en That at the earliest possible time the Director-General should initiate a long-term appointment policy, subject to the Staff Regulations in force. it 2. That in the selection ofstaff due importance be attached to the consideration of geographical distribution. In this connexion the Director-Generalis instructed to take adequate measures to improve the present unsatisfactory situation, and the Executive Board is requested to follow closely the implementation of this policy.
3. That in implementing the recruitment policy the Direc- tor-General should avail himself of all possible assistance from the United Nations, the Specialized Agencies, Member States, National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies, or, if necessary, other sources, with a view to ensuring integrity of selection on an impersonal basis.
4. That the Director-General is instructed to institute, as soon as possible, a review of the experience, qualifications and achievements of present staff members with a view to replacing those staff members who do not measure up to the high standards of competence, integrity and efficiency which must be expected of staff members of Unesco, or whose services are no longer required in the light of changesin the Programme approved for the year 1948; and, further, to request the Director-General to report on the progress achieved in this review to the Executive Board at its meeting in February 1948, and to complete the review by 31 March
1948. In this connexion, the Executive Board and the Director-General should also bear in mind the consideration of fair geographical distribution. The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m. — 585 —              FIFTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). Resolutions on Staff Questions (continuation.) The CHAIRMAN submitted to the members the additional paragraph proposed by the United States after paragraph (4) : That the Director-General is instructed to include in the review ‘of qualifications of personnel of the Secretariat, a consideration of the salary and grading of each incumbent and to effect at the earliest possible moment the necessary re-grading where indicated. The Commission approved the additional paragraph suggested by the United States. Paragraph (5). M. MORAVIA (Secretariat), speaking for the Deputy Director-General, suggested some changes in the wording. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) said his delegation was in general agreement with the resolution but felt that the wording suggested by the Secretariat was helpful. He was, therefore, incor- porating these suggestions as an amendment to paragraph (5), which would now read :
(5) That the Director-General is instructed to make a study of the various grades of salary for the staff, bearin in mind the real emoluments of the officials of the Unite Nations and Specialized Agencies and various governments holding posts of corresponding duties and responsibilities, particularly those living in Paris. The results of this study shall be submitted to the Executive Board and for considera- tion at the next General Conference. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) moved acceptance of the resolution. It was approved by the delegates. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America), in discussing Paragraph (6), proposed a few changes in the wording. He wished to replace «...and to consider the possibility of replacing it by a system of allowances, which will ensure a more equitable compensation...» by »...and to consider the possi- bility of replacing this allowance by providing the staff with other facilities, including special services as indicated in resolution No. 7». The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt that the changes proposed in paragraph (6) would tie the hands of the Administration 1n such a way that it could not develop a system comparable to that of the United Nations. It should be remembered that the standard practice of the United Nations was based on the long international experience of the League of Nations and the International Labour Organization. He asked whether it was the wish of the delegates to do away entirely with the per diem allowance and limit action to that suggested in Paragraph (7). This was a very disturbing thought, since the measures confained in le (7) did not deal with the rapidly rising cost of hotels and the rise in the price of coal, gas and electricity in Paris. He suggested that the wording of paragraph (6) should remain as it had been suggested by the Drafting Committee. Senator BROOKES (Rapporteur) pointed out that the change proposed by the United States delegation would deprive the Secretariat of the possibility of granting any living allowance at all. He asked the United States delegation to consider the following modification : .. including special facilities as in paragraph 7. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) supported the Deputy Director-General’s remarks. If the Commis- sion adopted too rigid a system, it would be placing the Secretariat and the Director-General in a very difficult position. For instance, there was a serious danger of a coal strike in Paris in the coming winter. If the text adopted by the Commission were too rigid, the Director-General would not be able to give members of the Secretariat an allowance for coal. It was imperative, in order to get a minimum of efficiency, that the Secretariat be given a maximum of security. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) asked whether it would be satisfactory to the Rapperteur if the United States’ amendment were worded thus; «and to consider the possibility of reducing or replacing this allowance by providing thestaff...» Following interventions by the delegations of GREECE, NEW ZEALAND, POLAND and AUSTRA- LIA, the members of the Commission agreed upon the following wording for paragraph (6) : — 586 —    That the Director-General is instructed to examine without delay the question ofthe daily living allowance and to con- sider the possibility of replacing this allowance by a system ofallowances, taking into account the specialfacilities indicated in paragraph 7, which will ensure a2 more equitable compensa- tion for those variable and special costs of living that are not taken into account in fixing salaries and which are necessary to ensure for the staff an adequate standard of living. Paragraph (6) was unanimously approved. In the discussion of Paragraph (7), Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that all efforts to take the steps indicated in (a), (b) and (c) had been blocked because the Administration lacked the necessary authority for appropriation of capital for these purposes. He submitted a resolution stating that the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion should suggest to the Budget Sub-Commission that a portion of the working capital be advanced for these purposes, subject to the approval of the Executive Board. Paragraph (7), incorporating the Australian proposal, was unanimously approved. Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that the Budget Sub-Commission was pressed for time and wished the Commission to approve a resolution based on paragraph (3) of the previous Australian resolu- tion, which would read as follows: In view of the problems involved in recruitment, training and management of the staff, the Commission recommends to the Budget Sub-Commission that the budget to be approved by the General Conference should not provide for any consi- derable expansion, over the next twelve months, in the total number of positions in the Secretariat as at the present date. His motion was seconded by the delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. The Australian motion was unanimously approved. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. SIXTEENTH MEETING Monday, 24 November 1947, at 11 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN. Lib-=Wu (China). Item 6 of the Agenda : Organization Questions (continuation). The GHAIRMAN announced that the General Committee had decided that the principle and admini- stration of grants-in-aid would be discussed in the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion, while the nature of grants-in-aid would be discussed by the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) stressed the complexity of the problem presented by the organization of the Secretariat ; it could not be solved by piecemeal reso- lutions passed by the General Conference on matters such assalary, living conditions,scale of contributions relations with the specialized agencies, however important these matters might be in themselves. He deplored the small attendance at the meetings of the Commission; the absence of so many delegates detracted from the weight of the criticisms made and resolutions passed by the Commission. It was essential that the Organization be considered as a whole and that precise plans for a permanent Secre- tariat be drawn up. Co-ordination was urgently needed. He suggested that the technical heads of the main sections should be assisted by adminis- trative advisers, who would act as liaison between the sections and the central administration and relieve the heads of sections of much administrative work. Manyof the criticisms levelled against the Secretariat arose from this lack of co-ordination; there was much overlapping; there was repetition in the abundance of documents circulated, and their classification required systematization. Referring to the proposal of the delegate of Australia that a small sub-com- mittee of the Executive Board be formed to assist the Director-General in administrative and financial matters, he proposed a sub-committee of three experts in administration. The terms of the resolu- tion he submitted were as follows : The Administrative and External Relations Commission Considering that the administrative organization of the Secre- tariat depends on many factors of varied character, impossible to co-ordinate in the short time at the disposal of, and in the atmosphereof, the General Conference, Considering that these factors have in many respects a special technical character which the Conference is unable to take into consideration when appointing the members of the Executive Board, Considering that the year of experience already obtained and the year of experience to be gained in 1948 will enable the creation of an organization in a permanent and final form, Consideringthat the rules of procedure relating to quorums are not effective enough to obtain them, - 587 -      Resolves to recommend to the Second General Conference of Unesco the adaption of the following resolutions:
1. That the Executive Board appoint as soon as possible a Committee of three specialists in administration, who will be responsible for the two major systems of centralization and administrative autonomy, in order to prepare, with the assistance of the Secretariat, a plan of rationalization of all the internal and external services of the Secretariat, which plan should be submitted, if possible, with the Budget for
1949 to the Third General Conference.
2. That the Executive Board should study the desirability of presenting to the Third General Conference the amendments necessary to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, in order that the Commissions and Committees of the Confe- rence may not be subject to the provisions of Rules 38 and
62 with regard to the quorum. He explained that the second part of the proposal was intended to produce a permanent procedure to apply equally to all Commissions and Committees of the Conference. The SECRETARY, replying to two further ques- tions raised by the delegate of Uruguay, said that the projet on the treatment of Member States which ad not paid their contributions had been referred to the Drafting Committee and that the final text would be submitted to the Commission; the ques- tion of the creation of places for alternates on the Executive Board had been referred by the General Committee to the Procedure Committee. The CHAIRMAN ruled that the second part of the Uruguayan proposal should be referred to the General Committee, together with a letter also from the delegate of Uruguay, dated 14 November 1947, recommending that no question be discussed by any part of the General Conference until the relevant documents were translated into the working lan- guages. He noted that the English text of this resolution should read : « ... at least the permanent working languages». Dr. RODRIGUEZ (Cuba) seconded the proposal of the delegate of Uruguay. Dr. WALKER (Australia) said that the Executive Board had already adopted a proposal and included in its Rules of Procedure the terms of reference of an Advisory Panel on Finance and Administration, details of which were given in Appendix II of docu- ment 2C/103. These Rules were subject to the decision of the Conference and would take effect if no objections were made at the Conference. He thought it wiser, therefore, to avoid suggesting additional committees on administrative matters and laying down subjects for consideration by them. Referring to the Norwegian proposal to appoint experts in organization and efficiency for the purpose of streamlining the staff and organization of Unesco, and reducing the cost of administration, he pointed out that these matters formed part of the responsi- bility of the Director-General. Finally the Proce- dure Committee was reviewing the Rules of Proce- dure of the Conference and the Executive Board would consider any other necessary amendment when preparing the work of the next General Confe- rence. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) said that, while he had realized that the Executive Board had been consi- dering the creation of a committee on administration, he had not seen document 2C/103. Since the esta- blishment of a Panel of Experts had been approved, he agreed not to press his resolution, provided that the two tendencies of centralized administration and autonomy for these sections were represented on the Panel and that it paid special attention to rationalizing the work of the Secretariat. Dr. WALKER (Australia) agreed that the problem of the balance between centralized control and the autonomy of the sections was exceedingly important and worthy of careful consideration. ; The SECRETARY announced that the Secretariat of the Executive Board had been asked to circulate document 2G/103, which would be handed to delegates immediately. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) observed that there was only one Secretariat and not several. He asked that this remark be recorded. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL, in a state- ment on the organization of the Secretariat, said that the Director-General was aware of the shortcomings of the Organization. Like the Programme, the Organization had evolved under great pressure. Sections had had to be added in order to deal with urgent work before the organizational implications could be considered. At present too many staffs were competing for the time of the Directors and there were too many small units whose functions were not sufficiently distinct. A plan for regrouping had already been prepared which would remedy these faults. It would be modified slightly as a result of the decisions on the Programme adopted by the Conference, and put into effect as soon as possible. The aim would be to improve efficiency, reduce overhead costs and increase autonomy as far as possible. Somecentralized control would have to be maintained, since the Director-General was solely responsible for the administration of the whole organization. The SECRETARY announced that the delegate of Brazil had asked that the following proposal be submitted to the Commission : The Administrative and External Relations Commission recommends that, in the organization of the Secretariat, the administrative officers shall perform their function of super- — 588 —    vision and co-ordination without prejudice to the necessary initiative and independence of the technical sectionsin charge of the educational, scientific and cultural programme of Unesco. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) considered the con- demnation of the administration contained in this proposal too crude to be acceptable. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) noted that the organization of the Secretariat was the responsibility of the Director-General and not of the General Conference. He wished, however, to have some detailed information on the structure of the Secretariat and accordingly, moved the following resolution : The Administrative and {External Relations Commission. Resolves : That the General Conference instructs the Director-General to issue as soon as possible a statement of the basic premises upon which the organization of the Secretariat is established, and to make available for public distribution a clear description of the organizational structure established to carry out the Programme approved by this General Conference. It is understood that this will in no way restrict the flexibility of the organization, or prevent the Administration from modifying the organizational structure asj programme needs require. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) recalled that much time had already been spent in discussion of the size, character and remuneration of the Secre- tariat. He thought the Deputy Director-General had made a sufficiently comprehensive statement and he submitted a resolution summarizing the points made by the Deputy Director-General. He thought this proposal would in no way conflict with that put forward by the delegate of the United States of America and a combined text might be agreed. The Administrative and External Relations Commission, having heard a preliminary statement by the Deputy Director- General concerning a possible re-arrangement of the structure of the Secretariat, and after considering the question of the size, character, remuneration and structure of the Secretariat, and having already passed resolutions concerning its size, character and remuneration, proposes the following resolution to the General Conference, concerning the organization of the Secretariat. The General Conference assembled at its Second Session, recognizing that the responsibility for the efficient organi- zation and operation of the Secretariat rests with the Director- General, resolves : That as soon as the Programme for 1948 has been adopted by the General Conference at its Second Session, the Director- General should re-organize and re-group, as soon as possible, the Secretariat in the form most suited to carry out the Pro- gramme, and that he should report to the Executive Board on the action taken to implement this resolution. Discussion of these two resolutions was adjourned until the following meeting. The meeting rose at 1.35 р. т. ISEVENTEENTH MEETING Monday, 24 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu(China). Item 6 of the Agenda : Organization Questions (continuation). The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and said that the delegations of the United Kingdom and the United States of America had agreed to submit the following resolution : The General Conference, assembled at its Second Session, recognizing that responsibility for the efficient organization and operation of the Secretariat rests with the Director- General, resolves :
1. That, as soon as the Programme has been adopted by the General Conference, at its Second Session, the Director- General shall make, as soon as possible, the necessary adjust- ment in the structure of the Secretariat to carry out that Programme. “9. That the Director-General issue as soon as possible a statement of the basic premises upon which the organization of the Secretariat is being established, and make available for public distribution a clear description of the organization structure established to carry out the Programme approved by this General Conference.‘
3. That this resolution shall in no way restrict ‘the flexi- bility nor prevent the modification of the organizational structure as programme needs require.
4. That the Director-General shall report to the Executive Board on the action taken to implement this resolution. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded this reso- lution. Mr. CHRISTENSEN (Norway) asked for a discus- sion of the resolution. Its first paragraph appeared to him superfluous. It was obvious that the Director- General would have to take the necessary steps to carry out the programme. As regards paragraph 2, Mr. Christensen said that he would prefer it to be — 689 —     replaced by some wording which would emphasize the need for giving the Secretariat a structure more permanent than its present one. The delegate of FRANCE said that he did not oppose the resolution presented by the United Kingdom and the United States. He would like nevertheless to explain how France considered it should be interpreted. He thought that the structure of the ec Secretariat should not be subjected to constant changes of programme, which would cause a dangerous dispersal of effort. The structure according to sections should be preserved, it being of course understood that changes which an intelligent execution of the programme might at any time require should be made. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) agreed with the views of the French delegate. He further suggested insert- ing in paragraph 2, after the word «clear», the words «and concise », for he thoughtthat the public might not be interested in too detailed a statement Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia), like the Norwe- gian delegate, thought that the first paragraph was superfluous. He further expressed the view that the structure of the Secretariat should be subject to continual change. He proposed that the first para- graph should be suppressed. The third paragraph too seemed to him to be equally unnecessary. The CHAIRMAN put the amendment proposed by the delegate of Norway (suppression of the first para- graph) to the vote. This amendment was rejected. He then put to the vote the various paragraphs of the resolution. Paragraphs 1 and 2 were approved. Paragraph 3 was approved with the addition of the words «and concise » after the word «clear». Para- graph 4 was approved. (1) Mr. CHRISTENSEN (Norway) said that the Execu- tive Board should be informed of the steps taken by the Director-General before the general public. The CHAIRMAN thought that obviously the Director-General would inform the Executive Board, before informing the general public, of what had been done. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) agreed. Item 5 (b) of the Agenda : Review of Staff Regulations. The Commission then passed to an examination of Regulations 11, 21, 26, 28 and 29 of the Staff Regulations. In the case of Regulation 11, the United States had proposed the following new draft : €) Resolution IX, Annex VI; vol, II, page 53. There shall be set up for all members of the staff a system of classification and a scale ofsalaries to be submitted for the approval of the General Gonfereece. Changes during the year required by emergency conditions must be approved in advance by the Executive Board subject to review by the noxt General Conference. The Director-General shall, however, be authorized to employ, where necessary to the work of the Organization, temporary personnelon special limited-term contracts outside the permanentclassification plan. In this form Regulation 11 was approved‘. In Regulations 21 and 26 it was proposed to replace the words «Executive Board» by the words « General Conference». This alteration was approved. In the case of Regulations 28 and 29, the Seere- variet proposed the following alterations : In Regulation 28, paragraph 1, replace the word « Tribunal » by the words «Appeals Board ». Suppress the second paragraph of Regulation 28. In the case of Regulation 29, adopt the following new text : Any dispute arising between the Organization and a member of the stall regarding the fulfilment of the contract of a member of the staff or arising out of disciplinary action may be referred bythe staff member concerned to an Appeals Board, to be established by the Executive Board on the model set by the United Nations. The Board shall consist offive members : a chairman, to be nominated by the Executive Board, two members appointed by the Director-General, and two members representing the staff. Dr. ZANIEWICKI (Poland) asked whether the Chairman of the Appeals Board was to be chosen by the Executive Board from among its own members or from among the Secretariat. The CHAIRMAN replied that full discretion would be left to the Executive Board. A discussion then took place on the actual text of the Regulation, which appeared to lack the necessary clarity. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) thoughtthat the text should be revised so as to show clearly that the Appeals Board would consist of a Chairman nomi- nated by the Executive Board, two members ap- pointed by the Director-General and two other members appointed by the staff. It was agreed that the Regulation should be revised accordingly. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) then proposed that the words «by the staff member concerned» should be suppressed. He thought, in this connexion, that the Director-General himself should be able, if necessary, to have recourse to the Appeals Board. A discussion took place on this subject. The Chairman put to the vote the Uruguayan delegate’s amendment, which was rejected.
(2) Resolution IX, Annex Vj vol. II, page 524 — 590 —    The newdrafting of Regulations 28 and 29 was approved. The delegate of FRANCE then said he wished to raise in the Commission the question of the post of «Programme Co-ordinator», mentioned in docu- ment 20/92, He reminded the meeting that at the last General Conference it had been decided that Heads of Sections should be directly responsible to the Director-General. As it was, it was possible that they might now be separated from the Director- General by a double screen in the shape of the Ad- ministrative Management and Budget Section on the one hand and the Programme Co-ordinator on the other. Since Unesco already had a Director-General, a Deputy Director-General and an Assistant Director- General, it did not seem to need a Programme Co-ordinator, of grade 19, whose duties threatened to overlap those of the threeother officials in ques- tion. In the interests of economy, and as there was every advantage in the Heads of Sections being directly responsible to the Director-General, the French delegation asked for the post of Programme Co-ordinator to be suppressed. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he was quite prepared to examine the French delegate's suggestion. He recailed however that at the begin- ning of the meeting a resolution had been adopted which left the Director-General full discretion to create any posts required for the execution of the programme. Moreover the DeputyDirector-General thought there was a slight misunderstanding about this matter. The Director-General had an assistant who was in charge of the Co-ordination of Pro- grammes. This assistant was under his direct control and could not prevent Heads of Sections from having direct access to the Director-General when the latter was prepared to receive them. The term « Programme Co-ordinator » was an unfortunate one which had crept into document 2C/92 in error. It was not used anywhere else. Moreover,it should be remembered that Heads of Sections necessarily took a specialized view of the various matters with which the Organization was concerned and it was no bad thing that someone should be responsible for ensur- ing the necessary co-ordination between programme sections. Finally, the Deputy Director-General thought that the General Conference, which had made the Director-General responsible for carrying out the Programme, should leave him all possible freedom to do so. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) asked whether the Commission was really entitled to deal with this matter. The CHAIRMAN replied that it would perhaps be out of place actually to adopt a resolution on it, but there was nothing to stop the Commission from dis- cussing it and making suggestions to the Director- General. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought that, from a practical point of view, the Programme Co-ordinator had been an obstacle to the proper functioning of the Secretariat ever since his post had been set up. The fact of his existence had consider- ably reduced contacts between the Director-General and Heads of Sections, as a result ofwhich the work of the latter had suffered considerably. The Bra- zilian delegate said he entirely supported the French motion. Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) said that be had no objection to a Programme Co-ordinator. He sug- gested that the Commission should confine itself to informing ‚the Director-General of the present discussion. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) asked that the Deputy Director-General should explain the exact functions of the Director-General, the Deputy Direc- tor-General and the Assistant Director-General. The Commission would then be in a position to say whetherit was necessary to attach to them the high official in question. The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM reminded the meeting that there were a number of documents to which the delegate of India might refer. For his part, he was in favour of the Australian delegate’s suggestion, viz. that the Director-General should be informed of what had taken place at the present meeting. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL, replying to the delegate of India, gave some details about the very heavy responsibilities of the Director-General, the Deputy Director-General and the Assistant Direc- tor-General. He thought it in no wise superfluous for Unesco to have someone responsible, under the control of the Director-General, for co-ordinating the programmes. He quoted an example of this co- ordination. The previous spring, in order to see how far advanced they were with Unesco’s pro- gramme of educational reconstruction, it had been necessary to hold a meeting for which much prepa- ration had been required. In such cases, the ser- vices of someone responsible for co-ordination were by no means wasted. Prof, PHOTIADES (Greece) was surprised that the Brazilian delegate had, as he had just indicated, received the confidences of Heads of Sections and that the latter should have expressed, in regard to the very structure of the Secretariat, a view other thanthat of the Director-General.
691 —         Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) replied that he had been instructed by his Government to find out whether the Secretariat’s internal structure was adequate for achieving the objects of the Member States. He had therefore merely carried out the instructions given him. The RAPPORTEURthought that the members of the present Commission, who were not all members of the Executive Board, had perhaps not enough information to examine the matter in detail. He suggested that it should be left to the Director- General and the Executive Board to take the necessary decisions. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) said that he entirely agreed with the Rapporteur. Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) expressed a similar view. The delegate of FRANCE agreed that the Com- mission should not take a decision on points of detail, but did not think that the question was. in fact, one of detail. He thought they might proceed in one of two ways : either, vote on the French motion, if the Commission thought it could proceed to a vote of this nature ; or record in the minutes the discussion which had taken place. The CHAIRMAN accordingly put to the vote the French delegate’s resolution, worded as follows : The Commission suggests that the post of Programme Co- ordinator mentioned in document 2C/92 be suppressed. The resolution was rejected by 9 votes to 8. The Commission agreed that the statements made in the course of the meeting should be communicated to the Director-General. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) then said he had received a telegram from the Secretary-General of the United Nations. This telegram indicated that it had been decided, during the General Assembly of the United Nations, to draw Unesco’s attention to the relatively large size of its budget, compared with that of the other Specialized Agencies, and that Unesco should make every effort to secure a reduction in its budget. The meeting rose at 6 p. m. EIGHTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 25 November 1947, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China), Item 7 (a) of the Agenda : Relations with Member States.
(1) Representation of Unesco in the main cultural areas of the world (document 2C/50). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat), in presenting the document, asked for consideration to be given to the desirability of establishing regional offices and, if so, of setting up two or three such offices of an experimental character in 1948. Sr. GUELL (Cuba) stressed the importance of an early establishment of regional offices to work with the National Commissions and to remedy the over- centralization of the present organization. While he realized that the immediate creation of such cen- tres was impossible, he urged that the Conference should take a decision on the principle and should indicate the regions of the world in which the first offices should be established. He therefore submit- ted the following resolution : The Second General Conference of Unesco resolves :
1. To establish as soon as possible Regional Offices or Centres of Unesco, to further the aims of the Organization and co-ordinate the latter's work and information activities with those of existing or future National Commissions of Unesco.
2. The Conference in plenary session in 1948 shall determine the geographical regions of the world in which the work of the above mentioned centres would best contribute to the aims of the Organization.
3. To authorize the Executive Board to adopt such reso- lutions as it may think fit for the purpose of promoting and strengthening these bodies.
4. The countries in which such Regional Offices or Centres are established shall undertake to provide adequate office accommodation and also to contribute to the expenses of these offices or Centres. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) thought the Cuban motion did not go far enough. It was necessary — 592 —