The CHAIRMAN : The effect of this amendment is to keep the number of regional conferences to one during the year. Does anyone else wish to speak? If not, may I put the amendment? Dr. Francisco LARROYO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 am of the opinion that the text must allow the possibility, as indicated by the dele- gate of Brazil, of there being one or two or more Regional Conferences. I believe that the point of view of the delegate of Brazil is fully justified. We recognize the importance of fundamental edu- cation throughout the world, and support the idea that fundamental education must not be limited as has sometimes been said, to the backward zones. We think in Mexico, as do other delegations, that education must be fundamentally reformed, both in its principles and in its aims, not only in the dark areas but in the light as well. For this reason - which we shall expound later in relation to another part of the programme — I consider we must leave the way open for Unesco to carry out a greater number of pilot projects. The CHAIRMAN : We are talking now about Regional Conferences and not about pilot projects. The point under discussion is not the number of pilot projects : it is the number of regional conferences. Dr. Francisco LARROYO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 said Mr. Chairman, that I accepted the text proposed by the delegate of Brazil. The rest of what I said was only in support of the text. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I am not quite sure that there is complete agreement here in this Commis- sion on the motion presented by the delegate of Brazil and that submitted by my colleague from Australia. I wonder if we might not all agree on a text drafted in the following manner : ...to define more sharply the area to be included in the programme of future Regional Conferences on Fundamental Education, which are to be organized taking into accountthe budgetary possibilities... The rest would be unchanged. The CHAIRMAN : I wonder whether the dele- gates concerned would perhaps get together during the adjournment and come to some agreement on a resolution to be put to the meeting immediately after lunch. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : T would like a member of the Secretariat to be there too. The CHAIRMAN : You can call upon members of the Secretariat, who will give you any help you need. May I now move that we adjourn until 4 p. m. 1 would ask those who took part in the discussion to come together and draw up a suitable proposal. The meeting rose at 1 : 35 p. m. SIXTH MEETING Friday, 14 November 1948, at 4 p. m. CONTENTS Chapter I. B. — Fundamental Education (continuation) Chairman : Dr C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). The CHAIRMAN : The meeting is open. Dr. Chagas who, as Vice-Chairman, is specially responsible for liaison with the Working Parties, held a meeting this morning with their Chairmen. He would like, for your information, to tell you about that meeting. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) (Vice-Chairman) Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen : I come here to report on the meeting I had this morning with the Chairmen of the Working Parties. 1 explained to. them the view of our Chairman regarding docu- ment 2C/BUR/3, stating that we want to have as == 928; =    many recommendations as possible from the Work- ing Parties and saying that, if no papers were in the hands of our Chairman, we had naturally to go on with the Green Book, but, if any recommen- dation had been submitted, we would go on to the Green Book to which it referred. In this way I think that the Programme Commission will have as many recommendations as possible from the Working Parties. I do not feel, as do many of my colleagues, that in this way we are transforming the Working Parties into sub-commissions. It is my feeling that the recommendations from the Working Parties are just an opinion — a technical or, I would rather say, a specialized opinion. In some instances it may happen that a delegate would like to submit one of the recommendations either as an amendment or a substitute to the Green Book. To meetthis particular case, I recommended the Chairmen to put their recommendations in the most concrete form possible. As a link between our Chairman and the Chairmen the Working Parties, I shall be in Room 6 each day from 10 to 11 a.m. so that, together with the Chairman concerned, we may arrange to lay the paper from any Working Party before our Chair- man in the shortest possible time. A recommenda- tion was also made to bear in mind ¡tem 3 of 2C/ BUR/3, because, when the recommendations can be put forward in a final form, this item allows the Chairman to invite the Chairmen of the Working Parties to present a resumé of the discussions and the point of view arrived at in those discussions. Chapter I. B. — Fundamental Education (continuation). The CHAIRMAN : We are now at the point, you remember, of considering in document 2C/C1/4, presented by the United States delegation, para- graph 3(d) as amended at the suggestion of the delegate of New Zealand. We were discussing an amendment proposed by the delegate of Australia, which would have the effect of limiting to one the number of regional conferences (not pilot projects, but regional conferences) next year. We asked if the members who had been involved in this would get together during lunch time to see if unanimity could be reached. Has the delegate of Australia anything to report? Mr. W.J. WEEDEN (Australia) : The members concerned in that discussion before lunch have discussed the matters during the adjournment. I think I can say that we have all agreed that the amendment suggested by M. Seydoux would be a satisfactory means of overcoming the difficulty. You may like to ask him to read that amendment. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : We have reached agreement on the following drafting of paragraph 3(d) « The Director-General is instructed to define more sharply the areas to be included in the programme of the Regional Conferences on Fundamental Education » (and this nowis the text of my amendment) « which will be organized in the light of the budgetary possibilities». The rest of sub-paragraph (d) would not be modified at all. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone who wishes to speak now to this motion as finally amended? It is part of the original motion now, I presume. If no one wishesto speak, may I put the motion? Is there anyone opposed? If not, we will take it that paragraph 3 (d) as amended is now passed. (1) It will be left to the Drafting Comittee to work it in their own way. We now come to certain conditions applicable to the whole of paragraph 3 which have been proposed by the American delegation. Perhaps we had better take the two conditions separately. The first is : That in further study of the programme, the needs of the individual for the development of his native resources of intelligence, and not merely his economic betterment, be kept in mind. Does the American delegation wish to speak to that? Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of America) : The substance of that particular condi- tion refers to a certain doubt in the minds of some members of our delegation lest there be too much emphasis placed upon economic improvement as a preliminary to carrying out programmes of funda- mental education. There is a causal relationship between economic conditions, on the one hand, and low educational standards on the other and vice versa. Our emphasis here was that, apart from our hope that economic betterment can be accomplished in carrying out the fundamental edu- cation programmes in certain areas, we think that in many cases the programmes can be undertaken now, and that from the successful completion of at least certain stages of those programmes, there will ensue certain economic gains. But it is not necessary to have the economic improvement prece- dent to the carrying out of the programme on funda- mental education.
(1) In final form : Resolution 3.4.10.2 ; vol. II, page 18. = 329     The CHAIRMAN motion? The whole resolution is seconded, I think. Is there any further discussion? It there is no discus- sion, does anyone oppose this condition? In that case, we take it that condition (a) is passed. (2) Condition (b) is : That it is more important to devote Unesco’s efforts to developing Fundamental Education programmes on the basis of community needs and community resources than to try to arrive at an arbitrary conclusion as to a minimum standard of education applicable to all countries and peoples. Does anyone second this Does the United States delegation wish to speak? It reserves its right to speak. Does anyone wish to speak to or to oppose this condition? If there are no objections, condition (b) is passed. (3) We nowpass to paragraph 4 (a).| paragrap In this connexion the Director-General shall give due regard to the following considerations : (a) That the obligation of the more highly developed states includes not only assistance to the less developed areas, but positive action to promote Fundamental Education among the less privileged groups within their own borders. Does the United States delegation or anyone else wish to speak? Does anyone oppose this condition? If not, it 18 passed. (4) Paragraph 4 (b) : That Unesco and its Member States recognize the necessity of utilizing the resources not only of governmental but of all appropriate non-governmental agencies and institutions. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : 1 should like to ask the United States delegationif they would agree to draft paragraph(b) in the following manner : Unesco and its Member States recognize the necessity of utilizing the resources, not only of governmental agencies, but of all appropriate non-governmental agencies after ap- proval by the governments concerned, with which non- governmental institutions should closely collaborate. The CHAIRMAN : This is not an amendment. The French delegate has asked if the Americans will accept it. If mot, it will be for the French dele- gation to move it as an amendment, if they wish. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL as States of America) : We suggest that, after cutilizing» in the second line there be inserted the following words : «after consultation with the government or the national commission of the country concerned »
(2) In final form : Resolution 3.4.13.1 ; vol. II, page 19.
(3) In final form : Resolution 3.4.13.2 ; vol. 1I, page 19.
(4) In final form : Resolution 3.4.13.3 ; vol. 11, page 19. The CHAIRMAN : The passage will now read : That Unesco and its Member States recognize the necessity of utilizing, after consultation with the government or the national commission ofthe country concerned, the resources... That is accepted as part of your motion. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I wish to ask the American delegation if they are prepared to agree to the deletion of four words in the first line. The words are «and its Member States». My reason for asking this is that, as it stands at present, it seems to separate Unesco fromits Member States. I believe that the full intention of the Ame- rican delegation could be obtained without those words, which, I think, add to the difficulty. The CHAIRMAN : Is the American delegation willing to accept that suggestion? The American delegation agrees. If its seconder does not object, the words «and its Member States» will be struck out. Is there any furtherdiscussion? If not, is there anyone who opposesthis motion? As no one opposes it, the motion is passed. (5 We now pass to 4 (e): That the Director-General shall give due regard to the following consideration : That all appropriate means shall be explored to assist the financing of the pilot project in Haiti to which Unesco is committed. Does the American delegation wish to speak to this? Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of America) : 1 believe the various delegates are aware that the documents for both 1947 and 1948 refer to a pilot project in Haiti as having actually been inaugurated. It was, I think, very discom- forting to all of us, including members of the Secre- tariat, to realize recently that some misunderstand- ing concerned with the negotiations about the Haitian project had arisen. The precise circum- stances may not be entirely clear, but it seems a very unfortunate situation had resulted. The members of my delegation, I know, felt very sorry that this had occurred. They felt that to some degree the good faith of Unesco was, perhaps, involved in making every possible effort to try to secure the financial resources to carry on this pilot project which had been under discussion for a considerable time and which, so far as our docu- mentation was concerned, was spoken of as having actually commenced. The Working Party, in a paper 2C/B/2, makes certain suggestions as to a way in which this project, despite the lack of funds on the part of the Haitian
(5) In final form : Resolution 3.4.13.4 ; vol. II, page 20. — 330 —          Government to promote it completely and indepen- dently, could be undertaken. Perhaps it would be more satisfactory if the mem- bers of the delegations would refer to this docu- ment, 20/B/2, page 3, Items 12, and 13, before any further consideration of the particular method by which the project might be commenced. The American delegation is prepared to support in principle this particular solution to the diffi- culty, and I would be glad subsequently to suggest a possible form of words to embody the content of the proposals on page 3 of document 2C/B/2. The CHAIRMAN : You are not including that at the moment in your motion? You will put it forward as an additional motion if this one goes through, presumably. Paragraph 4 (c) has been moved and seconded andthe delegate of Haiti wishes to speak. M. Arthur BONHOMME(Haiti) (Translation from the French) : According to the decisions of the Haitian Government; I would like to state here that we fully support the American proposal that the pilot project should be financed by all the means at the disposal of Unesco. In addition, the reso- lution previously adopted makes the Government's approval necessary for this procedure. Iam pleased to inform the assembly that the Haitian Government has given mefull powers to make agreements with any international or national organization for the implementation of the Haitian pilot project. 1 thank the American delegation in particular for its support of the work we plan to undertake for the benefit of Haiti. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I believe that this project has already been seconded, but the French delegation gives it its full support. Mr. D. FORSYTH (NewZealand) : If this motion is passed, will this be the final discussion of the Haitian project? The CHAIRMAN : No, The American delegation has given notice that it wants to put forward an additional motion concerning methods implementing the one which we are now about to pass. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : In that case I reserve my remarks until then. The CHATRMAN: Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to this? Is anyone opposed to it? If not,
4 0 is passed. (6) ® In final form : Resolution 3.4.11.2.1 ; vol. II, page 19. May I nowtake document 2G/C1/4, as amended, and I put this document as a whole to you. The American delegation moves, and the delegation of Brazil has seconded, that this document. as amen- ded, be passed. Is there any objection? If not, I take it that this document has now been approved by this Commission and the recommen- dations will go to the plenary meeting. I do not know if the American delegation wishes to raise a supplementary motion in connexion with the one jusi passed. You have had distributed the motions put forward by the French delegation, and they will come next. After that will come the recommendations put forward by the British dele- gation, provided that they deal with this point, No. 1 in the Green Book, with which we are con- cerned. After that the delegation of Colombia will speak. I call upon the delegate of the United States of America. Dr. Kendrick. MARSHALL (United States of America) : I suggest the following amendment : It is proposed that Unesco should contribute, in addition to the sumalready budgeted for the Haiti project, a sum not to exceed 20 per cent of the total amount, namely, $ 66,000, on condition that the balance of 80 per cent must be raised from sources outside Unesco and must be in hand before the
20 per cent grant from Unesco is available. It is to be understood, moreover, that the action taken in providing such funds is not to be considered as a precedent for further action in financing other pilot-projects. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone who wishes to speak to this amendment? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) А question, Mr. Chairman : Is the 20 per cent or the total amount, $ 66,000. The CHAIRMAN : I take it that the total amoun is $ 66,000. It was not quite clear to me, I must admit, from the original document 2C/B/2, but from the American motion I think it is. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chair- man, New Zealand is prepared to support this motion, but there are one or two suggestions which the New Zealand delegation would like to make to the Secretariat, if it may. They are not in the form of a motion, but merely as indicating certain lines that it thinks should be followed in any new pilot-project, whether it be the Haitian or an- other project. New Zealand feels that, in handling the new project, there should not be merely a repe- tition of the plans carried out in a previous pro- ject, but that Unesco should arrange that some new techniques should be attempted in each project. The first duty of Unesco in assisting any pilot pro- ject of any national government should be to mexe — 331 —      available the collected material and information that it has, and, if necessary, to provide, even if it has to pay for their provision, some new materials in the way of textbooks, films, film strips and that sort of thing. I believe that, if such materials are not available, it would be desirable that some of the funds of Unesco should be used in the prepara- tion of that material. We know that there are sometimes difficulties of copyright in materials already available and, if Unesco prepares that material, it would be available for all nations that wanted to carry out fundamental education. Finally, I suggest that the duty of the Unesco Secretariat is to see that the next help it gives is by putting one or more advisers, as may be found necessary, into the field to assist the national party which is controlling the project. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I would just like to say, with reference to New Zealand's first point, that the poliey of putting out new techniques or methods in each pilot-project is already, on the recommendations of the Panel of Experts, the settled policy of Unesco. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. Chairman, the Canadian delegation appreciates the reasons why this motion is put forward, calling for direct financial assistance in a pilot-project, and is pre- pared to accept them. We feel, however, that such direct assistance is justified only in the special circumstances that surround the Haitian project. We suggest that the motion as put forward, while it indicates that this should not create a precedent, does not say why this should not create a precedent. I do not think it necessary to amend the motion, but I suggest that the Rapporteur might be instruc- ted, in reporting on this project to the General Conference to give some indication that there were special circumstances, and perhaps broadly what they were. The CHAIRMAN : I take it that the Rapporteur will bear in mind the remark of the Canadian delegate when his report is being prepared. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to this motion? Is there anyone opposed to it? In that case, we may take it that the United States delegation's motion is passed. (7) The United States delegation has no more motions, I presume,in this part of our debate? The French delegation now has the right to speak, and the French delegation's paper, document 2C/C1/3, is before you. Might I suggest that the French dele- gation very carefully consider which parts of these
(7) In final form: Resolution'3. 4.11.2 4; vol. 11, page 19! proposals have already been met by what we have passed this morning, and only put up those parts of its document which are entirely new? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, having studied the reso- lutions which we have already adopted, the French delegation believes that all that is necessary is to discuss paragraphs 1, 3 and 5 of the French resolu- tion contained in document 2C/C1/3. The CHAIRMAN : May I point out to the French delegate that, with regard to paragraph 5, there is a separateWorking Party dealing with the question of language. This 15 dealt with in document 2C/ C/4, and T would ask if the French delegation would be willing to bring up paragraph 5 under Section II D. of the Green Book. The French delegation will have the first right to speak on this under Section. So, if the French delegation is agreeable, that portion can be left, because we shall first have a working paper dealing with language. The French delegate now wishes to put paragraphs 1 and 3 of this document. I call on the French delegate to speak on para- graph 1 of this document. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translationfrom the French) : Mr. Chairman, regarding paragraph 5, what you have just said is in full accordance with the way of thinking of the = French delegation so that we fully support it and thank the Chair for having referred to it. Therefore, we now submit to the Commission paragraphs 1 and 2, on which it may be necessary to vote separately. Paragraph 1 reads : The French delegation pays tribute to the amount of work already done by Unesco for the promotion of the world- wide campaign against illiteracy and the establishment of the principles and methods of Fundamental Education by arrang- ing pilot-projects and regional conferences. The delega- tion requests Unesco to arrange its programme for 1948 on the following lines :
1. Unesco’s rôle will be the diffusion of information. It will make knownthe state of fundamental education in the various countries, by publishing studies on the fundamental education problems confronting educationalists and govern- ments. The Organization should also influence world opin- ion, governments and educationalists by organizing a cam- paign including conferences and the use of the radio, press and cinema. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second the French motion? M. Arthur BONHOMME (Haiti) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I believe that this pro- posal of the French delegation is in contradiction to a vote already taken. This proposal calls upon Unesco to collect and disseminate information, and to conduct studies and enquiries ; but on the proposal +332 —    of the United States delegation, we have already approved that Unesco should continue and develop its programme of Fundamental Education. It seems to me the proposal of the French delegation repre- sents a step backward from the position we took this morning. The CHAIRMAN : The motion of the French delegation has not yet been seconded. M. Seydoux would perhaps like to speak again in continuation of his previous speech. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France (Translation from the French) : 1 should like to answer the misgivings of my colleague from Haiti. There is no question in our minds of going back on what already has been done, or in any way diminishing its scope. On the contrary, it is our desire to extend it by our resolu- tion, which calls essentially for the publication and dissemination on as wide a scale as possible of stud- ies on the problems of fundamental education. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second this French motion? If there is no seconder, the motion will lapse. As there is no seconder, the first motion of the French delegation will lapse and the French delegation will, perhaps, go on to paragraph 3. M. Roger SEYDOUX (не) (Translation from the French) : In the Green Book there is reference to the organization and training of international groups of educationalists and experts in Fundamental Education. We believe that for the training of these experts, these fundamental education specialists, we must arrange a seminar to perfect the training of professors and teachers who are already working, and who become experts, directors or administra- tors. This would be a practical technical activity for Unesco. The CHAIRMAN : Will anyone second this mo- tion? It is seconded by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Does anyone wish to speak to it? Dr. CHU Yung-Shou (China) reads : This section One of the necessary requirements for the development of fundamental education is the training of experienced prim- ary and secondary teachers. The French delegation recom- mends that a seminar should be organized by Unesco, to give further training in Fundamental Education to primary and secondary teachers already in service, who may become experts. As I see it, in the work of Fundamental Education, the adult education workers are just as important as the primary and secondary school teachers, so I would suggest, if the French delegation would agree, to add after « primary and secondary teachers», «and other adult education workers ». The CHAIRMAN : Doesthe French delegation agree to the alteration proposed by China? Yes. Does the seconder agree? It is agreed, then, that the words suggested by the delegate of China be inserted in the French motion, with the approval of the mover and seconder of that motion. The matter is now open for discussion. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Perhaps this motion in its present form is rather too precise. It appears to me that there is a serious need for teachers of all three kinds to have the benefit of attendance at seminars ; but whether they would get the most benefit or Unesco would get the most benefit from a single seminar in which all teachers concerned with elementary education, secondary education and adult education were assembled, is doubtful to me at present. I do not know whether this has been considered, but I feel that possibly it might be better if this motion were adopted in some looser form which allowed for the provision of seminars over a period, not necessarily in 1948, but which allowed Unesco to select, if they feel it better, one of these three groups for the 1948 work. The CHAIRMAN : «Seminar or seminars»; would that be acceptable to the French delegation? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, we would prefer to be modest and be content with one seminar. The CHAIRMAN : The French delegation would prefer to keep its motion in its present form. Is there anyone who wishes to speak further on the motion of the French delegation? Is anyone opposed to it? Then we can take it that that motion is passed. The French delegation, I gather, does not wish to put number 4 at present, and it agrees to hold over number5 till section IT. D. I. is under consider- ation. I now call upon the United Kingdom delegate. The paper before you is not a Conference document in the sense of having been distributed and num- bered, and I think it is only available in English. However, the sections are very short, and if they are moved independently I think they will be able to be followed by members who are not English- speaking. Dr. Margaret READ (United Kingdom) : This proposal before the Conference contains three reso- lutions put forward by the United Kingdom delega- tion, which are concerned with the first proposal — 333 —    on page 8 of the Programme for 1948. They do not concern any new ground not covered in the discussions so far, but we are putting them forward because we think they are more precise in their implications for the work of Unesco in 1948. The first resolution is as follows: + (a) ‘That Unesco regard its functions as a clearing house of information on Fundamental Education as of primary importance. (b) That this function should include the collection, analysis and distribution of technical information on Fun- damental Education as elaborated in Section 2 (4) on pages
39, 40 of Part IV of document F.E. Conf./6. ‚ 2. (a) That Unesco should invite Member States to co- operate in this task by supplying appropriate information to the Fundamental Education Section of Unesco. (b) By enabling Unesco, through National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies, to make contact with university and other centres where the study and preparation of Fundamental Education material is being carried out.
3. That Únesco instruct the Director-General to appoint one additional member to the Staff to be responsible for carrying out the above tasks. If I may add a word on that last point — we realize that the Fundamental Education Section of Unesco is working with a very small staff. With regard to the Clearing-house being one of the primary duties of the Fundamental Education Section, we realize that this cannot be carried out adequately unless there is an additional appointment to the staff. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion put forward by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Does anyone wish to second it? Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman, I have much pleasure in seconding this resolution from the United Kingdom delegation. I feel that it is necessary. I think there has been a tendency at previous conferences to pass general resolutions and then to complain if the Secretariat has not carried out those resolutions in exactly the way that each one of us thouthg they should have been carried out. This is a move to bring such general resolutions down to a practical form, and I would go further, if I might, and ask the United Kingdom delegation if it would accept a third clause to that resolution. The resolution deals with the clearing- house and collection of the various types of material. I should like to add as a third clause : That, where necessary material of the type mentioned in clause 1 (b) is not readily available, Unesco initiate and, if necessary, finance the preparation of such material for distri- bution to Member States requiring it. In asking for this third clause, I would point out that we in New Zealand have in a small way this problem of Fundamental Education in our Western Samoan area, and we find that the material we want is not always available. For example, what is the use of teaching adults to read, and when they are about the reading age of 9 years, of having only books like «Red Riding Hood» to supply them with? I believe that we have got to produce films with a twofold purpose : first of all, to create in the minds of adults in Fundamental Education areas the atti- tudes necessary to the reception of an educational programme; and, second, to use films as technical aid in teaching. I would like this made an absolute directive, im- plying the expenditure, if necessary, of Unesco's finance, as a part of this resolution. I would ask the United Kingdom delegation if they would accept this addition. The CHAIRMAN : It is accepted by the United Kingdomdelegation. The motion of the United Kingdom delegation, with the addition suggested by the delegate of New Zealand, is now before you for discussion. M. Arthur BONHOMME (Haiti) (Translation from the French) : Since paragraph 1 (a) of the United Kingdom resolution seems to limit Unesco's activi- ties, I should like to propose that some words be added to avoid any contradiction with what we have already approved. The CHAIRMAN : I must admit I cannot see any difference. Paragraph 1 (a) does notclash in any way with what we have said before. How does the meet- ing feel about this? It only says that it is of primary importance, and without further study of the docu- ment I cannot be sure. If it is found that this does conflict with something already passed, the Drafting Committee can bring it to our attention and we can amend accordingly. The motion is before you. Is there any further discussion? Dr. Margaret READ (United Kingdom) : I want to add two words to the resolution in section 2 (b) at the suggestion of another delegate. After the words «By enabling Unesco» I should like to add the words «where possible». There are certain Member States who have not yet set up National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies. I would ask, therefore, if the seconder would agree to this alteration. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : I agree. The CHAIRMAN : Is there any further discussion on this clause? If not, I will put it to the meeting. Is anyone opposed to it? If not, we takeit that this — 334 —         resolution proposed by the United Kingdom delega- tion is passed. (®) We now pass to resolution 2. Dr. Margaret READ (United Kingdom) : Resolu- tion 2 is concerned with one of the instruments by which the Secretariat is enabled to carry out its work in Fundamental Education, namely the Panel of Experts. It is as follows: (a) That the fullest advantage be taken in 1948 of the services of this Panel of Experts in the ways elaborated in Section 2, pages 36-37 of Part IV of document F.E. Conf/6.
(5) That the Panel of Experts be asked to give further examination to such recommendations in Part IV of document F.E. Conf/6 as have not been the subject of specific resolutions in this Conference and to make recommendations. (c) That the Panel of Experts should in 1948 review the following aspects of Fundamental Education work :
(1) the various ways in which Mass Communication can be of use in Fundamental Education projects and the rela- tive value of different techniques. (is) the emphasis to be given to community needs and community resources in developing Fundamental Education programmes. The Conference instructs the Executive Board to take account of the recommendations of the Panel of Experts, when considering the development in 1948 of the Programme of Fundamental Education approved by the Conference. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone second Resolu- tion 2? Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : I second the resolution. The CHAIRMAN : Resolution 2 is seconded by the delegate of the United States. Does anyone wish to speak to it? Does anyone wish to oppose it? If there is no one in opposition, I take it, then, that resolution 2 is adopted by the Commission.(9) Dr. Margaret READ (United Kingdom) : The third resolution further emphasizes the importance of mass communications and their techniquesin fun- damental education work. The resolution is as follows : (a) That those parts of the Mass Communication section of the Budget which deal with Fundamental Education be endorsed; (b) That provision be made in the appropriate section of the budget. for travelling fellowships to enable workers in Fundamental Education projects to study the use of Mass Communication in this field. The CHAIRMAN : I do not think we can deal with paragraph (a) at this moment, since we do not know what the parts of the Mass Communi- cation section will be. Would the delegate of the United Kingdom mind if that were held over and
(8) In final form : Resolutions 3.4.3; 3.4.4; 3.4.5; and 3.4.6: vol. II, page 18.
(9) In final form : Resalutions 3.4.7; 3.4.8; and 3.4.9; vol. II, page 18. she were to bring it up again when we are dealing with mass communication? J In the meantime, then, we hold over Resolution
3, section (a). That leaves us with section (b) which has been proposed by the delegate of the United Kingdom. It has been suggested that this also should not be dealt with until we reach Chapter Il, section I1.A, on the Exchange of Persons. Would you mind holding it over? Dr. Margaret READ (United Kingdom) : Yes, Sir, I think it had better be as you suggest. The impor- tant thing is that our recognition of the importance of this matter should be recorded in the Rappor- teur's records of this Meeting and that the matter should be held over till the discussion on the Ex: change of Persons section. The CHAIRMAN .: Shall we take it, then, that there 1s a resolution which will be considered when we are discussing the Exchange of Persons section? Perhaps the delegate of the United Kingdom would accept the responsibility for bringing this up as a special section when we deal with the exchange of persons. Since this is not a Conference document, properly speaking, I do not think that we need adoptit as a whole. We are considering Chapter I.B. of document
2 6/3, and we are now dealing with paragraph I. I call upon the delegate of Colombia. + 24-54 + Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tion from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, in connexion: with what has just been approved, I would like to clarify certain matters. As Chairman of the Working Party on Fundamental Education, I must say that we were handicapped by lack of time; we all know the speed at which we have to work in Unesco! It is apparent that in future conferences it would be better if the Working Parties were given more time. We should then avoid the duplication of work which has taken place. If we had had more time in the Working Party, the work of this Commission might have been speeded up. The admirable résumé presented by the United States delegation included many of the points sub- mitted by the different delegations; but, even so, separate reports had to be put in, one from France and one from the United Kingdom. These could have been considered and synthesized in the Work- ing Party. I say this is an admirable résumé, because it covers the essential points dealt with in the Working Party. Consequently, it seems to me unnecessary to consider them again in the Working Party's report, particularly since there are paragraphs here which are exactly the same i the American paper — 335 — S E S | q        =     as in the recommendations of the Working Party. Let me give only one example of this : that Unesco should encourage Member States so willing to con- clude international agreements to carry out this obligation of providing a minimum of fundamental education for their people, in accordance with Ar- ticle I, paragraph 2 (b) of the Constitution of Unesco. Among the obligations which could be assumed by Member States under these agreements would be the establishment as soon as possible of a universal, free and compulsory primary education and a mini- mum standard of education for adults. This, as the members of this assembly have seen, is covered in the resolution presented by the United States delegation. Consequently, we were able to vote whole-heartedly for the American reso- lutions, but there were left out one or two points which we consider essential and which,as I explained, we were able to discuss, in spite of the lack of time, in the Working Party. I would like to stress two points which should be included as additions to the United States resolu- tion. Those two points appear in the recommen- dations of the Working Party, document 2C/B/4. In the first place, paragraph 13 says : Since Fundamental Education represents one of the most essential and practical means of achieving the aims of Unesco, the appropriation of funds for the Fundamental Education project is considered too small a proportion of the total budget of Unesco. It is therefore recommended, in view of this consideration and the budgetary implications of paragraphs 3,
9 and 12 above, that the allocation of money to be made available for Fundamental Education in Unesco’s budget for
1948 should be increased. We consider that Fundamental Education is one of the most important aspects of Unesco’s work and that the part of the budget allocated to it is too small to carry out the great quantity of work which Unesco must perform in this field. My second proposal, which my delegation hopes strongly will be approved, is to be found in para- graph 3 of the same document, and it is not included either in the United States resolutions or in those of the French delegation. It reads : A ‚working, expert committee of the Fundamental Education Panel should be established to aid the Secretariat in a compa- rative study of educational materials and techniques (text- books, books for children and adults, film strips, etc.) and in making available to all Member States the results of these studies, so as to satisfy, widely and effectively, the need for better materials for Fundamental Education and to promote the circulation of sample materials among Member States and interested organizations. If Unesco, is not the body to: carry out work of this kind, Mr. Chairman, I do not see what world institution or organization can do it. We — and we have repeated this often — have always found the need for enquiring from different countries how they solve their problems of fundamental education, what materials they use, what text-books they use for primary education; and Unesco 1s admirably fitted to carry out this particular preparatory work of survey and advice. I emphasize the importance not only of text-books but of reading books for chil- dren in fundamental education. Unesco could study this subject and then make recommendations. No more than a committee of experts within the Secre- tariat of Unesco is required to study this material. For example, in the Pan-American Union, a collec- tion of text-books has been made, but it is rather of the nature of a museum collection and nobody makes use of it; moreover to know what text-books are being used, one has to go to Washington to see them. If the experts were to study these text-books, they could make recommendations which would be extremely useful to all countries. In the same manner, for example, the International Bureau of Education at Geneva has assembled a collection of thousands of children’s books, showing the way in which reading is taught in different countries. If studied by experts, they could be useful to the whole world and not remain merely a museum collection. It seems to me that Unesco is the body to take the lead in these matters. Then would come the problem that it is not Unes- co, but the Member States, which should choose among these books. We have often thought, for example, that in the Latin-American countries, which have more than one hundred million inhabitants speaking the same language, it would be most va- luable to have the same books, to use a single text-book. Naturally, some subjects such as geo- graphy and history could not be treated in a general way, but many other things such as readers and story books are of universal appeal and could be used equally by everyone. This is even more true in view of Unesco’s aim of treating everything from an universal viewpoint. We think these books could be made for all mankind, in a wide and generous humanistic spirit, and, in this way, as I explained yesterday to the Director-General, many books could be written which could be used equally by all coun- tries. I do not think large editions could be issued without a prior study by experts to lay down the guiding principles. Therefore, I should like an addition to be made to the magnificent resolution presented by the Uni- ted States delegation : on the one hand, an increase in the budget for Fundamental Education, which we consider — especially for Latin-American coun- tries — the most important problem being handled by Unesco; and, secondly, that a committee of ex- perts be established to study textbooks and — 336 —      teaching material and to make a report within a period to be fixed. The CHAIRMAN : May I say first of all to the delegate of Colombia that I am sure the whole Confe- rence sympathizes with him, as the unfortunate Chairman of the Working Party whose subject was placed first in the Green Book, and we are most grateful to the Working Party for having speeded up their work and having presented us with the first of our documents. I would not wish him or his Working Party to feel in any way that their work was wasted, because I am sure that their colleagues have drawn very freely from their findings and the work of that Working Party as set out in this report. It seems to me that the report has served exactly the purpose which was intended when Working Parties’ reports were first considered. May I, however, make one or two suggestions to him? It would appear to methat, if you take para- graph 3, which he mentioned, almost all of that is in one form or another embodied in resolutions which we have passed to-day. May I suggest to him that the meeting should refer this to the Drafting Committee and ask the Drafting Committee if, in their opinion, there is any new material here which we have not covered to-day, and, if there is, then it will be perfectly opento the delegate of Colombia to raise this point when the Drafting Committee reports? Would that be satisfactory to him? Thank you. Now we come to No. 13. There is obviously new material introduced here, and the delegate of Colombia moves, I understand, the adoption of paragraph 13 of this document 2C/B/4, which you have before you. Is there anyone who seconds that? The delegate of Mexico, supported by the delegate of Brazil, seconds it. Does anyone else wish to speak to it? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, I think we are in a slight difficulty in consider- ing this resolution, for the following reason. All of us who have spoken, and certainly the United Kingdom delegation, feel very strongly that the spirit of this resolution is the right one. We, all of us, want Fundamental Education to get that part of the total budget which will enable the projects which we think should be carried out in 1948 to be carried out, and it may well be that the propor- tion of the Director-General’s budget of eight and a half million dollars allocated for Fundamental Education may prove to be too small. At this stage, I suggest it 1s not possible to say whether that is so. Our job here is to consider and approve those projects in Fundamental Education which we have found must be provided for; if we pass this resolution now, I think we shall have attempted to do something which we ought not to do until later. I am not anxiousto vote against this resolution, but I suggest that this Programme and Budget Commission, which has been charged by the Conference to make pre- cise recommendations for practical and concrete schemes, would look rather foolish if it presented a resolution in this form to the General Conference, and I think also that our Drafting Committee would find it very difficult to work this into their general report to the General Conference and, still more, the imagination is baffled at what our Budget Sub- Commission would make of a resolution in these terms. Therefore, although not in any way disa- greeing with what I am sure is the intention of the Working Party and of the mover of this motion, I would myself urge that we defer consideration of a general budgetary proposal of this kind until we have finished our work, and at this stage we do not divide upon a motion which, I am afraid, the United Kingdom will have to vote against. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ameri- ca) : Mr. Chairman, I should like to associate myself and the members of my delegation most whole- heartedly with what the Chair said in reply to the comments of the delegate of Colombia. We were most pleased to have his chairmanship of our work- ing party, a chairmanship which reflected a great deal of credit on us all. We are only sorry that the time we had to discuss this particular working document was so short as to make it impossible to take advantage of the leadership and the inspiration he could give us. I would also like to express to him our appreciation of the resolution from which we borrowed one of the resolutions we submitted to-day. In regard to the point raised by the delegate of the United Kingdom,it seems to us, as to him, that, while we are in agreement with the essential spirit of Resolution 13, we feel that to pass that now would be tantamountto voting to reduce some of the other parts of the budget. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? I think it is fairly clear that we should come back to this at the end of our work. I know that other Sections are also going to ask for a greater expenditure of money. We will come back at the end and try to get this balanced in our gene- ral budget. What we ought to do now is to hand over the reso- lutions we have passed to-day to our Budget Sub- Committee and say, «Well, how much have we spent to-day?» If they could possibly tell us, and how much we spend on other days, then when we come to the end we could come back to this and, — 337 —      if the delegate of Colombia would then bring up the question of a balance, we should be able to reach a solution. Dr. Agustin NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : I am pleased to withdraw this part of my proposal until later, Sir. I agree with the delegates of the United Kingdom and the United States that it would be better left until later. The CHAIRMAN : Thank you, that is most helpful. Then we have now no motion before the meeting. Is there anyone who wishes to raise any further motion on Fundamental Education, or ask any questions? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, I have two motions to submit for consideration, but they are related to the integration of work involved in Fundamental Education in those aspects of in- creasing opportunities for education, science and culture, and also in education for international understanding. Are you prepared to receive these motions now, or is it your wish that they should be submitted later? The CHAIRMAN : We are still dealing with para- graph 1 of Chapter I. B. I think it would be better if you would raise this matter when we have com- pleted I. C. The problem raised by the delegate of Australia is this : he would like to see the Secre- tariat reorganized in such a way as to give full effect to the common interests involved in Funda- mental Education, relating to increasing opportu- nities and education for international understanding. But I think the proper time to bring that up would be when we have dealt with each of them individually, and then again, just as in the case of the budget, we can get a balance on the whole. Are there any further motions? of France. M. Albert CHARTON (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, the French delegation would like to request that, as regards pilot-projects, in addition to that already undertaken in Haiti, others should be considered in the principal regions of the world concerned in Fundamental Education, and particularly in French and British Africa. The CHAIRMAN : Do I understand the French delegate to mean that he is suggesting this as part of the 1948 Programme, or for the general future? For 1948. The French delegation will be aware that, in 2C/B/
4, paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 are concerned with pilot-projects. They might like to look at that before putting their motion. The delegate I see the French delegation has already submitted this in 2C/C1/3, paragraph 2. Is thatstill the form in which you want it? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation. from the French) : We thought, Mr. Chairman, that the moment had come to present the motion which up to now you had asked us to keep in abeyance. With your permission, I would like briefly to confer with my colleagues from the United Kingdom, since they are concerned in this proposal. M. Albert CHARTON (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegation would like French Africa to be also the subject of a pilot- project similar to that for British East Africa. Therefore, we request that the principle of a pilot- project in French Africa’ be included in the Pro- gramme. The CHAIRMAN : There is a motion now before the meeting from the delegation of France, that : Unesco will continue its experiments in Fundamental Education, particularly perque and associated projects. In this connexion, the French delegation proposes that a pilot-project should be organized in French West and Equa- torial Africa.» Does anyone second that motion? It is seconded by the delegate of Haiti. The Director-General would like to make a remark on this. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Sir, it 1s not on this particular point of a pilot-project in French Equatorial Africa that I wish to remark, but on the question of pilot-projects in general. I think you will find that we shall have to limit the number of pilot-projects to be undertaken by Unesco in 1948 on account of the expense involved. There is the expense, in a pilot-project, of a special consultant, whereas in the case of an associated project there is little or no expense. If I might suggest it, would it not be the best procedure to see which areas are suggested from different parts of the floor for pilot-projects, and then to consider themall together in terms of priority, rather than to specify individual ones now? The CHAIRMAN : I think that is a very wise sug- gestion from the Director-General, because I have before me a further motion concerning a project in Peru, Would the French delegation agree? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Would it be an alternative working proposal to decide, after advice from the Director-General, on the number of new pilot-projects which might be undertaken, and then to leave the development of those projects, and the decision on which particular projects, in all the — 338 —      circumstances, are most likely to be fruitful, to the Director-General in consultation with the Executive Board? It might be easy for us to suggest that a pilot-project be carried out, for example, in New Guinea, but it might be difficult for the Director- General to obtain a consultant with the special type of experience and background for that work. The GHAIRMAN : The further suggestion has been made by Australia that we should try to define the number of new pilot-projects we might undertake. How does the meeting feel about that? The motion before the meeting is that put for- ward by the French delegate, that a pilot-project be started in French Equatorial Africa. The Dirctor- General has suggested that we might break away perhaps from the normal form of meeting at this stage, and hear any other proposals, in the form of a motion, from other parts of the house concerning other pilot-projects; and when we have them all together we might consider them or refer them to a committee. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : With reference to the question from the delegate of Australia, I would like to say that in the budget presented to you we have allowed for four pilot projects in all — the three already contemplated in: China, East Africa, and Haiti, and one more. Therefore, if you wish to add more than one extra pilot-project to those three already before you, extra funds would have to be found in the budget. The CHAIRMAN : I take it there is a suggestion from the French delegation that the additional pilot-project should be in French Equatorial Africa, and the delegate of Peru, I think, has another sug- gestion. Dr. Luis E. VALCARCEL (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, I think that America also requires preference in the matter of a pilot- project. In document 2C/C1/1 Peru has already presented a suggestion in this respect. There are more than 15 million American In- dians needing Unesco’s help in the form of a pilot- project, and, keeping in mind the suggestion presen- ted just now by the delegate of New Zealand, I can state that in Peru we are trying out new methods which might be very useful if Unesco were to make them known to other countries with similar condi- tions. Our country is pre-eminently agricultural and cattle-breeding. Besides teaching of these subjects, we are promoting special education in Indian arts, which should achieve the miracle of reviving the glories of American art in ceramics, textiles and jewellery. I think this is an original feature which should be considered when we discuss pilot projects. Dr. Guillermo NANNETTI (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, I think it is very difficult for this meeting to settle in a definite manner questions related to pilot-projects. I think we should give the Secretariat a certain amount of discretion to develop these projects, and I believe we should keep in mind the suggestions contained in paragraphs
10 and 11 of document 2C/B/4, which was ap- proved by the Working Party on Fundamental Educa- tion, and in which there are specific and concrete suggestions with regard to pilot-projects that might be developed during 1948. These suggestions were made after studying the budget appropriations for pilot-projects, but in these also there 18 a cer- tain elasticity left to the Secretariat to determine over a wide field what projects are to be developed. A pilot-project in East Africa was considered, and another for the Middle East, and also one for Latin America. With regard to Latin America, there have been presented to this Conference three requests, one from Mexico, one from Peru, and one from Colombia. My opinion, Sir, is that in this matter we should decide upon a pilot-project for a general area, for instance, Latin America, and then leave the Secretariat to determine which type of project serves Unesco’s purposes best, since a pilot-project should allow general conclusions to be arrived at for a great number of analogous situations. To sum up, Mr. Chairman, I propose, as a specific motion, paragraphs 10 and 11 of document 2C/B/4, with the addition that the projects conducted by different countries and financed by those countries could be considered as associated projects, and stud- ied by Unesco, and so the associated projects be- come pilot-projects; that is, they would receive the technical and financial support of Unesco in more direct form, provided that from the technical investigations carried out by Unesco we might be able to decide which type of project best satisfies the purposes of Unesco. The CHAIRMAN : I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to make two decisions. We have first of all to decide whether or not we should have an additional pilot-project in 1948, wherever it may be; secondly we have to decide where that parti- cular project should be if we agree to it. There have been very many competing claims. I think we are quite competent to say whether or not there should be an additional pilot-project in 1948 but it would seem to me that it would be quite impos- sible at this particular meeting, in this particular way, to decide which of the competing claims should be accepted. — 339 —        The French delegation has put a motion before the meeting. If that delegation insists on going ahead with it, of course we must do so. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from he French) : The French delegation has already expressed its point of view as to the necessity for closer collaboration between Latin America and Unesco and the need for Unesco to interest itself more closely in Latin America. If, therefore, there was any question of competing claims for the fourth pilot-project between Peru and an area in which France is particularly concerned, France would of course immediately withdraw. The CHAIRMAN : That is an extremely generous offer, which one might have expected from the dele- gate of France. Dr. Encarnación ALZONA(Philippines) : Mr. Chair- man, I have heard the requests of several countries for pilot-projects : Colombia, Peru and other coun- tries have made proposals, as well as the Philippines. But inasmuch as these pilot-projects involve the expenditure of funds, may I suggest that all these requests be referred to the Budget Sub-Commission for report to this Commission? The CHAIRMAN : May we consider that in just one moment? The delegate of Mexico now has the right to speak. Dr. Francisco LARROYO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : As the proposal of Mexico with regard to pilot-projects has been mentioned, I merely wish to clarify one point. Mexico has announ- ced that she intends to carry out an experiment in fundamental education in the State of Nayarit. We have already provided for the financing of this experiment and we have communicated this informa- tion to Unesco only in case it might be interested in sending an observer to study Mexico's way of tackling this problem. Of course, if Unesco sends experts, we shall welcome them, because they would in any case be very helpful to us. That is our posi- tion. We did not have it in mind that our project would be financed by Unesco. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Mexico has made it quite clear that the Mexican projectis an associated and not a pilot project. The delegate of Colombia would now like to speak. Dr. A. NIETO CABALLERO (Colombia) (Transla- tionfrom the Spanish) : The position of the delegation of Colombia is identical with that of Mexico. It is naturally our concern that Unesco should have closer links with Latin America, but we should regard it with the same pleasure and enthusiasm if support were given to a project in Peru, or the Philippines, or in Colombia. We in the Latin American countries look upon ourselves in all sincerity as brothers, and everything that is done in Latin America we regard as something done on our behalf. The CHAIRMAN : I think the French delegation has for the moment withdrawn its motion, but we have these two points to decide : first of all, do we want one more pilot-project in 1948? (There may be many more associated projects of course.) Secondly, if we do want another pilot-project, where should it be? I have expressed the opinion that I do notthink we could to-day decide where it should be, but we could, I think, decide whether we want another pilot-project, unless, before that decision is taken, you want to know the amount of money for which we have already committed ourselves by the propo- sals adopted to-day. Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, since it is impossible for this body to act intelligently, because it does not have the detailed information in front of it, either with respect to comparative needs or to budget possibi- lities, I move that the matter of additional pilot- projects be referred to the Director-General and the Executive Board with the power to decide. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Does anyone second it? It is seconded by the delegate of Colombia, who is supported by the delegate of Cuba. There is one difficulty about the proposal put forward by the United States, and that is that the Chairman of our Budget Sub-Commission will ask me, if I hand him that resolution, whether or not there is to be an additional pilot-project during
1948. The Budget Sub-Commission will not neces- sarily want to know where it is going to be, but, if we say we have left it to the Director-General and the Executive Board to decide, the Budget Sub- Commission will certainly want to know whether money is to be put on the estimate for it or not. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Would the American delegation be prepared to modify their motion to the effect that another pilot-project be approved, but the place be left until later? The CHAIRMAN :The American delegation agrees. The motion now is that one additional pilot project be authorized during 1948 and that the location of that project be left to the Director-General and the Executive Boaud,after consideration of the points raised in document 2C/B/4 presented by the Work- ing Party, and in consideration of the various points — 340 —      raised by the speakers to-day. The French delegation second that. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to it? No one wishes to speak to it. Is there anyone who opposes it? In that case I declare the motion passed. (1°) Is there any further point that anyone wishes to raise on Chapter I. B.? Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man,I just want to ask a question, so that we may none of us be in any doubt what we have just deci- ded. Am I right in thinking that the question which we have referred is the question of where the one additional pilot-project should be? Then may I ask a second question : what exactly is the status of the other pilot-projects? Do we take it that the resolution to which we all agreed on the motion of the United States, which is in general terms «Co- operate with Member States in establishing or assisting pilot-projects in Fundamental Education », covers the particular projects which were discussed
(19) In final form: Resolution 3.4.11.3.; vol. II, page 19. by the Working Party and were referred to as «new pilot-projects »? The CHAIRMAN : I hadtakenit as that, since the wording was «one additional pilot-project». If we agreed to the additional one, I took it that we agreed to the others, but if you are not quite sure upon that point, you might care to put it in a special motion. If the Drafting Committee considers that there is any ambiguity in what we have passed, they will bring it to our notice. Are there any further motions concerned with Fundamental Education, that is Chapter I. B., on the understanding that, apart from one or two things which have been held over, there will be no possibility of any further discussion of new material under I. B.? If there is nothing further, then we will pass on, at our next meeting to Chapter I. C., provided that the documentation is ready. If there is no further business this evening, I declare the meeting adjourned. The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m. SEVENTH MEETING Saturday, 15 November 1947, at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Chapter I. C. 4. — Teachers” Charter Chapter I. C. 6. — Rôle of the Arts in General Education Chairman : The CHAIRMAN : The meeting is now open. The Secretary will inform you of the documents which are before you for discussion this morning. The SECRETARY : Discussion this morning is on Chapter I. C. (Increasing Opportunities for Educa- tion, Science and Culture). There should be before you this morning a document on the Teachers’ Charter, that is, a report of the Working Party, document 2C/C/2, on Item 1 of Chapter I. C. There is also before you document 2C/C/3, which deals with part of Item 6, the Arts in General Education. Dr. €. E. BEEBY (New Zealand) The CHAIRMAN : May I now tell you the procedure that I would propose this morning. We are dealing, as the Secretary said, with Chapter I. C. In accor- dance with your instructions yesterday, I shall take the business,if you are agreeable, in the order of the paragraphs of Chapter I. C. You understand that, until some motion is made from the floor, there is no actual motion before the meeting, but I shall give priority in the moving of motions to any person who wishes to movea resolution which is included in the appropriate report of the Working Party. | a l o . i o a ا ‎ o k = = = b i a ت ع ‎ р e и н т е = _ — o ا ت ل
7 = S a