TWELFTH PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 27 November 1947, at 5.30 p.m. CONTENTS
24. Discussion regarding the place of the Third Session of the General Con- ference (continuation) Pages
137 President : M. Stefan WIERBLOWSKI (Poland).
24. Discussion regarding the place of the Third Session of the General Conference (con- tinuation). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The agenda for to-day calls for a decision on the place of the Third Session of the General Conference of Unesco. I would remind you, ladies and gentle- men, that at our last meeting we proceeded to a vote which proved to be inconclusive, since there was an equality of votes — 13 to 13. Under No. 57 of our Rules of Procedure, we postponed a decision until to-day’s meeting. There are, I believe, three speakers on the list — the delegate of the Lebanon, the delegate of South Africa, and the delegate of Mexico. Do any other delegates wish to be inscribed ? As apparently no one else wishes to speak, I will call upon the delegate of the Lebanon. M. J. ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in a few moments I shall be able to thank the Conference and all the delegations here present for their choice of Beirut as the place of the next session of the General Conference. In the meantime, however, I would like to thank the French delegation, on behalf of my Government, for so heartily supporting us. I would also like to thank the Brazihan delegation and its eminent head. Above all, I would thank the Mexican delegation; I shall never be able fully to express how much a Lebanese feels at home in this country of Mexico, where we have so many strong and ancient links. I would like now to reiterate the invitation of the Lebanon and to say that it is, to my mind, highly undesirable that the vote should result from a struggle or from antagonism. I repeat that the Lebanon, in the spirit of her own traditions, in the spirit of her own culture, opens wide her doors, opens her heart; I hope that you will not reject her. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (South Africa) : Mr. Presi- dent, fellow-delegates : I rise to support the accep- tance of the invitation from the Lebanon. I spoke yesterday very briefly, but it is quite clear to me that the matter was not fully discussed yesterday, and that the very strong reasons (to my mind) which prompted me to vote for the Lebanon are not known to my fellow-delegates. I would like to outline first the least important argument. The Director-General, in a remarkably objective statement of the position, yesterday told us that it would be likely to cost Unesco from about one hundred and fifty to two hundred thousand dollars extra if the meeting were held in the Lebanon. Taking these figures as correct, the actual position is that it will cost us anything from two hundred and sixteen to three hundred and thirty-three thou- sand dollars more, if we meet in Paris. I have taken very conservative figures. The cost of living in the Lebanon, we are told, is from six to eight dollars a day. The last meeting in Paris cost my delegation about thirty dollars a day each. I understand that the cost of living in Paris has in- creased by at least 50 per cent, since that date, and, even if we assume that there will be only three hundred persons who will have to be sent to the next Conference for a period of thirty days, it means that the saving on the expenses to Member nations will be, at any rate, something approaching two to three hundred thousand dollars. — 137 —    It would be very much easier and simpler for Member States to make a small addition to their contribution to the funds of Unesco, than it would be for them to pay the higher cost of sending dele- gations and, in many cases, the additional higher costs of transport. In my own experience,it is an extremely difficult thing to get money out of a Treasury which, in its ignorance, considers a visit to Unesco merely a pleasant holiday! It is a matter of comparative indifference to me, and I think to my Parliament, whether I put a few thousand extra dollars to the amount which it is providing for Unesco. As I have said, I regard that as the least important of the arguments. There is another argument which I think we ought to take into consideration. This year I see that in the United States they are contemplating a budget of five hundred and ninety seven million dollars for a relief programme for France, Italy and Aus- tria. It does seem to me wrong that, if we can avoid doing so, we should send five hundred additional mouths to Paris at a time when France is going through so difficult a period. I do not think that argument would appeal to France at all. France was generous enough to support — no, I will not say «generous» — I think it was right in suppor- ting the Lebanon yesterday for spiritual reasons; and those, are the most powerful reasons. The holding of the Second Conference here, in Mexico, has made Latin America understood and esteemed by the rest of the world. It has certainly brought me into beneficial contact with the culture, customs and character of a new world, and I shall never cease to be grateful for the oppor- tunity that I have had. I believe it has increased my understanding of the purpose of Unesco, and I believe it has made you all more «Unesco-conscious» and better citi- zens of the world. I think, too, Sir, that the benefit to Latin-Ameri- can Mexico has been enormous. If T may use a slang expression, I think we have «sold» Unesco in a big way to Latin-America. To hold the Third Conference in the Lebanon would have the same advantages in respect of the Arab world, and I believe that the spiritual and psychological importance to the world would be enormous. ‘I think that the time is ripe, and that at this, above all other times, it would be to the advantage of the world if that conference were held there. I do not think that it would have as great an effect if it had to be postponed for a year. As I have said, I believe those are the reasons that prompted France, and certainly prompted South Africa to vote as we did yesterday, I want to add that I do not believe that there is a single delegate in this room who would feel more strongly than I do with the Secretariat in the sacri- fices which they would be called upon to make in having once again, in so short a space of time, to transfer their office to a distant place. In my country, unfortunately, there is a dual capital, and every year I have to travel a thousand miles to conduct affairs of my Department from that distant point, and no one who has not been through it would realize the terrific waste of time and energy which results from such an arrangement. I say this, simply to make it clear that I do fully realize what that sacrifice will mean to the Secreta- riat, but, as the Director-General himself indicated in his remarks yesterday, matters of the spirit are of prime importance in Unesco affairs. The only doubt which I had in my mind yester- day was as to whether in Beirut we could have those material conveniences which mean so much to the Secretariat; but I have the assurance that office and hotel accommodation will be adéquate, modern and convenient, and that no transport problem will presentitself if we meet in Beirut. The inter- ference with the work of the Secretariat caused by the annual conference is not a greater and more serious interference than giving effect to the pro- jects which we, with such abandon, heap upon the broad shoulders of the Secretariat. But I do not believe that the additional inconvenience will be so great as we imagine, and I think that the remedy lies in cutting out the mass of detailed work which we are called upon to do here and which, in my humble opinion, could be done better by the ex- perts — administrative, educational and scientific — on the Secretariat, with the help of the Executive Board. Strictly speaking this is, perhaps, not relevant, but I think we may have to consider the holding of our full Conferences at longer intervals — eighteen months or two years — and I do definitely feel that we must make the task of Unesco easier by reducing the mass of meetings. But the overriding consider- ation at the moment is, to me, the spiritual gain for Unesco and the furtherance of its objects which will be achieved by the holding of its Third Con- ference, in 1948, in the Lebanon. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I now call upon the delegate of Mexico. Sr. GUAL VIDAL (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, gentlemen, I have decided to speak in regard to the problem of the place of the next meeting of this Conference, because my delegation is of the opinion that we are not simply discussing a holiday resort for delegates to Unesco — — 138 —    we are not discussing whether our next holiday shall be spent at Acapulco or Vera Cruz — we are discus- sing a point which is essential to the Organization. Unescoin its brief span oflife has already acquired great international prestige, which, in my opinion, is due to the effort the Organization has made to reach the minds of different peoples. We have affirmed, in diverse ways, that Unesco does not aim at being an organization of purely governmental relations : we wish, rather, that it shall be an organization for relations between peo- ples. How are we going to achieve this purpose ? Not by keeping the world in ignorance of what Unesco is. In Mexico we had to tell them the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. I must confess that here in Mexico, six months ago, only a very few people knew what Unesco was, and probably in many other countries of the world Unesco 1s still thought to be a brand of automobile, or perhaps the name of some wise man from Rou- mania. How are we going to change this idea of the world about Unesco ? By creating a headquarters which will have the character of a permanent centre in Paris, thus converting Unesco into one more bureaucratic office in the international field? It seems to me that it would be a fundamental error for the Organization to pursue such a course, es- pecially at this stage. That is why the economic reasons adduced here, and the reasons with regard to transportation facilities and so forth, seem to me very weak. But, for fear of appearing a roman- tic idealist, I also wish to put forward certain econo- mic reasons, and others regarding facilities. I do not see that the holding of the Conference in a country other than one which we know, need consti- tute additional expenditure. It certainly would not be different from any expenditure which we might make for the maintenence of the Organization. It seems to me that, rather than calling it expendi- ture, we should call it an investment; the fact that we are going to another continent signifies that we are complying strictly with the aims of Unesco; and we are therefore spending our money well. I have been one of those who have expressed here the opinion that the budget of our Organization is too small, and that even the $ 8,000,000 which have been voted is an insignificant sum in face of the enormous programme which the Or- ganization has to carry out. But, precisely because we have money, we should spend it and we should know how to spend it in a way which will make the greatest and most direct contribution to the aims of Unesco. I do not believe that even the amounts we are spending on fundamental education and on the establishment of institutions are as significant, in this phase of Unesco’s life, as the fact that our Conferences are held in different continents. When I alluded to the fact that six months ago, in Mexico, Unesco might have been thought to be the trade name of a car or a radio, I wanted to emphasize that the fact of the Conference’s being held in Mexico has had a great influence, not only in our country but also throughout the New World, including the United States of America. I know very well that, through the establishment of National Commissions, National Co-operating Bodies and similar institutions, we might advance somewhat towards the same goal. The United States of America has a National Commission, Mexico also has a National Commission, and other countries likewise have Commissions of this charac- ter. But I think that this is not enough. It is not only the intellectuals gathered here, it is not only the scientific organizations, which will save the world from war. It is true that wars begin in the minds of men, and it is necessary to go to the minds of men in order to save peoples from the carnage of war; but it is also true that wars will not disappear from the world until they disappear from the hearts of men. And to influence the hearts of men, in relation to Unesco, requires that all of us who might otherwise, as persons, be merely transitory personnel of the Organization, should become passionate missionaries of the idea of Unesco. Asthe great teacher, Sierra, said of Mexico: just as the missionaries had become teachers, so the teachers should become missionaries. And it is this Organization, you, gentlemen, who are the missionaries of the ideals of Unesco throughout the world. I do not see any possibility of this taking place through scientific investigations carried out by intellectuals. I do not see any possibility of its being realized through the speeches, however brilliant, which are delivered here. This will be brought about when, as you gentlemen have done here in Mexico, not only is the Organization in- terested in a particular country, but it has aroused in that country an interest in the Organization; the country will then understand the ideals of Unesco and become a vehicle of those ideals. Mexico has given of her best, but I do not think that she has given any better contribution than the knowledge and consciousness of Unesco's ideals which have been implanted in our country. Economic considerations should disappear, for (and I repeat it) we would be seizing a wonderful opportunity by journeying to another country, which is waiting to welcome us, and carrying to it, as good tidings, the ideals and aims of Unesco. — 139 —    The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) - call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, I do not think there is any doubt in any- body’s mind here that a visit to Beirut would be enriching, not only personally but also nationally. But I do suggest that we might, perhaps, remember certain things that we have been saying to ourselves at various meetings during this Conference. In spite of one’s sentiment and one's personal desire to fall in with what our Lebanese friends suggest in their very generous invitation, I do think it is crucial in 1948 that we should see the problem realistically, and yesterday we heard from the Director-General, in words rather like these, that a Conference held as far away as Beirut from the headquarters in Paris would mean a 10 per cent. loss of working time in the year, a 10 per cent. loss of time and energy in preparing for such a great journey and a Conference so far away. Well, we have to ask ourselves, can we afford this foss in the year 1948? I do not think we can. We have been told again and again in speeches from delegate after delegate that we must keep our feet upon the ground; that we must streamline our programme and see that it is carried out; that 1948 is a crucial year; and I suggest that if these phrases mean anything we cannot afford to lose 10 per cent of our time and energy in 1948. I am not going to argue at all on grounds of economy. I am simply repeating what I tried to say yesterday, that what matters is carrying out the programme next year, and efficiency in so doing. One last point. Are we going to waste this energy and time, when we should be expending it upon the Programme? Are we at one meeting going to say that we will not increase the number of the administrative staff, at another meeting that we are going to see a great programme carried out, and then, at a meeting such as this, say that we can afford a 10 per cent loss of time and energy in the preparation of a Conference so far away? So, Mr. President and fellow-delegates, as far as the United Kingdom delegation is concerned, we are standing by the decision we have taken that, in
1948, the Third Conference should be held in Paris. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I now call upon the delegate of Canada. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, it has been said this afternoon that travelling every year is a good way to sell Unesco. Well, of course, it is; but I would like Unesco to send its salesmen out when it has produced a little more merchandise. It has been said that travelling about every year is an excellent way to spread the value of Unesco, but I I am afraid if we do not work very hard next year we shall have no value to spread. We entrust the running of Unesco — the major part of the work of this Organisation — to the Director-General, the Secretariat, and the Executive Board. Both the Director-General and the Executive Board have asked us to stay at headquarters next year, and we intend to follow their recommendation when we vote on this question. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the delegate of China. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. President, fellow- delegates : We were torn yesterday between two thoughts. One was for efficiency and economy; and according to several speakers, if we held to that, the best place for the Conference in 1948 would be Paris. The other thought was that, in accordance with the Constitution, the location of the meetings of the Conference should vary from year to year; and that, by meeting in a particular place, the education even of delegates, might be improved. Because I was torn myself between the two thoughts I abstained from voting yesterday; but I have given the matter further consideration. As several speak- ers have pointed out, so far as economy is concerned, it may not mean economy to all delegations if we have the Conference in Paris. So far as efficiency is concerned,it may be considered that the holding of a Conference in the Middle East is a very important part of the work of promoting the ideals of Unesco. Therefore, I have formed my opinion, and I strongly support that the Conference be held next year in Beirut. That would mean not only that we accept the generous and kind invitation of the Lebanon, but also that we attach much importance to the whole Middle East. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : I call upon the delegate of Uruguay. Dr. J. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, gentlemen, I have the impression that there is a majority opinion in favour of Beirut. In spite of all these considerations, my delegation still finds itself in the opposite camp. We are opposed to Beirut, for the following reasons, whilst at the same time respecting very much the powerful arguments put forward by the delegate of Mexico. We are opposed, first of all because, as was said very wisely at the First General Conference, at least every two years the Conference should meet at Unesco’s headquarters; second, because the transfer of the Secretariat and all archives not only increases appreciably the cost, which is a relatively important — 140 —      factor, but also upsets the services. The argument with regard to the cost of living put forward by the delegate of South Africa does not seem to me too important, because here we are concerned with the budget of Unesco and not with the budget of each State, which can regulate the expenditure of its own delegation according to its own means. Third, if we do not adopt the system of meeting at least every second year at the Unesco headquarters, we shall run the serious risk of definitely abandoning the headquarters in order to take advantage of the hospitality of different countries and of a courtesy which might transform itself into a custom. Fourth, we are opposed because the custom of courtesy could easily be exploited for political ends, which is some- thing we should avoid at all costs in Unesco; it could be exploited by an inviting State, for which it might be convenient to attract sympathy vis-a-vis another State with which it was in conflict. Whilst acknowledging the high value of Unesco’s visit to different parts of the world, I therefore suggest that the proposal of the Executive Board be accepted, and that we hold the Third Session at headquarters, whilst keeping in mind Beirut for the place of the Fourth General Conference. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : There are no more speakers on the list. Six dele- gations have asked that we should proceed to a secret vote for deciding on our next place of meeting. The Rules of Procedure, in the present text at any rate, only provide for a secret vote in cases of elec- tions or decisions concerning certain persons; for example, the election of the Director-General or any memberof the Executive Board should be secret, according to Rules 68 and 72. There the secret vote is compulsory. It is so also for decisions relating to individuals when five members of the Conference request it, or when the President deems it necessary, according to Rule 54. The vote here is not concerned with an election nor with an indi- vidual, and it would not therefore be in accordance with our Rules of Procedure to take a vote by secret ballot. The only way we can vote is by roll-call. I shall ask the Secretary to proced to that roll-call. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : What is the motion we are voting on? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Weshall take up yesterday's vote, which is whether the place of the next General Conference shall be Beirut. Those in favour of this will say «Yes», those who are against will say «No». If the proposal to hold our next Conference in the Lebanon is re- jected, we shall vote on the proposal submitted by the Executive Board. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour : Bolivia, Brazil, China, Colombia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Sal- vador, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, Turkey, Union of South Africa, Venezuela. Voted against : Australia, Belgium, Canada, Den- mark, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay. Abstained : Czechoslovakia, Poland. Absent : Liberia, Luxemburg, Saudi Arabia, Syria.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : The result of the vote is as follows : Of the 36 coun- tries voting, 4 were absent, 20 countries voted «Yes», 10 voted «No», and there were two ab- stentions. The proposal that the next General Conference shall be held in the Lebanonis therefore adopted. ‘!) Mr. PIERCE (Canada) : This is a very happy vote : even the losers are happy. 1 move that it be made unanimous. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) : Although the Australian delegation felt itself obliged to support the views of the Executive Board in this matter, we are very happy to second the proposal of the Cana- dian delegate that our vote be unanimous. Dr. Laurence DUGGAN (United States of America) : The delegate of Australia has taken the words out of my mouth. I also wanted to second the motion. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation, I am very happy indeed to support the suggestion of unanimity made by the delegate of Canada. I can- not, of course, prophesy that I myself shall enjoy the delights of going to Beirut, because Ministers and Members of Parliament come and go : their duration is temporary. But I am sure that everyone here hopes that we shall all meet again, and that we shall meet in Beirut. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) : Mr. President, may I also support this suggestion? I am feeling very happy : I voted for what I thought I should do, and I have got what I wanted. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish) : I should not like to be silent in the face of this unanimous approval. ) Resolution vir; vol. II, page & — 141 —   M. J. ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : I do not wish to make another speech, I think you will agree that all my remarks have been brief. I only want, gentlemen, to thank you; and I am sure that the hearty welcome you will receive from my people will show you how a country of the Near East can follow the fine example set by the grand country of Mexico. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Do you agree to accept unanimously the Lebanese proposal that Beirut should be the place of the Third Session of the General Conference of Unesco? There are no objections. I take it, therefore, that this proposal is accepted unanimously. The meeting rose at 6.35 p. m. THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Saturday, 29 November 1947, at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Pages.
25. Report of the Sub-Committee of the Conference appointed to consider Resolutions concerning Measures to be taken against War Propaganda. 142
26. Reports of Member States. .........LLoan 151
27. Discussion of a Resolution by the delegation of the United Kingdom concern- ing the Organization of Future Sessions of the General Conference.... 151 President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Before we embark on our agenda, the delegate of Canada has an announcement to make : Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, I am happy to be able to report to this Conference that I have been advised by the Secretary of State for External Affairs in Ottawa that the sum of $ 200,000 is to be made available to the Canadian Council for Reconstruction, tarough Unesco,for the purchase in Canada of supplies for educational reconstruction in war-devastated countries. This sum is to be provided from funds voted by the Canadian Parlia- ment for Post-UNRRA Relief. It may be recalled that of the $ 20,000,000 set aside in the Post-UNRRA Relief Appropriation, $ 11,000,000 was allocated for relief to specified countries and, in addition ¢ 5,000,000 was allocated to the International Children’s Emergency Fund. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The applause of the delegates 1s our best way of showing our gratitude to the Canadian delegation. We will now turn to our agenda for to-day. The first item is the Report of the Committee of Eleven
(2C/117 and annexes) and the resolution submitted by Poland (2C/BUR/2). Will the Chairman of the Committee of Eleven please come forward and pre- sent his report.
25. Report of the Sub-Committee of the Con- ference appointed to consider Resolutions concerning Measures to be taken against War Propaganda. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, fellow delegates, during the eleventh meeting of the General Conference on Wednesday, 26 Novem- ber, it was decided that a Sub-Committee, consisting of representatives of Brazil, Canada, China, the United States of America, India, Mexico, the Nether- lands, Poland, Australia, France and Czechoslovakia, should meet as soon as possible to discuss the diffe- rent resolutions presented to the General Conference — 2 —