SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE OF THE CONFERENCE FIRST MEETING Friday 7 November 1947 at 1 p.m. Chairman : Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) Participation of the Spanish Republican Government in the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN reported that, following a request presented by the Spanish Republican Government, the Executive Board had decided to recommend to the General Conference that, as was the case at the First Session of the General Conference, the representatives of the Spanish Republican Govern- ment be admitted to follow the work of the present session in an unofficial capacity. The question was dealt with in document 2C/94, which was submitted to the General Committee for its consid- eration. After Mr. BENTON (United States of Ame- rica) had expressed his support of the proposal contained in this document, the recommendation of the Executive Board was adopted. Application of Monaco to be represented by an observer. The SECRETARY reported that Monaco had applied for membership during the summer, and that the Executive Board had passed the application to the Economic and Social Council, but the latter had been unable to consider it. As six months had not yet elapsed, the Conference could not make a decision on the subject. Pending this decision, a request had been received from the Government of Monaco to be represented at the Second Session of the General Conference by an observer. The CHAIRMAN proposed that the General Committee should recommend to the General Con- ference that an observer of Monaco be admitted. This proposal was adopted. Nominations for officers of Commissions and Working Parties. The SECRETARY reported a suggestion that, in addition fo the nominations provided for by the Rules of Procedure, the Nominations Committee should make proposals for other officers of Commis- sions and Working Parties. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) ex- pressed the opinion that it was advisable for the Nominations Committee to make proposals for all officers in order to obtain a more balanced repre- sentation. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) moved that the Nominations Committee should be asked to make recommendations for the Chairmen, Vice- Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the two Commis- sions and the Budget Sub-Commission, as well as for the Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the Work- ing Parties, in order to provide for the possible absences of Chairmen. Thefinal motion, as adopted, instructed the Nomi- nations Committee to make nominations for Chair- men, Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the two Commissions, the Budget Sub-Commission and the Working Parties. Proposals regarding the organization of work for the General Conference (document 2C/
419A). The SECRETARY reported that the Executive Board had decided to transmit to the Conference document 20/19, drawn up by the Secretariat a few weeks earlier, with some modifications included in document 2C/19A. — ME
16 | | | | |     Document 2C/19A was thereupon read, discussed and adopted point by point. Point 1 : General discussion. After a question by Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Dr. WALKER (Australia) replied that the Executive Board had in mind a general discussion without motions or specific details. The CHAIRMAN observed that the responsibility for maintaining the discussion on a general plane would rest with the various chairmen. Since it was hoped to limit the general discussion to four hours, the suggestion was made by Dr. BEE- BY and Dr. WALKER that it would be necessary to restrict the number of speakers or restrict the time of each speaker. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL ap- pealed for a general discussion that would not last more than one day . Point 2 : Total Budget Figure. After Sir John MAUD had stated that the French delegation did not object to the procedure sugges- ted, but that it was understood that a plenary meeting of the full Conference would re-examine the conclusions of the Programme and Budget Commission, Point 2 was adopted. Point 3: Agenda of Working Parties. During the discussion on the advisability of flexible agendas for Working Parties, Mr. BENTON proposed that, in addition to the existing fourteen Working Parties, a fifteenth should be added spe- cifically devoted to the subject of National Commis- sions. After Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) had expressed the belief that this proposal was already covered in Point 5, Dr. WALKER explained that Point 5 was not intended to refer to National Commissions, but to the desirability of engaging governments and other international organizations in the work. The motion to create a special Working Party on National Commissions was adopted on the unders- tanding that the other Working Parties would also deal with the subject in terms of their special inte- rests. Point 4 : Reports of Working Parties. Dr. WALKER (Australia) having explained that some Working Parties might make recommendations which the Programme Commission could not accept owing to the pressure of time, this point was adopted. Points 5 and 6 were adopted without discussion, Point 7 : Schedule of Budget Sub-Commassion. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) commu- nicated a recommendation by the United States delegation to instruct the Budget Sub-Commission to meetas early as possible, instead of «at any time », and to draw up a budget on a day-by-day basis. Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand) observed that there was a two-way relation between the Programme and Budget Commission and the Budget Sub-Com- mission, because a limit had to be kept in mind. On the problem of the relation between the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission and the Budget Sub-Commission, the DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENE- RAL pointed out that limitation of personnel res- tricted the number of meetings that could be held simultaneously; Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) proposed that the Programme and Budget Com- mission and the Budget Sub-Commission should meet simultaneously; and Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) suggested that the Programme and Budget Com- mission should get the advice of the Budget Sub- Commission before finishing its work. When the DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL raised the question whether the Budget Sub-Commis- sion would produce a total figure or confine itself to an internal examination of the Budget, Mr. BENTON (United States of America) replied that the Programme and Budget Commission would discuss a total figure without any recommendation by the Budget Sub-Commission. It was under- stood that the total figure would be determined by the General Conference on the recommenda- tion of the Programme and Budget Commission. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) also urged the desirability of adjourning the Conference earlier than 3 December and mentioned 29 No- vember as a target. He thought that it might be possible to gain two or three days at the end by collating the Budget on a day-to-day basis, as proposed in the United States recommendation, previously mentioned. In response to this appeal, which was favourably received, the DEPUTY DI- RECTOR-GENERAL declared that the Secretariat would be assisted in shortening the Conference if members of the General Committee would signify which items of the programme could be eliminated. Dr. HAN (China) asked the Secretariat to make recommendations for omissions at the next meeting of the General Committee. In response to a suggestion that some of the Working Parties might be eliminated, the DIREC- TOR-GENERAL pointed out that the Working — 242 —    Parties tried to serve special interests that could not be satisfied in any other way. Point 7 was adopted. Annex 1 of document 2C/19A was then read, discussed and adopted point by point. Points 1, 2 and 3 were adopted. Point’ 4. A proposal by Dr. KOTSCHNIG (replacing Mr. Benton) United States of America) that the word «five» in line 10 of Point 4 should be deleted was adopted. Points 5 and 6 were adopted. Point 7 : Noting ofproposals. Dr. WALKER (Australia) interpreted Point 7 to mean that there were three categories of projects :
(1) those completely rejected by the Programme Com- mission, (2) those with a limited sphere ofinterest, on which nothing would be done this year, and (3) those on which work would be authorized for this year. When Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) expres- sed surprise at the interpretation that Point 7 implied projects on which nothing would be done but which were not ruled out for future consideration, a!pro- posal was adopted to add the phrase «as falling within Unesco’s sphere of interest» after the word «pro- posal» in Point 7. In response to a question by Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) whether [the Secretariat or the national delegations would present resolutions to the Confe- rence, Dr. WALKER (Australia) replied that the na- tional delegations would do so, but that the Secre- tariat might present supplementary proposals. The meeting rose at 2.20 p. m. SECOND MEETING Saturday, 8 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Sr. GUAL VIDAL (President of the Conference) declared the meeting open and requested Professor P. Carneiro, in the absence of M. Camille Huysmans, to take the chair. The CHAIRMAN then announced that the agenda had been slightly modified. The Report of the Director-General would be presented by the Chair- man of the Executive Board, followed by an open discussion by the delegates. After this, Dr. Martinez Baez would speak on behalf of the Executive Board, followed by Dr. Huxley and the delegates of those countries which had already notified their desire to speak. At the present time, only three countries, Brazil, the Netherlands and India, had notified their intention to speak on Saturday and the Chair- man felt that an announcement should be made by the President in the Plenary Conference asking if any other countries would like to speak on Satur- day. If not, there would be no necessity for a plenary meeting that afternoon. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that it might be an excellent idea for delegates to have this chance to rest, in view of their recent arrival and the necessity of habituating themselves to the altitude of Mexico City. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked if it might be possible for the Director-General to comment on the Report after its presentation by the Executive Board, but before the open discussion. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) re- marked that the American delegation would be most grateful for a short break in the meetings, as several were already under the doctor. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the meeting that this of course would leave less time for discus- sion of the Report. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) referring to his suggestion, asked if it was accepted. The CHAIRMAN said that the meeting was agreed on this point. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) also asked whether the Nominations Committee scheduled for
4 p. m. that afternoon would still take place at that time, in view of there being no plenary meet- ing beforehand. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Nominations Committee should meet immediately after the morn- ing plenary meeting, but the DIRECTOR-GENE- RAL reminded the Committee that this might not rise until 1.30 p. m., or even later. DI —v