UNITED STATES delegate replied that he would enquire whether his delegation wished to move such an amendment. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), in orderto satisfy the Director-General's request, said he would put the matter at the end of the day’s agenda, but would not FOURTEENTH waste time by adjourning the meeting in order not to discuss the matter that day. M. DROHOJOWSKI(Poland) moved the adjourn- ment of the meeting. Agreed. The meeting rose at 11 a.m. MEETING Monday, 24 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Seat of the {Third Session of the General Conference. On behalf of his delegation, the CHAIRMAN announced that the Lebanese Government had extended an invitation to hold the next General Conference at Beirut. He intended to give the reas- ons for this invitation at the next plenary meeting. These reasons were, in short, that Unesco had already held a Conference in Europe and one on the American continent, and it was important that Eastern populations should be given the assurance that Western civilizations did not monopolize the Organization. Furthermore, Beirut was a suitable place because of its considerable cultural and uni- vertsity achievements and because it was only a few hours from Europe by plane. The Lebanon might not be able to receive the Conference on the same scale as Mexico, but would do its best to do honourto Eastern traditions. He therefore requested that the Generali Committee should submit a recom- mendation to the Executive Board supporting the Lebanese invitation. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought they should acknowledge the suggestion with much gratitude, but that it was not a matter for the Com- mittee to discuss. The normal procedure would be for it to forward the request without comment to the Executive Board. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) agreed that the question should be left wholly to the Executive Board, but it might be stated that the Committee was very grateful for the cordial invita- tion and saw no reason why a Conference should not be held at Beirut at some time during the next few years. He recalled that the United States felt warmly towards Beirut, because of the American University there. M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland), on behalf of his delegation, expressed gratitude for the invitation and added that cordial friendship existed between Poland and Middle Eastern countries. Nevertheless, he agreed with the United Kingdom delegate that the Committee could not decide on the question and that the matter should be referred to the Executive Board. The delegate of CHINA also seconded the United Kingdom proposal. The CHAIRMAN excused himself for having raised the question, which was not in order under Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, but he had merely wanted the matter referred to the Executive Board with an expression of the General Committees fa- vourable opinion. As regards the question of eco- nomy, he pointed out that the present living condi- tions in Beirut were less expensive than those in Mexico. He suggested that the Executive Board, or its Sub-Committee, should not decide on the matter before hearing the delegation of Lebanon. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought it might be more advantageous for him to put his case before the Plenary Conference, rather than the Execu- tive Board. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) thought the door should be open to small countries without representatives on the Board to put their views be- fore it. It was agreed that the delegate of Lebanon should be allowed to raise the matter at the Executive Board meeting or at the plenary meeting, as he desired. Progress of work of the Conference. The SECRETARY announced that the Secretariat had received enquiries from delegations regarding the work schedule for the end of the week. He thought it would be usefulif the next days Journal — 267 —   could announce : (a) the approximate date of the completion of the Budget Sub-Commission’s work and the distribution of its report to delegations; (b) the times of meetings of the Programme and Bud- get Commission to consider the recommendations of the Budget Sub-Commission; (c) the date of the plenary meetingto examine the report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. The CHAIRMAN called on the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission and the Chair- man of the Administrative and External Relations Commission to give their opinions. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, thought the schedule would depend on the amount of work accomplished that day and whether there was a quorum at the evening meeting. He hoped, however, that his Commission would be able to keep to the time-table set out in 2C/BUR/1 : that was to say, four daysfor the Budget Sub-Commission’s meetings and a meeting of the Programme and Budget Com- mission on Saturday, 29 November to consider the Budget Sub-Commission’s report. Dr. HAN (China), Chairman of the Administrative and External Relations Commission, hoped his Commission would finish work by Wednesday,
26 November, but he was not sure because there might be lengthy discussions on Unesco’s rela- tions with Germany and Japan, and also members wished to avoid evening meetings. It was agreed that the opinions of the two Chair- men should be inserted in the next day’s Journal. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) transmitted a suggestion by several delegations that the Secre- tariat should be asked to make a list of the private addresses of delegates, in order that delegations might continue the friendly relations established during the Conference. Agreed. Resolution of United Kingdom delegation. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) announced that his delegation intended to submit a resolution to the Committee during the next two or three days, which it was suggested should be discussed at the жж, meeting on Friday or Saturday. The reso- ution concerned experience gained at the first two Conferences and aimed at giving small countries an opportunity to say what they though the Executive Board should consider in its discussions about the next General Conference. All Member States and delegations should be able to make suggestions in this connexion, if they wished to doso. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) welcomed the announcement of this resolution. He thought that, if the Programme and Budget Commission could not meet on Friday, 28 November, because the report of the Budget Sub-Commission was not ready, the meeting of heads of delegations and the Sub-Commi- tee of the Executive Board, scheduled for Thursday at 4 p.m., should be postponed until Friday morn- ing or afternoon, in order that the United Kingdom resolution could be added to its agenda. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) recalled that the report of the Budget Sub-Commission had to be translated and duplicated and thought it would be unfair to present the whole Budget on Friday morning and expect an immediate discussion and vote to be taken on it. Mr. BENTON(UnitedStates ofAmerica) thought that both matters pertaining to theExecutive Board could be dealt with on Friday. It was agreed that the meet- ing of heads of delegations and the Sub-Committee of the Executive Board should be postponed until Friday, subject to approval of the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission. The meeting rose at 11 a.m. FIFTEENTH MEETING Wednesday, 26 November 1947 at 10 а. т. Chairman: Dr. Luis E. VALCARCEL (Peru) Proposal of the United Kingdom delegation concerning review of Conference procedure. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) announced that he would not go through every item, nor discuss the merits of the resolution, but wanted the advice of the Committee on where it could best be discussed : either by the Plenary Conference or by the Special Committee set up by the Executive Board. Asregards paragraph 1, his delegation felt that Mem- ber States should be in a position to receive pro- posals from National Commissions and Go-operating Bodies before the Conference. In this way smaller delegations would be able to play a bigger part in — 268 —