The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA moved that the proposals contained in docu- ment 2C/C2/4 regarding the currency of contribu- tions should be adopted. Dr. WALKER (Australia) wished to second this motion, but asked that a recommendation should be included, to cover any new members joining the Organization during the coming year, to the effect that the currency of their contributions should be decided by the Executive Board in consultation with the Government concerned. This proposition was seconded by M. DORGET (France) and Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece), and the motion was adopted. The meeting rose at 6 p. m. SEVENTH MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947, at 11.15 am. Chairman : Item 4 (f) of the Agenda : Amendments to the Financial Regulations (continuation). Mr. JOCKEL (Australia) expressed alarm that eleven States out of thirty had not begun to pay their contributions. He added that some States had announced that they had not paid for technical reasons and he thought it would be interesting to find out what these reasons were. The Secretariat however, was taking action to obtain full payments. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) recalled that he had referred to the same question on Saturday morning. He read a note from the Uruguyan delegation urging Unesco to treatits Member Nations in arrears according to Article 19 of the Charter of the United Nations. He reserved the right to present this constitutional modification to the Director-General for submission to the Third Session of the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN considered it advisable to pass on this proposal to the General Conference for reference to the appropriate organ, because the Administrative and External Relations Commission was only supposed to discuss internal financial administration. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA supported the motion of the delegate of Uru- guay. He observed that there was no body dealing with these matters at the present time. The ques- tion of default in contributions appeared in the Report of the Director-General, which was under discussion. To avoid the possibility of this impor- tant matter being lost between various bodies, he suggested a resolution should be passed proposing that the next General Conference should consider Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) a plan similar to that put forward by the delegate of Uruguay. The CHAIRMAN felt that the Commission could make a recommendation, but not pass a resolution, on such a modification of the Constitution. Senator BROOKES (Union of South Africa) asked whether the Commission could adopt a resolution drawing attention to this matter, and wished for some remedy not found in the present Constitution. Mr. SICOTTE (Canada) expressed concern that some payments had not been made but said that he had no specific suggestions for securing payment. It was tentatively agreed to draw the attention of the Conference to non-payment of contributions by some countries and to propose that measures should be taken in the future to remedy the situation. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AME- RICA expressed his satisfaction, provided that men- tion was made of the Uruguayan proposal, which he considered the most effective way to meet the situation. In response to a question by the DEPUTY DIREC- TOR-GENERAL, it was confirmed that a proposal regarding financial regulations, adopted on Satur- day afternoon, should have been submitted to a Drafting Committee and that this Committee should have asked the advice of the Budget Sub-Com- mission. The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Belgian Par- liament had voted favourably on the Unesco contri- bution and that the Chinese contribution was being forwarded. — 565 —    The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that a slight error had been made regarding the alleged balance due by Mexico. Apparently, no such balance was due and the differences in figures could be adjusted immediately. He also pointed out that the Secretariat had regularly sent communications to countries in arrears. Document 2G/2/Annex Е, listing contributions, had been published in November and republished for the Second Session of the General Conference for the purpose of bringing the state of contributions to the attention of all delegates. Item 5 of the Agenda : Staff Questions. port of the Director-General. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) suggested that there should be either a single technical and adminis- trative Head in charge of a Section, or a technical Head with an administrative Adviser. At present the Heads of Sections were specialists without administrative background. He also proposed that Unesco personnel should not be permitted to accept any honour, decoration, favour or monetary reward from any government, except for services rendered before joining Unesco. He felt that Regulation 1 of the Staff Regulations (Unesco/Int. Org./7/1947) should be modified to make the last sentence not incompatible with the first. Consideration of this matter was postponed until the discussion on organizational questions at a later stage of the agenda. Re- Geographical Distribution. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) recalled the words of the leader of the Indian delegation regarding the geographical distribution of Unesco’s staff, at the First Plenary Meeting. He reviewed those Sec- tions of the Director-General’s report dealing with recruitment policy, recruitment techniques, the urgency in executing the 1947 Programme and the new policy for 1948. He said that, in theory, no one took exception to the principles governing the recruitment policy or technique, but that more explanation was needed. It was necessary to establish the relative importance between the three major criteria of the recruitment policy. It was vital to consider that Unesco was aiming not merely at efficiency but also at bringing about collaboration between, and synthesis of, dif- ferent cultures of the world. It was impossible to accomplish the latter object without a fairly even geographical distribution at headquarters. It was not a question of the personnel claims of any one country, but it was in the interests of Unesco itself to represent different cultures, continents and countries. This was so important that he was willing to sacrifice, up to a certain point, even the major consideration of merit. Reviewing the Unesco personnel, he questioned whether it could be maintained that, out of 589 per- sons, it was necessary to recruit 253 from one coun- try and 165 from another. Of the remaining 171,
55 belonged to a country which contributed almost half the budget; 14 to Latin America; 15 to Eastern Europe; 2 to Middle East; 14 to the British Gommon- wealth (outside the United Kingdom); 7 to the Far East; and 3 to India. No one would suggest that merit in the world was distributed to-day on that basis. He was frankly dissatisfied with this extre- mely lop-sided distribution which could not be justified on grounds of merit or urgency of recruit- ment. Regarding the assurance that future appoint- ments would either improve the pattern of geogra- phical distribution, or at least not impair it, he contended that the pattern had to be improved radically if Unesco was to command the confidence of the world. It was not enough to say that the pattern of the past would not be impaired. Turning to the subject of recruitment techniques, the delegate of India said that his country had never received information about posts in time. On a few occa- sions, it was asked to suggest names by telegram. Without knowing exactly the terms, conditions and nature of work, this was impossible. He suggested that, as far as practicable in the future, the Unesco Secretariat should try to foresee personnel require- ments well in advance, and to ask a few Member States not now adequately represented to submit their candidates by a certain date. He maintained that the most practical way to recruit personnel was through Member States and not through direct applications. The final selection had to rest with Unesco, but Member States should be asked to submit 3 or 4 superior persons for a particular post. Impersonal recommendations were better than personal recommendations. As a con- crete example, he declared that the Government of India would act through the Federal Public Service Commission. In conclusion, the delegate of India said that he was calling for two changes in personnel policy, one concerned with better geographical distribution and the other with better methods of recruitment. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) congratulated the delegate of India upon the clarity of his state- ment on a problem which was fundamental to the existence of Unesco. Having been closely associated with the Organization for a year and a half, he under- — 566 —    ‘stood the enormous difficulties in recruitment, but he agreed that the Secretariat must make a real and sincere effort to establish a more equitable geogra- phical distribution. He pointed out that a total of only some 12 Latin American nationals in the entire personnel was abnormal. Out of 68 posts with a salary of $ 5,000 and over, 11 went to France, 18 to the United States, and 22 to the United Kingdom — a total of 51 out of 68 to three countries. Only 3 of these higher posts went to Latin America. The delegate of Mexico thereupon proposed a resolution recommending to the Second General Conference, as had been done before, that in the choice of personnel, due importance should be given to international distribution and that the Executive Board should exercise effective super- vision to see this recommendation carried out. Sr. BAMBOA (Philippines), expressing full agree- ments with the delegates of India and Mexico, seconded the motion. Senator BROOKES (Union of South Africa) said that he wholeheartedly supported the delegate of India, but asked the Commission to keep in mind two factors. (1) He was not criticizing the arran- gements made in 1946-1947 but was looking to the future. (2) Wherever the seat of the Organi- zation mightbe, a big proportion of the personnel, especially in the lower grades, would live nearby, but, when all allowances were made, he felt strongly that the personnel should be based on the world of to-day, in which the countries of the East were playing a bigger róle, rather than on the world of thirty years ago. He referred to the absence of any reference tc Africa in connexion with the criteria of geographical distribution (20/64, page 4) as perhaps an unconscious indication that the Secre- tariat was apt to forget the existence of Africa. He agreed with the delegate of India that it was neces- sary to improve the pattern of geographical distri bution rather than to avoid impairing it. Prof. AUGER (France) declared that his country was always in favour of equitable international geographic distribution. He did not recognize that there were any major or minor cultures in Unesco. He pointed out that it was a superficial impression that practically half of Unesco’s personnel was French, because the majority of the 253 French employees were plumbers, carpenters, typists and telephone operator. Only the higher posts should be taken into consideration and in this respect the distribution was not so unfair. Sr. AROSEMENA (Ecuador) supported the Mexican resolution, in which his delegation was equally interested. It was decided to postpone discussion on the Mexican resolution until the next meeting of the Commission. The meeting rose at 1.30 p. m. EIGHTH MEETING Monday, 17 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) Item 5 (d) of the Agenda: Geographical Distri- bution (continuation). The CHAIRMAN announced that, in the absence of a quorum, the deliberations would be considered in the nature of private discussions. Dr. KESSLER (Switzerland) wondered whether additional ‘press personnel was being considered. If that were the case, it might be advisable to recruit specialists from small European countries, not Switzerland necessarily, but from such countries as Belgium or Holland. Journalists from small coun- tries seemed to find it easier to overcome obstacles to the free flow of information, and the recruitment of personnel from these countries might prove beneficial to the Press Section of Unesco. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) supported the Mexican resolution but wished to stress an equally important point, namely, the question of selection of personnel. It was important to ensure imper- sonal selection as far as possible. The following paragraph might be added to the Mexican resolution : — 567 —