Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) replied that he had been instructed by his Government to find out whether the Secretariat’s internal structure was adequate for achieving the objects of the Member States. He had therefore merely carried out the instructions given him. The RAPPORTEURthought that the members of the present Commission, who were not all members of the Executive Board, had perhaps not enough information to examine the matter in detail. He suggested that it should be left to the Director- General and the Executive Board to take the necessary decisions. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) said that he entirely agreed with the Rapporteur. Mr. DILWORTH (Canada) expressed a similar view. The delegate of FRANCE agreed that the Com- mission should not take a decision on points of detail, but did not think that the question was. in fact, one of detail. He thought they might proceed in one of two ways : either, vote on the French motion, if the Commission thought it could proceed to a vote of this nature ; or record in the minutes the discussion which had taken place. The CHAIRMAN accordingly put to the vote the French delegate’s resolution, worded as follows : The Commission suggests that the post of Programme Co- ordinator mentioned in document 2C/92 be suppressed. The resolution was rejected by 9 votes to 8. The Commission agreed that the statements made in the course of the meeting should be communicated to the Director-General. M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) then said he had received a telegram from the Secretary-General of the United Nations. This telegram indicated that it had been decided, during the General Assembly of the United Nations, to draw Unesco’s attention to the relatively large size of its budget, compared with that of the other Specialized Agencies, and that Unesco should make every effort to secure a reduction in its budget. The meeting rose at 6 p. m. EIGHTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 25 November 1947, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China), Item 7 (a) of the Agenda : Relations with Member States.
(1) Representation of Unesco in the main cultural areas of the world (document 2C/50). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat), in presenting the document, asked for consideration to be given to the desirability of establishing regional offices and, if so, of setting up two or three such offices of an experimental character in 1948. Sr. GUELL (Cuba) stressed the importance of an early establishment of regional offices to work with the National Commissions and to remedy the over- centralization of the present organization. While he realized that the immediate creation of such cen- tres was impossible, he urged that the Conference should take a decision on the principle and should indicate the regions of the world in which the first offices should be established. He therefore submit- ted the following resolution : The Second General Conference of Unesco resolves :
1. To establish as soon as possible Regional Offices or Centres of Unesco, to further the aims of the Organization and co-ordinate the latter's work and information activities with those of existing or future National Commissions of Unesco.
2. The Conference in plenary session in 1948 shall determine the geographical regions of the world in which the work of the above mentioned centres would best contribute to the aims of the Organization.
3. To authorize the Executive Board to adopt such reso- lutions as it may think fit for the purpose of promoting and strengthening these bodies.
4. The countries in which such Regional Offices or Centres are established shall undertake to provide adequate office accommodation and also to contribute to the expenses of these offices or Centres. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) thought the Cuban motion did not go far enough. It was necessary — 592 —    not to decentralize the activities of Unesco but to carry Unesco to the people of all countries. This basic task had not yet been tackled. The Organization had done good work, had made inves- tigation, and initiated projects, but had as yet made no real attempt to reach the people. This should now be given the highest priority. The world point of view could only be brought to the people if Unesco’s representatives were stationed in the different countries. While he was aware of the limitations imposed by the budget and the lack of staff, he insisted that the aim should be to appoint a representative in each large country and workable group of small countries. These offices would be centres of propaganda and information in each region. He moved the following resolution : Resolved that, with a view to making the aims, ideals and programme of Unesco properly known in all Member States and to assisting the National Commissions and Member States with specialist advice and information, in implementing the programme, the Director-General should take necessary steps as early as practicable to appoint representatives os the Organization in each Member State or group of States accord- ing to considerations of efficacy and economy. That a beginning should be made during 1948 with the appointment of representatives in as many of the followin countries as possible : (1) Latin América, (2) the United States of America, (3) the United Kingdom, (4) Western Europe, (5) Eastern Europe, (6) the Middle East, (7) India,
(8) China, (9) Australasia. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) recalled that the idea of Regional Offices had been in the minds of all connected with Unesco since the days of the Preparatory Commission. He welcomed the empha- sis which the Cuban proposals placed on the National Commissions, which could do excellent pioneer work and prepare the ground for the establishment of Regional Offices. He supported the Indian proposal, which was framed in more specific terms Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America), while expressing sympathy with the Cuban resolu- tion, considered the immediate establishment of Regional Centres to be premature. Prolonged consideration had been given to the difficulties of the headquarters administration; the first duty was to strengthen this central organization. The United Nations were only beginning to develop Regional Centres, and Unesco was bound by its Constitution to consult with the United Nations before establishing Regional Offices, in order that such Offices might be set up, in so far as possible, in the same centres as the Regional Offices of the United Nations. He was convinced, however, that it was essential to send key men to the major regions to prepare for the establishment of Regional Centres and to assist in the developmentof National Commis- sions, where these did not yet exist. He proposed the following amendment to the Cuban resolution : Paragraph 1 to read as follows : To establish as soon as possible Regional Offices or Centres of Unesco, to further the aims of the Organization and to co- ordinate its activities with those of existing or future National Commissions of Unesco within the major geographical regions of the world. у Paragraph 2 to begin: The Third Session of the General Conference... Paragraphs 3 and 4 to be deleted and replaced by the following new paragraph 3 : wo Pending the establishment of such Regional Centres the Director-General is instructed to arrange for periodic visits of key Unesco officials to the several geographical regions of the world with a view to assisting in the development of Nation- al Commissions for the purpose of studying the desirability andfeasibility of establishing Regional Offices. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) supported the Cuban proposal, which provided for much- needed closer contact with the regions and corrected the present tendency to over-centralization in Paris. He thought the proposals presented by the dele- gates of India and the United States of America could be combined with the Cuban resolution, and he suggested the setting up of a sub-committee for this purpose. He said that if Unesco did not establish Regional Offices immediately, such offices would be started outside Unesco : the Pan-American Union was to establish an inter-American Centre of cultural relations during the coming year, and it was possible that the Arab League and the Slav countries might take similar action in the near future. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) supported the Indian proposal as being more complete than the recommendations submitted by the delegate of Cuba. The American view that the establishment of Regional Offices was premature was understand- able, since the United States of America had already established a very complete National Commission. In regions like Latin America, however, the lack of interest in Unesco was due to the absence of any such co-ordinating centre and he believed that immediate action was necessary. The Indian pro- posal to appoint representatives to the regions was particularly interesting. He put forward three suggestions : that all Unesco documents should be sent to the Regional Offices of the United Nations, from which they could be distributed; that Unesco should work through voluntary agents, who would be prepared to act as representatives pending the establishment of permanent offices; and that the Member States should be asked to grant free postage for Unesco documents. Mr. DUNBABIN (Australia) pointed out that, since the Budget Sub-Committee was actively — 593 —
38     engaged on the preparation of the Budget, any proposal requiring considerable expenditure should be submitted without delay; otherwise cuts in the allocation to the Programme would be involved. While regional representation was right in principle, its development must depend on the evolution of the Programme and on relationships with the United Nations. Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) supported the American amendment; he hoped it would be possible to arrange prolonged visits to the different regions to prepare for the eventual Regional Offices. He welcomed the execution of an idea which had been developed at the Executive Board by the Egyptian member. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) agreed that the immediate establishment of Regional Offices was premature. Unesco should be known by the suc- cessful results of its work and not by propaganda offices. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) supported the amendment proposed by the United States of America. While he realized the desire of distant countries for closer contacts with Unesco, Regional Offices started without prolonged consideration would not be representative of all Unesco's activities and would at present work without a sufficiently highly paid officer and would thus not be able to fulfil the functions outlined in the Cuban proposal. Sr. GUELL (Cuba) suggested that the delegate of Egypt be includedin the Drafting Sub-Committee charged with the preparation of a final text of this resolution. (it) Technical advice to Governments of Member States (document 2C/49). Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)moved the adoption of the resolution contained on pages 4 and 5 of the English text. M. de BLONAY (General) replying to a ques- tion raised by the delegate of the UnitedA explained that the expert advice provided for in this document had no concealed financial implica- tions and could be given without any increase in staff. The resolution was adopted.) (ii) Reports by Member States (document 20/31). Mr. DUNBABIN (Australia) moved the adoption of the resolution at the end of this document, sub- ject to one amendment to the second paragraph. In his view reports from Member States should not
(1) Resolution IX, Annex VII, (2); vol. II, page 54. take the form of replies to a questionnaire; more valuable information would be obtained if greater flexibility were given. He proposed, therefore that paragraph 2 be amended to read as follows : { Considering that such reports should have regard to Unesco's general plan for the collection of information and documenta- tion on educational, scientific and cultural life and institu- tions, The resolution thus amended was seconded by the delegate of the United States of America and approved. (2) (iv) General policy concerning recommendations to Member States and international agreements (document
20/48). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) explained that as vet no procedure had been adopted for the rati- fication of international conventions. Although no such conventions had been approved, the ex- perience of the ILO had shown that such conventions were an important means for the promotion of the aims of the Organization. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) moved the adoption of the resolution prepared by the Secretariat subject to the substitution of the following paragraph for the final paragraph of the original text : Requests the Director-General to draw up draft regulations on the procedure of Unesco concerning recommendations to Member States or international conventions adopted by the General Conference for submission to Member States and to present such draft regulations to the General Conference for approval at its Third Session. The proposal, thus amended, was seconded by Mr. I. DILWORTH (Canada) and approved. (3) Item 7 (b) Relations with Non-Member States (i) General policy concerning co-operation with Von- Member States (document 2C/25). M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) said that relations with Non-Member States had been governed by the consideration contained in the Annex to this document. The situation had changed since the preparation of the Annex, some of the non-members having now joined the Organization, and it was appropriate to consider to what extent Non-Member States should benefit from the technical services of Unesco. The resolution submitted by the Secretariat aimed at continuing the present policy
(2) Resolution IX, Annex VII (3); vol. II, page 54.
(9) Resolution IX, Annex VII (1); vol. II, page 55.
504 —    of associating as many States as possible with the work of the Organization. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed that everything should be done to make the work of the Organization as universal as pos- sible, but doubted whether the tactics employed were conducive to this end. It was unnecessary to extend the privileges of membership to non-mem- bers and it had already been shown that this policy had not induced States to join the Organization. No distinction should be made, except as regarding admission to the Organization, between members of the United Nations which were not members of Unesco and other non-members of Unesco, with the exception of Spain. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that this document was intended to focus attention on participation in the work of Unesco as distinct from benefits. The resolutions passed by the First General Conference and the Executive Board had explicitly excluded non-members from the enjoyment of such advantages of membership as scholarships. The matter for consideration was whether all non- members should be excluded from participation in the work of Unesco, even when such participation would be in the interest of the Organization. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed that the participation of Non-Member States in the work of Unesco should not be excluded but rather accepted. Nationals of Non-Member States could take part in technical conferences, give expert advice, and provide technical information on subjects covered by Unesco’s enquiries if such participation was of material assistance to the programme of the Organization. With regard to recruitment, nation- als of Member States should have priority. He proposed to submit a formal resolution recommend- ing that States not members of Unesco but members of the United Nations and other Non-Member States, except Spain, should be given the same treatment. M. ABRAHAM (France) agreed that members of the United Nations not also members of Unesco should not benefit from the advantages of membership of Unesco, but should not be regarded as colleagues, particularly in the matter of recruitment, since membership of the United Nations provided a poli- tical guarantee, Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) said that it was not right to consider nationals of Non-Member States for posts on the staff of the Secretariat until all Member States were adequately represented. Dr. HAVRANEK (Czechoslovakia) suggested that, from the point of view of propaganda, it might be in the interest of Unesco to provide benefits, such as relief, to States which were not members of Unesco but belonged to the United Nations. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) agreed to submit a formal motion to the next meeting, The meeting rose at 1 .30 p.m. NINETEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 25 November 1947, at 4 р. т. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China). Item 7 (b) of the Agenda : Relations with Non-Member States (continuation). The CHAIRMAN called on the delegate of the United States of America to present his draft reso- lution on relations with Member States and non- Member States. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) ex- plained that he had tried to putin clear language the proposals put forward at the morning’s meeting. He regretted that he had been unable to accept the French suggestion that no distinction should be made between nationals of Member States and non-member States of Unesco which were members of the United Nations. He then read the following draft resolution : Considering that the purposes of Unesco can best be attained if its membership is extended to include all peace-loving States; and Realizing that, until universality of membership isattained principles have to be established to govern the relations o Unesco with Non-Member States; — 595 —