the Conference than they had been able to do hither- to. The resolution also aimed at binding the Budget and Programme more closely together. It should perhaps be considered by a Sub-Committee before being discussed in the Plenary Conference. It was agreed that the resolution should be placed on the agendaof the special meeting of the Executive Board and Headsof delegations to be held on Friday,
28 November at 11 a. m. This would give Member States an opportunity to express their opinions to the Board as regards the organization of the Confe- rence. Proposal of the Mexican delegation concern- ing the co-operation of Science in the conso- lidation of Peace. Report by the observer of Paraguay on stimulation of University exchanges As the above two items concerned the programme and the Programme and Budget Commission had already finished consideration of programme items, it was agreed that they should bereferred to the Exe- cutive Board in connection with any consideration it would give to the 1948 programme. Proposals of the delegation of Uruguay con- cerning Rules of Procedure on the quorum and use of the working languages. These two items concerned ¡the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Conference and were therefore referred to the Procedure Committee. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission announced that his Commission would not be able to meet before Monday 1 December to examine the Report of the Budget Sub-Commission. The meeting rose at 10.45 a. m. SIXTEENTH MEETING Friday, 28 November 1947 at 10 a m. Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ[(Mexico) Progress of the work of the Conference. The CHAIRMAN called on the Secretary to make an announcement regarding the work of the Confe- rence. The SECRETARYsaid that it was essential for the Administrative and External Relations Commission to finish its work that day, if the Conference was to end by 3 December. The technical services must have time to duplicate and translate its Report, which should be discussed by the plenary meeting on Monday afternoon. The whole day of Tuesday,
2 December, would be kept free for meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission. On Saturday,
29 November, there would be a plenary meeting at 11 a. m. to examine general resolutions and the Reports of Member States. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked for the insertion in the agenda of the next day's plenary meeting of the United Kingdom resolution concerning the organization of the Conference (document 2C/
116), as he did not think there would be time to dis- cuss it at the special meeting that morning of the Executive Board and heads of delegations. M. DROHOJOSWKI (Poland) agreed with United Kingdom delegate but, after reading the text of the resolution, thought it was within the scope of the Special Meeting. As regards the programme for the next few days, he felt it should be arranged so that the Conference could end by 3 December. Dr. HAN (China), Chairman of the Administrative and External ‚Relations Commission, very much hoped that his Commission would finish work during the day, and the Rapporteur would be able to send in his report in the evening or next morn- ing. The report could then be distributed to dele- gations on Sunday evening. The CHAIRMAN, referring to the United King- dom delegate’s request, thought the United King- dom resolution should be submitted to the Special Committee, which would deal with it if possible. If not, it would be added to the agenda of the next day’s Plenary Meeting. _ Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) suggested call- mg a meeting of the Procedure Committee the following morning at 10 a. m., as the revised Rules — 269 —   of Procedure should be presented to the plenary meeting on Monday morning. Agreed. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, announced that the Budget Sub-Commission had the rough form of its report ready, and the Programme Commission was fixing the final form of its report during the day. The Drafting Committee had had to wait to see the report of the Budget Sub-Commission, but its final report would be in the hands of delegates on Monday ‘morning. The Programme and Budget Commission hoped to meet on Monday afternoon to receive the reports of the Budget Sub-Commission, and would be able to present its final report to the plenary meeting the next day. It was therefore decided that the plenary meeting should be postponed until Tuesday and that the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission should meet on Monday afternoon and evening. The report of the Administrative and External Relations Commission would be submitted to the plenary meeting on Tues- day morning. Request of the Drafting Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission. At the proposal of the delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM, the request was approved. Proposal regarding the use of Spanish as a working language. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the item be refer- red to the Procedure Committee, which could then decide whether to refer it to the Executive Board for longer study. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) observed that the Procedure Committee would be presenting its report to the plenary meeting on Monday morning and therefore the General Conference would decide on the matter of the use of Spanish as a working language. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) [returned to the question of the closing date of the Conference and asked if 3 December was to be maintained. The CHAIRMAN announced that the President of Mexico was probably offering a dinner instead of a lunch on 2 December, so that it would be possible to work in the afternoon. It was agreed that, in order to end the Conference by Wednesday night, 3 December, it would be neces- sary to hold evening meetings on Monday and Wed- nesday. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked that the General Committee should empower deletion of the reference to the Procedure Committee at the foot of page 174 of the Journal. Agreed. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. SEVENTEENTH MEETING Monday, 1 December 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : Mr William BENTON (United States of America) The CHAIRMAN called on the Ghinese delegate who had a statement to make. Dr. HAN (China) had a matter to raise regard ing the Philippines delegation, which he wished to have entered on the agenda of the plenary meeting. He recalled that the Philippines dele- gation had been upset by the fact that Dr. Alzona had not been elected to the Executive Board by the General Conference, but he thought thespirit in which they had taken the decision should be admired. He wished therefore to express the regret of the Chinese delegation that another country from the Far East was not to be represented on the Executive Board and the hope that, in the future, womanhood would be represented there. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) wondered whe- ther the Committee as a whole could not ex- press its sympathy towards the Philippines dele- gation. M. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) saw certain ob- jections to the expression of sympathy by the Committee, which might create a dangerous prece- dent. There was no reason why they should not also express sympathy to Cuba and the Netherlands, whose representatives had failed to be elected. — 270 — = =