Justice in Canada are the judge of the ownership of property in Canada. The CHAIRMAN : As the Polish delegate has insisted that this particular matter be raised, I am obliged to say that I am not agreeable to having it discussed here. If he wishes to speak to my ruling that it shall not be discussed here, he is at liberty to do so. I cannot have any discussion, however, on the topic itself. M. Jan DROHOJOWSKI(Poland) : Mr. Chairman, fellow-delegates, in connexion with the discussion of the Reconstruction Programme, the Polish dele- gation feels obliged to appeal to the General Confe- rence of Unesco for help in a question of vital impor- tance. The CHAIRMAN: Is the Polish delegate speaking tomy ruling? M.Jan DROHOJOWSKI (Poland): [am supporting the resolution. The CHAIRMAN : The resolution is not before the Commission. Only my ruling is before the Commission — that it is not a matter for this Com- mission at the moment, and I am referring it to the General Committee. The only thing upon which I can proceed is a point of order on my ruling. M. Jan DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. Chairman,
1 wish just to say one word to the point of order, with all respect to you. I do not see on what basis the Chairman has moved that this matter be referred to the General Committee. That is the only thing wanted to raise. I felt that, as this matter has been raised here, it should be discussed here, without going to the General Committee. The CHAIRMAN : I have ruled that I am not at all certain that this is a matter for this Commission. It may very well be a matter for the External Rela- tions Commission itself, and a matter upon which I am not competent to decide. I certainly will not give a decision that it be discussed in this Gommis- sion. It must go to a higher authority, and that is the General Committee of this Conference. Is there any further motion in regard to Chapter LA. If not, our discussion on Educational and Scien- tific Reconstruction is completed, except for the two Sections 4 and 5 in Chapter I A of the Green Book. In accordance with the terms of document 2C/ BUR/1, we shall proceed to-morrow to a study of Chapter LB, Fundamental Education, of which the report is prepared and for which documents have already been circulated. When that is completed, we shall pass on to I.C., if documents are ready; if not, we shall pass down the list to the first items on which documents have been prepared. I declare this meeting adjourned. The meeting rose at 6.45 р. т. FIFTH MEETING Friday, 14 November 1947, at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Appointment of Drafting Committee Chapter 1. B. — Fundamental Education Chairman : Dr C. E. BEEBY (NewZealand). The CHAIRMAN : Before we begin the examina- tion of the Fundamental Education programme, there is one question of procedure on which I would like your ruling. You will remember that yesterday, when we were dealing with Chapter I of the Pro- gramme, we left behind us two items Nos. 4 and 5, on which there were no reports. We shall no doubt in other Chapters similarly leave behind us other items on which there are no reports. Would you like me to bring up these items as soon as a report -— 8—    is brought forward or would you like us to bring them up again in two or three days when we cango back and pick up all the pieces we have left behind us? It appears to me that it would be better and easier to adopt the second method, for you will then know well in advance whatit is we are going to deal with. Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of Ame- rica) : I move that we follow your second suggestion. The CHAIRMAN : It has been moved that in two, three or four days’ time, as the case may be, we have a special meeting, in which we can go back and deal with any matters we have had to by-pass in docu- ment 20/3, or, of course, in any other document that we may be considering. Will anyone second that? Seconded by the delegate of Denmark. Is there anyone opposed to it? Very well, that will be our procedure, and I will leave it to the Secretariat to let us know when the papers are ready for each of these items. The dele- gate of Australia wishes to speak. Appointment of Draiting Committee. Mr. W.J. WEEDEN (Australia) : T would like, Mr. Chairman, with your permission to move that a drafting committee be established to assist in the formulation of the proposals to be submitted to the Conference. I have some names here, which I will mention if you wish. The CHAIRMAN : Would you like to make this a motion? Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) : I would like to move that the chairman and convener of this drafting committee be the Rapporteur, M. Seydoux, and tha. the committee also include the Vice-Chairman of this Commission, Dr. Chagas of Brazil, and in addition include representatives of the delegations of China, the United States of America, Lebanon and the United Kingdom. I would like to add to my motion, Sir, that you, as Chairman of the Commis- sion, be an ex-officio member of this committee. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion put forward by the delegate of Australia. Does anyone wish to second it? It is seconded by the delegate of Canada. Is there any discussion? Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Will this committee function after a resolution is taken by this Commission? Is it the case that we shall save time merely by leaving the wording of our resolutions to be framed afterwards, orwill this committee operate before matters come to the full Commission? The CHAIRMAN : I do not knowwhat the delegate of Australia has in mind. Perhaps be would like to speak. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : This is a matter, Mr. Chairman, to which I have given some thought, but without reaching any conclusion. I had hoped the committee might be able at least to make sugges- tions to movers of resolutions, but I felt that was a matter which might better be left to the committee’s own deliberations, if we decided to set up such a drafting committee. The CHAIRMAN : Is there any further discussion of this or any amendments? Dr. Enrique PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia), (Translation Jrom the Spanish) : T am of the opinion that a Spanish-speaking delegate should be a member of this committee. The CHAIRMAN : Would the delegate of Colom- bia wish to move an amendment to the Australian motion? Dr. PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 move as an amendment that Mexico should be represented on this committee. The CHAIRMAN: It has been moved as an amend- ment that the delegate of Mexico be added to, the committee. That would be acceptable to the mover. Would it be acceptable to the seconder? It would, and therefore it will become a part of the motion. Is there any further discussion? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France)(Translation from the French) : I believe this Drafting Committee will be extremely useful; yesterday's discussion amply proved the need for it. Lwould only like to ask, in view of my duties as Rapporteur of this Commission, and as a member of my delegation, if I may be authorized, when necessary, to hand the chairman- ship over to another memberof my delegation. The CHAIRMAN : I think that wil be entirely acceptable. Is there any further discussion? If not, I will put the motion. Will those in favour please raise their hands? Is there anyone against? In that case I declare the motion carried. : It will be for this Commission to refer to the Draft- ing Committee such business as it wishes and for the drafting committee itself to make suggestions to us as to how it could be used. The next item] on our agenda is Chapter I. B. of document 2C/3, Fundamental Education. We also — 317 —     have before us the following papers : document
9C/B/2 on the Haiti Pilot Project, from Working Party B; document 2C/B/4; F.E. Conf./5, Progress Report for 1947; and F. E. Conf./6, Definition and Programme. In addition, there is a document 2C/C1/1, sub- mitted by the delegation of Peru on the Pilot Project in Cuzco; 2C/G1/4, which is a resolution on Fun- damental Education put forward by the delegate of the United States, and another resolution put for- ward by the delegate of the United Kingdom, which as yet has no number on it. Since the American document appears to be the first of these resolutions to be handed in, and remem- bering that nothing is before this Commission until it has been moved, I call upon the delegate for the United States of America to move his resolution, M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translationfrom the French) : Mr. Chairman, there is a French motion which was presented yesterday to the Secretariat, and I wonder why it has not been distributed this morning. It also deals with Fundamental Educa- tion The CHAIRMAN : The Secretariat tells me that the French document came in at 7 o'clock last night and they have not yet been able to deal with it. The British resolution came in this morning. The Secretariat will do its best to prepare the French document, but in any circumstances the American resolution would have priority, since it came in earlier. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) Mr. Chairman, on a point of order, did we not decide yesterday afternoon that we would proceed on the basis of the printed report, so that we knew where we were? I understood that we finally resolved that we would follow the order of this report and that any resolutions would then be moved in the appropriate place in the Green Book. The CHAIRMAN : My own understanding was rather different. It was that we would take the Green Book chapter by chapter, and that the order of the subjects we dealt with would be determined by this report. When I spoke on this particular point myself, my own idea was not that we should take the individual items in that book as a basis for discussion. T understood that we had decided to take the actual order of chapters as our agenda, and then it would be for individuals to raise matters within each chapter. Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : It is very difficult for those who have not been on the Working Party to follow what is going on, if we jump about as we have been doing. I cannot see any harm in following the order of the report, and the resolutions can be moved in the appropriate place. We can also see what has been done by the Working Party. The CHAIRMAN : It has been moved by the delegate of South Africa, who is entirely in order, I think, that we should consider the individual topics within a chapter in the order in which they come within the chapter in document 2C/3. Dr. Francisco LARROYO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : I entirely support the South African proposal. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of America) : It was our understanding that a resolu- tion could be moved at the beginning of the discus- sions to replace the section in the Green Book under discussion. Is that correct? The CHAIRMAN : That was my personal under- standing of it. There seems to be some difference of opinion amongst members and I think the only thing we can do is to proceed with the discussion of the motion proposed by South Africa in order to see what the meeting really does want do do. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from. the French) : Speaking both as Rapporteur and as a member of the French delegation, I would like to draw your attention and that of the whole meeting to the very great difficulties of this discussion, On the one hand, we have the Green Book and, on the other hand, we have resolutions which have been distributed, and others which, for reasons I am not aware of, have not yet been distributed. It seems to me to be very difficult, especially for those members of the delegations who are not mem- bers of the Working Parties, to understand and follow the discussion. I wonder whether it would not be wiser if, before proceeding to study these documents, we held a meeting before hand — rather than after — of the Drafting Committee, so as to bring a little order into the discussion and into the presentation of the different documents. Otherwise I fear our discussion here will be very disorderly. M. Arthur BONHOMME (Hei) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, we all know that when there is a poor cause to be defended, there are always preliminary questions raised and especially points of order. I think everyone has already taken up his position regarding Fundamental Education. We have all studied this matter and these documents are familiar to all of us. It seems to me that there are two groups here — one which desires to assist fundamental education, so as to aid weak and — 318 —    unhappy people,and another group which wishes to slow up our work on fundamental education. The CHAIRMAN : Is the delegate of Haiti speak- ing to the motion of South Africa? M. Arthur BONHOMME (Hauti) (Translationfrom the French) : Yes, I am. My opinion, Mr. Chairman, is this. We should work in a logical order. Logi cally, the United States resolution should be dis- cussed first. This resolution is fully in conformity with Unesco’s point of view and the aims we all wish to serve. Dr. Francisco LARROYO (Mexico) (Translation Jrom the Spanish) : 1 believe, Mr. Chairman and fellow-delegates, that the order of our discussion must bé that which was agreed upon in the previous meeting. A Working Party has prepared certain resolutions on the Fundamental Education program- me, that Working Party has already presented its report. Therefore I would urge that the logical order is to consider those resolutions, on which all the experts in fundamental education worked. Fur- ther proposals can very well be discussed in consi- dering the general points and the report of the Working Party. Otherwise, what would be the position of the Working Party? For what reason was that Party set up? Was it not to study the programme and present its conclusions? I strong- ly support, then, the proposal of the South African delegate, that we begin by considering the series of recommendations made by the Working Party on fundamental education. | The CHAIRMAN : I think there is some misunder- standing here; that is not the motion of the dele- gate of South Africa. There seems to be some difference of opinion between the delegate of South Africa and the seconder of his motion. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of America) I would like to point out, on behalf of this delegation, in reply to what my friend from Mexico has just said, that we do not consider the Working Party Report a genuine report. It was prepared with very little discussion; it largely contains resolutions or recommendations submitted by various delegations and pieced together, without any adequate discussion. At the last meeting we were prepared to give a thorough discussion to the recommendations which had been passed, but we were informed that there would be no oppor- tunity for a consideration of these recommendations, due to lack of time, and that no changes could be made in the recommendations which had been pre- pared, although certain additions could be made. Therefore, we feel that it was not a genuine Working Party report, and we would prefer to take as a basis of discussion to-day the recommendations of our own delegation, which we feel are more carefully thought out. The CHAIRMAN : The motion before you is that of the delegate of South Africa, to the effect that the order of our discussion shall be the order of the individual items within the chapters in document
20/3. The motion has been seconded and various people have spoken for and against it. May I point out again,as I did yesterday, that the report of the Working Party has been distributed for general information. No resolutions in the report of the Working Party are before this body as resolu- tions, until they are moved from the floor of the meeting. That was what we agreed upon yester- day as procedure. If you wish to alter that proce- dure, it is entirely up to you. Prof. Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : In the light of our experience of yesterday — and a very bad experience it was — it seems to me that the motion submitted by the delegate of South Africa is a very wise one : that is to say, we should take the Green Book and should consider the subjects in the order in which we find them there. Toestablish some sort of prio- rity among the other resolutions, I think we could take first-after the Green Book - the Working Party's suggestions and then the proposals put forward by delegations in the chronological order in which they are handed to the Secretariat. Dr. Enrique PEREZ ARBELAEZ (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 support the pro- posal of the Brazilian delegate. Dr. Francisco LARROYO (Mexico) (Translationfrom the Spanish) I wish to support the proposal made by the Chair. Pp ds Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man,fellow-delegates : I think we are in a difficult position; we all of us, above all things, want to get on and do useful work this morning. My own view is that the delegate of South Africa understood, as I understood, the general conclusion which we reached yesterday afternoon, namely, that not only should we go chapter by chapter, but within each chapter it might be convenient to deal in order with the recommendations on that chapter. But in this particular case, this morning, the three items listed in the Green Book under this chapter, were not, I understand, found to be a very satisfactory basis of discussion at the meetings which have already taken place among the experts in the Working Party. I'would urge the delegate of South Africa to agree — 319 —     to withdraw his motion on this particular occasion and leave it tofthe Chair to determine in what order we can best conduct our business this morning. As far as future meetings are concerned, I am sure he is right infthinking that the order in the Green Book should be regarded as the order in which we proceed, unless the Chair, in ¿the light of resolu- tions that have been handed in, thinks we should do our work better by following some slightly different order. In this particular case, then,I feel the resolution from the United States delegation could perfectly well be regarded as a motion on Item 1 in the Green Book, but I cannot help feeling myself that we should not bind ourselves this morn- ing to have no ‘discussion on anything except the matters arising under Item 1 until it has been disposed of. I think we shall do much better to consider the general resolution of the United States which covers the whole of Fundamental Education, and then this motion may be added to as this Com- mission thinks best. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (South Africa) : Mr. Chair- man, | am in complete agreement with Sir John Maud, but I intended my motion to provide for a case like that. Whatis before us is Item 1, and the motion will be in substitution for the whole of that motion which is to be moved and has been circula- ted. I can see no difficulty in that procedure. It ensures that, as we go along, we know we are com- pleting that portion of the Green Book. I think, if Sir John would accept that, we could get on along those lines. The CHAIRMAN : I think we have come to a definite agreement. Your instructions to the Chair are that in future we go chapter by chapter, item by item. That is clear. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I fully agree with what was said just now by my colleagues of the United Kingdom and of South Africa, that is to say, that the Green Book should be considered as a basic document. This said, I think that, in the light of the discussions we have had, and in the light of the resolution proposed by the General Committee of the Conference and adopted, it might be wiser to discuss in the first place the Report presented by the Working Party, it being understood that the reso- lutions of other delegations would be examined subsequently. It seems to me it would be rather difficult to say that a resolution presented by a certain delegation, even if it covers the whole of the Chapter we are examining, should have priority over the prospoals made by a Working Party, in which a number of delegationsshared. I would add that the French delegation is ready to take up as a resolution the document presented by the Working Party. The CHAIRMAN : The French delegation will realize that this will be a matter for putting as a resolution of the whole meeting, since in effect it contradicts the resolution we passed yesterday as to the order in which these things should be taken. I must repeat what I said yesterday, that any document presented by a Working Party was distri- buted as a background for discussion, but it was in the same position,in this particular respect, as 20/3, in that, until somebody moved a motion concerning it or put forward proposals contained in that docu- ment, it was not before the meeting for discussion. The delegate of France has now moved that we reverse yesterday's decision in effect and that the business for this morning's discussion be the docu- ment presented by the Working Party. It seems to me that the delegate of France is perfectly in order in moving a reversal of the decision made yesterday, so long as the meeting realizes that it is a reversal. Does anyone wish to second that? M. Jan DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : I secondit. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Poland seconds the motion. There is a point of order from the delegate of Brazil. Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans- lation from the French) : The motion which the Bra- zilian delegation submitted and which was seconded by the delegate of Colombia, specified that we should establish an order of priority for all the work of this Commission, namely, (1) the Green Book; (2) docu- ments from the Working Parties, and (3) resolutions from the different delegations in the chronological order in which they were submitted to the Secre- tariat. ™ & The CHAIRMAN : I think the delegate of Brazil is right. We did decide to accept 20/3 as a basis. We cannot accept the document of the Working Party at this stage. I am now willing to accept any resolution that bears on Itèm 1 in Chapter IB of the Green Book. Chapter I. B. — Fundamental Education. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : Mr. Chairman, I move the adoption of the following resolution : The General Conference, assembled in its Second Session, in the light of the documents submitted to the Conference concerning Fundamental Education (Chapter I.B of the Executive Board’s Programme of Unesco in 1948) and in the light of its deliberations thereon, resolves as follows : — 320 —
1. Unesco will in 1948 continue and develop its pro- gramme in Fundamental Education.
2.. The Secretariat is to be commended for the prepara- tion of the excellent report entitled «Fundamental Education — Definition and Programme».
3. The Director-General is instructed to : (a) Take appropriate steps in consultation with Member- States to bring the above-mentioned report (FE Conf./6) to the attention of interested institutions, organizations, journals and individuals, in order to encourage full discus- sion; (b)  Encourage Member States to fulfil the obligation of establishing a minimum Fundamental Education for all their peoples, in conformity with the spirit of Article 1, paragraph 2 (b), of Unesco’s Constitution; among these obligations would be the establishment, within the shortest possible time, of universal free and compulsory primary education; (e) Co-operate with Member States in establishing or assisting, with adequate staff, «pilot projects» in Funda- mental Education; and (d) Define more sharply the areas to be included in future regional conferences on Fundamental Education, elaborate more carefully the scope of expert participation, and otherwise make more adequate arrangements in advance for the effective conduct of such regional conferences; Subject to the following conditions : (a) That in further study of the programme, the needs of the individual for the developmentofhis native resources of intelligence, and not merely his economic betterment, be kept in mind; (b) That it is more important to devote Unesco's efforts to developing Fundamental Education programmes on the basis of community needs and community resources than to try to arrive at an arbitrary conclusion as to a minimum standard of education applicable to all countries and peoples;
4. In this connexion the Director-General shall give due regard to the following considerations : (a) That the obligation of the more highly developed states includes not only assistance to the less developed areas but positive action to promote Fundamental Educa- tion among the less privileged groups within their own borders; (b) That Unesco and its Member States recognize the necessity of utilizing the resources not only of governmental but ofall appropriate non-governmental agencies and insti- tutions; and (e) That all appropriate means shall be explored to assist the financing of the pilot project in Haiti, to which Unesco is committed. The CHAIRMAN motion? Prof. Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : I second it and rise to a point of order. The delegation of Brazil seconds with the greatest pleasure the proposal submitted by the United States delegation, but we revert to the formula which we suggested in the first place and which was seconded by the delegation of Colombia and which has not been taken into account — that is to say that, so as to bring order in to the whole of our work, we should consider the Green Book as Does anyone second that our guide, the suggestions of the Working Parties as the first proposals and then the motions from dele- gations in the chronological order of their presenta- tion to the Bureau ; otherwise we shall be submerged in chaos. The CHAIRMAN : You will realize that this mo- tion is, again, the opposite of the one passed yes- terday morning. I must draw youattention to that, but it is entirely for the meeting to say whether it passes this motion and reverses yesterday's decision, or whether it does not. The motion is now before the meeting. Dr. Reuben GUSTAVSON (United States of Ame- rica) : In our delegation we have proceeded on the assumption that the Working Parties have no official authority to draw up resolutions. It is well recog- nized that the small size of some delegations makesit impossible for them to attend these Work- ing Parties, and so the work of the Working Par- ties 1s not representative. In our delegation we are of the opinion that this Commission should take as its guide the Green Book. We receive reports from the Working Par- ties that reconsider the material in the Green Book and it was our understanding that the responsibi- lities for the introduction of resolutions on which this Conference may act lie with the individual delegations themselves. The CHAIRMAN : Let me be quite clear on this, I am accepting a motion from the delegate of Brazil that first of all we consider the Green Book, then the report of the Working Parties and then any other matters raised by individuals. Ido not mean that we are going to consider that the reports of the Working Parties come automatically before this Committee, All I can take from the Brazilian delegate’s motion is that priority be given to any resolutions which may be moved from the floor, first of all to resolutions contained here in the Green Book, secondly to resolutions from the Working Party, and thirdly, to resolutions which are not contained in the Working Party’s report. Dr. Guillermo NANNETTI (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish) : We have already spent one and a quarter hours on this problem of procedure, and I believe that basically the position is quite clear. The ‘true parliamentary procedure is that proposed by the Brazilian delegation, to discuss the Green Book, then the reports of the Working Party, and then the resolutions proposed on the floor, which, as the United States delegate said, refer in somecases to the Green Book and in some cases to the report of the Working Party. = 891 =   S E RS S R E S      In fact, the proposal of the United States is an excellent synthesis of those made by the Working Party. So I think the logical solution would be that we discuss in the manner proposed by Brazil the Green Book, the proposals of the Working Party, and the individual proposals of the various delega- tions. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) I admit I am com- pletely lost in the maze of resolutions. I am going to attempt to clarify my own thinking at the risk of obscuring the thinking of others. My impression of the procedure which we should follow is that, as a general rule, the agenda should be based on the Green Book, chapter by chapter, section by section. My trouble this morning is that some of us think that the section by section way is not in this particular case appropriate; I would go on to say that in exceptional cases it may be agreed by the Commission to consider chapters as a whole, but that would be only by a motion that was carried on the floor. If we had had that motion morning, we should now be considering the chapter as a whole. The reports of the Working Parties, whether or not they contain resolutions, would be available for use of the Commission as provided for in the resolution that we passed yesterday. Then we start to discuss, in usual circumstances, a section, and in some cases a chapter. Then it is free to anybody to bring in a resolution on either the section, if we are dealing with a section, or the chapter, if we are dealing with chapters, and the order in which people ask for the floor determines the order in which resolutions are moved. If they happen to be resolutions of a Working Party, that is all to the good. If they are new resolutions, we regard them as the first questions to be voted on. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : 1 regret that T do not agree with the delegate of Canada. I think that indirectly we are re-opening a discussion which took place yesterday in the General Committee and, if we were to adoptthe Canadian delegate’s resolution, we should not be acting either in the spirit or in the letter of the resolution proposed yesterday by the General Com- mittee of the Conference, adopted and set out in document 2C/BUR/3. I think we should take the Green Book as the basis for our discussion, except where, as mentioned by the delegate of the United Kingdom,the other way seems to us most satisfactory for the discussion of any particular point. Then we should take the documents of the Working Parties, these being, of course, presented as a resolution by a delegation. Finally, we should examine successively the recom- mendations emanating from the different delega- tions. It would be anomalous for us to leave aside the valuable work or the Working Parties, and give priority to the resolutions of a single delegation. The CHAIRMAN : The motion before the meeting is that proposed by the delegate of Brazil and secon- ded by the delegate of Colombia, that in our dis- cussions we give first priority to resolutions based on document 2 C/3; that we give second priority to resolutions based on and contained in Working Parties’ reports; that we give third priority to reso- lutions which are not contained in either of these documents, but which are raised by individual countries. Unless the delegate of the United States wishes to raise a point of order, I am afraid be cannot speak now. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : I want to ask a question pertinent to what you have said. Howis a resolution based on docu- ment 2 C/3 actually defined? The CHAIRMAN : It is a resolution already con- tained in document 2 C/3. The words «based on » I think are wrong; I think «contained in» is correct. Dr. MARSHALL (Unites States of America) : Are there any resolutions in document 2 C/3? The CHAIRMAN : I do not know. At the moment I can only take that as the definition. It is for the delegate of Brazil to say what he means by this motion. Prof. P. de BERRERO CARNEIRO (Brazil) : Mr. Chairman, everything seems so clear to me I cannot see what I have to clarify. The Executive Board has presented to the countries a number of proposals which can be found in the Programme of Unesco for 1948. These proposals are contained under different forms, but the idea of the Board is present, whether in a resolution or some other text; they should be used as a guide for the discussion. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : I think we should draw one conclusion from the debate this morning, and that is that we must trust our Chair- man. I think that, in fact, what the delegate of South Africa moved, and the delegate of Brazil has moved, and indeed most of the speeches, do not represent any fundamental disagreement. But at this stage it 1s literally impossible, I think, for this full Programme Commission to lay down rigid rules as to how we should proceed in our discussions, and I think that we have not wasted our time this morning. It was necessary for us to try to see whether we could define in resolutions the way in ==    which we wanted the Chair to preside, but my personal feeling is very strongly that we should hereby decide that we trust our Chairman to use his discretion in the light of all that has been said this morning — even including the intervention by the delegate of Canada, which the delegate of France said he disagreed with. I do not think it is impos- sible for the Chair to satisfy our general will of having a fair and thorough discussion, leading as soon as possible to a definite, precise and clear directive to be put before the General Conference. I would personally ask if the delegate of Brazil would withdraw his motion so that we have no motion, and that the Chair from now onwards direct our meetings and determine the order of speeches according to its best opinion. If the motion is put before us, I am afraid I shall have to vote against it; I think we would do better to leave it to the Chair. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Brazil with- draws his motion and his seconder agrees. There- fore, there is now no motion before the meeting. The Chairman will take the drafting committee into his confidence in these matters and discuss fully with them. The Chairman is willing to take this responsi- bility until you tell him not to. The Chair now rules, in accordance with our decision, that we return to Item 1 of Chapter I. B in document 2 C/3, and I ask if anyone wishes to move that as it stands, or to move a variant of it. The delegate of the United States had asked to speak, and I take it he wishes to move Item 1 in the form it has already been presented to us. It was seconded by the delegate of Brazil. The motion proposed by the delegate of the United States in document 2C/C1/4 is now before the meeting for discussion. Does anyone wish to speak to it? M. Arthur BONHOMME (Haiti) (Translation from the French) : T propose that we adopt Chapter L. B. up to page 10 of the French text. The CHAIRMAN : The motion before the house at the moment is document 2 C/C1/4 presented by the American delegation, which bears on the material contained in Chapter I. B. If you want to speak on this, you will have to move an amendmentto the American motion. Dr. Margaret READ (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, fellow-delegates, I am speaking now to the first item in the resolution proposed by the United States of America — that Unesco shall in 1948 con- tinue and develop its programme of Fundamental Education. Like the United States delegate, the United Kingdom delegation has given much thought to this programme for 1948 and, first of all, we would like to congratulate the Secretariat on their achievements during the past year. In the field of Fundamental Education Unesco undertook one of the most difficult and intricate sections of the programme. A new idea had to be launched and new techniques developed, and we congratulate the Secretariat on their achievements. We think that in the coming year there should be four main points of emphasis in the programme of Unesco in the field of Fundamental Education. The first of these should be that Unesco should act as a clearing-house, a task which is very much needed in the nature of the work on fundamental education. In the second place, we think there should be very close liaison with all developments in mass communication, as these are vital to the putting into effect of the work of fundamental edu- cation in the areas where it is operative. In the third place, we think that emphasis should be laid on the pilot projects and associated projects in the coming year. In the fourth place, we think that the Panel of Experts which was appointed last year should continue and develop its work as the guiding committee for the Secretariat on the complicated questions which arise in fundamental education. The United Kingdom delegation has certain reso- lutions which it is prepared to put before the meeting in the course of discussion, but in these points which I have put forward in the name of the delegation we are speaking to the first part of the American reso- lution. The CHAIRMAN : If anyone wishes the American resolution to be taken section by section, he should say so, and I am sure the American delegation will be entirely agreable. At present the American delegation’s motion is being taken as a whole. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translationfrom the French) : I would like to know whether the United States delegation would have any objection to includ- ing in its resolution, which covers generally Chapter I. B., paragraph 1 of Chapter I. B.; and whether it would agree to modify sub-paragraph (b) of para- graph 4 in this sense : «that Unesco and its Member States recognize the necessity of utilizing the re- sources of governmental organizations». The rest of the sentence would be omitted. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : The United States delegation has no objection to the first part of the French delegation’s request. We do, however, feel that there is a very real point at stake in regard to the second part. We feel that if Unesco is going to succeed in a project as intensive and extensive as this project of fundamental edu- cation, it is absolutely necessary to take advantage of all possible sources of assistance. — 323 —    The CHAIRMAN : If that is the case, and if the French delegation still insists, I will now rule that we take the United States motion seriatim. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translationfrom the French) : Mr. Chairman, I thank the United States delegation for having accepted our first proposal, but I take the liberty of pressing the second part, because I wonder if, in such a delicate matter involv- ing the domestic policy of Member States, there is not some danger in calling upon non-governmental institutions. I think in any case that we should make each paragraph more precise and specific, if only to be in keeping with the spirit and letter of the Constitution of Unesco. The CHAIRMAN : In that case I think it would be desirable that we should deal with these items separately. With regard to the first part of M. Seydoux's mo- tion, the Secretariat — which has studied this more carefully than I, or perhaps any of us — says that, even with the addition of No. 1, the United States resolution could be combined with the four points put forward in the United Kingdom resolution. But I think that we have not had time — and I am sure the United States delegation has not had time — to consider the implications, and, if we continue, we might create a degree of confusion which would cause delay. Let us, then, go through it, and if, after full study, the French delegation feels that there is material to be added, it might move an amendment. The motion before the meeting is paragraph 1 of the United States resolution — that Unesco will in 1948 continue and develop its programme in Fundamental Education. Dr. CHU Yung-Shou (China) : Mr. Chairman, I have one questionto ask, on the first paragraph of the United States delegation’s motion that « Unesco will in 1948 continue and develop its programme in fundamental education». Does that include all the items of part 4 of document FE. Conf./6? The CHAIRMAN : Part 4 begins on page 36 of document FE. Conf./6 in the English version. It is entirely up to the United States delegation to say what it means by this motion. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : 1 think I could sum up the answer to that by saying that it is a general endorsement of the programme. The CHAIRMAN : I now put the motion. Will those in favour please raise their hands? Will those against please raise their hands? Carried.)
0) In final form: included in Resolution 3.1; vol. IL, page 17. I now cometo paragraph 2 of document 2C/C1/4: That the Secretariat be commended for the preparation of the excellent report entitled "Fundamental Education — Definition and Programme’. This is not, strictly speaking, a programme item, but a submission of the United States delegation. Does anyone wish to speak to that? Is there any opposition? Then paragraph 2 is passed. We now come to paragraph 3. I think we had better take it sub-section by sub-section. Para- graph 3 (a) reads : The Director-General is instructed to : (a) Take appropriate steps in consultation with Member States to bring the above-mentioned report (FE. Conf./6) to the attention of interested institutions, organizations, journals and individuals, in order to encourage full discus- sion.“ That is moved and seconded. Is there any dis- cussion? No opposition? I take it then that this is passed. 2) We now come to paragraph 3 (b) : The Director-General is instructed to :
(6) Encourage Member States to fulfil the obligation of establishing a minimum Fundamental Education for all peoples, in conformity with the spirit of Article 1, paragraph 2 (b), of Unesco’s Constitution; among these obligations would be the establishment, within the shortest possible time, of universal free and compulsory primary education. Article I, paragraph 2 (b) of the Constitution reads as follows : (b) give fresh impulse to popular education and to the spread of culture : by collaborating with Members, at their request, in the development of educational activities; by instituting collaboration among the nations to advance the ideal of equality of educational opportunity without regard to race, sex or any distinctions, economic or social; by suggesting educational methods best suited to prepare the children ofthe world for the responsibilities of freedom. Is there any discussion? If no one is opposed to it, I take it that it is your wish that it be passed. (3) We now come to paragraph 3 (c), which reads : The Director-General is instructed to : () Co-operate with Member States in establishing or assisting, with adequate staff, pilot projects in Fundamental Education; I call upon the delegate of France. M. Albert CHARTON (France) (Translationfrom the French) : The French delegation thinks that the countries in which pilot projects will be undertaken should be specified. We therefore ask that, besides the Haitian project already under way, pilot projects or associated projects should be organized in the main countries or main groups of countries interested in ® In final form : Resolution 3.4.2; vol. If, page 17.
(3) In final form : Resolution 3.4.1 vol, II, page 17. — 326 —    fundamental education, particularly Latin America, French Africa and British Africa. The CHAIRMAN : Does the French delegate wish to move an amendment at this point? Ona point of order, the Secretariat has asked me to point out that the Pilot Project in Haiti is not actually in operation; this is a simple correction of fact. If the French delegation wishes to move an amend- ment here, it may do so. It may, however, vote for this and then bring it up as a separate motion later with regard to any particular country. M. Albert CHARTON (France) (Translation from the French) : The French proposalis, in conformity with the report of the Working Party, to add French Africa. The CHAIRMAN : The French delegation then reserves its right to bring up the case of specific pilot projects at a later date. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I wanted to ask a general question, Mr. Chairman, then a specific one which bears on it. The general question is this : is it your under- standing that,if the motions are passed, they will be reported without alteration by the Drafting Com- mittee? The CHAIRMAN : Shall we answer that one first? We have so far asked nothing of the Drafting Com- mittee, and my own feeling is that we should ask it to go over all our resolutions and make suggestions on them, but that they will not be altered again without being brought before this meeting. Can I take as an instruction from this meeting to the Drafting Committee, that it be asked to take all our resolutions and look at them to bring to our notice any verbal inconsistencies within a resolution or between resolutions, and suggest drafting altera- tions, provided that they do not alter the sense of the significant parts? The Rapporteur and Chair- man of the Drafting Committee will then take that as an instruction fromthis meeting. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : The second question, Mr. Chairman, if I may address it through you to the delegation of the United States, is this : in view of the budgetary implications of this proposal — and the Australian delegation strongly supports the general principle behindthis proposal -- would the delegate of the United States object to the inclu- sion by the Drafting Committee, at a later stage, of suggestions for names or areas in which pilot projects might be anticipated, or at least a suggestion of the numberof the pilot projects which, in consultation with ‘the Secretariat, they think it reasonable to propose? The CHAIRMAN : I take it that, if, later on, we pass a resolution moved, say, by the French, which will bear upon this, it will be for the Drafting Com- mittee to see if they can fuse them into onesection. The motion before you is that the Director-General
1s instructed to see, co-operate, and so on. Is there any further discussion on that? Dr. Margaret READ (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, the United Kingdom delegation would like to associate with this resolution the associated projects which are outlined in document FE. Conf./6, part 4, paragraph 20 (page 47 in the English text). I move an amendment to add the words «to link up as associated projects within Unesco’s network impor- tant enterprises in fundamental education in all parts of the world». The CHAIRMAN : You have a United Kingdom amendment to the motion. Have you all found the place? The United Kingdom amendmentis that we add to paragraph 3 (c) proposed by the United States, this paragraph from document FE. Conf./6, «to link up...» etc. It is not an amendment, because the United States delegation is perfectly willing to incorporate it in the original motion, if the delegate of Brazil also agrees. The delegate of Brazil agrees, so that now becomes the motion. Is there any further discussion on this point? Is there anyone in opposition to it? I take it, then, that it is passed. ‎اذ We now come to 3 (d) : The Director-General is instructed to : Define more sharply the areas to be included in future regional conferences on Fundamental Education, elaborate more carefully the scope of expert participation, and otherwise make more adequate arrangements in advance for the effective conduct of such regional conferences; Does the American delegation wish to speak to this? Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : In amplification of point (4) 1 might mention that some of us who participated in the Fundamental Education Conference in Mexico City felt that the area was somewhat larger than should perhaps have been embraced for the purposes of that particular Conference. In other words, some of us from the United States felt that we had little that could be contributed to a discussion of problems which were specifically dealing with Latin American fundamental education projects. I think we felt also that, with regard to the second point in that paragraph,«to elaborate more carefully the scopeof expert participation», there had perhaps () In final form: Resolution 3.4.11; vol. Il; page 19. — 325 —    not been a sufficiently careful selection of experts to participate in that Conference as against persons who had a broad but interested point of view; and we also felt that, due to the extreme pressure under which the Secretariat was working, there had not been all the necessary preparation in regard to pro- cedures for expediting the work of that Conference, with the result that a good deal of the participants’ time was wasted. We recognize fully the difficulties under which the Secretariat was working, and in putting forward this we simply want to draw attention to the fact that, in future Conferences, we hope some more ade- quate preparation may be made. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : Mr. Chairman, I should like to ask the representative of the United States of America, in view of the statement just made, indicating a certain unsatisfactoriness about the Mexico Regional Conference, and in view of the very general nature of the findings of the Nanking Regio- nal Study Conference, whether they might not consider some other method of approach worthy of trial. We in New Zealand have an idea that it might be better to send out from the country which you wish to help a numberof chosen people under Fellowship Grants to countries where they can study the pro- blems of fundamental education at first hand and where those problems are already being faced up to; I wonder whether the representative of the United States would agree that at least that method, in view of the — in his own words — «comparative failure » of previous Regional Conferences, might be worthy of a trial as a substitute for the continuation of Regio- nal Conferences. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : We certainly do. The CHAIRMAN : There is no alteration suggested to the motion, whichis 3 (d). If anyone wishes to raise a motion with regard to that particular point, it is open to him later. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : Could I then put that, Sir, in the form of a motion, in substitution for paragraph (d) : That, in place of Regional Conferences, the Seecretariat be instructed to experiment with the method of granting Fellow- ships from countries desiring help to areas where Fundam- ental Education projects are already in operation. The CHAIRMAN : I want to be clear, whether the New Zealand delegate means a complete and absolute substitution for Regional Conferences, or a method to be used on certain occasions. Mr. D. FORSYTH (New Zealand) : My idea is, Sir, that this new proposal should be tried as a substi- tute ; but that this would not prevent the Conference in future years going back to Regional Conferences, if they found that the new method was not more successful. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of the United States can clarify his attitude, perhaps? Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : The resolution section which is now being discussed does not necessarily commit Unesco to Regional Conferences in 1948. It merely points out that, in case there are such, these particular con- ditions should be borne in mind. The CHAIRMAN : Then might the New Zealand point of view be met in that particular case by adding some words? M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, T fear 1 did not quite follow the discussion; but if T understand the situation, nothing has been changedin the American proposal as far as the conduct of these Regional Conferencesis concerned. Is that so? The CHAIRMAN : Nothing has been changed, except that the New Zealand delegate is suggesting that we add : cand otherwise make adequate ar- rangements in advance for the effective conduct of Regional Conferences, or for visits for educational purposes from the pilot areas to other places where work of this sort is heing begun or carried out», or something to that effect. Thatis the motion before the meeting. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I have a question to raise on the American motion, again on the budge- tary implications of this proposal. Part of my question has been answered by the statement that the American delegation does not regard this as com- mitting Unesco to Regional Conferences. Regional Conferences, I presume, are expensive; and, in the interests of the precise statement which we have been asked to give, and which we have agreed to give as far as possible, can the American delegation suggest any indication of the number, if any, of Regional Conferences they consider it appropriate to conduct this year? Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of Ame- rica) : I do not believe that we have any definite data on thecost of those Conferences which would enable us at the moment to speak with any exactness. The CHAIRMAN : May I read 3 (d) again,as it now stands? -— 826 —    The Director-General is instructed to define more sharply the areas to be included in future Regional Conferences on Fundamental Education; elaborate more carefully the scope of expert participation and otherwise make more adequate arrangements in advance for the effective conduct of such Regional Conferences or for the preparation of a system of Fellowships whereby the representatives of the countries requiring help may be sent to countries already having Funda- mental Education experiments. The alterationof the New Zealand delegate, which has been accepted, makes it quite clear, I think, that we are not committed to Regional Conferences in the year 1948. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : In fairness to the Director-General and to the Conference, may I ask that this should be precise? Ido not know whether the Secretariat could give the Conference some help in the matter. I think if we mention Regional Conferences like this we are committing ourselves by implication. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans- lation from the French) : On behalf of the delegation of Brazil, allow me to emphasize our concernthat the principle of Regional Conferences should be main- tained and extended. Sr. Gonzalo GUELL (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegation of Cuba,like the delegation of Brazil, supports the principle of Regional Confe- rences as a means of furthering the work we have before us. The Cuban delegation will vote for the holding of Regional Conferences. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : I am waiting for assistance from the Secretariat, Mr. Chairman. My point is not whether there should be Regional Confe- rences or not. Iam not expressing any view onthat, although 1 endorse everything so far in the resolu- tion of the United States delegation. My only com- plaint is that it is a bit weak. I want us to decide whether we will have Regional Conferences, and if so what limit should be placed on the number. The CHAIRMAN : Would any member of the Secretariat like to speak on this, and give some idea of the number of Regional Conferences the Secreta- riat have considered as coming within their pro- gramme? Mr. J. BOWERS (Secretariat) : Mr. Chairman, I think the Regional Conferences are included in the budget together with the meetings of experts in Paris. The value of a Regional Conference seemsto be in spreading the idea of fundamental education in various areas of the world, as has been pointed out by the delegate of Brazil. The cost of a Regional Conference varies consi- derably with the amount of preparation that is made by the Member State. If the Member State is prepared to carry the whole responsibility for the Regional Conference, the cost to Unesco 1s limited to the travel and allowances of one or two expert delegates or members of the Secretariat. That was the case at the Nanking Regional Conference. If, however, Unesco is called upon to organize the Conference, to provide all the Secretariat, docu= mentation and other services, then it becomes a serious item on the budget, and we have not anticipated in our budget the second alternative of Unesco providing the seryices and organizing the Conference. The CHAIRMAN : In that case — if T might help the delegate of Australia — the methodof controlling the number of Regional Conferences would be by controlling the amount of money to be spent on them. Dr. Kendrick MARSHALL (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, this is in reponse to the delegate ‘of Austraha’s general question. The budget has just been handed to me, and on page
34, under Fundamental Education, point 4 spe- cifies — «To promote a regional study conference and a study course for workers and teachers in a suitable regional centre, such as the Middle East.» In other words, in preparing the budget, the decision had been made to limit regional conferences for the coming year to that single one. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Would the Ame- rican delegation accept a variation of their wording by putting the introductory lines of 3 (d) in the singular instead of the plural? It would define more sharply the area to be included in the 1948 Conference on Fundamental Education. The CHAIRMAN : This is accepted by the dele- gate of the United States and by the seconder. It has the effect of limiting the Regional Conferences to one during the year. You have the United States motion before you and we are ready to vote on it. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation from the French) : lt seems to me that it would be much better to leave the Secretariat free to hold in the light of the possibilities of the budget one, two or three conferences rather than to fix rigidly that there shall be only one. I oppose the modification of the resolution. The CHAIRMAN : The modification is opposed by the delegate of Brazil. In that case tue delegate of Australia must move an amendmeana. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : IT move this amendment Mr. Chairman, although my wording was slightly different from yours. — 327 —    The CHAIRMAN : The effect of this amendment is to keep the number of regional conferences to one during the year. Does anyone else wish to speak? If not, may I put the amendment? Dr. Francisco LARROYO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 am of the opinion that the text must allow the possibility, as indicated by the dele- gate of Brazil, of there being one or two or more Regional Conferences. I believe that the point of view of the delegate of Brazil is fully justified. We recognize the importance of fundamental edu- cation throughout the world, and support the idea that fundamental education must not be limited as has sometimes been said, to the backward zones. We think in Mexico, as do other delegations, that education must be fundamentally reformed, both in its principles and in its aims, not only in the dark areas but in the light as well. For this reason - which we shall expound later in relation to another part of the programme — I consider we must leave the way open for Unesco to carry out a greater number of pilot projects. The CHAIRMAN : We are talking now about Regional Conferences and not about pilot projects. The point under discussion is not the number of pilot projects : it is the number of regional conferences. Dr. Francisco LARROYO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 said Mr. Chairman, that I accepted the text proposed by the delegate of Brazil. The rest of what I said was only in support of the text. M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I am not quite sure that there is complete agreement here in this Commis- sion on the motion presented by the delegate of Brazil and that submitted by my colleague from Australia. I wonder if we might not all agree on a text drafted in the following manner : ...to define more sharply the area to be included in the programme of future Regional Conferences on Fundamental Education, which are to be organized taking into accountthe budgetary possibilities... The rest would be unchanged. The CHAIRMAN : I wonder whether the dele- gates concerned would perhaps get together during the adjournment and come to some agreement on a resolution to be put to the meeting immediately after lunch. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : T would like a member of the Secretariat to be there too. The CHAIRMAN : You can call upon members of the Secretariat, who will give you any help you need. May I now move that we adjourn until 4 p. m. 1 would ask those who took part in the discussion to come together and draw up a suitable proposal. The meeting rose at 1 : 35 p. m. SIXTH MEETING Friday, 14 November 1948, at 4 p. m. CONTENTS Chapter I. B. — Fundamental Education (continuation) Chairman : Dr C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). The CHAIRMAN : The meeting is open. Dr. Chagas who, as Vice-Chairman, is specially responsible for liaison with the Working Parties, held a meeting this morning with their Chairmen. He would like, for your information, to tell you about that meeting. Prof. Carlos CHAGAS (Brazil) (Vice-Chairman) Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen : I come here to report on the meeting I had this morning with the Chairmen of the Working Parties. 1 explained to. them the view of our Chairman regarding docu- ment 2C/BUR/3, stating that we want to have as == 928; =