2. If the developmentof the discussion in the Programme and Budget Commission does not allow of the timely receipt of the opinion of the competent Working Party on any project, the Programme and Budget Commission shall, if possible, adjourn its debates on that project until the competent Working Party has presented its conclusions.
3. In the event of the competent Working Party ‘being unable to present its conclusions in time to permit their consideration by the Programme and Budget Commission, the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission shall invite the Chairman or Rapporteur of the competent Working Party to take part in the discussion of the Commission and make known to the Programme and Budget Commission any available views of the Working Party.
4. In order to associate the Working Parties as closely as possible with the work of the Programme and Budget Com- mission, the latter requests the Working Parties to give priority of consideration to the projects to be examined by the Programme and Budget Commission, and then to consider problems of a general character and the meansofimplementing the projects already examined by the Conference. The meeting rose at 2,10 pm; EIGHTH MEETING Friday, 14 November 1947, at 10 a. m. Chairman : Dr. Luis E. VALCARCEL (Peru) Draft Resolutions submitted by Poland. The CHAIRMAN announced that the Committee would discuss the two draft resolutions of the Polish delegation, which were closely linked with the resolutions of ‘Ecuador. M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) said that the Polish resolutions were not linked with those of Ecuador, although they were agreed in principle. The Polish resolutions constituted a general appeal against war, whereas the Ecuadorian resolutions dealt with detailed questions. Hetherefore thought that the two sets of resolutions should be examined separately and he proposed that the Polish resolu- tions should be submitted to the next Plenary Meeting of the General Conference. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) believed that the resolutions proposed by Ecuador per- tained to several facets of the Unesco programme, and the Polish proposals were connected with Unesco’s education and mass communication pro- grammes. Both sets of resolutions should therefore be referred to the Programme and Budget Commis- sion, and in the future, any item pertaining to the programme should be passed to the Programme and Budget Commission. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) entirely agreed with the spirit of the Polish resolutions but thought the matter so important, as it touched on cultural and political domains, that it should be referred to the joint Working Parties on Education, Funda- mental Education and Education for International Understanding; the Working Parties would refer them to the Programme and Budget Commission, which would then submit them, with comments and recommendations, to the Plenary Conference. Mr. PIERCE, (Canada) observed that the suggestion of the delegate of Mexico might be techni- cally in order, but in yiew of the importance of the subject, the resolutions should be referred directly to the Programme and Budget Commission, aa suggested by the delegate of the United States of erica. Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) proposed that, as the resolutions were of general interest, they should be referred directly to the Plenary Conference. Dr. HAN (China) supported the delegate of the United States of America in considering that the resolutions should be referred to the Programme and Budget Commission, which could use its dis- cretion whether or not to refer them to the Working Parties. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) agreed with this suggestion, Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) agreed with the spirit of the Polish resolutions, but thought the wording of them was of tremendous importance. He recalled that this was a steering committee and must shoulder its responsibilities. The Uni- ted Nations had already considered a resolution — 255 —    of this kind and it must be remembered that the United Nations was a political organization, whereas Unesco was not. He did not believe that the matter should be referred to the Programme and Budget Commission, which already had a very long agenda. The resolutions must be very carefully worded and it was the responsibility of the General Committee fo present appropriate wording to the Plenary Conference. M. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) remarked that the competency of the Committee was already very wide and should not be extended further. He quoted its functions as set out in Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure for the General Conference. The functions of the General Committee are :
1. To fix the hour, the date and the agenda of plenary meetings of the Conference; To co-ordinate the work of the Conference and all the Committees; To consider requests for additional items to be put on the agenda and make a report on this subject to the General Conference;
4. To assist the President in directing the general work of the session. N © It was nowhere stated that the General Committee could discuss the actual merits of any resolution, and he therefore thought the suggestion of the delegate of the United Kingdom went beyond the powers of the Committee. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) agreed with the delegate of Poland that the Committee could not change the substance of the resolutions, but remarked that it was within its competence to comment on them and to decide whether or not the resolutions were within the competence of the Conference. He asked the delegate of the United Kingdom whether he was suggesting that the resolutions were not within the competency of the General Conference. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) assured the dele- gate of Poland that he was suggesting nothing which would bar the resolutions from the plenary meetings : scientists, teachers and artists were all interested in the preservation of peace, but the United Nations was a political organization and had agreed on a form of words to treat political implications such as these. The Committee should find a text which would be suitable for consideration at a Unesco Conference. He repeated that the Committee had a responsi- bility as regards the wording. Article I, Section 3, of the Unesco Charter prohibited the Organization from intervening in matters which were essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of Member States; yet paragraph 2 of the first Polish resolution im- plied that governments should take legal steps to control the freedom of the press. In the spirit of paragraphs 2 and 4 of Rule 26, quoted by teh dele- gate of Poland, it was the Committee's responsibi- lity to examine the wording of the resolution very carefully and to find, as members ofa cultural organi- zation, an appropriate formula to place before the Conference. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) asked if the Polish delegation was prepared to alter the wording to bring the resolution directly within Unes- co’s purposes. M. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) cited the Preamble of Unesco’s Constitution, and drew attention to Article I — Purposes and Functions — paragraph 1. He observed that this had political implications and that no new implications were introduced in the Polish resolutions. He recalled that, in accordance with Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure, the General Committee could change the form of reso- lutions but not their substance, and any such changes were to be reported to the General Conference. He did not agree with the delegate of the United Kingdom that the second paragraph of the first resolution meant that Unesco should interfere in the internal affairs of Member States and pointed out that, in any case, they were only making recommen- dations and not compelling States to follows them. He also did not agree that these resolution were the same as that of the United Nations and read an extract from the latter. The Polish resolutions went further, in that they condemned racial discrimina- tion and the supremacy of one state over others, and advocated that governments should try to para- lyse activities inimical to co-operation among na- tions. In the last paragraph of the first resolution, a new element was introduced, that of educating the young in international understanding, a subject which was of primary interest to Unesco. He again pro- posed that the resolutions should be submitted to the Plenary Conference and that the General Committee should not discuss their substance. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) proposed that they should adjourn the debate in order to attend other meetings and recalled that they had three pro- posals before them : (1) the proposal ofthe United States of America to submit the resolutions to the Programe and Budget Commission; (2) the proposal of Poland to submit them to the Plenary Conference; and (3) the proposal of the United Kingdom to dis- cuss the wording of the resolutions and find a new form. As a compromise, M. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland supported the proposal of the delegate of the Unite States of America that the resolutions should be sub- mitted to the Programme and Budget Commission. — 256 —       Mr. BENTON (United States of America) wanted to be sure that he had understood the proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom who seemed to him to feel that the second paragraph of Reso- lution 1 was outside the terms of the Unesco Con- stitution and that the General Committee was avoiding its responsibilities. He asked whether the delegate of the United Kingdom was proposing that the reso- lutions were outside the competence of the Confe- rence; he himself had assumed that they were within the competence of the Conference when he had pro- posed that they should be submitted to the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. He agreed that the Committee should decide whether or not the resolutions could properly be discussed by the Conference. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) seconded the proposal of the delegate of Mexico that the meeting should adjourn at once, as he had to preside over the meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission. Before adjourning, Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) asked that they should vote on the three proposals. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), replying to the delegate of the United States of America, thoughtit possible that the wording of the resolution might make it outside the competency of the Conference. For instance in the ninth line of the first paragraph the words «when there are such who promote the idea of a new war», might refer either to individuals or to States, and in the latter case would have political implications. He thought there were things in the resolution which were outside Article 1 of the Constitution and therefore, while seconding the motion for adjournment, asked for a whole meeting to be held to consider the resolutions. He also asked that the exact terms of the United Nations Resolution should be available to the meeting. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) obser- ved that it was agreed that it was outside the power of the Committee to change the substance, but seconded the proposal that the matter ofwording should be rediscussed. Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Po- land) again asked for a vote to be taken. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) recalled that, accord- ing to Rule 41, any member could move the adjournment of the meeting and any such motion should have priority. In addition to the proposer of the motion, two representatives might speak in favour of, and two against the motion. A vote was taken and it was agreed by 9 votes to1 to adjourn. The meeting rose at 11 a.m. NINTH MEETING Saturday, 15 November 1947 at 10 a. m. Chairman : M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) Invitation of the Mexican Government to a joint session of the Mexican Parliament in honour of Unesco. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) explained that the Mexican Chamber of Deputies and Senate had ap- proached the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a view to inviting Unesco to a special meeting of the Mexican Congress. He felt it unnecessary to stress the importance of this invitation, which showed that the people of Mexico, through their government, wished to honour Unesco. It was suggested that the meeting should take place on 24 or 25 November at mid-day. This was an honour seldom conferred and he hoped that Unesco would acceptit. * The CHAIRMAN was sure they wereall agreed that Unesco should thank the Mexican Parliament for this great honour and accept the invitation with much gratitude. He asked the Secretariat to arrange details. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ ceo said the ceremony would only last one hour and it had been suggested that a member of some non-Latin American dele- gation, but someone who could speak Spanish fluent- ly, might be asked to speak on behalf of Unesco. Recalling that Mexico had alweys had excellent cul- tural relations with France, he suggested Professor Sarrailh, Rector of the University of Paris. It was agreed that Monday 24 November, would be the most convenient day for the session. — 257 —