be no doubt or misunderstanding about the resolu- tion I intend to submit. This is the text of my pro- posal : In order to stimulate in all countries free access to archaeo- logical sites and the free diffusion of the results of archaeo- logical research, Unesco will request the International Council of Museums in 1948 to prepare a report on this question. A contract to this effect will be drawn up between Unesco and the International Council of Museums in confor- mity with the provisions contained in document 20/36, second part, III. C., and approved by Working Party J, in accordance with document 2C/J/2, fifth part, IIL. Let me add that this proposal refers to UD? in the Green Book, but concerns also TLB.2.g. T think it will be better, however, to deal with it now. The CHATRMAN : You have heard the resolution. Does anyone second it? The delegate of the United Kingdom seconds it. Does anyone wish to speak to it? Are you ready to vote on it? In that case, will all those in favour please raise their hands. Will all those against please raise their hands. The motion is carried. (7) That finishes II.B.2. and IL.D.2. The next item is the section on Language. You should have before
(7) In final form : Resolution 4.5 ; vol. II, page 24. you a short document, 2C/G/4, report of the Edu- cation Working Party No. 3 on Languages. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman,the delegate of South Africa who dealt with this work asked me specially to let him know when this matter came up so that he could move a resolution, butthere was no indication that it would be dealt with to day. I was wondering whether it would be possible for this item to stand over, whether we could take up some other work until I can get him out of another meeting. The CHAIRMAN : I certainly think we should wait for youto find him. Whether we can hold the matter over until this afternoon will depend upon the amount of work before us; we have also been asked to hold over science grants-in-aid. We will go into the question of Copyright and in the mean- time you can be considering where you stand in this matter. Weare now dealing with ILB.1.e., page 12 in the English text of the Green Book. The relevant do- cuments are 2C/E/4 and 2C/E/5. [am now told that the document of the Working Party on Copyright has not yet been distributed. I therefore move the adjournment of this meeting. The meeting rose at 12‚65 р. т. SIXTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 22 November 1947, at 3.30 p.m. CONTENTS Chapter II. D. 1. b. Chapter II. B. 1. e. Chapter II. D. 4. — Language — Copyright — Social Sciences Chapter IV. C.1 — 3. — Town and Country Planning Chairman: Chapter II. D. 1. b. — Language. The CHAIRMAN : We are dealing first at this meeting with Chapter II. D. 1 of the Green Book, paragraph b : Language, and the corresponding Report of the Working Parties C, B and J, docu- ment 2C/C/4. Does anyone wish to move a motion contained in this Report? Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). Dr. W. de VOS MALAN (Union of South Africa) Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have very great pleasure in moving the proposal contained in the last paragraph of the Report of the third meeting of the Working Party, No. 3, document 2C/G 4 : The Working Party approves the paper 2C/67 dated
13 October 1947, except that it recommends that the pro- posal relating to the preparation of bibliographies should — 442 —     be reconsidered and a report presented at the next General Conference dealing both withthe need for such bibliographies and the possibility of effectively meeting the need. I do not want to labour this point. The question of a second or a third language is a very important matter in the Union of South Africa, and I think it is equally important in countries like Belgium, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Canada, and many others; and this particular question of a second or an auxiliary language that has to be raised almost to the status of a first language will become more important as Unesco’s ideals become the ideals of all of us, including a belief that everybody should have a knowledge of at least one of the other impor- tant languages in the world. The last paragraph in 20/67 to which this document 2C/CA refers, says : I In order that all relevant information may be at the dis- posal of workers in the field of practical linguistics, Unesco proposes in 1048 to encourage the preparation of bibliogra- phies and analyses of current work in the field of linguistics and to facilitate the compilation of similar bibliographies covering the years of the war. Unesco further proposes to explore the possibilities of establishing machinery, through international organizations and in consultation with appropri- ate existing bodies, for co-operation between linguists and language-teaching experts, to make widely available the materials that have been used to combat illiteracy and teach a second or auxiliary language. to appraise the relalive effectiveness ofthese methods and to consider other problems of Iinguisties... I think, Mr. Chairman, that the countries I have mentioned, and others I have not mentioned, know what the importance is of this second language and would like to have it scientifically determined at what stage it has to be introduced as a subject of instruction, and, what is much more important, at what stage in the life of the child that second lan- guage can be introduced as a medium of instruction; and before I leave the platform here I would like to say that the Cape Province of the Union of South Africa is at present conducting a very important experimentin this field of a second language. It has been under way for two years and will probably be continued for a third, and the results of that ex- periment may be very useful to bilingual countries. I have therefore great pleasure, Mr. Chairman, in moving the proposal on page 2 of 2C/C/4, which I have read to you. The CHAIRMAN: Does anyone second the motion? The delegate of the United States. Does anyone wish to speak to it? May I put it to the meeting then? The motion proposed by the delegate of South Africa is carried. 1)
99(1) In final form : Resolution 3.16 ; vol. II, page 22. Is there any further resolution concernedmow with Chapter IF. D? If not, we bave completed the study of Chapter II, D. Chapter II. B. 1. e. — Copyright. The CHATRMAN : Would you now turn to Chapter IT. B. 1, paragraph e, on Copyright? There are several documents on this — 2C/E/4, 2C/E/5 and the Report of the Working Party, which is 2C/E/8. We will deal with this Report 2C/E/8, although I understand there are some resolutions to be brought before you which are not actually contained in if. The Chair is now prepared to receive any resolution contained in the report of the Working Party on the question of Copyright, coming under paragraph e of IL B. 1 in the Green Book. Sr. G. FERNANDEZ DEL CASTILLO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : As the delegate of Mexico and at the same time Chairman of the Working Party on Copyright, I wish to point out the position concerning the proposals of this Working Party. The documents mentioned by the Chair a moment ago have been replaced by the resolutions definitely taken by the Working Party; the last part of docu- ment 2C/E/8 corresponds to the second resolution taken. Before that there is resolution No. 1 and subsequently there is resolution No. 3. The Work- ing Party on Copyright has worked very intensively, and this morning it was suddenly informed of the necessity or desirability of presenting a report to this Commission. Consequently we have not been able to have all the translations ready. T have at hand the Spanish text, a few copies of which I will give to the Chair in case they are needed. Thereis also the translation of the first part into English, but for the third part there is neither English nor French translation. I shall venture, with the Chair’s permission, to read the text : Resolution No. 1 : Unesco shall with all possible speed and with regard to existing agreements : (a) examine the problem of improving copyright on a world-wide basis; (b) seek, at the same time, the protection of both the moral and material rights of the authors of literary, artistic and scientific works and the dissemination of science, culture and education for the purpose of bringing about the universal respect for justice, the rule of law, and the freedoms which are essential for all; and (¢) with this end in view, pursue and develop, in co-ope- ration with the competent national and international govern- mental and non-governmental organizations, the investigations and undertakings already initiated. (2)
(2) Text to be found in document 2C/E/9. — 443 —    The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Would anyone like to second it? The delegate of the United States wishes to second it. If there is no discussion, I presume it is ready to be put to the vote. Will those in favour kindly hold up their hands? Will those against kindly hold up their hands? The motion is carried 3), The delegate of Mexico now wishes to move Reso- lution No. 2. Sr. G. FERNANDEZ DEL CASTILLO (Mexico) (Translationfrom the Spanish) : The text of the second resolution will be found in document 2C/E/8 at the bottom of the first page. It reads as follows : That Unesco should undertake the study and exami- nation of copyright questions and conditions as they apply throughout the countries of the world and between countries, with a view to the improvement of international copyright relations, with due consideration to the feasibility of a uni- versal copyright convention ; in all its activities in the field of copyright the Secretariat shall work in close co-operation with the United Nations; That in carrying out its functions in thefield of copyright, the Secretariat should keep itself intimately conversant by all appropriate means with all currentactivities and proceedings of private and intergovernmental organizations relating to international copyright, including conferences, but it should remain neutral and not commit itself in respect thereof. That in making these studies, careful consideration should be given to the rights and needs, in the different countries, of authors, publishers, workers and the public at large, and that in any committees, commissions or meetings of experts, Unesco shall invite representatives of these groups to parti- cipate. The CHAIRMAN : Does anyone wish to second that resolution? It is seconded by the delegate of the United States. It is now open for discussion. Does anyone wish to speak to it? Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, I notice in the first line of the resolution in the En- glish text of document 2C/E/8 a reference to Unesco. In the last line on page 1 there is a reference to the Secretariat and in the third line on the second page there is another reference to the Secretariat. I take it that the word « Unesco » in the first line will ensure the closest collaboration on this matter between the Secretariat and the Member States. Is that your understanding of it, Sir? The CHAIRMAN : That is how I should read it myself. I take it that the Drafting Committee will consider this question of what constitutes Unesco and what constitutes the Secretariat. Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) : From my point of view the important issue is how much Member States can do to help in this study.
(3) In final form : Resolution 2.4.1 ; vol. II, page 17. The CHAIRMAN : I take it that the delegate of Mexico, who moved the motion, understands that Member States will be involved apart from merely the Secretariat. Sr. G. FERNANDEZ DEL CASTILLO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The first resolution deals with the role of Member States. The second refers to Unesco as an organization. The CHAIRMAN : In that case this will be put into its final form as follows : « The Director-General is directed to undertake the study...». Is there any further discussion? Then I will put it to the vote. Will all those in favour kindly hold up their hands? Will all those against kindly hold up their hands? The motion is carried (4). Sr. G. FERNANDEZ DEL CASTILLO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The third resolution reads as follows : In order to implement the foregoing resolutions, Unesco shall address to national and international governmental and non-governmental organizations, particularly concerned with copyright, a questionnaire as broadly conceived and as prac- tical as possible, in accordance with the recommendation expressed by the experts during their meeting of 15 to 20 Sep- tember 1947. There shall be created within the Secretariat of Unesco a special section on copyright problems charged with giving administrative effect during 1948 to the foregoing resolutions. When sufficient documentation is available, the Director- General shall convene an international committee of experts charged with the study of copyright problems, which shail formulate a draft universal convention and shall report on its work to the Third Session of the General Conference of Unesco, with the aim that, if possible, the universal convention may be put into effect in 1949. This committee shall be elected from among experts of the Member States of the United Na- tions or of Unesco. The Director-General shall keep the Member States of the United Nations and of Unesco regularly informed of the progress of this work. This is as far as Resolution 3 goes. I request the Chair to allow me to speak again later, when I shall continue to present my report. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the third reso- lution. Does anyone wish to second it? It is se- conded by the delegate of the United States and is now open for discussion. Dr. A. RUDZINSKI (Poland) : I move to change the word «or» in the expression « Member States of the United Nations or of Unesco » to « United Nations and Unesco». I think we decided this in the Working Party this morning. Therefore that is not a change, but a correction.
(4) In final form : Resolutions 2.4.2.1. and 2.4.2.2; vol. U, page 17. — 44h —    The CHAIRMAN : Would the mover of the motion have any objection to that? It is at the end of the third paragraph. Sr. G. FERNANDEZ DEL CASTILLO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The Working Party understood by the text as it has been presented that all the members of the United Nations and of Unesco should participate in this work : that is, the use of «or» does not imply separation of one group from another, but on the contrary, it includes both; but since it is impossible that representatives of all Member States should be present at the committee of experts, the Director-General is given the authority to select the experts from among the members of the United Nations or of Unesco. The CHAIRMAN : Is that clear to the delegate of Poland? The mover of the motion would prefer to have the word «or» left, since members of the committee may be selected from both the United Nations and Unesco. Dr. A. RUDZINSKI (Poland) : The question is quite simple. When we use the word «or», it may be construed as a possibility of selection, but if we use «and», both must be included. The CHAIRMAN : Has the delegate of Mexico any objection to «and» instead of «or»? It is for him to say now. Dr. Luther H. EVANS (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, I think we can dispose of this very easily. Since there is no difference of opinion, what we can dois to refer the matter to the Drafting Committee. The CHAIRMAN : I agree. Does anyone else wish to speak to this? If not, may I put the motion? Will all those in favour please raise their hands? Will all those against raise their hands? The motion
18 carried. (5) I believe the delegate of Mexico has further reso- lutions to move. Sr. G. FERNANDEZ DEL CASTILLO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The Working Party on Copyright has not yet completed its work on the Programme for 1948. We still have to take reso- lutions with regard to the Report made by the Direc- tor-General, in which he proposes the measures to be taken in organizing the work leading up to a universal convention. In addition, the Working Party has a series of proposals presented by dele- gates.
(5) In final form : Resolutions 2.4.2.3. and 2.4.2.4 : vol. Il, page 17. I beg the Chair not to consider the programme with regard to copyright as completed until after next Monday, by which time we hope to have finished our work. Meanwhile, there is a recommendation already approved by the Working Party, and I leave it to the Chair to say whether its contents should be considered here within the programme or whether it should be referred to the decision of the Director- General. I raise this point because it was raised in the Working Party. The resolution is as follows : The delegates recommend that, in execution of Resolution N° 1, the Expert Adviser of Unesco, and one of the delegates, should be sent as observers to the annual conference of the Inter-America Bar Federation, which is to study copyright problems, opening on 25 November, at Lima, Peru. The CHAIRMAN : I think that may be regardedas a working detail, and be referred from the Working Party to the Director-General as a suggestion for the method of carrying out the programme which we have laid down in general lines. 1 think that would be wiser, but it 1s for the Mexican delegate to say. Sr. G. FERNANDEZ DEL CASTILLO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : The matter is not within the competence of the Working Party, which only takes decisions of a general character to be sub- mitted to the General Conference. The Working Party makes this recommendation and it was the opinion of several delegates that it should be referred to this Commission. Others considered it should be referred to the Director-General. Therefore, I am carrying out the duty of reporting to this Gommis- sion so that it may take a decision either as to the substance — whether to send two observers to Lima — or that the question be passed to the Director- General. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the position as set forth by the delegate of Mexico. It is a question now whether you wish to instruct the Director- General to send two observers to Lima, or whether you wish to state here that that is a detail which should be left to the Director-General himself. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman, it is not quite clear to me what is the purpose of a decision to send the observers to Lima. I thought this was a study of interna- jional copyright. Certainly my own country is very much interested and I do not know whether I under- stood the position correctly. Is that committee at Lima going to do the work for all the nations? If so, what opportunity will there be of representa tions being made fromother countries? ahd —    The CHAIRMAN : I think at any rate that this particular matter is not quite within the province of this Commission, because the meeting concerned is to be held in 1947. We are concerned with the
1948 programme. This is a part of the 1947 pro- gramme, if I understood the delegate correctly, for the meeting at Lima is in Decemberthis year. I do not know whether it is within our province to make recommendations to the Director-General for any- thing else except the programme for 1948. That being so, this particular proposal might be sent on to the Director-General direct from the Working Party, being concerned with this year’s programme and not with the 1948 programme. Are there any further matters in connexion with copyright? If not, I understand from the delegate of Mexico that he wishes to reserve the right to bring up further matters underIT. B. 1e whenthe Working Party has met. Therefore, we will leave that point for him to bring up on Monday. Chapter II. D. 4. - The CHAIRMAN : We have now a document
2C/K/9, which is in front of you im English only. I am sorry it has not been possible to issue it in French and Spanish. It is the Report of the Working Party on Social Sciences. The resolutions, as far as I can see, are in very short paragraphs, which I think we might be able to handle, if the French and Spanish speaking delegations have no objection. Even though we have only the English text, I will have each of the resolutions read in orderthat every- one may get the sense of it. Thefirst item, you will notice, is concerned with IL D. Aain the Green Book. Does anyone wish to put forward any resolution concerned with this item? Mrs. Louise WRIGHT (United States of America) : Mr. Chairman, in the absence of the Chairmanand Vice-Chairman, I would like, as Rapporteur of the Working Party on Social Science, to move the adop- tion of the resolution which appears on page 2 ol document 2C/K/9 and comes under the heading of Chapter IV. A. As you are aware, the tensions pro- ject is mentioned twice, once under II. D. 4 and in more detail under Chapter IV. A. The recommenda- tion of the Working Party is an elaboration of the text of Chapter IV. A. Social Sciences. It reads as follows : The Director-General is instructed to carry on the investi- gationslisted below within the budgetary limitation of Unesco and such governmental and private financial aid as he may be able to obtain. The head of the Section and the head of the project shall be appointed at an early date. When appointed, the head of the Section shall submit detailed plans for implementation of this Conference Programme to the Director-General. The Director-General shall enlist the resources of, and distribute the work among, universities and other research centres in the various nations through National Commissions or co-operating bodies wherever they exist, and appropriate international organizations. He shall ensure the application of comparable research standards and methods with a view to an international integration of the project. The Director-General shall further study methods, and encourage their adoption, by which the findings of these investigations may be popularized and oriented with a view to future action through National Commissions and co-ope- rating bodies.
1. An enquiry into the distinctive characterof the various national cultures, ideals and legal systems, with the aim of stimulating the sympathy and respect of nations for each other’s ideals and aspirations and the appreciation of national problems. Onefocus of such an enquiry would be the study of the ways by which the youngaretrained to become respon- sible participants in their national culture.
2. An enquiry into the conceptions which the people of one nation entertains of its own and of other nations.
3. The continuation of a study, initiated by Unesco in
1947, of the conditions under which the exchange of persons is useful or harmful to good international relations.
4. An enquiry into the ways of presenting international news in all media.
5. An enquiry into modern techniques which have been developed in education, political science and psychology for changing mental attitudes.
6. An enquiry into the social influences throughout life which predispose towardsinternational understanding on the one hand and aggressive nationalism on the other.
7. The preparation of a Source Book describing the work already-under way in Member States, underthe sponsorship of universities and public agencies, in the study of tensions that arise from technological improvéments and the resulting shift of populations. Before this is undertaken, information should be obtained about the intentions of the Economic and Social Council in this matter. May I urgethat the Working Partygive this prio- rity A? The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone who wishes to second this resolution? Seconded by the delegate of the Netherlands. The matter is now open for your discussion. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) May I put a question to you, first, Mr. Chairman, and then to the mover and seconder? With regard to Item 4 of the resolution, my note in the Green Book, which I have been using during our meetings, says that that item : «An enquiry into the ways of presenting international news in all media» was deleted. It is therefore something on which we need not act, on which we agreed not to act at an earlier meeting of the Programme Commis- sion. The question is, do we raise that again now, or has it been deleted? The CHAIRMAN : I am informed by the Secre- tariat that it is quite correct that in the discussion
146 —    on Mass Media we already deleteda section meaning practically the same thing as that paragraph 4. Mrs. Louise WRIGHT (United States of America) : Then I will drop it. The CHAIRMAN : In that case I think it might be wiser, if the seconder has no objections, to drop that paragraph 4. Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) : Now a question to the mover and seconder. The first is, quoting fromthe samepagein the second paragraphof the Resolution : « He shall ensure. .. ». Instead of the words «ensure the application » would the mover and seconder mind the substitution of the words «encourage these bodies to apply»? Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : I read the. Resolution as adopted by the Working Party, but 1 think the Working Party would be quite agreeable to the change suggested by the delegate of Australia. The CHAIRMAN : It is accepted by the mover and the seconder, that instead of the words «ensure the application of» you have «encourage these bodies to apply». Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) : A third question, again to the mover and seconder : would they object to the addition of another paragraph, not paragraph 8, but in the form of a general comment, the paragraph to read as follows : The Executive Board is requested to follow closely the development ofthis project and to guide the Director-General on any question arising in the course ofthe year affecting the priority to be accorded to various parts pf the project. In suggesting that addition, Mr. Chairman, the Australian delegation considers that this is one of the very important projects which Unesco is under- taking, though it is being undertaken with some- what of a handicap, because of the difficulty, which has existed for some time, of finding a suitable appointee, and the Australian delegation considers that it would greatly help the success of the project if it could be closely watched by the Executive Board. Would the mover and seconder have any objection to that addition? Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : If I can speak for the Working Party in my capacity as a United States delegate, I would accept. I would draw the attention of the Commission to the fact that at its meeting the Working Party deplored the absence of a head of the Section and took the opportunity to add that statement in this resolution. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate has moved this motion as a member of the United States delegation and not as Rapporteur of the Working Party. Do I take it then that she accepts the additional para- graph suggested by the delegate of Australia? The Executive Board is requested to follow closely the development ofthis project and to guide the Director-General on any question arising in the course of the year affecting the priority to be accorded to various parts ofthe project. The resolution as amended is now before you for discussion. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : I only wish to make a few general re- marks. I was struck when reading this draft reso- lution by the frequent occurence of such words as «investigation», «study», cenquiry». I have the impression that it is the general opinion of this assembly that we ought to concentrate on prac- tical concrete projects, and I wish to express my regret that in general in this proposal, which is in itself excellent, there is mention only of « studies » «investigations» and «enquiries». I believe, let me repeat, that we have been given here an excellent plan of work, of considerable theoretical value and representing an encyclopaedic work of the highest value, but I wonder whether it does not lead us away from our practical objectives. I am speaking particularly of paragraph 2 : can enquiry into the conceptions which the people of one nation entertains of its own and of other nations » Theoretically this enquiry is obviously of the utmost value, but when you think that there are some forty nations represented in Unesco and each of them will have to state its conception of the other nations, that makes an enquiry involving about two thousand articles. I feel this is rather dangerous and we must choose between theoretical perfection and practical efficiency. Onthe other hand, No.3 seems to me excellent. 1 do not wish to propose a specific motion here, but I do wish to draw your attention to the danger that might be involved in embarking on purely theore- tical investigations. Dr. Charles S. JOHNSON (United States of Ame- rica) : With your permission, I would like to com- ment on the resolution as proposed, and to suggest a mild amendmentto it. It has to do with the rôle of National Commissions, a point that was not quite clear in the discussion of the Working Party. The National Commissions are understood to be stimu- lating and action bodies, whichare not in themselves research parties. The proposal takes account of the action value of these National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies where they exist, but it also includes, perhaps inadvertently, a clause which UT >    limits the freedom of research and enquiry to the National Commissions, which, so far as provisions for research in other sections go, have not interested themselves directly in carrying on the purely research features of these projects. We have in mind that these studies are always preliminary to action programmes, and that is the case with this project. It might be mentioned further that this inter- vening machinery can easily complicate such projects as the one in question and perhaps discourage the use of competent scholars and research bodies. Therefore the following adjustmentis proposed as an amendment to the text : in the middle of the paragraph beginning «The Director-General » the modification proposed is this : The Director-General shall enlist the resources of and distribute the work among universities and other research centres in the various nations, utilizing wherever possible National Commissions, co-operating bodies and appropriate international organizations, and he shall encourage the appli- cation of comparable research standards and methods with a view to an international integration of the project. The National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies, where they exist, will in any event be informed of these procedures. stand as presented. The rest of the resolution will The CHAIRMAN : Is this change in the original United States motion acceptable to the seconder? It is. In that case that becomes the motion. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) Mr. Chairman, with regard to the second proposal from the United States, I do not know whether it removes one difficulty I was going to raise : that I must again call attention to the fact that National Commissions do not exist in every nation, and that in every case the Member States ought to be in- formed, as the proper body through which to work. It is hoped, of course, that National Commissions will come into being, and it is, of course, always the object to make full use of all the resources in every country. But as the motion stands, it seems to me to cut out all nations which have not National Commissions. I do not want to move an amend- ment, but to make that point, so that when it goes to the Drafting Committee it will be perfectly clear that every Member State should be informed in order that it can place its full resources at the dis- posal of Unesco. In connexion with the remarks made by the dele- gate of France, I cannot agree with him that this pro- posal is purely theoretical. I think it is one of the most valuable investigations to be undertaken by Unesco so far. It is not expected that the Secre- tariat should undertake to solve these thousands of problems, but that the whole of the resources of every university in the world, as well as of all other research centres engaged in this work, should be harnessed to make a concerted attack on these very difficult problems. The fact that the problems are difficult 1s no reason for avoiding them or putting them off. There can be no short cut to the attain- ment of peace and the solving of these problems. [wish to move an amendment under No. 6, unless it is that I do not understand thesignificance of the terms, being myself a layman. I would suggest the deletion of the word «social », in the first line of No. 6, so that it will read «An enquiry into the influences throughout life...» It is impossible to separate one type of influence from an other and, if an inves- tigation is made, which I consider the most impor- tant of all the projects I have heard mentioned in Unesco’s programme, to ascertain what it is in life which predisposes towards international under- standing or aggressive nationalism, I think it ought to be a complete investigation. Again under No. 7 : « The preparation of a Source Book describing the work already under way in Member States, under the sponsorship of univer- sities and public agencies...» It has been stated in the early part of the motion that all the resources of universities and other bodies are to be made use of. TI would suggest it would be better to omit the words «under the sponsorship of universities and public agencies», because the publication of the book could not possibly take place under the spon- sorship of a thousand universities. Their work will consist of investigation and sending information, but when it is prepared and published, that will surely come under the aegis of Unesco, and I think the wording is unnecessarily specific and may cause confusion. To sum up, I move that the word «social» in the first line of No.6, be deleted and that the words «under the sponsorship of universities and public agencies», in the second and third lines of No.7, be deleted. The CHAIRMAN : I think with regard to the se- cond point there may have been a misunderstanding. If you eliminated the commas after «States» and «agencies » 1t would be covered. It is the work done under the sponsorship of universities and public agencies and not the Source Book to be published under sponsorship fhat is in question. Is that not the intention? Mr. ROBERTS (Unionof South Africa) : Thenit is tautologous, so that in either event, whether the commas are there or not, it should be removed. Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : I understoodthe delegate of South Africa to make three points. The first has to do with the modifying — №08 —    clause «under the sponsorship of universities and public agencies». This refers to the places in which the work is being done — the workthat is being spon- sored by universities and public agencies — and not to the sponsorship of the publication. I assume the Drafting Committee can retrieve our error in composition. As to the word «social », it is put in there because this is a recommendation of the Social Sciences, Working Party and we thoughtthat «social» covered all the influences which we would be able to encom- pass in the course of the study this next year. I doubt much whether it would rule out any of the influences which the delegate of South Africa has in mind. The third point was that we thought, in referring to the National Commissions and Co-operating Bo- dies, that Member States were Co-operating Bodies, but if it is preferred to mention the Member States, that can easily be added and I would be glad to accept it. The CHAIRMAN : Does the delegate of South Africa wish to deal with any of these points, or is he quite happy? Mr. A.A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : I would still like to have the word «social » deleted, Mr. Chairman. If the only reason for it is that the resolution comes from the Social Sciences Working Party, then this larger body can extend the work. It cannot possibly do any harm to delete the word «social». In view of the explanation on the other two points, I will drop them. The CHAIRMAN : Would the delegate of the United States have any objection to cutting out the word «social»? Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : The point is that people in other fields may think we are encroaching on their interests — philosophical, humanistic, cultural and so on. I cannot see that it makes a lot of difference. The CHAIRMAN : If you have no particular objec- tion to the word «social », perhaps we could delete it. T do not want to press you, and if you would prefer to retain it, please say so. We in this Commission are not a Working Party and we can encroach on anybody if we like. Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) willing to accept the deletion. : Lam The CHAIRMAN : Then we will strike out the word «social». Is there any further discussion? Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : First of all, Mr. Chairman, one small drafting amendment to the first line of the resolution. We should, I think, make it quite clear for the benefit of the Secretariat that the Director-General
1s instructed to promote the studies listed below in the manner indicated. The object of that is, of course, merely to draw attention to the manner in which this extremely difficult project is to be imple- mented, namely through the National Commissions and universities. The CHAIRMAN : Is that idea acceptable to the delegate of the United States? Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : I have no objection. The CHAIRMAN : We can leave it, then, to the Drafting Committee to put that into proper form. Does anyone else wish to speak to this motion? Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) : If there is no objection to that, Mr. Chairman, attention should, I think, be directed to the third item, the continua- tion of a study of the conditions under which the exchange of persons is useful or harmful to good in- ternational relations. I think Unesco will probably already have its hands rather full with the earlier enquiry, which has already been approved here, I believe, under the exchange of persons and that we might, at least for 1948, omit item 3 of the present proposal. The CHAIRMAN : Do you move that? Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) : I would like to move that deletion. Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : y understand the delegate of the United Kingdom wishes to omit this because it is covered in another section. [assume that that kind of cross-reference 18 taken care of by the Drafting Committee. As long as the subject-matter is taken care of, we would be willing to have this item deleted. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) : I think it has already come up, as I said, under the Exchange of Persons enquiry, according to which the Director- General is instructed to collect, compile, analyse and publish this material on the international move- ment of persons and to determine theeffectiveness of existing exchange of persons and programmes in terms of Unesco's general objectives. It would not therefore be fair to say that the social science ten- sions project has already been covered. The point is, I think, that a more manageable enquiry has al- ready been approved, which will undertake quite a — 449 —
29        lot of the work proposed under the tensions project, and probably do it rather more effectively. Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : I accept that amendment for deletion. The CHAIRMAN : Then we will delete No. 3. Prof. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) : May I make a few very brief remarks in an attempt to re-assure the delegate of France? I happened to be a member of the Working Party responsible for this document, and I know howit was prepared. Most of the points were taken out of the programme to make a more workable document and to give priorities to certain points. With regard to item 7, it was moved by the Netherlands delegation and, as it stands, it is an- expression of our wishes. However, I think that the addition of the Australian delegation, that this project will come under the control of the Executive Board, to ensure thatit is carried out in a practical way, will be very valuable. Since the Australian delegation brought up this point, I want to stress that it is not a research programme. We are faced in the first instance with a problem, and this motion gives the Secretariat the opportunity of working on this problem and, I hope, working in a practical way. But I do not think that all the wishes expressed in this connexion will be carried out next year. We know that there will be no money; all we want, with the limited funds available for social sciences,is that this important problem shall be tackled in the future in a practical way. I do not think that it will result only in theoretical enquiries, and so I hope that by these remarks I have had the opportunity of re- assuring people who, like the Netherlands delegation, are opposed to theoretical enquiries. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone further who wishes to speak? May I put the motion then? Will all those in favour of the motion put forward by the delegate of the United States kindly hold up their hands? Those against? The motion is car- ried. ®) Are there any further resolutions concerning ILD.
4.a? If not, we have finished with IL.D.4.a. We are now concerned with II.D.4.5. The delegate of the United States. Mrs. Louise WRIGHT (United States of America) : I should like to move the adoption of page 1 of document 2C/K/9, which is an elaboration of ILD.
4.b. This resolution was approved by the Working Party and given Priority «B». It reads as follows : The Director-General is instructed :
(1) To ask the National Commissions, or some recognized authority where no National Commission exists, for informa-
(6) In final form : Resolution 5.1 ; vol. II, page 25. tion relevant to an analysis of the subject-matters and pro- blems treated by the political scientists in recent research materials (scientific publications and high-level text books) the various types of approach and emphasis, the methods, techniques and terminology employed, as well as the quanti- tative aspects of scientific production in modern political science.
(2) Ask one outstanding social scientist to collate the infor- mation, make a comparative study, with his own conclusions and suggestions.
(3) Present a report to the National Commissions asking their opinion as to practicability, methods by which it may best be implemented, and an indication of the extent to which they would be prepared to co-operate in carrying it out in their universities or similar institutions.
(4) To submit the results of this pilot-project to the General Conference in a similar form as the previous publi- cation on Fundamental Education.» May I say a wordas to the purpose of this? In the Green Book a statement was made that we should «encourage the study of the nature and extent of national divergencies in technique and concepts in the social sciences». Following the lines of reason- ing presented by M. Maritain, the Working Party felt that this should be limited in the first year to a study of political science. This study may, there- fore, be considered as a pilot-project for a study of other social sciences. The CHAIRMAN :You have beard the motion. Is there anyone wishing to second it? It is seconded by the delegate of New Zealand. Anyone wish to speak to it? Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) : Mr. Ghair- man, I merely wish to point out that this morning, when considering the philosophy programme, we approved a similar programme on philosophic aspects and fundamental concepts — law, liberty, democracy, etc. — and, whatever consideration we give to this social sciences project under the heading of «functions», we should ask the Secretariat to co-ordinate very closely the work in these two spheres. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone further wha wishes to speak to this? Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman, I agree with the delegate of the United Kingdom. It does seem to me that the whole of this is unnecessary, but if there is anything to be gained by it, it should be passed only on condi- tion that it be referred to the Drafting Committee to be collated and, if possible, combined with the pre- vious resolution. There is, however, one clause which, on the face of it, seems to me undesirable ; thatis (9), unless the paragraph reading «The Working Party further recommended that the task described in para- graph (2) of the above resolution be entrusted to the head of the Social Sciences Section if a specialist — 450 —    in the field of political science is appointed head of section», (which I do not think was read by the mover) gives paragraph 2 a meaning which it does not, on the face of it, appear to bear : «Ask one outstanding social scientist to collate the information and make a comparative study...» I thought we had more or less accepted the principle that we were not going to extend the staff, particularly by the appointment of highly paid officials. If this work could be done by somebody in the Secretariat, I should have no objection to it. Otherwise, my delegation thinks that this work is hardly of such urgency as to warrant the additional expenditure at a time when we are trying to cut down and make our few dollars go as far as possible on urgent and prac- tical tasks. Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : It was difficult for the Social Science Working Party to envisage the programme which it was asked to adopt for the Social Sciences, in view of the fact that this Section is so short-handed. As a result, T think you will find in each ofthese resolutions some reference to personnel, including the reference just mentioned by the delegate of South Africa, which I shall repeat, namely : «that the task described in paragraph 2 of the above resolution be entrusted to the head of the Social Science Section if a specialist in the field of political science is appointed head of sec- tion». You have to remember that the head of a section will have under his charge, if this programme goes through, this study of political science and the much larger study of social tensions, and it is not believed that he could possibly do it all, but,if it happened that the head of the Social Science Section was particularly trained in political science, this might be his particular assignment. We simply regis- tered the fact that we could not divorce the content of the programme from the people who were going to have to carry it out. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone further who wishes to speak to this motion? No one? I will pro- ceed to put the motion. The vote was taken by show of hands. The motion is carried. (7) Has anyone else anything to raise on ILD.4.5? If not, it is finished and we will take ILD.4.c. The delegate of the United States. Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : ILD-
4.c refers to a plan for the study of comparative and international law. In the opinion of the Working Party this should not be undertaken as a separate @) Infinal form : Resolution 5.5; vol. IL page 6. project, but the Working Party recommends that some consideration be given to comparative law in the tensions study, and, if you will remember, under Item I of the Tensions Study, the expression «legal systems» was introduced with a view to their study in so far as divergencies of legal systems might lead to tensions. There is therefore no motion from the Working Party on II.D.4 с. The CHAIRMAN : There is no motion. Does anyone wish to propose a motion? If not, we have finished with that. Is there anyone else who wishes to raise any further motion at all in connexion with ILD.A? The delegate of Cuba. Dr. Pablo LAVIN (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to ¢ of the chapter on the Social Sciences, ILD.A : «Initiate steps, in consultation with the United Nations and appropriate non-governmental organizations and experts, to prepare a plan for the study of comparative and international law», I wish to formulate a proposal which seems to me to cover this item adequately. We know that in all countries there exist institutions and organizations of international and comparative law. In Europe there are some of the utmost importance. Among our own countries in America, there is the American Institute of International Law, which for many years has been performing notable work in this field. But it seems to me that all these institutions have their own specific aims, which are set out in their re- spective statutes. In view of this, I think there would be considerable advantage in Unesco having an auxili- ary body for Comparative and International Law and I venture to suggest to this assembly that the discussion of this proposal be included in the agenda of the next Conference. In this way, this suggestion could be given due time and care; I would point out especially that, in the form in which I propose it, no special subsidy or expenditure would be necessary. Therefore, for those two reasons — that it is not something which requires financial support by Unesco and does not need to be set up immediately — I think it would be desirable to include this matter for discussion at the next Conference. The proposal which I have drafted is as follows: In order to give fullimplementation to the project described in sub-paragraph (c) of Chapter II. D. 4 of the Programme of Unesco in 1948, it is proposed that there should be set up an auxiliary institute of Unesco for Comparative and Interna- tional Law, to consist of delegations from all the countries represented in Unesco. This proposal can be given due consideration at the next Conference of Unesco. The practica importance of such an institute is obvious, since, as an aux- iliary of Unesco, it would contribute to the strengthening of international solidarity through the particular means of close collaboration in all kinds of juridical matters. The Institu- — 451 —
29.      in its establishment and its operation, could count upon the collaboration and support of other existing bodies or asso- eiations of this type. The CHAIRMAN : Is it the intention of the dele- gate of Cuba to suggest that this subject should be a matter for discussion at our next Conference; that no steps be taken in the meantime, but that it be put on the Agenda of our next General Con- ference ? Dr. LAVIN (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : Exactly, Sir. What I want is that the motion be approved for full discussion at the next Conference. I understand that there are contradictory opinions on this matter. I am assuming that the similar committee already existing in the United Nations is a United Nations affair, and not a Unesco affair. Since Unesco is a distinct cultural organization with its own clearly defined purposes, I think that, to implement fully everything involved in a study of comparative and international law, it should have available a single body and so not have to approach all the other existing organizations of this kind throughout the world. To bring this about, the present meeting must decide to submit the ques- tion for discussion at the next Conference. The CHAIRMAN : The delegate of Cuba is sugges- ting that the next General Conference of Unesco should discuss the possibility of creating an auxi- liary institution for comparative and international law. Does anyone wish to second that ? Seconded by the delegate of Mexico. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman, I understand that what we are now asked to do is to vote in favour of placing this on the agenda. I take it any delegation would have the right to give notice during the year of an inten- tion to raise it, but, if we are to vote on it now, I must oppose it very strongly. I do not think it is our function to establish institutions of this kind at all; and, even if it were our function, we have not got the money to do it, and ought not to give it priority even next year; and, thirdly, even if we had the money, it is unnecessary, because thers are already organizations which for a generation at least have been doing the most excellent work in the study of comparative law. If we have to take any action at all, it should never be more than making liaison with the existing organizations; but even that does not seem to me necessary, and I would be opposed to any resolution which would seem to indicate the necessity even of discussing this next year, although that does not prevent the delegation of Cuba or any other delegation from giving notice to the Secretariat. Dr. Natalio CHEDIAK (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish) : The necessity and desirability of an academy or institute of comparative international law are ofvital importance to Unesco. For example, in the Copyright Working Party, which has worked very intensively, there appears on the agenda the method to be observed in the comparative study of copyright throughout the world, as a means for the formulation of a universal Draft Convention, which Unesco has undertaken. Unfortunately, in the world up to the present, no body has been devoted specially to this matter, and Unesco is pledged by the recommendation of the Copyright Working Party to establish a committee to under- take the comparative study of the laws of the diffe- rent countries; this resolution was approved at this afternoon’s meeting, as you will remember. So I believe, with all respect for the opinion of the delegate of South Africa, that it is essential that Unesco should establish commissions, institutes or academies of this kind in order to give effect to its decisions. Gentlemen, we must not forget that under Unes- co's Constitution, the objects, conclusions and whole work of this Conference fall into two catego- ries. In accordance with Articles IV and V of the Constitution, the Conference which is now being held in Mexico, and upon whose decisions every- body is waiting, has two purposes : to make recom- mendations to the Member States of Unesco; and to draw up international conventions, in which shall be expressed the aspirations and the ideals and all the results of the work of the different groups. Incidentally, I wonder what special legal body exists within Unesco to take care of the elaboration of international conventions ? It is essential as well as fitting that this step should be taken, in order to facilitate and put into effect the conclusions of this Conference all of which pursue the aims of justice and law, their dissemination, and the unifi- cation of legal systems throughout the world. This proposal should be warmly welcomed, for it will facilitate work in all fields. I support the proposal by my distinguished colleague from Cuba that this question be included specifically in the agenda of the next General Confe- rence of Unesco. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Does anyone else wish to speak ? Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I hope the delegate of Cuba does not want us to consider this proposal for our programme in 1948. We have so many urgent and important tasks that there is no other choice but to refer it to the Programme Commission for next year, to consider and to see exactly how far — 452 —    it overlaps with the work of other United Nations organizations. At the same time we in Unesco have not entirely neglected the work of the legal experts. We men- tioned in the Working Party some concrete conven- tion for these experts, and I think the Rapporteur has deferred that for this year. We have dealt with concrete proposals bearmg upon international tensions, and I think that we shall be able next year to make a legal study of comparative international law. With its practical survey of international tensions I think Unesco will have done a good job. I should like this proposalto be referred entirely for next year’s Programme Committee to study care- fully and to submit proposals for the next Confe- rence. The GHAIRMAN : The meeting is quite clear on the significance of this particular motion ? If it were expressed in the form of a resolution, it would be something like this : «That the General Confe- rence takes note, as falling within Unesco's sphere of interest, of a proposal to set up an institution for the study of international law, ete.; it does not authorize any action in 1948, but it does desire the subject to be put on the agenda for the 1948 General Conference. » You have heard the motion. Does anyone else wish to speak on it ? If not, may I put it to the meeting ? Will all those in favour kindly raise their hands ? All those against ? The motion proposed by the delegate of Cuba is lost. Are there any further matters to be raised under Chapter II.D.4 ? Dean Richard McKEON (United States of Ameri- ca) : In approving the Tensions Project we commen- ded that project to the special care of the Executive Board, and one of the sub-headings of the project included the enquiry into modern techniques for changing mental attitudes. The document concerned is entitled Philosophy Conference/1, and it is a proposal for an enquiry into one method of changing mental attitudes, and it would fall, there- fore, I think, under the proposal already approved. It is however, a document which the Secretariat and the Executive Board might properly have called to their attention, since it could serve as a working paper for an enquiry into the methods employed in coming to agreement in such assemblies as the present one. It is an enquiry into methods of discussion, methods of debate, methods of accord and agreement, and I believe it might commend itself particularly to your attention, Mr. Chairman, since a chapter might be included on the rights and duties of chairmen in international commissions. This is, therefore, primarily an attempt to put on record an indication of this document and of its existence, and to call the attention of the Executive Board and the Secretariat to it. The CHAIRMAN : Are you moving a motion, or just bringing this to our notice ? Dean McKEON (United States of America) : I had not thought a motion was necessary, but in order to make it official, I would like to move that document Phil. Conf./1 be considered in connexion with Item 5 of the Tensions Project as one possible mode of implementing that particular project. I do not think a motion is necessary, since what is needed is primarily to call the attention of those who will carry out the project and supervise it, to a variant that might otherwise not be noted. Mr. W. J. WEEDEN (Australia) : Mr. Chairman, I would like to move a motion which appears in the text of 2C/K/9, page 3. The introductory note is that : «The Working Party adopted a new proposal, giving it priority, by the following resolution. » Before reading the text of the motion, Mr. Chair- man, I would like to say that the Australian delega- tion, which suggested it, considers it a motion of considerable importance at the present time, and thinks that, while it is of considerable importance in relation to the development of international collaboration,it is also to be commended on another ground : that it is relatively inexpensive and will in fact cost the Organization very little from its budget. If T may now read the motion : The General Conference resolves that :
1. As an essential counterpart of the project on Social Tensions Unesco will also encourage and assist the study by social scientists in all Member States of the problems arising within their respective scientific fields in relation to the con- temporary development of positive international collaboration and the rule of law and order in the international field.
2. The Director-General is instructed to enter into nego- tiations with the United Nations andother Specialized Agencies with a view to obtaining material and information regarding their structure and problems, that will be ofinterest to social scientists; and to make this material available to Member States.
3. The Conference recommends to Member States that they draw the attention of social scientists to the importance of the scientific study of the problems involved in interna- tional organization and collaboration, which, in the past, have not received more than a fraction of the amount of attention concentrated upon similar problems arising in the national sphere; and, in particular, the importance for the social sciences of practical problems which are being encountered in the development of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies.
4. The Executive Board is requested to considerthe extent to which special studies may be initiated by the Secretariat in co-operation with Member States and with the agreement of the United Nations orits Specialized Agencies, and is em- powered to authorize initiation of such studies within the limits of the Budget appropriations for the social sciences. I move that resolution, Mr. Chairman. — 453 —
294          The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Does anyone wish to second it ? It is seconded by the delegate of the United States. The matter is now open for discussion. Does anyone wish to speak to this motion. As no one wishes to speak to the motion, I will put it to the meeting. Will all those in favour, kindly hold up their hands ? Will all those against, kindly hold up their hands? The motion is carried. (8) Is there any further matter now arising under I1.D.4.? M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. Chairman, I should like to make a request, with some trepidation. M. Lucien Febvre, who is the expert on the social sciences in our delegation, is not here to-day, I regret to say. He told me that he would want to speak on the subject of the social sciences and I wonder whether you would authorize him to do so on Monday. Iam merely making a request. The CHAIRMAN : As Chairman, I am anxious to put my pencil through each chapter as we come to it and know it is finished, but, in the circumstan- ces, if the French delegation wishes to raise any matter when we go through the programme on Monday, it may be permitted to do so. Are there any other motions ? If not, we have finished with II.D.4., with the reservation that the delegate for France has asked if he may intro- duce a resolution later. Chapter IV. C. I-3. — Town and Country Planning. The CHAIRMAN : The next matter dealt with in the report of the Working Party, 2C/K/9, is Chapter IV.C. of the Green Book (2C/3). The specific items in question are 1, 2 and 3 which appearin the English text at the bottom of page 22 and on the top of page 23. We have dealt already, you will remember, with Items 4, 5 and 6 of this chapter. Are there any motions concerning IV. C.1 ? I know that the Working Party has no comments and no proposal. If not, then IV.C.1 lapses. IV.C.2 — I notice that the Working Party has no proposal to make. Has anyone ? Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. Chairman, I feel that there is a close relationship between 2,
3 and 4. Could we not discuss them together ?
(5) In final form : Resolution 5.4 ; vol. II: page 26. ب I do not think it is possible to separate one from the other. The CHAIRMAN : If it is the will of the meeting to take them as a whole, I have no objection. Is there anyone who has any motion ? Mrs. Louise WRIGHT (United States of America) : The motion which I have to present from the Work- ing Party has to do with No. 3, thatis, it is proposed that Unesco, together with the United Nations Economic and Social Council, explore the setting up of an International Institute of Home and Community Planning. The Working Party recommends that : No credits be granted by the Programme and Budget Commission for the purpose of creating a new organism in this field. I so move. The CHAIRMAN : You have heard the motion. Does anyone second that ? The delegate of the United Kingdom. It is, of course, open for anyone to move an amendment. It has been moved and seconded that no credits be granted by the Program- me and Budget Commission for the purpose of creating a new organism in the field of Home and Community Planning. Does anyone wish to speak to this ? Individual delegates will have a right to bring up further motions or amendments later on if they wish. It has been moved and seconded. I will then put the motion to the meeting. Will all those in favour kindly raise their hands ? Will all those against kindly raise their hands ? The motion proposed by the delegate of the United States is carried. Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : I would like to add for the information of the Com- mission that the Working Party discussed this question of town and community planning at some length and they were of the opinion that Unesco should concentrate on immediate and practical tasks. Tt was felt that there are already a sufficient number of projects, and also that in many countries it will not be possible to carry out these projects under present - conditions. . Consequently, the Working Party did not favour even the appointment of a liaison officer in Unesco to work with other organi- zations. I do not know whether it is necessary to put that in the form of a motion, but I thought that the opinion of the Working Party should be known to the meeting. Any technical advice by members of the Secretariat would be quite in order, but the Working Party did not intend to have Town and Community Planning as a programme item of Unesco.    The CHAIRMAN : It is now open for anyone to raise any motion from the floor,if they wish, concern- ing Chapter IV.C. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. Chairman : I agree with the Rapporteur that this subject was discussed in detail in the Working Party, but I must say that the recommendation put here — or may I say the summary of the discussion — does not really express the spirit of the discussion. The Working Party does not feel that Unesco should have no interest in the project at all. I remember that not a single one who spoke in the Working Party opposed the idea that Unesco should take great interest in community planning. On the contrary, I think most of the speakers stressed the importance of community planning as one of the main projects that Unesco should be interested in. What we opposed was the creation of a new special- ized organization. We are opposed to making this a budgetary obligation on the Social Sciences Sec- tion, but we all agree that we should take interest in Community Planning as an important channel for our scientific, educational and cultural activities in applied fields. We know, of course, that plan- ning now is the philosophy of the day and, without community planning on a proper scale, our scienti- fic, educational and cultural efforts will be worth- less. We therefore think that, although we do not need a new organization or do not need a liaison officer in the Social Sciences Section, we must ex- press our attitude as to the importance of Gommu- nity Planning in the work of Unesco. For this reason we — the Egyptian, the Canadian and the Netherlands delegations — have suggested the following proposal, although we think that the proper field might be in the Economic and Social Council, but that does not exclude the fact that Unesco has a close interest in this subject, and a good deal to say concerning it. Accordingly, we submit this draft resolution : Considering the importance of the problems of Home and Community Planning andtheir effect on the shaping and re- shaping of man's environment: Having in mind the pressing need for safeguarding the basic human and cultural values against the consequences of a predominantly technological development; Taking into consideration at the same time that the Eco- nomic and Social Council of the United Nations has already set up a special Division to deal with the problems of housing and town planning; It is resolved : To instruct the Director-General to continue consultations with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations with a view to co-operating in an active manner in the solving of the problems of home and community planning, especially so far as its specific interests in education ,science and culture are concerned. That Unesco, in carrying out the co-operation just men- tioned, should restrict itself to giving advice of a technica nature regarding the fields concerned. That Unesco at the same time should continue to co-ope- rate with the non-governmental international organizations in thefield of home and community planning with a view to strengthening their activities concerning the promotion of a wider understanding of the basic human and cultural objec- tives which should underlie modern town and country plan- ning, as well as co-operating in their studies regarding the educational problems connected with planning. Finally, that Unesco's activities, as they have been indi- cated in the preceding paragraphs of this motion, should not go beyond the scope which could be: properly handled by the experts of the Social Science Section of its Secretariat. I believe by this draft resolution we are meeting all wishes. We are not asking for new budgetary responsibilities for the Social Science Section or for Unesco, but at the same time we are expressing our great interest in planning as scientists and edu- cationists. The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone who seconds that resolution ? It is seconded by the delegate of Canada. Does anyone wish to speak to it ? Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) : I would like to reassure the delegate of Egypt and the members of the Commission that there was no lack of interest in town and community planning on the part of members of the Working Party, but we thought it was being very capably handled by the Economic and Social Council and, as our effort was to concentrate our programme as much as pos- sible on the tensions projects, which you have already passed, we did not care to visualize much staff time being spent on town and community planning at this stage. I am not sure how much staff time would be expended under the resolution of the delegate of Egypt. The CHAIRMAN : Perhaps the delegate of Egypt could help us. He said that no money was invol- ved, but there is a reference to giving advice of a technical nature by experts on the staff. Perhaps he could clarify that. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I think that the programme of the Social Science Section must be framed in such a way as to meet the most urgent needs of the social sciences. As I know, and as most of you know, planning now is the basic work of everyone and, if the Social Science Section does not consider planning as one of its most urgent tasks, and if amongst its experts there is not someone at least who might be able to give advice on this, we might fail to a certain extent in our obligations. As I said at the beginning, planning is now the philosophy of the day. — un —              The CHAIRMAN : Is there anyone who wishes to speak to this ? Dr. Manuel SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 only wish to ask the Chairman whether this proposal of the delegate of Egypt replaces points 1 to 6 of Chapter IV.C. of the Programme ? The CHAIRMAN : No. Sections 4 to 6 have already been dealt with. We are only concerned now with 1 to 3 and I take it that we have passed no resolution whatever about Sections 1 to 3, except that no credits be granted for the purpose of creat- ing a new organization in this field. There is no other resolution before us and nothing else concer- ned with 1 to 3, so, if this proposal of the delegate of Egyptis passed, it would, in effect, replace 1 to 3 here, subject always to the resolution we have passed that no credits be granted for the setting up of a new institution. Is there any further discussion ? If no one wishes to speak, I shall put the motion to the vote. The vote was taken by show of hands. The CHAIRMAN : Since there are seven votes for and seven against we shall have to take the vote again by roll-call. The vote was taken by roll-call. The CHAIRMAN : The question has been raised as to whether we have a quorum. The Rules of Procedurestate : «At Plenary Meetings the majority of the States Members present at the Session of the General Conference shall constitute a quorum. » I am informed by the Secretary that we have a quo- rum and I declare the motion lost by 8 to 9. Are there any further matters now in connexion with Chapter IV.C ? The other item on the Agenda for to-day was that of Grants-in-Aid. We have only a quarter of an hour left, and I thinkit is a large topic which we cannot deal with in that time, unless the meeting is very anxious to go ahead. The adjournment has been moved, seconded and supported. The meeting is therefore adjourned, The meeting rose at 6 ‚20 р. т. SEVENTEENTH MEETING Monday, 24 November 1947, at 11 a.m. CONTENTS Assistance to International Scientific Organizations Joint Report of the Working Parties on Education Chairman : Dr. C. E. BEEBY (New Zealand). The CHAIRMAN : The business before us this morning, first of all, is to complete the study of the Working Party's report on Natural Sciences. The only remaining part is concerned with Chapter IV of the Green Book. There was one section in II. D. 5. (paragraph d) which was connected with this, and which should, I suppose, be dealt with at the same time. The Working Party document is 2C/L/2. Is there anyone who wishes to raise any motion in connexion with the matters I have just men- tioned? Assistance to International Scientific Organi- zations. Prof. E. D. ADRIAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, I have to propose a motion dealing with the grants-in-aid to international scientific organiza- tions. This was one of the main commitments of the Natural Sciences Section in 1947, and it will be again in 1948. It involves a considerable por- tion of the total sum allocated to the Natural Sciences, but there has never been any question of the success of this part of our Programme. — 456 —