could announce : (a) the approximate date of the completion of the Budget Sub-Commission’s work and the distribution of its report to delegations; (b) the times of meetings of the Programme and Bud- get Commission to consider the recommendations of the Budget Sub-Commission; (c) the date of the plenary meetingto examine the report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. The CHAIRMAN called on the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission and the Chair- man of the Administrative and External Relations Commission to give their opinions. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, thought the schedule would depend on the amount of work accomplished that day and whether there was a quorum at the evening meeting. He hoped, however, that his Commission would be able to keep to the time-table set out in 2C/BUR/1 : that was to say, four daysfor the Budget Sub-Commission’s meetings and a meeting of the Programme and Budget Com- mission on Saturday, 29 November to consider the Budget Sub-Commission’s report. Dr. HAN (China), Chairman of the Administrative and External Relations Commission, hoped his Commission would finish work by Wednesday,
26 November, but he was not sure because there might be lengthy discussions on Unesco’s rela- tions with Germany and Japan, and also members wished to avoid evening meetings. It was agreed that the opinions of the two Chair- men should be inserted in the next day’s Journal. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) transmitted a suggestion by several delegations that the Secre- tariat should be asked to make a list of the private addresses of delegates, in order that delegations might continue the friendly relations established during the Conference. Agreed. Resolution of United Kingdom delegation. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) announced that his delegation intended to submit a resolution to the Committee during the next two or three days, which it was suggested should be discussed at the жж, meeting on Friday or Saturday. The reso- ution concerned experience gained at the first two Conferences and aimed at giving small countries an opportunity to say what they though the Executive Board should consider in its discussions about the next General Conference. All Member States and delegations should be able to make suggestions in this connexion, if they wished to doso. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) welcomed the announcement of this resolution. He thought that, if the Programme and Budget Commission could not meet on Friday, 28 November, because the report of the Budget Sub-Commission was not ready, the meeting of heads of delegations and the Sub-Commi- tee of the Executive Board, scheduled for Thursday at 4 p.m., should be postponed until Friday morn- ing or afternoon, in order that the United Kingdom resolution could be added to its agenda. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) recalled that the report of the Budget Sub-Commission had to be translated and duplicated and thought it would be unfair to present the whole Budget on Friday morning and expect an immediate discussion and vote to be taken on it. Mr. BENTON(UnitedStates ofAmerica) thought that both matters pertaining to theExecutive Board could be dealt with on Friday. It was agreed that the meet- ing of heads of delegations and the Sub-Committee of the Executive Board should be postponed until Friday, subject to approval of the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission. The meeting rose at 11 a.m. FIFTEENTH MEETING Wednesday, 26 November 1947 at 10 а. т. Chairman: Dr. Luis E. VALCARCEL (Peru) Proposal of the United Kingdom delegation concerning review of Conference procedure. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) announced that he would not go through every item, nor discuss the merits of the resolution, but wanted the advice of the Committee on where it could best be discussed : either by the Plenary Conference or by the Special Committee set up by the Executive Board. Asregards paragraph 1, his delegation felt that Mem- ber States should be in a position to receive pro- posals from National Commissions and Go-operating Bodies before the Conference. In this way smaller delegations would be able to play a bigger part in — 268 —   the Conference than they had been able to do hither- to. The resolution also aimed at binding the Budget and Programme more closely together. It should perhaps be considered by a Sub-Committee before being discussed in the Plenary Conference. It was agreed that the resolution should be placed on the agendaof the special meeting of the Executive Board and Headsof delegations to be held on Friday,
28 November at 11 a. m. This would give Member States an opportunity to express their opinions to the Board as regards the organization of the Confe- rence. Proposal of the Mexican delegation concern- ing the co-operation of Science in the conso- lidation of Peace. Report by the observer of Paraguay on stimulation of University exchanges As the above two items concerned the programme and the Programme and Budget Commission had already finished consideration of programme items, it was agreed that they should bereferred to the Exe- cutive Board in connection with any consideration it would give to the 1948 programme. Proposals of the delegation of Uruguay con- cerning Rules of Procedure on the quorum and use of the working languages. These two items concerned ¡the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Conference and were therefore referred to the Procedure Committee. Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission announced that his Commission would not be able to meet before Monday 1 December to examine the Report of the Budget Sub-Commission. The meeting rose at 10.45 a. m. SIXTEENTH MEETING Friday, 28 November 1947 at 10 a m. Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ[(Mexico) Progress of the work of the Conference. The CHAIRMAN called on the Secretary to make an announcement regarding the work of the Confe- rence. The SECRETARYsaid that it was essential for the Administrative and External Relations Commission to finish its work that day, if the Conference was to end by 3 December. The technical services must have time to duplicate and translate its Report, which should be discussed by the plenary meeting on Monday afternoon. The whole day of Tuesday,
2 December, would be kept free for meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission. On Saturday,
29 November, there would be a plenary meeting at 11 a. m. to examine general resolutions and the Reports of Member States. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked for the insertion in the agenda of the next day's plenary meeting of the United Kingdom resolution concerning the organization of the Conference (document 2C/
116), as he did not think there would be time to dis- cuss it at the special meeting that morning of the Executive Board and heads of delegations. M. DROHOJOSWKI (Poland) agreed with United Kingdom delegate but, after reading the text of the resolution, thought it was within the scope of the Special Meeting. As regards the programme for the next few days, he felt it should be arranged so that the Conference could end by 3 December. Dr. HAN (China), Chairman of the Administrative and External ‚Relations Commission, very much hoped that his Commission would finish work during the day, and the Rapporteur would be able to send in his report in the evening or next morn- ing. The report could then be distributed to dele- gations on Sunday evening. The CHAIRMAN, referring to the United King- dom delegate’s request, thought the United King- dom resolution should be submitted to the Special Committee, which would deal with it if possible. If not, it would be added to the agenda of the next day’s Plenary Meeting. _ Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) suggested call- mg a meeting of the Procedure Committee the following morning at 10 a. m., as the revised Rules — 269 —