M. J. ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : I do not wish to make another speech, I think you will agree that all my remarks have been brief. I only want, gentlemen, to thank you; and I am sure that the hearty welcome you will receive from my people will show you how a country of the Near East can follow the fine example set by the grand country of Mexico. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : Do you agree to accept unanimously the Lebanese proposal that Beirut should be the place of the Third Session of the General Conference of Unesco? There are no objections. I take it, therefore, that this proposal is accepted unanimously. The meeting rose at 6.35 p. m. THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Saturday, 29 November 1947, at 11 a. m. CONTENTS Pages.
25. Report of the Sub-Committee of the Conference appointed to consider Resolutions concerning Measures to be taken against War Propaganda. 142
26. Reports of Member States. .........LLoan 151
27. Discussion of a Resolution by the delegation of the United Kingdom concern- ing the Organization of Future Sessions of the General Conference.... 151 President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Before we embark on our agenda, the delegate of Canada has an announcement to make : Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, I am happy to be able to report to this Conference that I have been advised by the Secretary of State for External Affairs in Ottawa that the sum of $ 200,000 is to be made available to the Canadian Council for Reconstruction, tarough Unesco,for the purchase in Canada of supplies for educational reconstruction in war-devastated countries. This sum is to be provided from funds voted by the Canadian Parlia- ment for Post-UNRRA Relief. It may be recalled that of the $ 20,000,000 set aside in the Post-UNRRA Relief Appropriation, $ 11,000,000 was allocated for relief to specified countries and, in addition ¢ 5,000,000 was allocated to the International Children’s Emergency Fund. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The applause of the delegates 1s our best way of showing our gratitude to the Canadian delegation. We will now turn to our agenda for to-day. The first item is the Report of the Committee of Eleven
(2C/117 and annexes) and the resolution submitted by Poland (2C/BUR/2). Will the Chairman of the Committee of Eleven please come forward and pre- sent his report.
25. Report of the Sub-Committee of the Con- ference appointed to consider Resolutions concerning Measures to be taken against War Propaganda. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Chair- man, fellow delegates, during the eleventh meeting of the General Conference on Wednesday, 26 Novem- ber, it was decided that a Sub-Committee, consisting of representatives of Brazil, Canada, China, the United States of America, India, Mexico, the Nether- lands, Poland, Australia, France and Czechoslovakia, should meet as soon as possible to discuss the diffe- rent resolutions presented to the General Conference — 2 —     on the question of the measures to be taken against propaganda for, and incitement to, a new war. The Sub-Committee met on 27 November under my chairmanship. You have before you documents 2C/BUR/2,
2C/BUR/5, 2C/107 annex and 2C/108. You also have before you document 2C/117, to which is attached an annex, containing the proposed amend- ments to the French resolution given in 2C/BUR/5. (For easy reference the United States amendments are underlined). The discussion opened on the basis of the French resolution as amended by the United States dele- gation (20/117 annex 1), in the hope that, if the Sub-Committee could adopt unanimously this reso- lution as amended, the unanimity which the General Conference considered desirable would be attained. After a long and detailed discussion, the Sub-Com- mittee adopted a motion, proposed by China and amended by Mexico and the United States of America : «That the Conference accept the French resolution as amended in paragraph 2 and in the last paragraph, but without the amendment proposed by the United States, delegation ‚which appears as paragraph 5, and that all other resolutions on this subject be considered as withdrawn. It was, however, understood that, even if this proposal were carried, this would in no way prevent any delegation from raising any of the other motions in the course of the debate in the plenary meeting. The results of the voting were nine in favour and two against (Poland and Czechoslovakia). The delegate of Poland specifically requested that mention should be made in this Report of the attitude taken by the Polish delegation. This attitude is as follows : The Polish delegation considers that the Polish resolution is not covered adequately by the French resolution as amended by the Sub-Committee, and it therefore reserves the right to re-introduce its motion at a plenary meeting. It should bestated that the remainder of the dele- gatious present were of the opinion that the French resolution, as amended by the Sub-Committee, amply covered the point under discussion, and that no otherresolution was therefore necessary. Annex 2 gives the resolution as finally proposed by the Sub-Committee. I therefore put this matter before the Conference for its discussion and ruling. The resolution put forward by the Sub-Com- mittee reads as follows : The representatives of Education, Science and Culture meeting together in Mexico City at the Unesco General Conference, AWARE of the responsibility mposed upon them by the constitution of the Organization to further universal respect tor justice, for the rule of law, for human rights, and the fundamental freedoms of the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion; CONCERNEDatthe dangers to peace resulting from currents of thought conducive to the idea that another war is inevi- table; TROUBLED by the indifference, resignation and even calm acceptance which such currents of thought meet in cerlain sections of public opinion ; direct attention to the resolution unanimously adopted U i e governments Unesco and other States Members of the United Nations limi s ст That underlined paragraph is not in the reso- lution which the Committee is submitting to the Conference this morning. The resolution goes on : address a solemn appeal to all who are concerned for the dignity of Man and the future of civilization, particularly edu- cationists, scholars, artists, writers and journalists throughout the world; adjure them to denounce the pernicious idea that war is inevitable; to act as the mouthpiece of the conscience of the nations, refusing collective suicide; to combat, by every means in their power, surrender to fear and every form of thought or action which may threaten a just and lasting peace.» I would draw your attention once more to the underlined amendment in paragraph 2, the under- lined words in the last paragraph and the deletion of the middle paragraph. I beg to propose the resolution, with these amendments. EThe PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Wehave before us the report of the Sub-Committee. The first speaker on mylist is the delegate of the United States of America. I now call upon him. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) Mr. President, I merely wish to move that this Confe- rence accept the report of the Committee of Eleven, and that we adopt the resolution submitted by the French delegation with the amendments agreed to by the committee. I may say that a most valiant effort was made in the Committee of Eleven to reach the unanimous agree- ment desired by the Conference, and I am confident that the resolution with these amendments will be satisfactory to all of us here. On behalf of the United States delegation,I regret very much that M. Maritain is not here, as he is the — 143 —    IN author of the resolution. Many of us wish that he were here to receive, in person, our tribute and our gratitude for this resolution which he fathered. The resolution is a literary masterpiece such as we who have known M. Maritain for many years have learntto expect from him, and it seems to us that no figure in the scholarly world could more appropriately have written this particular resolution directed to all scholars and intellectuals, who, we know, will respond to it. I therefore move the adoption of this reso- lution. Dr. J. OPOCENSKY (Czechoslovakia) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I was present when the discussion took place in the Sub-Committee, and I see that the point of view of the Polish delega- tion has been incorrectly stated in this report. The Polish delegation has never considered the French text as covering the same field as its own proposal. The Polish proposal is a resolution addressed to the United Nations, whereas the French resolution appeals to intellectuals. I suggest that we first take a vote on the Polish proposal. Professor P. RIVET (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, first ot all I wish to thank Mr. Benton for the tribute he was kind enough to pay to the qualities of M. Mari- tain. You may be sure that this tribute will be communicated immediately to M. Maritain, who will be deeply touched by it. The French delegation has nothing to add to what Mr. Benton has said. I venture nevertheless to make a few remarks. The French delegation is convinced that the very lofty spirit of international understanding and unity which prevails at our discussions requires that Unesco should not leave its own domain of science, education and culture, and that it should avoid any overlapping into the political field. We are also convinced that Unesco — this group of educators and scientists from so many countries and civilizations of the world — has towardsthe conscience ofall peoples responsibi- lities that it cannot shirk. In moments of confusion, such as we are going through now, it should, within its own sphere of action, bring to all men a message of reason and of peace. We firmly believe that all those who are doing educational work, or who have any responsibility — whether great or small — towards public opinion, should consciously exercise control over their words and thoughts. We think they should be reminded of the importance of this duty and also of the need for the critical mind to be always on guard against fear and against anything conducive to the overthrow of reason : such watchful- ness is essential to the maintenance of peace. Asa result of the obligations laid upon it by the Constitution, and in conformity with the spirit of that Constitution, Unesco can and should, in face of the present world-wide anxiety, appeal not only to Governments and States but also to men — to men of goodwill, who are to be found everywhere, and to all who are concerned with the future of humanity and of civilization. We sincerely hope that our resolution will be approved unanimously. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : Mr. President, I strongly support the Sub-Committee’s draft resolu- tion. We all know that Unesco is a Specialized Agency of the United Nations and thatit is therefore incumbent on us to support resolutions adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations. I understand that the latter spent a long time on this resolution, and it was only after many prolonged discussions that they arrived at the text adopted on
3 november 1947. We, as a Specialized Agency, cannot go beyond what has been decided by the United Nations; neither can we stop short of the provisions of the United Nations resolution. It is unnecessary for us to repeat what has been decided by the United Nations Assembly. But we have a special function. We can appeal to educators, scholars, artists, writers and journalists in a way that other organizations cannot; and this appeal is included in the resolution put forward by the Sub-Committee. I therefore strongly support this resolution and would urge all delegations to ensure that it is adop- ted unanimously. Further, I would like to say that, for the good of Unesco — I am sure all of us present have the same aim, that is to make Unesco a going concern — both at this initial stage and in the future, I, for one, will not see Unesco jeopardized by any discussion of political issues. Of course, politics in the broader sense mean public affairs, and we cannot escape from such politics; but politics in the narrow sense are very dangerous, and I do appeal to members to refrain from bringing them into Unesco’s domain. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegate of the United States of America wishes to raise a point of order. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, as the microphone was not brought over, 1 did not hear Mr. Hardman movethe adoption of the resolution nor the substance of the Report. I would like to have my remarks— as seconding Mr. Hardman's motion, with the permis- sion of the Conference, in case there is any doubt on the subject. — 144 — E E R ب ج ‎   Dr. J. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish) : I voted, Mr. President, against the appoint- ment of a committee to deal with the question of the condemnation of war, because I believed — though this may seem paradoxical and absurd — that no reconciliation of the two chief texts was possible. And I believed this because the issue at stake was political and had notits origin, as any activity of ours should have, in considerations of education, science and culture. On the contrary, throughout the pain- ful discussions which took place, the overriding factor was politics — unstable, opportunistic and circumstantial — and not education, science and cul- ture, which should give rise to concepts as clear and permanent as anything can be in this life. Politics dominated the atmosphere to such an extent that the committee which wasset up consisted of the parties most intimately concerned in the controversy rather than of impartial representatives of the majority. We were thus doing here what would have been normal at Lake Success, forgetting what should always be present in our minds : that we are a Specialized Agency one of whose chief purposesis to find, for all the problems with which we have to deal, solutions which will contribute to an atmosphere opposed to violence and thus combat the passions of politics which may lead as easily to war as to peace. I think we have been too apt to forget this principle, and the road we have been following leadsstraight to failure. I'am the delegate of a country, but what lam saying could be said by the man in thestreet — the man who is watching us and hoping for measures that will save him, not for controversies foreign to our aims. It seemed to me from the first that a resolution like that proposed by the French delegation, with its noble and non-political character, was, alone, ideal for adoption by this Conference. I also thought that the attempt to deal with the French proposal by itself was a mistake. For these reasons I shall vote for the resolution put forward by the Committee of Eleven, which is in its essence the French proposal. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) : Sir, I rise with great regret at having to participate in what I consider a disagreeable debate. I associate myself whole- heartedly with the leader of the Chinese delegation’s remark that it is extremely unfortunate that in this body politics should have to enter into our discus- sions. I wish, Sir, that the debate had never started. Nowthat it has, I can only hope that it will end on a note of unanimity. The resolution moved by Mr. Hardman expresses sentiments to which, I think, all delegations can subscribe without reserve, and I hope it will be adopted. I have, however, one slight verbal amendment to move — necessitated, I think, by an oversight. The sixth paragraph addresses a solemn appeal to all who are concerned for the dignity of Man and the future of civilization, particularly educa- tionists, scholars, artists, writers and journalists throughout the world. I assume that it was through an oversight that the word «scientists» was omut- ted. Probably no section of the community has greater power for good or evil than the scientists; and I move, Sir, that the word «scientists» be added after the word «particularly» and before the word «educationists ». M. E. FERENCZI (Hungary) (Translation from the French) + Mr. President, I am sorry to have to speak once more. I had hoped that this rather painful debate would not continue. Hungary has the utmost respect for the spirit in which M. Maritain has made his appeal, and wefully understand the motives that underlie the remarks of the dele- gates of China, India and Uruguay. Nevertheless, since the Polish proposal is on the agenda and will be overridden in a few minutes by a vote, I must speak. Why do Hungary and Poland both adopt the same attitude to-day? It is not, as somebody — some well-paid journalist, or some journalist who wishes to be well paid — will say in the newspapers tomorrow, that a foreign power dictates our words. I will tell you why it is. It is because for three years — since feudalism was thrown out of our coun- try and Fascism was beaten — we have been trying, very painfully and with a gigantic effort, without money, without means, to reconstruct our education and our science. For the first time in our history, the children of farmers and workers are being admitted to universities. Eighteen months ago we had only one People’s College. To-day we have
123, and we wish to continue this work in peace. Since we left Europe we have suffered much anxiety. A certain section of the press, which, in some parts of the world, enjoys almost a monopoly, is continually directed against us, slandering us and threatening us with war and bombs. We must combat this menace. Unesco must make her voice heard. She cannot work success- fully on two divergent lines : helping forward the reconstruction of our devastated countries on the one hand, and keeping silence in the face of threats to our safety on the other. When I say «we», I mean all the countries that are taking part in a great movement for liberation. Sr. R. E. JIMENEZ (Dominican Republic) (Trans- lationfrom the Spanish) : The delegation of the Domi- nican Republic suggests the following amendment — 145 —       to the resolution proposed by the French delega- tion : to the words waddress a solemn appeal to all who are concerned for the dignity of Man and the future of civilization, particularly educationists, scholars, artists, writers and journalists throughout the world» should be added the phrase «scientific, literary and artistic institutions and other similar institutions». In other words, it suggests that collective institutions should be covered as well as individuals. This idea is implicit in the recommendation but it is not clear in the text. It should, however, be plainly stated, since in matters of this nature the action of groups of men is as important as that of individuals. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Egyptian delegation feels that it should make a few brief remarks on the work of the Sub-Committee and the proposal submitted for our consideration. I think that our thanks are due to the Sub-Committee for the proposal it has put forward. We feel that it has narrowed very much the gap between different views and that it is something on which we should come to unanimous agreement. There is nothing really between the two sides except the legal aspect of the question. The Polish proposal wishes that this Conference should appeal to the United Nations for legal measures. I should like to say to the honourable delegate of Poland that this problem has been discussed fully by the United Nations; the same proposal for legal mea- sures was submitted to that body and definite decisions were taken. I do not see any practical advantage in taking another resolution bearing on something that the United Nations has already disposed of. I do not think, therefore, that any difference should arise among us on this account, after the long discussion that has taken place in the United Nations. I should also like to associate myself with what has been said by the honourable delegates of China and India. We have no competence atall to embark on legal or political considerations. At the same time, I want to explain to the delegate of Poland that in the Social Sciences Working Party we considered certain questions having some bea- ring on the proposal before us. I remember that when the Working Party was discussing legal aspects, we resolved that steps should be taken to study the legal aspects having a bearing on international tensions. Perhaps when that proposal is discussed in detail, next year, it may contribute to the Polish point of view. What we need now, Mr. President and fellow delegates, as we said at our last meeting, is unani- mity. We want no disagreement, no controversy. We must not let the masses of the people think that we are wasting our time here on the contro- versial aspects of the problems with which we have to deal. We want action. The world is now on the verge of catastrophe; and if scientists, writers and men of intellect differ on mere formalities, this will not strengthen our Organization. We have a saying in Arabic that when intellectuals differ that is a blessing. But I do not think that, in this case, the difference would be a blessing at all. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : As we have no other speakers on the list, I wish to remind you, gentlemen, that the delegate of Cze- choslovakia has proposed that a vote be taken first on the proposal submitted by the Polish dele- gation. I would like to know the opinion of the meeting on this point. Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, we are obliged- both by our particular civilization and by our mis, fortunes, to refrain from comment on the substance of the two proposals which have been laid before us and which have given rise to differences of opinion. We are very grateful to M. Maritain for having so well differentiated our appeal from others. We approve the Sub-Committee’s resolution as now submitted. We are certain that it is in accordance with Greek belief in freedom of thought; and Greek belief in moral integrity has decided us to vote for the Sub-Committee's proposal. M. S. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is not my intention to repeat the arguments put forward by me at the plenary meeting of this Conference on 26 November. We were then discussing the resolution submitted by the Polish delegation and the appeal resolution presented jointly by the delegations of France, Poland, Czecho- slovakia, the United Kingdom and Brazil. Rather, I wish to explain briefly what happened to the problem which was referred to the Drafting Committee set up in pursuance of a decision taken by the aforesaid plenary meeting. You will remem- ber that, for the purpose of reaching agreement on the texts then before us, several delegations (including the Polish) thought that the Egyptian proposal, asking for a drafting committee to be set up to agree on a common resolution, should only refer to the texts submitted by Poland and Australia and the text submitted jointly by Brazil, China, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United  -——ايل==   States of America. It was thought that these texts contained opposing views which should be ex- amined side by side so that an agreed text might be arrived at. On the other hand we all felt that the appeal to intellectuals drawn up by M. Maritain and presented jointly by the French, Polish, Czehoslovak United Kingdom and Brazilian delega- tions, contained no controversial matter, was not closely allied to the other texts submitted, and ought not to be discussed by the drafting committee. Things turned out otherwise, however. It was feared that an ill-defined procedure might give rise to confusion — a fertile soil for plots and manœuvres which might well smother the very essence of our resolution appealing against the acceptance of the idea of war and against incitement to war. We feared that our resolution might be drowned in a flood of formulae. Our fears were, unfortunately, justified; and I am obliged to state that the Sub-Committee, in whose work we shared in the hope of arriving at a compromise, did not fulfil its task. This Sub- Committee considered neither the Polish proposal, the Australian proposal, the United States proposal, nor a number of others. It confined itself to accep- ting the amendments to the peace appeal draft submitted by Mr. Benton of the United States dele- gation. There was also a strange and unjustified correlation between the withdrawal of the different resolutions and the adoption of the appeal to in- tellectuals. These two questions, entirely different one from the other, were linked merely by the slender cir- cumstances of their having both been submitted by the Polish delegation and of the original text of the appeal having been submitted at the same time as the resolution of 11 November. We did not accept this correlation, which is enti- rely unjustified, and we submit to you, fellow delegates, our resolution, the purpose of which is to mobilize Unesco in the campaign against war and incitement to war. It is precisely because of our desire to fight those who are inciting to war, who are already organizing a new war — a war in which technique will be of the highest order, that certain delegates have objected to our resolution. That is the chief objection to our resolution. We have named no country; we have named no person. Those whose consciences are not clear have revealed themselves by combating, directly or indirectly, all attemps to prepare for a successful campaign (Against war. Gentlemen, I appeal to your sense of responsi- bility, and I ask you to vote, in spite of all who are sowing the seeds of a new war, for the draft appeal submitted jointly by France, Poland, Czechoslova- kia, the United Kingdom and Brazil, and for the resolution submitted by the Polish delegation. Only so will the General Conference of Unesco make its voice heard clearly : a voice raised against war and for universal peace. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, I think we are hearing now views which we have heard before, views which have been expressed at the United Nations. I think it is time we pro- ceeded to a vote. This Conference agreed to refer all resolutions to the Sub-Committee. The Sub-Committee has reported that it is agreed on the French resolution, as amended, and, further, that the French resolution is all that is needed. I therefore move, if a motion is in order, that we should now vote on the French resolution, on which all agree, and that the meeting should then consider any further proposals from those who are dissatisfied with the adequacy of the French reso- lution. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Gentlemen,it is proposed by the delegate of Canada — and this may be said to be a counter-proposal to that of Czechoslovakia with regard to procedure — that we should vote first on the resolution sub- mitted by the Sub-Committee, based on the French proposal, and that immediately thereafter the pro- posals which are not actually of substance should be considered : for example, that of India, to add «scientists» and that of the Dominican Republic to add «institutions». Will those who are in favour of voting first of all on the Sub-Committee’s resolution, based on the French proposal, please raise their hands. The procedure of voting first of all on the proposal which appears in document 2C/117, Annex 2, is approved by 25 votes : that is the proposal submit- ted by the Sub-Committee, based on the French proposal. We shall now take a vote by roll-call. The delegate of Egypt wishes to speak. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : I suppose we are going to vote on the text as amended by the Indian delegation. The Indian delegation only wishes to add the word «scientists». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegate of Canada suggested that we should vote on the amendments later. I understand that, in order to avoid confusion, we are first of all to vote on the proposal, as submitted, and thereafter to make the two small additions. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, I took it for granted that the Indian amendment — № —    was accepted by the French delegation and that therefore the first vote would be on the French resolution with the Indian amendment incorporated by consent. Unless the delegate of the Dominican Republic wishes formally to move a further amend- ment, we would only vote on the French resolution with the word «scientists» incorporated. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, the Polish delega- tion moves that the vote on the French proposal be taken not by roll-call but by acclamation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : It is agreed that the vote shall be by acclamation. Simply as a formality, I put to the meeting the French proposal, including the Indian amendment to add the word «scientists», on which the Polish delegate requests that a vote shall be taken by ac- clamation. The proposal was unanimously adopted by acclamation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spamsh) : The resolution given in document 2C/1 17, annex 2 is adopted by acclamation, with the addition of the words «scientists» or «men of science» in the sixth paragraph, as suggested by the delegate of India. M. R. SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the French) : 1 just want to make it clear that no modi- fication is required in the French text. The word esavantsn already appears in that text. On the other hand, we fully agree to the insertion of the word «scientists» in the English text. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I have one more proposal to make with regard to the resolution we have just adopted. The Polish delegation proposes that the appeal adopted by the General Conference should be dis- seminated as widely as possible, with Unesco’s back- ing, by wireless stations, newspapers, and any other means available to States Members. This appeal, it seems to us, is 50 important that Unesco should recommend its dissemination on the widest possible scale. Dr. M. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish) : 1 wish, Sir, simply to state that, in the Spanish translation of the proposal submit- ted by the Sub-Committee, the words «hombres de ciencia» should also be included. The French word «savants», which covers this category, has, Resolution X.3; vol. IL, page 63. in my opinion, been badly translated into Spanish by the word «eruditos». The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) The proposal has already been adopted. If there are no other remarks on this question, we will pass on to the next item of the agenda. The next item is Reports by Member States (enmen 2C/90 and, annexes). I call upon the elegate of Poland. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI(Poland) : I think that in the general enthusiasm our resolution has got lost. I must insist on its being considered. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) Do I understand, Mr. President, that this motion has been proposed and seconded? And exactly which resolution is it ? I have an amendment to propose. If you will clarify this point for me, 1 shall know whether to submit my amendment or not. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We have adopted the resolution in document 2C/
117, with the small verbal amendment that was made. Now, as I understand it, the delegate of Poland wishes a recommendation to be made for the widest possible dissemination, through wire- less stations etc, of the contents of this resolution. Is that right, Sir ? M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : There are two distinet proposals, and Mr. Benton is quite right in his remarks. There was first the Polish delegation’s proposal regarding the dissemination of the appeal as drafted by the French delegation : that is one thing, and I do not think it has been seconded, apart from the generous applause. Then, before going on to the Reports by Member States, we ought to examine document 2C/BUR/2 of 11 November, containing two draft resolutions submitted by Poland. The second one has been withdrawn, but the first one remains. I suggest, Mr. President, that we deal first with the dissemination of the appeal that has been adopted, and then with the first Polish resolution in document 2C/BUR/2. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We will begin, if this is the wish of the meeting, by discussing the first proposal with regard to dissemination, which I understood had been adopted unanimously by acclamation. Immediately thereafter, the delegate of Poland suggests that we consider the first resolution in document 2C/BUR/2. I understand that you have the document in ques- tion before you. We will now discuss the first — 148 —    resolution in document 2C/BUR/2, which refers to a draft resolution submitted by the Polish delegation to the General Conference of Unesco on 11 Novem- ber 1947. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) : I regret, Mr. President, that the Polish delegate feels obliged to re-submit this resolution after the deliberations of the Sub-Committee and its report which has been approved by this Conference. I feel that, in line with the spirit of the Sub- Committee and the Conference (if I interpreted it properly this morning), perhaps the easiest way to discuss this resolution would be in terms of an amendment that I would like to submit. I would like to propose the following amendment to the Polish resolution : delete the words following « Whereas», and substitute the following : « (Whereas) the General Conference of Unesco has adopted unanimously the resolution initiated by the French delegation appealing to educationists, scholars, artists, writers and jour- nalists throughout the world to combat, by every means in their power, surrender to fear and every form of thought or action which may threaten a just and lasting peace; And whereas the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted unanimously a resolution on 3 November 1947, requesting the government of each Member to take appro- priate steps within its constitutional limits to promote by all means of publicity and propaganda available to them friendly relations among nations based upon the principles and Charter of the United Nations, and to encourage the dissemination of information designed to give expression to the undoubted desire of all peoples for peace; Therefore the General Conference sees no need to consider further resolutions on this subject.» I believe, Mr. President, that the conclusion of the General Conference that there is no need to consider further resolutions on this subject repre- sents the view of the majority of delegates here present. I hope we can soon take a vote on the question. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : The Canadian dele- gation seconds the amendment proposed by the United States delegation. We do so first because we think that the French resolution appealing to the peoples of the world excellently covers Unesco's special interest in the question. We support the United States delegation's amendment, moreover, because we think that the unanimous resolution of the United Nations appealing to governments excel- lently covers the broad aspects of the question. The Canadian delegation to the United Nations subscribed to that resolution, and I would remind you that the Polish delegation to the United Nations also subscribed to that agreement. The Canadian delegation to Unesco adopts the same attitude as the Canadian delegation to the United Nations on this, the same, question. In short, we feel we have all the covers we need. Of course, we should not throw any covers away in this weather, but on the other hand I do not think we should pile any more on, unless the object is to suffocate some of our members. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, I was in the Chair when the Sub-Committee considered this matter, and therefore I was unable to express an opinion. I want to draw the attention of the Conference to what I read outin reporting what the Sub-Committee suggested to this Conference. «The Conference accepted the French resolution, as amended in paragraph 2,..., and that all other resolutions on this subject be considered withdrawn. Therefore, the proposal from the Uni- ted States delegation, supported by the Canadian delegation, is quite in line with the opinion of the majority of members who voted on this at the meet- ing, and I do suggest from the United Kingdom delegation that all support be givento the proposal which has just been put forward and seconded. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : I am sorry to disagree with the honourable delegate of the United Kingdom. As a matter of fact, the Chair suggested, at the meeting of the Sub-Committee, that the French resolution be considered first and separately; and it was not until later that three different amendments appeared, followed now by a suggestion that all further resolutions on this subject should be with- drawn. The recommendations of the Sub-Committee were subscribed to under protest by the Polish delegation, and that is mentioned in the Report, though it has been to some extent distorted. As far as the United States delegation’s amendment is concerned, I do not think we can consider it as an amendment. This is further proof that we are witnessing the total rejection of a Polish resolution. I do not think that, in any debate, an amendment such as that suggested by the United States delegation could be considered as an amendment. It amounts simply to killing the resolution. We are opposed to that killing. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Do any other delegates wish to speak? As there may be some doubt regarding the order of vote — whether we should vote first on the Polish delegation’s resolution which the Polish delegation wishes to be voted without amendment, as a resolu- tion distinct from the proposal of the United States delegation — I ask you, gentlemen, whether you wish to vote first on the Polish delegation's proposal contained in document 2C/BUR/2 or the United States proposal. Will those who wish to vote first — 149 —      on the Polish proposal please raise their hands. As the proposal to vote first on the Polish resolu= tion has not obtained a majority, we will vote on the United States proposal. (The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted infavour : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark, Domi- nican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Greece, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. Voted against : Czechoslovakia, Poland. Absent : Ecuador, Haiti, Liberia, Luxemburg, Norway, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkey.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The result of the vote is as follows : by 25 votes to 2, with 9 absences, the United States proposal is adop- ted in the following terms : Whereas the General Conference of Unesco has adopted unanimously the resolution initiated by the French delegation appealing to educationalists, scholars, artists, writers and journalists throughout the world to combat, by every means in their power, surrender to fear and every form of thought or action which may threaten a just and lasting peace; And whereas the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted unanimously a resolution on 3 November 1947, requesting the government of each Memberto take appropriate steps within its constitutional limits to promote by all means of publicity and propaganda available to them friendly rela- tions among nations based upon the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, and to encourage the dissemination of information designed to give expression to the undoubted desire of all peoples for peace; Therefore the General Conference sees no need to consider further resolutions on this subject. (2) M. E. FERENCZI (Hungary) : Although my country has ratified the Unesco Constitution, we are still, for formal reasons, without a vote. I wish to have it put on record that the attitude of Hungary, as a Member of Unesco, is similar to that of Poland. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : The word «scien- tists» should be added to the new proposal. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does the meeting wish the word «scientists» to be added to the United States proposal, as suggested by the delegate of Egypt? Approved. We will now go on to the next item on the agenda : Reports by Member States. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : Mr. President, I believe that the vote on the United States resolu- tion does not preclude a vote on the Polish reso- lution. ——]—— Resolution X.3 ; vol. II, page 63. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The United States proposal contains a clause which excludes consideration of further resolutions on this subject. We therefore thought it unnecessary to take a formal vote on the Polish proposal. If the Conference wishes a formal vote to be taken on that proposal, and as the delegate of Poland seems to wish it, we will now vote. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Are we voting on the Polish resolution as amended? — for it has been amended. Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : Mr. President, | think that if there is an amendment, there need be no discussion on the proposal. I also think that if we vote on the resolution, we shall be contradicting ourselves. The last words of the United States resolution read : «... the General Conference sees no need to consider further resolutions on this subject.» Fromthe formal point of view; therefore, there is no need to vote again. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) : We do not insist on further consideration of our resolution. Nevertheless, I believe that, in view of the course the proceedings have taken, it would be in the interests of the good name of Unesco that a vote should be taken on our resolution without further discussion. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, surely the formality now is that you put the Polish resolution as amended — because it has been amended — as a substantive motion. That is the only thing you can do, if I may suggest it with all respect. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Following the procedure suggested by Mr. Hardman, we will now take a vote on the Polish proposal as amended. The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted infavour : Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Greece, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, Dominican Repu- blic, United Kingdom, Union of South Africa, United States of America, Venezuela. Voted against : Czechoslovakia, Poland. Abstained : India, Uruguay. Absent : Ecuador, Haiti, Liberia, Luxemburg, Norway, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkey.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The result of the vote is as follows : by 23 votes in favour and 2 against, with 9 countries absent and
2 abstentions, the Polish proposal as amended by the United States delegation is approved. — 150 —
26. Reports of Member States. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We will now take the Reports of Member States, I think it would be inconvenient for us to deal with each report here. I therefore suggest that if you have any remarks to make with regard to any par- ticular report, you should communicate them to the Secretariat. If any delegates wish to speak with regard to these reports, they are of course at liberty to do so. If nobody wishes to speak, the reports will remainin the hands of delegations for perusal and for any subsequent remarks that may be deemed opportune.
27. Discussion of a Resolution by the dele- gation of the United Kingdom concerning the Organization of Future Sassions of General Conference. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We now havebefore us a resolution from the United Kingdom — document 2C/116 of 26 November. I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. President and fellow delegates, I rather hope, thoughI may be wrong, that the matter we are now going to consider may be one which we cantreat in a unanimous and rather more cheerful spirit. We have now had two General Conferences of Unesco, and the United Kingdom delegation feels that, before this Conference breaks up, it would be valuable if we took counsel together on the lessons which we can learn from this Conference and from the one in Paris last year, and if we could agree on some advice to be put before the Executive Board to guide them when they come to suggest the or- ganization of our next Conference. The United Kingdom would like to make it quite plain that, in putting forward what is suggested in paper 2C/116, they have not got in mindto criticize the way in which this Conference, and the one in Paris, have been conducted, but to put forward some suggestions for the still better ordering ot the Con- ference next year. The first two resolutions — 1 and 2 — really deal with the same subject, and the purpose of those two resolutions is this. We, all of us, agree on the great importance of increasing the interest of our own people, as well as governments, in the work of Unesco. We all want the National Commissions and Co operating Bodies to feel increasingly that they are a part of Unesco and that it is their business to think creatively and take some initiative in the matter of what Uneseo should do next; and we feel, there- fore, that it would be wise if the Executive Board invited Member States to submit proposals in good time for matters which they think should be con- sidered by the next General Conference, and more particularly for matters which they think should find a place in the programme of Unesco’s work. That is why in Resolution 1 we suggest : That Member States be invited to submit proposals in time for consideration by the Executive Board and for incor- poration in the proposed programme of the activities of Unesco in the following year. I should makeit plain that, in making these sugges- tions, we recognize that the Executive Board has, under our Constitution, the responsibility for decid- ing what the agenda of the Conference shall be and making proposals for the programme of work for the following year. Therefore, the word «incorpora- tion» might perhaps better be modified by the inelu- sion before 1t of the word «possible» — «possible incorporation» — because we do not for a moment suggest that the Executive Board should be bound to include every proposal put forward by every Member State. Itis the Executive Board's business to consider the proposals that come forward. sort them out, combine them, and, if necessary, exclude certain of them. We do, however, think that the Executive Board might well include — in, perhaps, an annex to the programme which they put before the Conference — a list of any proposals that have been submitted which the Board does not suggest should be included in the programme. That will make it possible for the Conference to disagree with the Executive Board and agree with the Member State who made a proposal which may be in the annex but not in the proposed programme. The second suggestion is that the proposed pro- gramme as drawn up by the Executive Board be circulated to Member States, if possible, in sufficient time before the opening of the session of the Confe- rence to enable the States, after consultirg their National Commissions and Co-operating Bodies, to submit in advance of the session any amendments or new proposals that they regard as desirable. We put in the words «if possible» because we realize the very great difficulties that will face the Executive Board and the Secretariat next year, and we think it may not be possible in practice for the proposed programme to come into the hands of all Member States in time for these steps to be taken; but we think that, in principle, we should, aim at giving the Member States not only an invita- tion to make suggestions, in the first instance, but an opportunity to make additional suggestions or amendments, in the second. — 151 —    Those are the first two resolutions before you. The third is on a different aspect of our work, and on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation I would like here to pay tribute to the incredible exertions of those members of the Secretariat who have been serving the Budget Sub-Commission of the Programme and Budget Commission. I do not know how commonly it is known how many hours of night and day those few members of the Secre- tariat who are skilled in this matter have had to spend over the last week in putting forward and working out the figures required by the Budget Sub- Commission to enable that Sub-Commission to make its report to us in the Programme and Budget Commission. Now we, in the United Kingdom, who would like to pay this tribute to that work, do not think it should be necessary next year. We feel that if this third resolution is passed, it will mean that preparations will be made before the next Conference which will enable the Confe- rence, when it assembles, to have beforeit estimates which will, as it were, put price tags on the various parts of the programme. Naturally a great deal of work will be done in the course of the Conference — revising and making new estimates — but if we start with an estimated expenditure relating to the pon put before the Conference, we shall e able, I think, to do our work more efficiently and also without asking such inordinate exertions from our friends in the Secretariat. The third motion is : That in the proposed programme circulated to Member States there be shown the estimated expenditure which each item, if approved by the General Conference, would entail, The last motion, No. 4, is designed to meet one of the great difficulties which have confronted us here and which, I am afraid, will always confront us in future Conferences. We cannot hope to escape ital- together. How can we so organize our work that the smaller delegations, in particular, are not placed in the intolerable position of being expected to be in three or four places at the same time? The simul- taneous meetings which have been necessary at this Conference and, I am afraid, will, to some extent, always be necessary, we think should be as few as possible. We believe it is not beyond the ingenuity of the Executive Board to devise a programme which will enable discussion to take place, not only in the full Programme Commission, but in Sub-Commis- sions of the Programme Commission, over a not too prolonged period of the Conference, but so spaced that the smaller delegations will be able to play a full part not onlyin the plenary meetings but in the meetings of the Sub-Commissions also. Before I sit down, Mr. President, I should just like to add this : in these resolutions we have de- liberately used the word «programme» because we believe that, in fact, Unesco will always have to have a working programme, for the following year. By that, however, we do not mean to imply that at the next Conference, or succeeding Conferences, the discussion of the programme will have to take the same drastic, all-embracing, comprehensive form which it has taken at this Conference and at the last Conference. We hope very much that next year, and in the years after, we shall be moving into a position where there is a continuing pro- gramme of Unesco. At each Conference we shall then be able to discuss particular items in the pro- gramme — new items or old items — so that the agenda for the Conference will not look, in after years, quite as it does to-day. Nevertheless we do hope that the wording of these resolutions will not be misunderstood from that point of view, and we think it might be useful for these resolutions to be discussed, and no doubt amended. We feel that some advice of this sort might well be agreed on before we leave Mexico City, so that the Executive Board may be able to fulfil its responsi- bilities in the coming year and present to next year’s Conference a still better programme and a still better organization of work than has been presented to us here. M. Marcel FLORKIN (Belgium) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, I very strongly support the proposal submitted by the United Kingdom; but I wonder whether we should not specify, in the first part of this resolution, a definite date by which Member States should present their propo- sals. The Executive Board has already drawn up a time-table of its future activities — in draft form as yet — which provides that the Executive Board shall consider the draft programme to be submit- ted to the next Conference. Would the United Kingdom have any objection to making the matter a little clearer by saying that the proposals should be submitted before the month of May, or by May at latest? This would not preclude, m exceptional cases, the consideration of proposals which arrived later. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) : Mr. Chairman, I would like to second the United Kingdom proposal. It has been circulated, we have all read it, and I think it speaks for itself, without argument. I would, however, like to make one small suggestion, and that is — if the delegate of the United Kingdom would be prepared to agree to it — that for the next Conference we ask the Executive Board to make every endeavour to provide two or three rooms, at any rate, with simultaneous interpretation. — 152 —    Dr. ABBAS AMMAR (Egypt) : The Egyptian delegation supports the United Kingdom proposal. We would like, however, to make two very simple suggestions which we hope will be acceptable. First of all, that the Commissions and Working Parties should be reduced somewhat, to enable the smaller delegations to participate in them all. We have felt that here has been some overlapping between the different Working Parties and Com- missions, and we should like the Executive Board to consider this. If it is possible to arrange something, we should appreciate it very much. We are having great diffi- culty in attending the different Sub-Commissions, not only because of simultaneous meetings, but also because the meetings are so numerous that we cannot really fit them in. Our second suggestion is also a wish, a desire, for consideration by the Executive Board. We think that it might be advantageous for Unesco, in making its programme, not to make a programme for one year only. We want a sort of long-range plan, so that the annual programme can be studied in the light of this long-range programme. It is very difficult for us to come here every year simply to consider a programme for one year (which usually amounts to eight, nine or ten months), without knowing exactly what is going to happen the follow- ing year. It would be preferable if we had a long- range programme, within which we could make our annual programme. Mr. President, this year we have been discussing matters ofpriority and urgency, and we do not really know how they would fit in with a long-range programme. We therefore sub- mit this suggestion for the consideration of the Executive Board, who will perhaps be able to give us an opinion on it at our next meeting. Professor P. RIVET (France) (Translation from the French) : The French delegationis in full agreement with the British proposal. I would also like to ask, as another delegate has done, whether it would be possible to have simultaneous interpretation in the various Commissions and Committees. This would greatly reduce the length of time taken up by the speeches. I do not know whether it is technically practicable, but it would be a conside- rable step forward if the Commissions and Commit- tees could enjoy the advantages which the plenary meetings of the General Conference have enjoyed up to now. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We have before us two proposed amendments to the draft resolutions submitted by the United Kingdom. In the first,it is suggested that a definite date should be fixed for the presentation of pro- posals by Member States, and the second is the South African proposal regarding simultaneous interpretation. The rest are recommendations to the Executive Board and the Secretariat. I will therefore ask the delegate of the United Kingdom whether the two proposed amendments are accept- able to, him or whether he will give us his opinion on them. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Presi- dent, the United Kingdom delegation is very much encouraged to find that there is support for these general suggestions, and we find ourselves in agree- ment with all the proposals that have been made by other delegations. We would rather not include any words in reso- lution 1 which actually mentioned the month of the year, because we think that the Executive Board had better decide what, in relation to its own meetings and its own plans for formulating the programme, is the latest date by which it must ask Member States to submit their proposals. The date would, among other things, depend on the precise date of the Conference. We know that this will be about twelve months from now, but we cannot be certain of the date. If, therefore, my friend the delegate of Belgium has no objection, I would prefer not to include any words suggesting a month. In the light of this discussion, however, the Executive Board will (if there are any members present) take note that it will have to fix a definite date. In resolution 1, I want to make it plain that I wish the word «possible» included before the word «incorporation» in the third line of the English text. I did mention that in my own opening remarks. Then,as regards the rules for simultaneous inter- preation, I think we are all entirely agreed that there is nothing that will help our deliberations more than the provision of this system ofinterpre- tation, on at least the same magnificent scale as we have had it in this room — thanks to the Mexican Government in other rooms where we have meet- ings. Perhaps we could add an additional reso- lution, No. 5, which might read as follows : The Executive Board is asked to ensure so far as possible that a simultaneous interpretation system is provided for meetings of Commissions and Sub-Commissions. ; If that would satisfy those who made the sugges- tion, I would like to add it, Mr. President, as reso- lution No. 5. Then, as regards the very valuable suggestion made by the delegate of Egypt, I had in my mind, though I did not mention it in my opening remarks, that we should have a programme for more than one — 153 —    year. I do not myself think we can cover that idea m wordsin these resolutions; but again it is a point which I am sure the members of the Executive Board will bear in mind in preparing the programme for next year and successive years. We should all of us, I know, welcome the chance of being able to look further than the end of the calendar year. If T may, Mr. President, I would therefore like to move the five resolutions as amended. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) : May I, Sir, venture fo make another suggestion? We have found, during the present Conference, that the work of Commissions and Sub-Commissions has often been held up by the work in the different Working Parties; to that extent the work of the latter has, in my opinion, unnecessarily prolonged the work of the Conference. There is also another aspect of this which concerns those delegations that are not very strong in numbers. The smaller dele- gations have found it extremely difficult to cope with the work of the various Commissions, Sub- Commissions, Committees, Sub-Committees and Working Parties. I would therefore suggest for your consideration that we should consider the possibility of holding meetings of Working Parties immediately before the General Conference. What I have in mind is that the Executive Board should be authorized to convene, whenever it thinks it necessary for a parti- cular item of the proposed programme, a Working Party to meet at the same place as the General Con- ference and immediately before the General Confe- rence. Thus, on the one hand, countries which cannot afford large delegations will be able to take part in the work of the Working Parties as well as in that of the General Conference, and on the other hand, the conclusions of the Working Parties will be ready when the General Conference opens. The work of the Conference may perhaps be expe- dited in this way. However, I do not wish to put this forward as a proposal that would be in any way binding. I there- fore suggest, if the delegate of the United Kingdom agrees, that we should add another clause to the effect that the Executive Board should explore the possibility of convening meetings of Working Par- ties, whenever necessary, immediately before the General Conference. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Presi- dent, I think we have all been interested to hear the suggestion made by the delegate of India. I, personally, would prefer not to incorporate any words to that particular effect, for the following reason 1 think the Executive Board is bound to consider very seriously whether Working Parties, as we have known them at this Conference, should be a feature of the next Conference. My own feeling is that the Board may, at any rate, want to change the description of these Working Parties and the arrangements for their work. That involves the whole question of the type of programme which it will put before the General Conference. I am quite sure that those of us who are here will see that our other colleagues on the Executive Board do, in fact, note that this suggestion has been made. (Indeed, in some of our discussions, a similar suggestion has already come up and been explored to some extent). If my friend from India would not mind, I should prefer not to add any words to my motion. If he felt that he wished to move an amendment, I think I should abstain from voting on it, simply because I do not want to imply that Working Parties are a normal part of our annual Conferences. Mr. ASHFAQUE HUSAIN (India) : Mr. President’ I am afraid I must havefailed to make myself clearly understood. Ta the first place, I tried to explain that I do not wish to put this suggestion of mine in such a way that it would, in any sense, be binding. I left it open for further consideration by the Execu- tive Board. Secondly, I did not suggest that there should always be Working Parties. The wording, if I may repeat, was : «That the Executive Board should explore the possibility of convening meetings of Working Parties where necessary » — not «always » but «where necessary» — «immediately before the General Conference». The point, Sir, that I tried to make, not very clearly, I regret to find, was that if it should be necessary to have Working Parties or any other bodies, called by whatever name, doing the same kind of work (that is to say a group of specialists working on certain aspects of the programme), then such meetings should, if possible, be convened immediately before the Conference. I formally move, Sir, that this point be added to the resolution. "The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does anyone second the delegate if India’s propo- sal? Itis seconded by the delegate of Denmark. Does anyone wish to speak? Is it your opinion that we should proceed to vote on the proposals, taking into accountthe various modifications, without taking a vote by roll-call? As regards draft resolution No. 1, the word «possible», is to be inserted, as suggested by the delegate of the United Kingdom, before the word «incorporation». With that modification, we sub- mit it for your consideration. Will any delegate — 154 —     who does not agree please raise his hand? The resolution is adopted. 3) Resolution No. 2, I understand, has not been amended, and we will vote on it as it appears in the text. If any delegate is opposed to this resolu- tion, will he please raise his hand. Unanimously adopted. (3) Resolution No. 3 has not been modified. Will any delegate who is opposed to this resolution please raise his hand? Unanimously adopted. 6) Likewise, if any delegate opposes resolution No. 4, will he please raise his hand? Unanimously adop- (ед. ®) With regard to resolution No. 5, the delegate of the United Kingdom has suggested a recommen- dation which I ask him to communicate to the Secretariat. This refers to simultaneous inter- pretation, not only in the General Conference hall, but in the rooms where Commissions and Sub- Commissions are to meet. We are voting now on the question of arrangements for simultaneous interpretation, and you all know the text which has been read to us by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Are any’ delegates opposed to this resolution? Unanimously adopted®®). Finally, there is the formal proposal by the dele- gate of India, which would be No. 6. “According to this, the Executive Board should consider conve- ning meetings of Working Parties, when necessary, before the opening of the General Conference. This proposal is now under consideration. If you think it has been amply discussed, and if no one wishes to speak on it, we will take a vote. Will anyone who opposes resolution No. 6 please raise his hand? Unanimously adopted. Our last item for this morning should be the Report of the Committee on Procedure. As, however, I understand that this committee has not yet completed its work, we will not deal with this subject at the present meeting. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 1.20 р. т.
6) Resolution X.2 ; vol. II, page 62. FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 1 December 1947, at 11 a. m.   CONTENTS
28. Discussion of Amendment to Article IV, paragraph 10 of the Constitution Page, of Unesco, proposed by the delegation of the United States of America. 155 President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico)
28. Discussion of Amendment to Article IV, paragraph 40, of the Constitution of Unesco, proposed by the delegation of the United States of America. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We will proceed with the draft amendmentto Article IV, paragraph 10, of the Constitution, presented by the United States Government. I call upon the delegate of the United States o America. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) The United States, in line with the provisions of the Constitution, has proposed an amendment to the Constitution which is set forth in the document you have before you (2C/34). 1 shall read it as a simple — 155 —