TENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 19 November 1947, at 6 p. m. CONTENTS
21."Election of Seven Members of the Executive Board President : Sr, Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico).
21. Election of seven members of the Execu- tive Board. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : This meeting of the Conference will deal with Item 13 of the Agenda :the election of seven mem- bers of the Executive Board. I shall ask the Secre- tariat to read Rules 58 B, 68, 69, 70 and 71 of the Rules of Procedure. The rules were then read, as follows : Rules 58 B. The Nominations Committee shall submit to the General Conference nominations for the posts of officers of the Confe- rence and for seats on the Executive Board, except as pro- vided for in Article V, A, 4, of the Constitution. In recom- ménding nominations, the Committee shall have regard to the principles laid down in Article V, A, 2, of the Consti- tution. Rule 68. Each year during its regular session the General Conference shall elect by secret ballot and at a private meeting six mem- bers of the Executive Board for a term of three years, in confor- mity with the provisions of Article V, paragraph A, sub- paragraph 2, of the Constitution establishing the Organi- zation, The General Conference shall follow the procedure set forth in Rules 54, 55, 56, 57 and 58 B above. Rule 69. On the expiration of their first term of office, the retiring members of the Executive Board are eligible for immediate re-election for a second term of office of three years. On the expiration of the second term of office they are not eligible for immediate re-election. Rule 70. The term of office of each membershall begin immediately on his election and shall end on the day of the election of a member for the subsequent term. Rule 71. In the event of the death or resignation of a member of the Executive Board, the General Conference, in the course of its next session, shall appoint a substitute for the remainder of the term. This shall be done in accordance with the provisions of sub- paragraphs 2 and 4 of paragraph A of Article V of the Consti- tution. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I think it would be convenient for the information of delegates if we had read to us Rules 54, 55, 56 and 57, which are mentioned in the Rules already read out. These rules were then read, as follows : Rule 54. In addition to the provisions for the use of a secret ballot set forth elsewhere in these Rules, all other elections and decisionsrelating to individuals shall be taekn by secret ballot whenever five or more Members of the General Conference shall so request or if the President so decides. Rule 55. To be elected, each candidate must obtain in the first ballot a clear majority of the votes cast. In the second ballot, a plurality is sufficient.” If in the second ballot the votes are equally divided, the President shall decide between them by drawing lots. Rule 56. When a certain number of elective places are to be filled at one time under the same conditions, those persons obtai- ning in the first ballot the majority of the votes cast, shall be elected. A second vote shall be taken, to fill the remaining places, and the candidates who obtain pluralities shall be elected. Rules 57. If a vote is equally divided, in ballots other than those provided for in Rules 55 and 56, a second vote shall be taken in the course of the next meeting. This meeting shall be held within 48 hours after the first vote and the taking of the second vote shall appear on its agenda. Unless at this meeting there is a majority in favour of the proposal, it shall be considered as lost. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Before calling upon the Chairman of the Nomina- tions Committee, I wish to speak to the Confe- rence on its position. The meeting, as you see, is a private one — it is a closed meeting. Never- theless, we have here present some newspaper-men and members of the general public, and they have expressed their wish that there should be no secret — 119 —
8a.    ballot and that the meeting should be held publicly. Likewise some of the honourable delegates have expressed their opinion in favour of this. Never- theless, I ask this meeting to take a decision on this point. Does the Conference wish to continue the present meeting in public, or shall it be held in private? Mr. William BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, I move that Rule 68, calling for a private meeting, be suspended and that the meet- ing be public. This question seems to me to be different from the question of a secret ballot, on which a separate decision may be taken. I move that this be a public rather than a private meeting, and that Rule 68 be suspended. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegate of the United States proposes that we have a public meeting, but he does not exclude a secret ballot. Does any delegate wish to second the motion? The delegate of Mexico seconds the United States proposal. It is supported by the delegates of the Dominican Republic, the United Kingdom and Brazil. We will take a vote on this question. If anybody is opposed to a public meeting, I ask him to raise his hand. As a result of our unanimous vote, this meeting will be public. I beg the Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee to be good enough to present his report. Mr. S. D. PIERCE (Canada) : Mr. President, I have the honour to report that, as instructed by the General Conference, the Nominations Committee met on 17 and 18 November to consider nomina- tions for the seats on the Executive Board to be filled at the present Session. The Committee submits to the General Conference the following nominations : (a) To replace the Hon. Archibald MacLeish of the United States of America for the remainder of his term, Dr. George Stoddard of the United States of America.
(6) To fill the seats of the six members whose term of office expires to-day : Dr. Encarnacion Alzona (Philippines); Dr. Stanislaw Arnold (Poland); Dr. Chen Yuan (Chin; Dr. Martinez Baez (Mexico); Sir John Maud (United Kingdom); Dr. E. Ronald Walker (Australia). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : You have heard, gentlemen, the proposals submitted by the Nominations Committee. Is there any proposal which differs from these nominations? The delegate of the Dominican Republic wishes to speake Sr. R. E. JIMENEZ (Dominican Republic) (Trans- lation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, gentlemen, the delegation of the Dominican Republic proposes to the General Conference that Dr. Benjamin Carrion of Ecuador be nominated for membership of the Executive Board. This will give not only a more ample representation to Latin-America on the Board but also a fairer proportion in view of the great number of Latin-American countries here represented. With regard to the delegate suggested, his election would be eminently suitable. He possesses out- standing qualifications as an expert on jurisprudence and international law, a university professor and an eminent diplomat, whose work in these diverse branches of human knowledge has been very highly praised. His great experience makes him repre- sentative of the authentic values of Americanculture and has won for him the Medal of Honour of Ecua- dor and the Aztec Eagle of Mexico. His election would give great satisfaction to the Latin-American world, and my delegation hopes thatall the delegates will vote in favour of this distinguished citizen of Ecuador. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Does any delegation second the proposal for Dr. Carrion’s nomination put forward by the Dominican Republic? Colombia seconds the proposal. The delegate of France will speak. M. Jacques MARITAIN (France) (Translation from the French) : Mr. President, on behalf of the French delegation, I have pleasure in seconding this proposal. I would also recall that, in accor- dance with the provisions of the Unesco Consti- tution, we should be guided principally in our choice by the personal qualities of the candidate we wish to see elected to the Executive Board, and also by the cultural importance of the region from which the candidate comes. We cannot but recog- nize Dr. Carrion’s outstanding merits in the edu- cational and scientific fields, and we must also take into consideration the great cultural impor- tance of South America, to which Ecuador belongs. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) I call upon the delegate of the Lebanon. M. Joseph ABOUKATER (Lebanon) (Translation from the French) : Whatever may be the result of the vote which we are about to take, it seems to me that the public discussion of a candidature is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. The vote should be taken by secret ballot. — 120 —    The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : It was necessary to hold a public discussion before taking a vote. Now that Dr. Carrion’s candidature is seconded, we will proceed to vote, but I will first ask if any other candidate is proposed. Since there are no other candidatures and no delegation has asked to speak, we will vote on the proposal put forward by the Nominations Committee as amended by the Dominican Republic’s sugges- tion for Dr. Carrion’s candidature. The delegate of the United Kingdom wishes to speak. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre- sident, I wish to support the remarks made by the delegate of the Lebanon. We are holding a plenary meeting in public, and particulars have been given concerning one candidature to be added to the list. If we are to take a vote, which seems to be the case, the candidates whose names appear on the list submitted by the Nominations Committee should also receive individual support. It also seems to me extraordinary that a candidate who was, in fact, one of many whose qualifications were submitted to the Nominations Committee, should be marked out from thelist already discussed by that Committee and supported in a plenary meeting which is about to take a vote. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : If no one else wishes to speak, I will give an ex- planation. Independently of the Nominations Com- mittee, delegates to the Confrence are free to pro- pose any candidates they please. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will therefore pro- ceed to vote on the proposals submitted by the Nominations Committee and the Dominican Re- public. There will be two tellers to count the votes. I ask the delegates of Cuba and Denmark to fulfil this duty. Will they please come up to the plat- form? Delegates have among their documents the neces- sary voting papers. Please write down only the seven names that you choose. With the addition of Dr. Carrion, there are eight candidates, with only seven seats to be filled. I therefore ask you to write only seven names, for the seven vacant seats. Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) May I ask a question with regard to the voting? Are weto take a separate vote on points (a) and (4)? Also, do we vote for the actual number that we want, as long as this is not more than seven, or must we vote for all seven? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The vote for he first seat, for which Dr. George Stoddard is nominated, should be taken separately. The names put forward are to be voted on alto- gether, without exceeding the number seven. Dele- gates may of course vote for fewer than seven, but not for more. In fact, they cannot vote for more than six. M. J. DROHOJOWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the French) : Would you be good enough to explain, Mr. President, whether the separate vote for Dr. Stoddard should be made on a separate paper? The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The Secretariat informs me that two votes are to be taken. A second voting paper will therefore be distributed, and delegates are to use one for the vote on Dr. Stoddard’s nomination and the other for the remaining six members. The delegate of the United Kingdom wishes to speak. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : Mr. President, may I ask for an explanation? Some of us have already written seven names, in accordance with your instructions, on our first voting paper. This means that, on my paper, Dr. Stoddard’s name will have to be crossed out. I suppose that this will now have to be written on a separate paper and that the paper containing Dr. Stoddard’s name crossed out will not be invalidated. It must be made quite clear to the plenary meeting of the Conference that, if a name is crossed out in accordance with your instructions, the voting paper is not thereby invali- dated. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : As has already been stated, a second voting paper will be distributed, and I think that the honourable delegate’s explanation should be borne in mind. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : May I there- fore ask for a further explanation? I understand that we are to vote first for Dr. Stoddard. If this vote is to be taken separately, and if there is no other candidature, is there in fact any need to vote? The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the Spanish) : As the Secretariat has distributed a second voting paper, I think we must comply with the formality of voting first for a substitute for Mr. MacLeish,since, in this case, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, the vote must be by secret ballot. Unless it is your wish that this procedure should be changed, we must take a separate vote for this seat. Imme- diately afterwards we will vote for the other seats. If, however, the Conference wishes the vote for Mr. MacLeish’s seat to be taken publicly, there is no objection to this course. — 121 —      Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) : May I suggest the name of Dr. Stoddard for this first seat! No other name has been proposed. May I therefore have the pleasure of proposing Dr. Stoddard as a member of the Executive Board? I hope that we need thus spend no more time on this procedure. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The delegate of the United Kingdom has expressed the feeling of the whole meeting. I therefore propose that the seat vacated by Mr. MacLeish should be ocupied by Dr. Stoddard. I do not think it is necessary in this case to take a nominal vote. Will any delegates who object to this proposal please raise their hands? No objection. Dr. Stoddard is therefore unanimously elected. We will now vote for the remaining six seats. Will delegates please write on their voting papers the names which they choose? The names of delegations will then be called out so that they may place their papers in the ballot box. The vote took place by secret ballot. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : The result of the vote is as follows, in order of the number of votes obtained : Sir John Ma», 26 votes; Dr. Chen Yuan, 26 votes; Dr. Martinez Barz, 25 votes; Dr. Stanislas Arvorn, 25 votes; Dr. E. Ronald Wacker, 19 votes; Dr. Benjamin Carrion, 17 votes. As there are 28 delegations here present, 15 votes are required for a majority. The persons whose names have just been read are therefore elected members of the Executive Board. The delegate of the United States of America wishes to speak. Mr. BENTON (United States of America) : On behalf of the United States delegation, I would like to extend a hearty welcome to the distinguished scholars, Dr. Carrion and Dr. Arnold, who have now joined the Executive Board of Unesco. I think, however, that we should at the same time convey to the distinguished delegate of the Philippines,
0) Resolution VI; vol. IL page 7. who was not elected by the Conference, an expres- sion of our deep admiration and respect for the work she has done for her country, where she has given a striking example of the part that can be played by womenin the Far East. I hope that the day is not far distant when not only one woman, but several women, will occupy seats on the Executive Board. Unesco has millions of partisans among the women of the United States of America, and it certainly seems hard,in view of the interest taken by women all over the world in this organization, that we cannotelect one, two, or even three women to sit on the Executive Board. On behalf of the men and women of my country I deeply regret this state of affairs, and on behalf of my delegation I pay tribute to you, Madame, bothas a distinguished scholar and as one who has rendered remarkable services to her country. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of Ecuador. Sr. Puig AROSEMENA (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, on behalf of my delegation, I wish to thank this meeting for having elected the Ecuadorean scholar, Dr. Carrion. The latter is now doing excellent work as Chairman of the Casa de la Cultura in Quito, and is a man who has full trust in the success of Unesco. On his behalf and on that of my delegation, I can assure you that Dr. Carrion will carry out his work for Unesco with enthusiasm and will be present at all the meetings of the Executive Board. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : I call upon the delegate of the Philippines. Sr. M. BAMBOA (Philippines) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates, on behalf of the Philippine delegation, 1 wish to express my deep gratitude to the delegate of the United States of America for his generous remarks concerning us. I would also like to thank those delegates who voted for Dr. Alzona. We bow to the majority decision that has just been taken and wish Unesco continued success. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : As we have come to the end of our agenda, and no one else wishesto speak, I declare the meeting closed. The meeting rose at 7.15 р. т. — 122 —