That the Director-General is instructed to examine without delay the question ofthe daily living allowance and to con- sider the possibility of replacing this allowance by a system ofallowances, taking into account the specialfacilities indicated in paragraph 7, which will ensure a2 more equitable compensa- tion for those variable and special costs of living that are not taken into account in fixing salaries and which are necessary to ensure for the staff an adequate standard of living. Paragraph (6) was unanimously approved. In the discussion of Paragraph (7), Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that all efforts to take the steps indicated in (a), (b) and (c) had been blocked because the Administration lacked the necessary authority for appropriation of capital for these purposes. He submitted a resolution stating that the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion should suggest to the Budget Sub-Commission that a portion of the working capital be advanced for these purposes, subject to the approval of the Executive Board. Paragraph (7), incorporating the Australian proposal, was unanimously approved. Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that the Budget Sub-Commission was pressed for time and wished the Commission to approve a resolution based on paragraph (3) of the previous Australian resolu- tion, which would read as follows: In view of the problems involved in recruitment, training and management of the staff, the Commission recommends to the Budget Sub-Commission that the budget to be approved by the General Conference should not provide for any consi- derable expansion, over the next twelve months, in the total number of positions in the Secretariat as at the present date. His motion was seconded by the delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. The Australian motion was unanimously approved. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. SIXTEENTH MEETING Monday, 24 November 1947, at 11 a. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN. Lib-=Wu (China). Item 6 of the Agenda : Organization Questions (continuation). The GHAIRMAN announced that the General Committee had decided that the principle and admini- stration of grants-in-aid would be discussed in the Administrative and External Relations Commis- sion, while the nature of grants-in-aid would be discussed by the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) stressed the complexity of the problem presented by the organization of the Secretariat ; it could not be solved by piecemeal reso- lutions passed by the General Conference on matters such assalary, living conditions,scale of contributions relations with the specialized agencies, however important these matters might be in themselves. He deplored the small attendance at the meetings of the Commission; the absence of so many delegates detracted from the weight of the criticisms made and resolutions passed by the Commission. It was essential that the Organization be considered as a whole and that precise plans for a permanent Secre- tariat be drawn up. Co-ordination was urgently needed. He suggested that the technical heads of the main sections should be assisted by adminis- trative advisers, who would act as liaison between the sections and the central administration and relieve the heads of sections of much administrative work. Manyof the criticisms levelled against the Secretariat arose from this lack of co-ordination; there was much overlapping; there was repetition in the abundance of documents circulated, and their classification required systematization. Referring to the proposal of the delegate of Australia that a small sub-com- mittee of the Executive Board be formed to assist the Director-General in administrative and financial matters, he proposed a sub-committee of three experts in administration. The terms of the resolu- tion he submitted were as follows : The Administrative and External Relations Commission Considering that the administrative organization of the Secre- tariat depends on many factors of varied character, impossible to co-ordinate in the short time at the disposal of, and in the atmosphereof, the General Conference, Considering that these factors have in many respects a special technical character which the Conference is unable to take into consideration when appointing the members of the Executive Board, Considering that the year of experience already obtained and the year of experience to be gained in 1948 will enable the creation of an organization in a permanent and final form, Consideringthat the rules of procedure relating to quorums are not effective enough to obtain them, - 587 -      Resolves to recommend to the Second General Conference of Unesco the adaption of the following resolutions:
1. That the Executive Board appoint as soon as possible a Committee of three specialists in administration, who will be responsible for the two major systems of centralization and administrative autonomy, in order to prepare, with the assistance of the Secretariat, a plan of rationalization of all the internal and external services of the Secretariat, which plan should be submitted, if possible, with the Budget for
1949 to the Third General Conference.
2. That the Executive Board should study the desirability of presenting to the Third General Conference the amendments necessary to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, in order that the Commissions and Committees of the Confe- rence may not be subject to the provisions of Rules 38 and
62 with regard to the quorum. He explained that the second part of the proposal was intended to produce a permanent procedure to apply equally to all Commissions and Committees of the Conference. The SECRETARY, replying to two further ques- tions raised by the delegate of Uruguay, said that the projet on the treatment of Member States which ad not paid their contributions had been referred to the Drafting Committee and that the final text would be submitted to the Commission; the ques- tion of the creation of places for alternates on the Executive Board had been referred by the General Committee to the Procedure Committee. The CHAIRMAN ruled that the second part of the Uruguayan proposal should be referred to the General Committee, together with a letter also from the delegate of Uruguay, dated 14 November 1947, recommending that no question be discussed by any part of the General Conference until the relevant documents were translated into the working lan- guages. He noted that the English text of this resolution should read : « ... at least the permanent working languages». Dr. RODRIGUEZ (Cuba) seconded the proposal of the delegate of Uruguay. Dr. WALKER (Australia) said that the Executive Board had already adopted a proposal and included in its Rules of Procedure the terms of reference of an Advisory Panel on Finance and Administration, details of which were given in Appendix II of docu- ment 2C/103. These Rules were subject to the decision of the Conference and would take effect if no objections were made at the Conference. He thought it wiser, therefore, to avoid suggesting additional committees on administrative matters and laying down subjects for consideration by them. Referring to the Norwegian proposal to appoint experts in organization and efficiency for the purpose of streamlining the staff and organization of Unesco, and reducing the cost of administration, he pointed out that these matters formed part of the responsi- bility of the Director-General. Finally the Proce- dure Committee was reviewing the Rules of Proce- dure of the Conference and the Executive Board would consider any other necessary amendment when preparing the work of the next General Confe- rence. Dr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) said that, while he had realized that the Executive Board had been consi- dering the creation of a committee on administration, he had not seen document 2C/103. Since the esta- blishment of a Panel of Experts had been approved, he agreed not to press his resolution, provided that the two tendencies of centralized administration and autonomy for these sections were represented on the Panel and that it paid special attention to rationalizing the work of the Secretariat. Dr. WALKER (Australia) agreed that the problem of the balance between centralized control and the autonomy of the sections was exceedingly important and worthy of careful consideration. ; The SECRETARY announced that the Secretariat of the Executive Board had been asked to circulate document 2G/103, which would be handed to delegates immediately. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) observed that there was only one Secretariat and not several. He asked that this remark be recorded. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL, in a state- ment on the organization of the Secretariat, said that the Director-General was aware of the shortcomings of the Organization. Like the Programme, the Organization had evolved under great pressure. Sections had had to be added in order to deal with urgent work before the organizational implications could be considered. At present too many staffs were competing for the time of the Directors and there were too many small units whose functions were not sufficiently distinct. A plan for regrouping had already been prepared which would remedy these faults. It would be modified slightly as a result of the decisions on the Programme adopted by the Conference, and put into effect as soon as possible. The aim would be to improve efficiency, reduce overhead costs and increase autonomy as far as possible. Somecentralized control would have to be maintained, since the Director-General was solely responsible for the administration of the whole organization. The SECRETARY announced that the delegate of Brazil had asked that the following proposal be submitted to the Commission : The Administrative and External Relations Commission recommends that, in the organization of the Secretariat, the administrative officers shall perform their function of super- — 588 —    vision and co-ordination without prejudice to the necessary initiative and independence of the technical sectionsin charge of the educational, scientific and cultural programme of Unesco. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) considered the con- demnation of the administration contained in this proposal too crude to be acceptable. Dr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) noted that the organization of the Secretariat was the responsibility of the Director-General and not of the General Conference. He wished, however, to have some detailed information on the structure of the Secretariat and accordingly, moved the following resolution : The Administrative and {External Relations Commission. Resolves : That the General Conference instructs the Director-General to issue as soon as possible a statement of the basic premises upon which the organization of the Secretariat is established, and to make available for public distribution a clear description of the organizational structure established to carry out the Programme approved by this General Conference. It is understood that this will in no way restrict the flexibility of the organization, or prevent the Administration from modifying the organizational structure asj programme needs require. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) recalled that much time had already been spent in discussion of the size, character and remuneration of the Secre- tariat. He thought the Deputy Director-General had made a sufficiently comprehensive statement and he submitted a resolution summarizing the points made by the Deputy Director-General. He thought this proposal would in no way conflict with that put forward by the delegate of the United States of America and a combined text might be agreed. The Administrative and External Relations Commission, having heard a preliminary statement by the Deputy Director- General concerning a possible re-arrangement of the structure of the Secretariat, and after considering the question of the size, character, remuneration and structure of the Secretariat, and having already passed resolutions concerning its size, character and remuneration, proposes the following resolution to the General Conference, concerning the organization of the Secretariat. The General Conference assembled at its Second Session, recognizing that the responsibility for the efficient organi- zation and operation of the Secretariat rests with the Director- General, resolves : That as soon as the Programme for 1948 has been adopted by the General Conference at its Second Session, the Director- General should re-organize and re-group, as soon as possible, the Secretariat in the form most suited to carry out the Pro- gramme, and that he should report to the Executive Board on the action taken to implement this resolution. Discussion of these two resolutions was adjourned until the following meeting. The meeting rose at 1.35 р. т. ISEVENTEENTH MEETING Monday, 24 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Dr. HAN Lih-Wu(China). Item 6 of the Agenda : Organization Questions (continuation). The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and said that the delegations of the United Kingdom and the United States of America had agreed to submit the following resolution : The General Conference, assembled at its Second Session, recognizing that responsibility for the efficient organization and operation of the Secretariat rests with the Director- General, resolves :
1. That, as soon as the Programme has been adopted by the General Conference, at its Second Session, the Director- General shall make, as soon as possible, the necessary adjust- ment in the structure of the Secretariat to carry out that Programme. “9. That the Director-General issue as soon as possible a statement of the basic premises upon which the organization of the Secretariat is being established, and make available for public distribution a clear description of the organization structure established to carry out the Programme approved by this General Conference.‘
3. That this resolution shall in no way restrict ‘the flexi- bility nor prevent the modification of the organizational structure as programme needs require.
4. That the Director-General shall report to the Executive Board on the action taken to implement this resolution. Prof. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded this reso- lution. Mr. CHRISTENSEN (Norway) asked for a discus- sion of the resolution. Its first paragraph appeared to him superfluous. It was obvious that the Director- General would have to take the necessary steps to carry out the programme. As regards paragraph 2, Mr. Christensen said that he would prefer it to be — 689 —