who does not agree please raise his hand? The resolution is adopted. 3) Resolution No. 2, I understand, has not been amended, and we will vote on it as it appears in the text. If any delegate is opposed to this resolu- tion, will he please raise his hand. Unanimously adopted. (3) Resolution No. 3 has not been modified. Will any delegate who is opposed to this resolution please raise his hand? Unanimously adopted. 6) Likewise, if any delegate opposes resolution No. 4, will he please raise his hand? Unanimously adop- (ед. ®) With regard to resolution No. 5, the delegate of the United Kingdom has suggested a recommen- dation which I ask him to communicate to the Secretariat. This refers to simultaneous inter- pretation, not only in the General Conference hall, but in the rooms where Commissions and Sub- Commissions are to meet. We are voting now on the question of arrangements for simultaneous interpretation, and you all know the text which has been read to us by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Are any’ delegates opposed to this resolution? Unanimously adopted®®). Finally, there is the formal proposal by the dele- gate of India, which would be No. 6. “According to this, the Executive Board should consider conve- ning meetings of Working Parties, when necessary, before the opening of the General Conference. This proposal is now under consideration. If you think it has been amply discussed, and if no one wishes to speak on it, we will take a vote. Will anyone who opposes resolution No. 6 please raise his hand? Unanimously adopted. Our last item for this morning should be the Report of the Committee on Procedure. As, however, I understand that this committee has not yet completed its work, we will not deal with this subject at the present meeting. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 1.20 р. т.
6) Resolution X.2 ; vol. II, page 62. FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 1 December 1947, at 11 a. m.   CONTENTS
28. Discussion of Amendment to Article IV, paragraph 10 of the Constitution Page, of Unesco, proposed by the delegation of the United States of America. 155 President : Sr. Manuel GUAL VIDAL (Mexico)
28. Discussion of Amendment to Article IV, paragraph 40, of the Constitution of Unesco, proposed by the delegation of the United States of America. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : We will proceed with the draft amendmentto Article IV, paragraph 10, of the Constitution, presented by the United States Government. I call upon the delegate of the United States o America. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) The United States, in line with the provisions of the Constitution, has proposed an amendment to the Constitution which is set forth in the document you have before you (2C/34). 1 shall read it as a simple — 155 —       amendment and I do not suppose there will be very much cause for disagreement on it. I therefore propose and move the adoption of the following : The General Conference, considering that, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the Government of the United States of America has proposed that Article IV, paragraph 10, of the Constitution be amended; Considering that, in accordance with Article XIII, para- graph 1, the text of the proposed amendment was commu- nicated by the Director-General to the Governments of Member States on 29 April 1947; «Decides that Article IV, paragraph 10, of the Constitution be amended as follows : The General Conference shall adopt its own rules of procedure. It shall at each session elect a President and other Officers. Mr. President, you will find the explanation set forth in a letter on the reverse side of this document — a letter to Dr. Huxley signed by Arthur A. Comp- ton. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : Do any other delegates wish to speak on the point we are discussing? The proposal has been supported by the delegate of Greece. If no delegate wishes to speak, we will pass to the vote. I think we can take the vote by acclamation. The motion was adopted by acclamation), The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : For the next item on the agenda, the General Com- mittee has agreed that the delegate of China shall make a statement to the meeting. I call upon the delegate of China. Dr. HAN Lih-Wu (China) : It was with a real sense of regret that we received the announcementof the election of the members of the Executive Board, at the plenary meeting on 19 November, and heard that Dr. Alzona was not elected a member of the Board as nominated by the Nominations Committee. It will be recalled that China, and myself as the () Resolution X.A ; vol. Il, page 63. head of the Chinese delegation, had the pleasure of suggesting her nameto the Nominations Committee, which by a majority of votes decided to recommend her as a candidate. The Philippines, as a young nation coming here to make a contribution to interna- tional understanding and co-operation, would have been glad, we are sure, if Dr. Alzona had been called up on to carry out the duties she wasso well equipped to perform. We therefore admire and commend the spirit in which the Philippines delegation accepted the decision ofthe plenary Conference. We wish, however, to take this opportunity to express our sincere hope that at a date not too far distant we shall have more adequate representation of the countries of the Far East on the Executive Board, and that we shall have the participation of women in the high counsels of Unesco. Mr. W. BENTON (United States of America) : Mr. President, may I say that the United States Government and the United States delegation wish to associate themselves with the Chinese Govern- ment’s statement, as presented by the Chinese dele- gate, for the record of this Conference. a Prof. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Transla- tion from the French) : Mr. President, the delegation of Brazil has listened with great sympathy to the observations of the delegate of China. We would be very happy to see among us in a permanent capacity a representative of the Philippines, not only because of what the Philippines represent as a magnificent blend of Hispanicculture with a native andindividual culture developed by a country whose sufferings have moved the whole world; but also as signilying an ever closer link with the Far East, which we would like to see occupying a more pro- minent place in Unesco. Dr. J. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish) : Mr. President, the delegation of Uruguay associates itself with the views expressed by the delegate of China. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish) : As there is no further business to deal with now, the meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 11.50 a. m. — 156 —