FIRST PLENARY MEETING ® Thursday, 6 November 1947 ai 3. 30 p. m CONTENTS.
1. Opening of the Second Session of the General Conference
2. Appointment of Credentials Committee, Nominations Committee and Procedure Committee.............A Aaa. ‎را President : M. Jacques MARITAIN (France).
1. Opening of the Session by the Head of the French Delegation. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) In addressing you to-day, gentlemen, I should like to begin by referring to two remarks made by President Léon Blumin his address of 1 November
1945, at the Conference which established Unesco. At that time, M. Blum called to mind that at San Francisco, in June of 1944, the French delegation had caused a motionto be adopted, the first clause of which provided that «peace among nations, to be just and enduring, must be based upon mutual un- derstanding and knowledge »; and he added : « What we all desire, — not only those here present but also those whose temporary absence we regret — is to make our contribution — as may be read in the first sentence of the preliminary draft of the Confe- rence of Allied Ministers — to international security and peace, as well as to the well-being of the peoples of the world.» He also said, in connexion with the request by the French delegation that Paris be made the headquarters of the Preparatory Commission : « We beg you notto interpret our request as implying that France lays claim to any intellectual and spiritual prerogative. France's qualifications are more an- cient thanthose of other nations, they are not more glorious. If we possess any advantage, it derives, on the one hand, from the fact that French culture has always been distinguished by a tendency towards universality; that there is in France an age-old tradition of generosity, of liberal thought, which accord with the spirit of the future organization; and, on the other hand, because all branches, all forms of human civilization — science, general culture, literature, the arts, technology (in so far as it borders on art) have always developed side by side and in close and reciprocal communion. » Those wordsappear to me to define exactly the contribution which may be expected from the () At an Inaugural Meeting held in the Palacio de Bellas Artes, Mexico City cn 6 November 1947 at 11 a. m., speeches were made by H. E. Manuel Guar Vivar, Minister of Public Education of Mexico, H, E. Jacques Marita, Head of the French Delegation and H. E. Miguel Areman, President of the United States of Mexico. Note. — Thereferences, contained in the footnotes, to Resolutions by number are to the final form of these Resolutions which appear in volume II, «Resolutions adopted by the General Conference during its Second Session». = 99    French spirit, in participating in the common work of an_organization in which all cultures and civiliza- tions, animated by the spirit inherent in each — whether it springs from the Latin or English- speaking world, from the eastern or far-eastern world — must play their part, and in which patient experimentation and the search for enlightening principles must supplement one another. They are also of great value to the philosopher, bound by his vocation to examine all things in their universal aspects, and to endeavour to sift the principles of synthesis from facts; and this gives me courage to call to your attention certain general problems which, to me, seem of vital importance. Y We meet at an extremely grave moment in world history, a moment when, confronted by international tension and growing antagonisms, the dangers of which it would be vain to belittle, vast sections of public opinion are running the risk of allowing themselves to be obsessed by the spectre of catas- trophe and of surrendering to the belief that war is inevitable. The anguish of the peoples breaks all bounds. In this world, crushed beneath the burden of post-war distresses and under the leaden weight of rival economic, political and ideological interests, shall not those consecrated to work of the mind, those who feel the responsibility of such a mission, give voice to the primitive instinct for preservation, tothe immense longing for peace and liberty, and to repudiation of misery and death, which, despite a strange passivity more akin to despair than to strength of soul, stir the hidden depths of men’s minds? Shall they not proclaim that resignation to disaster is the worst of all follies, that fear and its reflexes, when yielded to, attract the very dangers most dreaded, that the more dramatic the situation of the peoples, and the greater the clarity of vision demanded of statesmen, the more vigorously must the idea of the inevitability of war be denounced as a fatal surrender of human intelligence and dignity? Shall they not, if only for the honour of our species andthe goodofthe future, call upon the conscience of man, which must be awakened, and upon which,above all else, depends the battle against collective suicide, and on behalf of the real establishment of peace? I am well aware that such declarations lie neither within the competence of Unesco nor of this Confe- rence. At least, let me say that the present circum- stances remind us drastically that the mission of Unesco is to make an effective contribution (as Presi- dent Léon Blum reminded us in the address from which I have quoted) to international security and peace; and that (as was stressed by Mr. MacLeish at the second session of the Executive Board) the Orga- nization was not created to look after the theoretical progress of education, science and culture, but to — 28 make use of it in implementing the concrete and positive work of bringing about peace among the nations. I want to emphasize this practical goal of our Orga- nization and at the same time to analyse its implica- tions. v Before coming to what is Unesco's proper work, I shall take the liberty of making a few remarks concerning problems which the practical goal I have just mentioned inevitably evokes, and which affect the personal conscience of each ‘one of us. For it is not merely through ideas, nor merely through facts and figures, but by a spiritual effort to throw light upon basic difficulties, and by coming to decisions relating thereto, decisions which result only from the personal meditation of each individual, that we can achieve, both in the world and in human con- sciousness, that preliminary work which conditions and prepares for peace. The first questions which present themselves to one who seriously meditates upon the conditions of a just and enduring peace, are obviously those sum- moned up by the idea of a supra-national organization of the peoples. No one is ignorant of the obstacles which to-day, even more than immediately following the victory, rise up to impede the realization of such an idea. At this hour, a truly supra-national world organization is beyond the realm of possibility. A philosopher would fail in his duty were he not to add that this task, to-day impossible, is nevertheless a necessity; and that, withoutit, the creation of a just and enduring peace cannot be conceived. Hence it follows that the first duty incumbent upon the men of to-day is that they work with all their might to Takepossible that which is thus revealed as a neces- sity. If you speak to specialists on international law of the ideas set forth by Mr. Emery Reeves in his Anatomy of Peace, if you tell them that the establishment of a state of permanent peace assumes abandonment of absolute national sovereignty, and that relations between nations be ordered, not by treaties, but by law, they will reply that these ideas are not new to them; they have known all that for a long time. And what they know also, is that in the present structure of the world, as history has formed it, and precisely because it is founded on the absolute sovereignty of States, all paths through which States and govern- ments, even if they so desired, must pass to achieve such a transformation, are blocked by insuperable obstacles. What are we to conclude except that this transformation, should it come about some day, will be attained along different paths? I allude to an impetus arising [rom the voluntary effort of the human mind and the will of the peoples; an impetus so vast and so potent, that it will imposeitself upon |       states and governments, even upon those least disposed to give free rein to spontaneous movements of opinion. If there exists any effort towards creative transformation, in support of which men of goodwill may call upon the peoples of the earth, even should it become entangled with irrational currents, as is usual in such instances, it is pre- cisely this effort to establish a supra-national com- munity, founded on law and directed, within the scope of its well-defined powers, by men whose functions endow them with a citizenship in itself supra-national. Is the world capable of such an effort as I have described ? What crises will still be needed to convince it of this necessity? All that we can say without undue optimismis that a few premonitory signs are visible. It is not without significance that in the United States, two years ago, a committee of intellectuals and educators was formed under the authority of the President of the University of Chica- go, Dr. Robert Hutchins, «to frame a World Consti- tution». This committee takes its inspiration from the initiatives launched by The Federalist at the time ofthe struggle to establish the Constitution of the United States of America, and it has, since last June, issued a monthly publication Common Cause. It is not without significance — and it is a privilege for me to have the honour of here calling it to mind — that one of the paragraphs of the Preamble to the Constitution of the Fourth French Republic is drafted in the following terms : «On condition of reciprocity, France consents to limitations of sov- ereignty necessary to the organization and defence of peace.» With your permission I would like to dwell for a moment on a statement, commonplace indeed, but which, it seems to me, demands the ittention of every one of us : namely, that in human history the spirit always lags behind material advancement and events. It is all too clear to-day that the spirit hasfailed in a numberof essential tasks which the world expected of it, and that man runs the risk of paying dearly for their non-fulfilment. Ourintellectual atmosphere will remain poisoned as long as several crucial problems are not clearly stated, and as long as, in the field of thoughtatleast, no solution of these problemsis suggested to man- kind. Among these problems I shall cite three, each of a very different nature. The first is the problem of Machiavellism and Realpolitik. The rehabilitation of the post-war world urgently required,if not, alas, in the conduct of governments,at least in the conscience of peoples and in their common intelligence, a clear under- standing that the maxim, according to which politics are not concerned with good and evil, is a suicidal error; that Machiavellism, although it may achieve immediate success in the long run, of itself leads to ruin; that absolute Machiavellism inevitably destroys a moderate Machiavellism; and that the principle and the virtue of Machiavellism, absolute or moderate, can be conquered only by the principle and the virtue of genuine political justice, in a spiritual atmosphere in whichit is possible for heroic will- power to assert itself. The second problem is the problem of the collec- tive moral transgression of which a nation can be guilty, and of the collective moral recovery to which it can attain. For speculative thought, as well as for practical judgement, there is no problemthat is more difficult or more perilous. But this is no reason for evading it. Since the crimes against humanity committed by Nazi Germany, this problem concerns all of us vitally : it is not good for humanity to remainin perplexity about it. It is doubtless true that no nation is entirely guiltless, that in the distant origins of historical conflicts, each one of us has some grounds for self- accusation, but that is not the point. Nor is it to the point that the errors committed by a govern- ment and by its leaders entail historical sanctions against the nation, which it must accept, not only as inevitable, but as justified. The question involves the people's recognition or lack of recognition of the evil by which it has allowed itself to be contami- nated, and of which the members of a community — even those who remained personally immune, even those who personally fought againstit — recognize or do not recognize that this community is guilty. It is not good for a nation to humiliate itself before others. And it is not good for a nation to become hardened by pride. There is a way of beating the breast and accepting humiliation which destroys the dignity of a nation. And there is a way of refusing to beat the breast by deceiving one’s conscience and by nourishing hatred, which destroys that dignity no less. But is there no way out of this dilemma? Is there no way ofacknowledg- ing painfully and with moral strength the sins ofthe community to which one belongs, and of desiring, at all cost, that this community atone for them and free itself of them, which, for a people determined to rehabilitate itself morally,is a testimony to and a safeguard of its dignity? After wanting to enslave the world, and after trusting in a Fuehrer of destruc- tion acting in the name of national interest above all other considerations, the German people sustained an unprecedented defeat; to-day that people is suffering grievously, and it is our duty as men to have compassion on them in their sufferings. But the worst tragedy would be if such suffering should prove vain, and failed to awaken in them consciousness of their responsibilities and at the same time abhorrence of m0...      the crimes committed and the will to render worthy service to the human community in a purified moral atmosphere. It is the duty of the nations of the world to help the Germans combat despair. It is the duty of these who are concerned with their spiritual rehabilitation, notably those people who, in Germany itself, are in charge of moral andreligious interests, also, and above all,to telt the Germansthe truth, not in order to humiliate or to crush them, but te give them what they can rightfully expect in their unfortunate state, and what is the primary condition of their moral renaissance. More than ever it is appropriate to mention here the para- mountcy of the spirit. If, in the depths of the German repentance and hope, active repentance and honest hope are not awakened at one and the same time, the German problem will continue to threaten calamity to the German nation itself and to the peace of the world. The third problem, the urgency of which is apparent to the conscience of each of us, is the problem of human values and of the use by men of science and technical knowledge. The coming of the atomic age has suddenly revealed to the world the terrible nature of this problem. Man no longer believes that science and technical knowledge alone ensure progress and happiness for his race. Instead, he is filled with terror at the sight of the destruction and the catastrophes which science and technical knowledge can cause. Men of science are ques- tioning themselves, and it is with deep respect and in an attempt to perceive the scope of the drama involved, that we should consider the anguish of a scientist of genius like Albert Einstein. It is not enough to call the attention of peoples to the catastrophes of the end of the world, which discoveries in modern physics may leadto if another armed conflict should oecur. Fear is not enough to make us wise. Nor is it sufficient to tell the peoples of the world that these very discoveries, if used for purposes of peace, ean open unprecedented vistas of prosperity and freedom for the human race. A possibility is not enough to create happiness. What
1s required of human intelligence is that it recognize that we have entered a crucial age in our history, an age in which, under pain of death, the tremendous sourees of power secured by scientific mastery of matter must be made subjeet to reason by overcoming the irrational temptations to which man is prone, especially in his collective existence. What is also required is to understand that there is an inner hierarchy and a vital connexion between the virtues of the human soul, and that science has its rightful domain, means, but that the domain of ends is subject to something which is not science, which is not commensurable with science, and which is called wisdom; and that neither peace nor liberty nor dignity will be assured to us in the world of to morrow until, within the structures of civilization and the consciousness of mankind — and of scientists them- selves — science and wisdom are reconciled and the applications of science strictly subjected to moral law and to the true purposes of human life. There was a time when we expectedscience to solve or do away with the problems of ethies, metaphysics and religion, and when we counted on scientists some day to set up a spiritual authority which would lead huma- nity toward the green pastures of necessary progress. To-day we have to defend science against those who, after asking of it more than it can give, accuse it equally unreasonably of having failed. On the other hand, we see men of science involved in serious internal conflict over the question of the relationship between their conscience as men and the possible use of their work as scientists; I might even say that we see them in danger of being treated by the governments as a simple industrial element made particularly valuable because of its production in the field of discovery. Thus it is the very dignity of science and of the scientist which is at stake, and it is to maintain and save this dignity, as well as to direct the applications of science for the well- being of the world, and not for its destruction, that mankind needs a powerful renewal of the disciplines of wisdom, a re-integration of ethical, metaphysical and religious truths in culture, and that reconcili- ation of science and wisdom of which I spoke a few moments ago. Y I have been speaking of certain problems which concern us all because they relate to some of the spiritual and cultural conditions for the construction of the peace towards which it is Unesco's aim to contribute. My last remarks will bear upon another problem referring to Unesco's work proper and to the kind of agreement amidst diversity which it assumes. At first sight there is something paradoxical about Unesco’s task, sinee it implies intellectual agreement between men whose views of the world, of culture and even of knowledge are different and even opposed. We must, I think, look this paradox in the face : it is but an expression of the serious malaise prevailing in the intellectual world of our time. Modern thought has been likened, not without reason, to a Tower of Babel. Never, indeed, were minds so profoundly, so sorely divided. As human thought becomes broken up into more and more specialized departments, it becomes more difficult to apprehend the implicit philosophies by which every one of us is influenced willy-nilly. Doctrines and mystical beliefs, mental traditions and schools US   thought conflict, without its being even possible for one of them to understand what the others are trying to express; the voice of each is mere sound to its fellow-travellers on the road. Dig as we may, there are no common foundations for speculative thought; it has no longer any common tongue. In these circumstances, how can we imagine an agreement of minds between men who are gathered together precisely in order to accomplish a common intellectual task, men who come from the four corners of the globe and who not only belong to different cultures and civilizations, but are of antagonistic spiritual associations and schools of thought? Is an organism like Unesco to give in and abandon any declaration of common ideas and common principles, and to content itself with compiling documents and surveys, factual data and statistics? Or should it, on the contrary, attempt to establish an artificial conformity of minds and to fix upon a common doc- trinal denominator which would be likely, in the course of discussion, to diminish and finally disappear altogether? The solution, I think, must be sought in another direction. Because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the goal of Unesco is a practical goal, agreement betwen minds can be reached spontane- ously, not on the basis of common speculative ideas, but on common practical ideas, not on the affirma- tion of one and the same conception of the world, of man and of knowledge, but upon the affirmation of a single body of beliefs for guidance in action. No doubt, this is little enough, butit is the last resort of intellectual agreement. It is, nevertheless, enough to enable a great task to be undertaken, and it would be much to crystallize this body of common practical convictions. I should like to note here that the word «ideology » and the word «principles» can be interpreted in two very different senses. I have shown that the presentstate of division among minds does not permit of agreement on a common speculative ideology, nor on common explicit principles. But, on the other hand, when we are concerned with a basic practical ideology and basic principles of action impli- citly recognized to-day, in a live, even if not formu- lated state, by the consciousness of free peoples, we find that they constitute grosso modo a sort of common denominator, a sort of unwritten common law, at the point where in practice the most widely separated theoretical ideologies and mental tradi- tions converge. To understand this, it is only necessary to make the appropriate distinction between the rational justifications involvedin the spiritual dynamism of a philosophic doctrine or religious faith, and the practical conclusions which, althoughjustified in different ways by different per- sons, are principles of action with a common ground of similarity for everyone. I am quite certam that my way of Justifying belief in the rights of man and the ideal of liberty, equality and fraternity is the only way with a firm foundation in truth. This does not prevent me from being in agreement on these practical convictions with people who are certain that their way of justifying them, entirely different from mine or opposed to mine,in its theoretical dynamism, is equally the only way founded upon truth. If both believed in the democratic charter, a Christian and a rationalist would still give mutually incompa- tible justifications for their belief, if their hearts and minds and blood were involved, and they would fight each other for them. And God forbid that I should say it does not matter to know which of the two is right! It matters essentially. The fact remains that, on the practical expression of this charter, they are in agreement and can formulate together common principles of action. In my opinion, it is in this way that the paradox to which I drew attention just nowis to be resolved. The ideological agreement necessary between those who are working to make science, culture and edu- cation contribute to the establishment of a real peace, is confined to a certain corpus of practical points and principles of action. But within these limits there is, and there must be, an ideological agreement, which, for all its practical nature, is none the less of capital importance. Each commits himself fully, with all his philosophic and religious convictions, in the justification he proposes for this body of practical principles, — and how could he speak sincerely except in the light of the speculative convictions which inspire his whole thought? But he could not insist that others should accept his justi- fication of the practical principles on which they ail agree. And the practical prineiples in question are a sort of charter which is indispensable to effective common action, and which it is most important to define, for the good and the success of the work of pacification to which their common endeavours are devoted. For this reason we must stress the vital importance — although restricted to the practical field — of the common ideology to which Unesco has appealed ever since its foundation, and, in particular, of the Statement of principle in which it declared, in the Preamble drafted at the London Conference, «that the great and terrible war which has now ended was a war made possible by the denial of the democratie principles of the dignity, equality and mutual respect of men, and by the propagation, in their place, through ignorance and prejudice, of the doctrine of the inequality of men and races»; and «that the wide diffusion of culture and the education of = за —   I M I humanity for justice and liberty and peace, are indis- pensable to the dignity ofman and constitute a sacred duty which all the nations must fulfil in a spirit of mutual assistance and concern». That is why I consider that one of the major tasks undertaken by the United Nations is the new declaration of human rights, to the drafting of which Unesco is contribu- ting. More generally speaking, if it is true not only that the final goal of Unesco is a practical goal, but also that upon this practical goal depend both the har- mony of the minds composing it, and the effective- ness ofits action, does it not seem that, by concentra- ting primarily upon a restricted number of achieve- ments of wide scope, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is most likely to carry out the difficult task assigned to it and to fulfil the expectations of the world? This recommendation has already been expressed by France's represen- tatives at previous meetings. I should like to add another recommendation : that the social sciences should be no less an object of our interest than the natural sciences. Is it not clear that the knowledge of man and the deve- lopment of a new humanism are the most important factors in science and culture for the establishment of lasting peace? Knowledge of manis far more dif- ficult and much less advanced than that of the physical world and, therefore, requires all the more to be promoted and encouraged. In this connexion, we are surprised to see that, up to the present, not only has the amountallocated for administrative expenses in Unesco’s budget been considerably in excess of that set aside for creative activities, but that, even within the latter category, the proportion devoted to the social sciences — to that body of knowledge which President Roosevelt so aptly called the science of human relations — has been so much less than that devoted to the sciences concerned with material nature. I should also like to add that to make education, science and culture serve the interests of peace is not to separate the organization of scientific work from work on behalf of peace (by which I mean devo- ting one’s activities, on the one hand, to theoretical, and so far as possible exhaustive, analysis and plan- ning, and on the other, confining practical work for peace to a mere effort to disseminate the ideals of Unesco and to employ mass information methods), butis rather to organize scientific work itself, like cultural and educational work, on a rational basis, as part of the work for peace which is to be en- couraged. Unesco must organize itself, from the beginning, for this practical object, so that by as- sisting science in its search for truth, by promoting international co-operation between scientists, and by appealing to scientists to devote themselves to enlightening the mind of the community, it may succeed in interesting the world of science and cul- ture, and the nations themselves, in the work for peace which the Organization is carrying out. In any case, what I have tried to bring out in the latter part of these remarks is the practical goal of the task for which we are met together, and the necessity for this task to be based on practical convic- tions and motivating principles common to us all. The final object of Unesco's work is to contribute to world peace, international security and the per- manent advantage of the nations through education, science and culture. We all know that there is no peace without justice. We all know that, as the Preamble to which I referred just now says, «since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed». And we all know that, if peace is to be prepared in the thoughts of men and in the minds of the nations, it can only be done if those minds come to a profound conviction of principles such as the following : that a good policy is first and foremost a just policy; that every nation must endeav- er to understand the psychology, development and traditions, the material and spiritual needs, the per- sonal dignity and historic vocation of other peoples, because each nation must keep in mind not only its own interests, but the common good of the family of nations; that this awakening of mutual understanding and of the consciousness of the civilized community, though it requires a sort of spiritual revolution, in view, alas, of the age-old habits of human history, is a necessity for public welfare in a world which henceforth is one for life or death, though remaining tragically divided as regards political interests and passions; that to place national interests above all is the surest way of losing all; that a community of free men is inconceivable without the recognition by it that truth is the expression of what is right and just and not of what, at a given moment, is most advantageous to a group of men; that it is not possible to put an innocent man to death because he has become a useless and costly burden to the nation or because he obstructs the activities of a particular group; that a human being has a dignity on which the good of the community is founded and which, in its own interests, it must respect, and that as a human being, as a civic being, as a social or working being, he has fundamental rights and fundamental duties; that the common weal must take precedence over individual interests, that the working world is entitled to undergo the social changes demanded by thefact that it has come of age historically, and that the masses are entitled to their share of the benefits of culture and of the intellect; that freedom of BY — —   conscience is inviolable; that men of different creeds and different spiritual associations must recognize mutually their rights as fellow-citizens in the civilized community; that, for the common good, it is the duty of the State to respect religious liberty and freedom of research; that because of the essential equality of men,racial, class or caste prejudices and racial discrimination are an affront to human nature and to personal dignity and are a crucial threat to peace. If a state of peace worthy of the name, firm and lasting, is one day to be established among the peoples, it will not be dependent only upon the poli- tical, economic and financial agreements made by diplomats and statesmen; it will not be dependent only upon the legal creation ofa truly supra-national co-ordinating body with efficient implements for action. It will be dependent also upon the genuine support accorded in the conscience of men to prac- tical, fundamental beliefs such as those I have just mentioned. Tt will depend, too, to state the matter clearly, on that «accession of soul», of which Bergson said that our world, extended as it is by technical development, stands in need, and on an overwhelm- ing outpouring of that free and sovereign energy which comes to us from above and which, to whatever school of thought, to whatever religious confession we belong, we recognize by the name of brotherly love, and which was expressed in such a way in the Gospelthat it has stirred the conscience of mankind for ever. Y
2. Appointment of Committees. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) : We now come to the appointment of the proce- dural committees and, in the first place, of the Cre- dentials Committee. In accordance with Rule 17 of the Rules of Procedure, I have the honour to propose that this Committee shall consist of representatives of the following countries : China, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Haiti, Mexico, Philippines, Turkey, the Union of South Africa and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It will meet as soon as possible and it is hoped that it will makeits report at the beginning of the next plenary meeting at 11 a.m. on Friday. We come next to the establishment of the Nomif nations Committee in conformity with Rule 58 A o- the Rules of Procedure. This Committee consists of heads of delegations which have the right to vote. They may designate another member to assist them. The Nominations Committee will meet as soon as possible and will report to the plenary meeting tomor- row, Friday, at 11 a. m., and will submit candidates for the offices of president and vice-presidents of the Conference and the Commissions. Finally, the Procedure Committee will meet as soon as possible and the heads of delegations are requested to designate a member of their delegation to work on that committee. The Procedure Com- mittee will also report to the Second Plenary Meeting tomorrow. () The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : I have one or two announcements to make. First of all, a request which we had last year and which met with general agreement; that is, that in view of the very heavy programme, both of work and of entertainment, before the Conference, national delegations should limit the number of receptions or other enter- tainments given by them to a minimum. Last year we went so far as to request delegations not to give large receptions. We do not wish in any way to infringe on the desires of any delegation to give a party, but merely to mention that it will be very difficult for members of this Conference to attend a great many more entertainments and receptions than are already laid down in the very generous enter- tainment programme provided for us largely by the Mexican Government. The second point is that heads of delegations who wish to speak in the general discussion and plenary meetings should give their name and the approxi- mate hour when they wish to speak and, if possible, a résumé of their remarks, to the Secretary in Room No. 5. The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the French) : The meeting is closed and the Committees will meet at once. The meeting rose at 4.25. p. m.