Nations, not Members of Unesco, the following could be added either to paragraph 11 or after para- graph 10 : (a) Rule 47 (a) : Observers of the United Nations may speak in all Commissions to discuss items on the agenda of interest to them, but they have notthe right to vote possessed by delegates who haveratified the Constitution, (b) Rule 47 (b) : Observers of Member States of the United Nations which are not Members of Unesco, may be asked by the Chairman to make verbal or written statements on items on the Agenda: of the Commission or Committee of interest to them; but they have no right to vote. The delegate of FRANCE pointed out that it would be more logical for observers to be given the right to speak, and not to be invited to speak by the Chairman, who had no means of knowing whether or not they intended to do so. The delegate of {the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA stressed the desirability of representatives of specialized agencies being able to take part in the discussions of the Working Parties on the same terms as delegates and without prior authority. Finally, the following agreement was reached : in certain cases observers have the same right as delegates to speak without prior authority; but, as a rule, they should seek such authority from the Chairman. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA indicated his assent. The Rules of Procedure were unanimously adopted for the following two days as was the amendment proposed by the Secretariat defining the rights of United Nations observers. The delegate of FRANCE asked the Secretariat to see to the drafting of Rules 20 and 60 so as to avoid all contradiction. The meeting rose at 5.30 p. m. SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 12. November 1947, at 10 a, m. Charman : Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom). The CHAIRMAN proposed that, the previous meeting having been cancelled for lack of a quorum, this question should be settled in accordance with Rule 38 of Section X of the Rules of Procedure, and he suggested setting up a sub-committee of five or seven members, who would meet to examine the Rules in detail and then submit a report to the Plenary Meeting on 24 November at 10 a. m. The delegate of INDIA suggested a way of settling the difficult question of the quorum : he thought that the Chairman was empowered to set up a sub- committee. This sub-committee could then study the amendments to the rules, which should be refer- red to it with a time-limit. He asked whether they could not discuss these questions unofficially that morning; the plenary meeting of the afternoon would then settle the matter. The delegate of BELGIUM pointed out that Rule
61 answered the question raised by the delegate of India : the Chairman proposed the formation of a sub-committee which was appointed by the ‎وسم mittee. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA thought that, even if there was nothing explicitly stated in the Rules,it lay essentially within the power of the Chairman to appoint a sub-com- mittee, but without its being able to take final deci- sions before it had submitted a report to the main Committee. Although the delegates present that morning could not form a quorum, there were enough of them to take a vote. The delegate of GREECE had no objection to the setting up of a Sub-Committee on Procedure, but he objected to the extension of that measure to the Working Parties; the question was already rather a difficult one for a committee like theirs. The CHAIRMAN replied to the delegate of GREEGE that his objection would be examined by the sub- committee, and he informed the delegate of India that there was no article in the Rules authorizing him to set up a sub-committee. It was for the Committee to do that. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA asked the Chairman whether it was in — 624 —       order to create a sub-committee оз five to study all the changes and amendments proposed and to draft a report for submission to the plenary meeting : he added that he was concerned only for the sense of his proposal and not for the terms in which it was expressed. The delegate of INDIA pointed out that the sense of his proposal was this : that the delegates present should express to the Chairman their wish to form a sub-committee and that the Chairman should sub- mit this request in the form of a report to the after- noon meeting of the Conference. The delegate of VENEZUELA observed that he had noticed many mistakes in the official Spanish translation of the Rules and asked for a new and accurate translation from French into Spanish of each of the articles they had been discussing. He thought that the mistakes he had found were due to the hurried and imperfect drafting of Unesco’s Constitution. The CHAIRMAN proposed that they should revert to the question under discussion, namely the vote on the setting up of a sub-committee on Procedure. The proposal was adopted. The CHAIRMAN then suggested that the size of this committee should be increased to seven and suggested that the following countries should be represented : Belgium, Brazil, Cuba, India, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States of America. The delegates of NEW ZEALAND and BRAZIL declined this proposal so far as they were concerned ; it would mean too much work. After a discussion the committee agreed upon the following countries : Belgium, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, India, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela. This proposal was adopted. The CHAIRMAN emphasized that the delegates present that morning would representtheir countries on the Sub-Committee and that the latter should submit its report to the Procedure Committee on
24 November. He thought that they should give the Sub-Committee enough time to do its work properly and announced that amendments should be forwarded to it in writing before 15 November; this should appear in the Journal. Thefirst meeting of the Sub-Committee was fixed for 17 November at
10 a. m. The meeting rose at 11 a. m. THIRD MEETING Saturday, 29 November 1947, at 9.30 a. m. Chairman : Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom). Although there was no quorum, the CHAIRMAN announced that they would proceed with their work and that Dr. Brunauer would present the Report of the Sub-Committee on Procedure. Dr. BRUNAUER (United States of America) (Rapporteur of the Sub-Committee on Procedure) said that she would start with the annex to the report, document 2C/PRO/2. Some of the sections had been rearranged and she would point out the most important changes made by the Sub-Committee in the document « Rules of Procedure for the General Conference ». Section I (Rules 1 to 7). — Sessions. She pointed out that the only important change was in Rule 2, which had already been discussed by the General Conference. She moved the adoption of the Section. Dr. JONES PARRA (Venezuela), although a mem- ber of the Sub-Committee which had gone through the Rules one by one, thought some of them had not been properly studied, and some gaps remained. For example, regular sessions and special sessions needed to be more clearly defined. Rule 2 did not state who was to convene the regular sessions, and Rule 3 said that the Executive Board was to convene special sessions. It must be made clear who should convene regular sessions and who should convene special sessions. Dr. BRUNAUER (Rapporteur) observed that these were editorial suggestions which should be noted but not discussed at present. After the Committee — 85