SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTION AND PROCEDURE FIRST MEETING Thursday, 6 November 1947, at 4 p. m. Chairman : Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) The CHAIRMAN proposed that for the time being they adopt the Rules of Procedure in their present form. They would later proceed to fuller conside- ration of each rule, and amendments could be made. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA suggested that Rules 20 and 60 be amended ; in his view they contradicted each other. At the request of the Chairman, the SECRETARY explained the apparent contradiction as follows : there were two stages to consider :
1 The Nominations Committee suggested the names of the countries (not of the delegates) to fill the offices of Chair- man and Vice-Chairman of the Commissions. Cf. paragraph B of Rule 58.
2. Each body concerned elected its Chairman, Vice-Chair- man and Rapporteur. Cf. Rule 60. Thus there was no contradiction between Rule
20 and 60. Consequently there were no ground for amending Rule 20, but rather for adding th following words to Rule 25. «The General Com mittee shall consist not enly of a Chairman and Vice-Chairman but of the Chairman and Vice-Chair- man of the different Committees composing it. » The delegate of FRANCE suggested the addition of a Rule stating explicitly that the Nominations Committee was responsible for suggesting the names of Chairmen. This was not so stated anywhere and Rule 60 did not make it clear. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA was prepared to accept this amendment. The delegate of FRANCE accordingly desired the Secretariat to add the following Rule — 20 (a) —: »In addition, the Nominations Committee suggests the names of Chairmen to the Commissions. » To avoid a new Rule 20 (a), the delegate of INDIA suggested the following addition : « The General Conference shall elect its President and Vice-Presi- dents and shall submit to the Commissions the names of their Chairmen. » The CHAIRMAN said that the Indian delegate’s suggestion appeared preferable. The question raised was important, but they must for the time being adopt the Rules of Procedure as they stood and then go on to amendments. The delegate of the UNITED. STATES OF AMERICA pointed out that there was nowhere any mention of observers or their rights; he asked the Secretariat for enlightenment on this point. The SECRETARY agreed that in the circumstance an amendment was urgent, and read a draft text which, if adopted, would be submitted to the General Conference the following day; this draft suggested :
1. A re-wording of Rule 6 regarding : (a) the representatives of the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies who, should be notified. (b) Member States of the United Nations, not Members of Unesco, who should be invited by the Director-General to send observers.
2. Revision of the Rule of Procedure defining the status of representatives and observers sent to Ses- sions of the General Conference and its Commissions. Regarding the conduet of business, and with refe- rence,firstly, to representatives of the United Nations and, secondly, to Member States of the United — 698 —      Nations, not Members of Unesco, the following could be added either to paragraph 11 or after para- graph 10 : (a) Rule 47 (a) : Observers of the United Nations may speak in all Commissions to discuss items on the agenda of interest to them, but they have notthe right to vote possessed by delegates who haveratified the Constitution, (b) Rule 47 (b) : Observers of Member States of the United Nations which are not Members of Unesco, may be asked by the Chairman to make verbal or written statements on items on the Agenda: of the Commission or Committee of interest to them; but they have no right to vote. The delegate of FRANCE pointed out that it would be more logical for observers to be given the right to speak, and not to be invited to speak by the Chairman, who had no means of knowing whether or not they intended to do so. The delegate of {the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA stressed the desirability of representatives of specialized agencies being able to take part in the discussions of the Working Parties on the same terms as delegates and without prior authority. Finally, the following agreement was reached : in certain cases observers have the same right as delegates to speak without prior authority; but, as a rule, they should seek such authority from the Chairman. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA indicated his assent. The Rules of Procedure were unanimously adopted for the following two days as was the amendment proposed by the Secretariat defining the rights of United Nations observers. The delegate of FRANCE asked the Secretariat to see to the drafting of Rules 20 and 60 so as to avoid all contradiction. The meeting rose at 5.30 p. m. SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 12. November 1947, at 10 a, m. Charman : Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom). The CHAIRMAN proposed that, the previous meeting having been cancelled for lack of a quorum, this question should be settled in accordance with Rule 38 of Section X of the Rules of Procedure, and he suggested setting up a sub-committee of five or seven members, who would meet to examine the Rules in detail and then submit a report to the Plenary Meeting on 24 November at 10 a. m. The delegate of INDIA suggested a way of settling the difficult question of the quorum : he thought that the Chairman was empowered to set up a sub- committee. This sub-committee could then study the amendments to the rules, which should be refer- red to it with a time-limit. He asked whether they could not discuss these questions unofficially that morning; the plenary meeting of the afternoon would then settle the matter. The delegate of BELGIUM pointed out that Rule
61 answered the question raised by the delegate of India : the Chairman proposed the formation of a sub-committee which was appointed by the ‎وسم mittee. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA thought that, even if there was nothing explicitly stated in the Rules,it lay essentially within the power of the Chairman to appoint a sub-com- mittee, but without its being able to take final deci- sions before it had submitted a report to the main Committee. Although the delegates present that morning could not form a quorum, there were enough of them to take a vote. The delegate of GREECE had no objection to the setting up of a Sub-Committee on Procedure, but he objected to the extension of that measure to the Working Parties; the question was already rather a difficult one for a committee like theirs. The CHAIRMAN replied to the delegate of GREEGE that his objection would be examined by the sub- committee, and he informed the delegate of India that there was no article in the Rules authorizing him to set up a sub-committee. It was for the Committee to do that. The delegate of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA asked the Chairman whether it was in — 624 —