delay of eighteen months in replying to a can-  didate for a post. There seemed to be a tumour  of unnecessary work on the administrative side.  It was his delegation's conviction that policies  could not be manufactured; there was the natural  readjustment resulting from empirical experience.  Mr. Pile proposed that the United Kingdom re-  solution shoud go forward unchanged, except for  the Greek and Belgian amendments.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) proposed  that the second part of sub-paragraph (1) should  be omitted, to read only : “to the need for faci-  litating and accelerating operational action”.  The proposal was rejected.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) then pro-  posed that the second part of sub-paragraph (1)  should be omitted and that the second paragraph  of the resolution should read :  Recommends that the Director-General should, as  soon as possible, critically examine the relationship  between the Administrative Bureaux and the Pro-  gramme Departments, including the possible need for  concentrating a larger measure of administrative  responsibility on the Heads of the Programme Depart-  ments, and take such action...  The amendment was rejected.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) pro-  posed the substitution of the word “possibility”  for the word “need” in sub-paragraph (1).  The amendment was rejected.  The CHAIRMAN put the United Kingdom reso-  lution to the vote, paragraph by paragraph.  It was adopted. (2°)  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  NINTH MEETING  Friday, 26 November 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Appointment of a fifth member of the Com-  mission to serve on the Joint Committee of  Fifteen.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the Commission's  fifth representative on the Joint Committee of  Fifteen would be the delegate of New Zealand.  Item 6 (b) of the Agenda : Contract of the  Director-General.  The date at which the contract between the  new Director-General and Unesco should begin  had to be decided, and the CHAIRMAN proposed  that a small committee should be set up, to report  to the Commission on the proposed contract,  which would then be distributed in French and  English.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) proposed that  a member of the French delegation should be on  the Committee.  It was agreed that the Committee should consist  of the delegate of Norway, who was also a member  of the Executive Board, and delegates of France,  the United Kingdom and the United States of  America.  Item 5 of the Agenda  (continuation).  Staff Questions  Items 5 (a) and 5 (c) : Salary and allowance  system (document 3C/ADM/8 and corrigen-  dum); Medical Benefits Scheme (document
3C/ADM/10 and supplements).  The CHAIRMAN said that the Report of the  Commission’s Sub-Committee on the Salary and  Allowance System was ready, but copies of the  Report were not yet available.  It was read by the SECRETARY.  The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Commission
(126) In final form : Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 6, p. 55.
396     p l   n e   p d   a e     agreed that the Report should also embody the  decisions of the Sub-Committee on the Medical  Benefits Scheme.  Mr. FYZEE (India) thought that there should  be two separate reports.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) thought that  the Report of the Sub-Committee on the Salary  and Allowances System was too rigid in the  existing period of economic fluidity. He did not  think the Director-General and the Board needed  the advice and instructions the Commission pro-  posed to give them, nor that the United Nations  required counsel from Unesco in the matter.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) agreed  with the delegate of India and, furthermore,  doubted whether the terms of reference of the  United Nations study would cover the Medical  Benefits Scheme.  Mr. FYZEE (India) proposed the following reso-  lution :  The Sub-Committee appointed to study the Medical  Benefits Scheme (document 3C/ADM/10) recommends  that the Medical Benefits Scheme be adopted provi-  sionally, with the recommendation that the Scheme be  submitted to the United Nations Panel of Experts for  report to the Fourth Session of the General Confer-  ence for examination and adoption.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought there were  some difficulties in the delegate of India’s reso-  lution. He did not think the United Nations  Panel would consider medical benefit schemes,  which did not seem to be within its terms of  reference. What did seem important in the Indian  resolution was that the Sub-Committe seemed to  have come to the decision that the Commission  should approve the Scheme provisionally; that was  the real point submitted to them. If that were  so, then the Commission should do likewise, on  the Sub-Committee’s advice, and merely say that  it would wait to confirm its decision until it knew  the result of the general discussion on salaries  and allowances; next year the matter might  possibly be looked at in perspective, and it could  be decided whether or not the scheme was to  continue. Mr. Pile therefore proposed the adop-  tion of the first part of the Indian delegate’s reso-  lution.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the discussion  should be postponed until the Report of the Sub-  Committee on the Salary and Allowance System  had been circulated to the Commission. He asked  the representative of the United Nations if she  had any information on Medical Benefit Schemes,  particularly on the point raised by the delegate of  the United Kingdom.  Miss HENDERSON (United Nations) said that  the terms of reference given to the Special Com-  mittee of Experts of the General Assembly included  salary and allowance systems and leave provisions  of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies,  but did not specifically include staff benefit  schemes. She did not know whether that Special  Committee would interpret its terms of reference  to include benefit systems. From a practical point  of view, she would say that, owing to the amount  of work the Committee had to do, it would appear  highly unlikely that it would investigate a system  designed for Paris only. It might be that the  Medical Benefits Scheme would be considered in  relation to the total allowance scheme, but the  Committee would not be able to give advice to  Unesco on the Organization’s own scheme.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Report of  the Sub-Committee on Salaries and Allowances  should be circulated to the Commission as soon  as it had been duplicated and, secondly, that the  Sub-Committee on the Medical Benefits Scheme  should be asked to meet and say whether they  wished to present a separate report.  Agreed.  Item 4 (e) of the Agenda : Administration of  the Revolving Fund (continuation).  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) raised a  query which had to do with the statement made  to the plenary Conference by the Director-General  concerning the total budget figure. If Mr. Zook  had understood the statement correctly, the action  of the Commission in transferring the unobligated  balance of 1947 would make available only  $650,000, while the document on which the Com-  mission worked and the resolution it had passed  spoke of transferring the sum of $800,000.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he had  no exact record of what was said by the Director-  General. The figures would be found in Exhibit  [I1, attached to document 3C/ADM/2, Supplement  (Report and Accounts, 30 June 1948) and in  Exhibit II attached to Annex A to document 3C/  ADM/2 (Report and Accounts, 31 December 1947).  It could be seen that the total surplus was  $818,144.27, for the period ending 31 December
1947, of which almost $32,000, representing con-  tributions assessed on new Member States in 1947,  was to be surrendered to the 1948 Budget, leaving  a new surplus for 1947 of $786,232.27 to be                                                                                                                                                                                                                 surrendered in the 1949 Budget; of that sum,  $100,000 was to be for self-liquidating expenses.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) explained  that his question was concerned with the Com-  mission’s action in advancing from the surplus  $100,000, which, it had understood, was to be  a part of the Revolving Fund; actually, the balance  transferred was less than $800,000.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to  avoid any misunderstanding. He quoted the  relevant paragraph, (paragraph (5) on page 6 of  document 3C/ADM/6). It really made no differ-  ence if the Commission felt it would be wiser to  have the full amount put in the Revolving Fund,  and then take $100,000 out of it.  The CHAIRMAN said that the question was  whether paragraph (5) was a correct reflection  of what had been decided.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought the Com-  mission should adhere to the decision taken when  the question had been discussed.  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) was not satisfied  that the paragraph was correct. His impression  was that the loan came from the Revolving Fund.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) agreed  with the delegate of Canada.  The CHAIRMAN thought that if the Commission  had voted under a misunderstanding, then he  could permit a motion to vary the resolution; it  would, however, be a substantive motion, and  not an amendment to the minutes. He had before  him a resolution by the delegate of the United  States which read :
(5) that the amount appropriated in 1947 from the
1947 surplus, to create a Special Fund for self-  liquidating expenditure, be surrendered to the  Revolving Fund as in (2) above, and that from the  Revolving Fund, a sum of $150,000 be constituted  as a sub-fund of the Revolving Fund for financing  self-liquidating expenditure.  If there was no objection to the proposed pro-  cedure, the Chairman would put the resolution  to the vote. The Commission was, in fact, putting  the whole of the surplus from 1947 into the  Revolving Fund, thereby reducing the amount to  be contributed to the $1,000,000 now being called  up. The Commission was also recommending  that, out of that Revolving Fund, the sum of  $150,000 should be used as a Suspense Account.  The resolution proposed by the delegate of the  United States of America was adopted.  The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m.  TENTH MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 5 (c) of the Agenda : Medical Benefits  Scheme (continuation) (document 3C/ADM/10  and Annexes I and II).  The SECRETARY read the Report of the Sub-  Committee on the Medical Benefits Scheme, which  contained the following resolution :  The General Conference resolves that the Medical  Benefits Scheme (document 3C/ADM/10, Annexes I  and II), proposed by the Director-General, be provi-  sionally adopted for the year 1949, subject to the  following :
(1) The Director-General shall provide a full report  to the Fourth Session of the General Conference on  the first year of operation of the Scheme; this report  shall include a detailed actuarial analysis.
(2) The Scheme shall be amended as follows :  (a) Statutes of the Medical Benefits Scheme  Article XI.  The second sentence of the first paragraph shall read  as follows :  ‘The Board of Management shall consider the  recommendations adopted by the Assembly by a two-  thirds majority of the members present and voting and  shall make such recommendations as it deems appro-  priate to the Director-General. The Director-General  shall then take such action as he believes advisable.’  (b) Rules of the Medical Benefits Scheme—Rule 8.  The first paragraph shall read as follows :  ‘The Fund shall reimburse 75 per cent of the cost  of medicines and remedies prescribed by a physician.  This reimbursement shall not exceed 600 francs for  each medicine or remedy.’
(3) The provision for the reimbursement of the