he thought that the French delegate’s proposal  referred to resolution 2.222.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) had with him only a few  copies in French of the consultant’s Report, which  were available to delegates; he added that the  Secretariat would redraft the practical suggestions  contained in the Addendum for submission to the  next meeting.  Mr. NELSON (Australia) felt that the Secre-  tariat should publish more than a mere bulletin  of information. But would it be wise to allow it  to prepare studies which would be more than a  statement of facts and would contain recommen-  dations with the weight of Unesco’s authority?  The International Institute of the Press might  perhaps be made responsible for the publications.  Mr. Nelson thought that all publications should be  covered by recommendations passed by the Gen-  eral Conference and that they should be handled  not by the Secretariat, but by a firm specializing  in such matters, or by the International Institute  of the Press; Unesco’s name or authority should  not be involved.  Dr. ARGUELLES (Philippines) seconded the  motion submitted by the United Kingdom  delegate.  SECOND  dv TT Pate  EN  LE sl Ee SE  The CHAIRMAN said that she had not received  the information collected by the Secretariat on  the question of obstacles to the free flow of ideas.  Such information would have made it possible to  understand Unescos rôle in that field. She  emphasized that the difficulties were due to eco-  nomic differences as well as national policies.  Not all countries were industrialized to the same  extent and backward countries were trying to  catch up with the others. Unesco should be  aware of the facts and was in better position for  that purpose than other organizations of a poli-  tical character.  The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate  was put to the vote and adopted.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) urged the necessity of voting, at the  current session, on the draft Agreement on visual  and auditory materials.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that  any discussions which did not involve the budget  were to be deferred until the final stages of the  Sub-Commission's work.  The meeting rose at I p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. Kamala Devi CHATTOPADHYAYA (India)  Unesco’s contribution to the free flow of  information in co-operation with other  organs of the United Nations (document
3C/PRG/2.2) (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Sub-Com-  mission had not completed consideration of that  item of the Agenda, but said that the discussion  had been comprehensive enough for the members  to proceed to vote on the resolutions in document
3C/5 (programme approved by the Executive  Board), trying to incorporate in them the reso-  lutions put forward by Member States.  Resolutions 2.221 t02.2212 : Free Flow of  Information (document 3C/5, page 21).  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) stated that a United  Kingdom amendment, to be added at the end of  resolution 2.2211, had been adopted at the previous  meeting. Mr. Farr also read out a draft resolution  (paragraph 2 of document 3C/36) which the  United States delegation proposed should be sub-  stituted for resolutions 2.2211 and 2.2212.  M. GUEHENNO (France) was surprised at the  conduct of the discussion. At the previous     meeting, an amendment to resolution 2.2211, sub-  mitted by the United Kingdom delegation, had  been adopted after a lengthy discussion. The  Sub-Commission was now presented with an alto-  gether different text.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) replied that a  whole meeting had in fact been devoted to a gen-  eral discussion of the problem of the free flow  of information, but that, except in the case of  one United Kingdom amendment, the resolutions  had not been considered one by one. Moreover,  delegations had had until the evening of 23 No-  vember to submit resolutions, and any such reso-  lutions should be taken into consideration.  M. GUEHENNO (France) was prepared to consi-  der the new amendment, but wondered whether it  was necessary to sacrifice the text already adopted,  which provided for the publication of special  studies on the question of newsprint and the  manufacture of low-priced radio-receiving sets.  [t was apparently proposed to go back on the  original position and make Unesco, in connexion  with the free flow of information, a research  institute, whereas the Sub-Commission's aim was  to secure some sort of action. The French dele-  gate proposed that resolution 2.2211, proposed by  the Secretariat, should be abandoned and that the  amendment submitted by the United States dele-  gation should be discussed.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) thought there was a misunderstanding.  The Sub-Commission was trying to conform to  the Secretariat’s rules and to discuss the reso-  lutions in the interests of clarification. If, with  that in view, the United Kingdom amendment and  the United States text were combined, the diffi-  culty would be solved. The United States dele-  gate proposed that the matter should be referred  to a drafting committee.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that that was a  matter for the Rapporteur.  M. KHALIL (Egypt) suggested that resolution
2.2211 should be left as it stood, with the amend-  ment presented by the United Kingdom, and that  the United States resolution should replace reso-  lution 2.2212.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) accepted that suggestion.  The amendment proposed in paragraph 2 of doc-  ument 3C/36 was adopted.
296  Resolutions 2.222 to 2.2223 : Obstacles de-  riving from currency, Customs, transport  costs (document 3C/5, pages 23 and 25).  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) remarked that reso-  lution 2.222 was of a general nature and was more  closely defined by the subsequent resolutions
2.2221 (which did not call for a decision by the  Sub-Commission and had been referred, together  with United States and Belgian amendments, to  the Sub-Commission on Reconstruction); 2.2222  (which had been referred to the Sub-Commission  on Cultural Questions, with paragraph (c) of the  Indian delegation’s amendment in document 3C/
38). The Sub-Commission should therefore con-  sider resolution 2.2223 and the documents relating  thereto, namely the new working paper 3C/PRG/
2.2 Add. 2, prepared by the Secretariat at the Sub-  Commission's request.  Dr. THIRRING (Austria) pointed out the ob-  stacles created in Central Europe by the armistice  terms imposed in 1945. The occupying forces  had laid on the sale of Austrian publications in  Germany, and German publications in Austria, a  ban which had only recently, and only partially,  been removed. As a result of currency and export  restrictions, the circulation of books and publi-  cations in German was only a fraction of what it  had been in 1938 and what it was capable of  becoming. German booksellers were forbidden to  keep stocks of Austrian books. In order to obtain  even one copy, the bookseller had to conform to  so many bureaucratic requirements that he had  no alternative but to forgo their import and sale.  The position was the same with regard to Switzer-  land.  Such barriers existed and, within the cultural  area of the German language, formed a sort of  “iron curtain” which was prejudicial to Unesco’s  aims. The Austrian delegation, therefore, sub-  mitted the following resolution :  Whereas suggestions of experts are under consi-  deration by the Secretariat with a view to the pre-  paration of specific recommendations pursuant to  resolution 2.222, the attention of the Secretariat is to  be directed to the facts :
1. that American books are practically unobtain-  able in Austria because of currency restrictions;
2. that currency and other regulations are  impeding the export of books across the German  frontier in either direction, thus hampering the  establishment of an independent Austrian and Swiss  book trade and the free flow of ideas into Germany.  The Director-General therefore instructed to  include the items 1 and 2 mentioned above in his  considerations and recommendations.  IS  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Austrian  proposal, which was extremely useful, applied to  one special case, whereas the programme reso-       lutions were applicable to the generality of cases.  Would it not be better if the Secretariat took note  of the circunistance and took it into account in its  work for the future?  Dr. THIRRING (Austria) was prepared to agree  to that solution.  The CHAIRMAN, on behalf of the Sub-Com-  mission, asked the Secretariat to give the Austrian  delegation an assurance that steps to remove the  obstacles in question would be considered.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) replied that the  situation would undoubtedly be taken into account  by the Secretariat in the following year.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on resolution
2.2223.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) proposed the adoption of the first item  in document 3C/PRG/2.2, Add. 2.  Dr. ARGUELLES (Philippines) seconded that  proposal.  Mr. MOOREHEAD (United Kingdom) did not  object to its adoption, but pointed out that in doc-  ument 3C/PRG/2.2, Add. 1, at the bottom of  page 1, it was stated that “the suggestions are  under consideration by the Secretariat and will be  discussed with other competent bodies... with a  view to the preparation of specific recommen-  dations pursuant to resolution 2.222”. Did the  Secretariat still regard that preliminary consul-  tation as desirable, or was it proposed to re-  commend the General Conference to approve forth-  with the text in document 3C/PRG/2.2, Add. 2,  which went considerably further?  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) replied that the drafting  had in fact been changed in the first place  because the Secretariat had derived the impression  that, at the previous meeting, the substance of  those suggestions had met with the general ap-  proval of the Sub-Commission; the text had  accordingly been strengthened. The United King-  dom delegate would further note that the first  three recommendations in document 3C/PRG/2.2,  Add. 2 were to Member States, and the fourth to  the Director-General. It was solely in connexion  with that fourth point that it was desirable for  the Secretariat to consult with the competent inter-  national bodies before preparing the report and  draft agreement.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) suggested that the four resolutions in  Addendum 2 should be considered together.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) proposed that they  should be adopted together. The proposal was  seconded by Baron Van Der BRUGGEN (Belgium).  The four resolutions were adopted.  Consideration of the work plan of the Mass  Communication Projects Division (docu-  ment 3C/PRG/2.1).  Mr. MOOREHEAD (United Kingdom) said that  his delegation had been disappointed at the delay  and the spirit in which the Mexico City decisions  had been implemented by the Secretariat. Six  months had elapsed before the reception from the  Secretariat of a document which was nothing  more than a plan of work for the future. The  United Kingdom delegation were aware of the  difficulties which the Secretariat had encoun-  tered; in particular, it had proved very diffi-  cult to secure the assistance of really com-  petent people for a period which was in fact  too short. On the other hand, the Mexico City  Conference had placed the emphasis on the imme-  diate value of the projects to be embarked on,  whereas document 3C/PRG/2.1 dealt primarily  with matters that were of permanent interest.  Would it not be better to revise the system of  work completely? Was not the staff of the Projects  Division too large? It would be better to have a  small, competent permanent staff, rather than a  large and competent but temporary staff. The  United Kingdom delegation were prepared to sup-  port a whole series of projects (Calendar of World  Affairs, etc.), but in order to convince the editors  of newspapers and the compilers of films or wire-  less news programmes, there would have to be  better presentation. The Secretariat should secure  the services of persons competent in each of the  three fields, who could make contact with the  heads of the enterprises with a view to having  Unesco’s suggestions adopted. Little had been  done to enlist the interest and assistance of dis-  tinguished people (of the standing, say, of Einstein  and André Gide) who might be asked to deal in  the press or on the radio, on behalf of Unesco,  with specific subjects such as the problem of  displaced persons in Europe. Their names would  suffice to ensure publication. Unesco might,  indeed, become the United Nations publication  agency. When, in connexion with Greece, Kash-  mir or Palestine, for instance, the United Nations  despatched a mediator, could there not be attached  to him an eminent figure sent by Unesco to make  a personal study and draw up an objective report  on the mediation, without intervening in political  matters? Problems such as those of displaced  persons or world food resources should be dealt
297       with jointly with the other Specialized Agencies,  without any overlapping.  M. GUEHENNO (France) said that the Mexico  City resolutions had implied an entirely different  form of organization for the Department of Mass  Communication from that which had been insti-  tuted. There should have been a Head of Depart-  ment; a small Ideas Bureau; a Division respon-  sible for the removal of obstacles; another re-  sponsible for the survey of technical needs; and  three separate sections dealing respectively with  the press, radio and films. The Director-General,  who was responsible for the Secretariat's organi-  zation, had altered those arrangements, so that  the separate sections for the press, radio and films  had been abolished, and the Ideas Bureau had  become the Projects Division. That change had  entailed an alteration in the size and the functions  of the Ideas Bureau. The delegate of France  considered that the fact that much of the Mass  Communication programme, particularly with  regard to Radio, had not been carried out, was  largely attributable to those changes in organi-  zation. The French delegation proposed that the  original form of organization should be restored.  In their opinion, the Projects Division should be  smaller in size and less expensive. It would only  be necessary to engage distinguished men perma-  nently for the Ideas Bureau, and to secure tem-  porarily the services of public figures, such as  those mentioned, by means of special contracts  on a ‘““piece-work” basis. While Unesco could not  give such people salaries corresponding to their  ability, it should be able to offer them appropriate  remuneration. The Ideas Bureau would thus  consist of a maximum of three or four permanent  officials, who would ensure that there was some  coherent policy, and would themselves suggest  which public men and women might be ap-  proached in connexion with the projects or mis-  sions referred to by the British delegate.  Mr. MOOREHEAD (United Kingdom) explained  that his suggestion was not that the services of  prominent personalities should be secured on a  more or less permanent basis within the Secre-  tariat, but that they should be temporarily engaged  to deal with certain problems, remaining outside  the Secretariat.  M. SANDBO (Norway) expressed some doubts  about the whole scheme for the Projects Division.  What producers wanted was to be told what films  existed in Unesco’s field of interest, and how they  could be obtained. That information could be  supplied by a clearing house, for which it seemed  unnecessary to provide as much as $400,000.  >)  ~/  Unesco’'s assistance was necessary in mass COIN.  munication, but if subjects for talks were supplied,  small individual campaigns could be undertaken  by voluntary bodies. With regard to broad-  casting, some countries were co-operating with  Unesco. Unesco should mention that fact as an  example to other countries. In other words, it  seemed advisable to restrict activities, initially, to  drawing up an inventory and taking full advantage  of existing material and achievements in the  various countries.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) entirely supported the British proposals,  and also agreed with the French delegation s  views on the organization of the Department of  Mass Communication. In that connexion, she  made four comments. The Projects Division  should :
1. have a publicity agent who could explain  the work of Unesco and other Organizations in  the same field to the masses;
9. collect information regarding the plans of  government departments or national organizations  concerned with education and science, as an  excellent national programme could be converted,  with slight adaptations, for international use;
3. stimulate the activities of Member States  and non-governmental organizations working in  Unesco’s field, through personal contacts with  the Directors of such bodies throughout the world.  For that purpose, however, it was important that  the staff of the Division should not be reduced  without due consideration;
4. instead of establishing its own radio net-  work, extend and utilize to the full the facilities  already available to Unesco through the United  Nations or with national broadcasting organi-  zations, as, for instance, in the United States of  America.  Mr. HOLCROFT (New Zealand) supported the  French delegation’s suggestions. Work by a num-  ber of people, with special instructions to think  about a specific theme, could not produce really  useful ideas. Such ideas should be called for,  through the various Member States, from men and  women actively engaged in ordinary life. The  delegate criticized the wording of page 3 of doc-  ument 3C/PRG/2.1. The Mexico City Conference  had certainly given the Secretariat a practically  impossible task; in spite of that, the Secretariat  had done an excellent job, and had suggested  some very good schemes : the Calendar of World  Affairs, Centenaries, Hopes of To-morrow. Others,  however, were less happy, as they were identical  with what had already been done by national
98   organizations. With regard to the use of material  from individual countries, specially adapted for  international use, it was to be feared that the  international elements might be omitted when  such material was used in another country. Edi-  tors would not be willing to accept articles, unless  they were able to adapt them to suit their own  readers. The same applied to the directors of  broadcasting companies. What was required was  a body of good, basic material from which pro-  grammes could be prepared. The task of the  Division could, therefore, be summarized as the  collection and distribution of information regard-  ing methods used and practices already followed  in the world.  Dr. ARGUELLES (Philippines) seconded the  New Zealand delegate’s proposals. He agreed  with the programme resolutions submitted by the  Secretariat, because they were constructive. The  Secretariat was encountering difficulties because it  had to consider the different needs of the varied  civilizations of the world. It should be given  moral and material support by the National Com-  missions and national organizations. The Phi-  lippine delegate wished to remind the Com-  mission that his own country allowed complete  freedom to the press, radio and film industries,  and welcomed international co-operation.  Mr. MOOREHEAD (United Kingdom) asked the  Secretariat to state what had been achieved since  document 3C/PRG/2.1 was issued at the beginning  of September. The Projects Division had had a  rather slow start after the Mexico City Conference,  but it should, at the date of the meeting, be in  full operation. Such an experiment should not  be condemned in mid-development, without full  information.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) remarked that  the delegate of New Zealand had said that the task  imposed on the Secretariat by the Mexico City  Conference had been an impossible one. The  Secretariat did not consider it impossible, but  certainly difficult. First of all, there seemed still  to be some misunderstanding. The Chairman of  the Executive Board himself had spoken of “the  Projects Division, formerly the Ideas Bureau”.  The Mexico City Conference had instructed the  Secretariat to establish a Production Unit “based  on” an Ideas Bureau. Unfortunately, the French  translation referred to a unit ‘conçu comme un  bureau des idées”, which was precisely the oppo-  site. lt was true that the Director-General, who  was responsible for the organization of the Secre-  tariat, had made several changes. First of all,  he had changed the name of the Division, in fact  it had not been established to produce, but to  stimulate production; that was the reason for  calling it the Projects Division instead of a Pro-  duction Unit. Furthermore, the Director-General  had decided to set up a Projects Division, con-  sisting of a Head and three people who, with him,  made up the Ideas Bureau; those four people were  working on the preparation of a joint programme  for the three media (press, radio and films)  dealing with the combined or co-ordinated treat-  ment of certain problems or certain subjects.  Provision had been made for thirty posts for the  whole Projects Division, including ten secretaries,  in the current and the following year. It had  not vet been possible to fill all the posts.  To what extent should Unesco stimulate acti-  vities, and to what extent should it act as a  clearing house? The Secretariat thought that if  should carry out both duties. For instance, the  Secretariat had prepared a catalogue of existing  films on four specified subjects in all countries.  It would proceed in a similar way, though by  different methods, in the field of broadcasting.  The two aspects of its work had been equally  stressed at the meeting of the Radio Programmes  Committee. On that occasion, representatives  of seventeen national broadcasting organizations  had asked the Secretariat to continue both forms  of activity. As far as the stimulation of endeavours  was concerned, contact with the people concerned  in the various countries was not always easy. Ii  had been possible to establish contacts, from the  Paris headquarters, with France, Belgium, Eng-  land and Switzerland. Contact was more diffi-  cult with the United States of America, because  of the distance. Two members of the Division  had just returned from a journey to America with  most encouraging specific offers of help and co-  operation from American organizations, but they  had had to spend no less than a month making  contacts and studying problems in America.  With regard to what had been achieved since  document 3C/PRG/2.1 had been issued :
1. It was at last certain that the Calendar of  World Affairs would be prepared.
2. A photographer had been sent to several  European countries to bring back material showing  the conditions in which children were living—a  subject of fundamental concern to Unesco. That  photographer had collected three thousand very  fine photographs, which would be used in news-  papers, books and pamphlets, to illustrate Unesco s  work throughout the world. The necessary meas-  ures to that end were being taken in the news-  paper industries of Canada, France, Switzerland  and various countries in Latin America.
3. Twelve articles in Arabic, describing  Unesco’s work, had been written and were being  published in Middle-Eastern newspapers.
4. lt had been possible, in agreement with  the United Nations, to gather together a series of  films on the preservation of natural resources.
5. The National Commission in the United  States of America had asked the Secretariat for  documents on four of the subjects included in  the working paper. Within ten days, material  containing 20,000 words had been sent to the  United States, where it was currently being used.
6. With regard to the Unesco radio news-  bulletin, publication would be begun early in
1949; the bulletin would appear every week. The  Secretariat had been assured by the Radio Pro-  grammes Committee that the bulletin would be  used by a number of countries and private organi-  zations. That item showed that, like the British  delegation, the Secretariat wished to concentrate  on current problems and not only on subjects of  enduring interest.
7. With regard to world food supplies, a  scheme had been prepared by the Planning Bureau  of the Projects Division, in consultation with the  United Nations (Commission on Population) and  other Organizations (WHO, FAO) and several  THIRD  Departments in Unesco (particularly Natural  Sciences); before the end of February 1949, the  Secretariat would be in a position to publish some  twelve or fifteen pamphlets illustrating different  aspects of the world situation with regard to popu-  lation and food resources.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) thanked Mr. Bester-  man for his statement, which had provided a very  competent reply to the criticisms directed at the  Secretariat. She proposed that the working paper,  document 3C/PRG/2.1, should be adopted without  further discussion and without amendment.  M. SANDBO (Norway) congratulated Mr. Bester-  man and seconded the Danish proposal.  M. GUEHENNO (France) thought that the dis-  cussion which had just taken place and the  extremely informative statement made by Mr. Bes-  terman had been useful. He proposed that the  discussion should be adjourned.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m.  MEETING  I'riday, 26 November 1948, at } p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. Kamala Devi CHATTOPADHYAYA (India)  Resolution 2.231—Mass Media (document
3C/5, page 25).  Draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of the United States of America (document
3C/35, item 3).  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) stated that her delegation sought a  recommendation to Member States that they  should “recognize the rights of citizens to listen  freely to broadcasts from other countries ”  M. GUEHENNO (France) asked for the resump-  tion of the discussion of the French proposal  which had given rise to an exchange of views at  the previous meeting and to a statement by the  Director-General’s representative regarding the  Projects Division.
300  Draft resolution submitted by the Indian  delegation (document 3C/38).  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt that, as para-  graphs (a) and (b) of document 3C/38 touched  on two sections of a very wide field, the case  would be met by mentioning those points in the  summary record without their being formally  adopted as resolutions.  Professor VERONESI (Italy) supported the  Indian delegation’s suggestions, particularly para-  graph (a). Italy would like a recommendation to  be made to the competent departments of Unesco  regarding the dissemination of “shorts” of an  educational and, particularly, artistic nature:  Italian producers had specialized in the latter.  He asked the Rapporteur to take note of that fact.