The CHAIRMAN thought, therefore, that the  question should be referred to the Programme and  Budget Commission.  New resolution 3.55 submitted by the United  States delegation.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America) sub-  mitted a new resolution with no budgetary impli-  cations, which he proposed numbering 3.55 and  which would come under clearing-house func-  tions :  The Director-General is instructed to promote the  study in schools of the contribution of organized  labour to the advancement of civilization, and as a  first step, he shall invite Member States to contribute  texbooks and illustrative teaching materials to Unesco,  as a means of stimulating clearing-house activities in  this field.  The proposal, seconded by Dr. NANNETTI (Co-  lombia), was adopted.  Amendment to resolution 3.222 proposed by  the Colombian delegation.  Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) asked for resolution
3.222 (publication of selected material from the  seminars organized by Unesco in 1947 and 1948)  to be extended to cover the documents written  during the seminar organized in 1948 by the Pan-  American Union in collaboration with Unesco.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) thought  that the Colombian delegate’s wish could be met  by adding the words “or sponsored by” (Unesco)  after ‘seminars conducted”, in resolution 3.222.  Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) accepted that sug-  gestion, and the amendment was adopted unanim-  ously.  Draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of the Union of South Africa (document
3C/22).  Mr. THERON (Union of South Africa) submitted  a draft resolution (document 3C/22), not 1n-  volving any additional expenditure, and relating  to certain teaching principles in primary and  secondary schools.  The motion was not seconded and was there-  fore not voted upon.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) thanked the  officers of the Sub-Commission for their work.  The meeting rose at 7.40 p.m.  SUB-COMMISSION ON CULTURAL QUESTIONS ©  FIRST MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  (Chairman:  Election of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  On the proposal of the Nominations Committee,  the following were elected :  Chairman Professor Paul Rivet (France)  Vice-Chairman : Nadjib-Ullah Khan (Afgha-  nistan  Rapporteur : Dr. Richard P. McKeon (United  States of America).     Professor Paul RIVET (France)  The Sub-Commission also decided to appoint  as additional Vice-Chairmen : Professor Humayun  Kabir (India), Professor Vittorio Branca (Italy),  Dr. Mohammed Bey Awad (Egypt) or his deputy.  Adoption of the Agenda.  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) re-  minded the Sub-Commission that :  (*°) See also the summary records of the joint meetings of the Sub-Commissions on Cultural Questions and  Natural Sciences, p. 337.
1. priority should be accorded to the questions  included in the provisional Agenda, for which  working papers had been prepared and distributed  to the delegations;
2. the Sub-Commission was not required to  take a decision on budgetary questions, but could,  in a purely advisory capacity, indicate its views  on the budget submitted to it for each of the  projects examined.  At the request of M. LAVACHERY (Belgium),  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that document 3C/OXR/2-PRG, relating to  item 4 of the Agenda, concerned the Official and  External Relations Commission as well as the Sub-  Commission on Cultural Questions. However, the  part of the document with which the Sub-Com-  mission was particularly concerned was Annex II,  and that part of the document would be the subject  of a report to the Joint Programme and Official  and External Relations Commission.  The provisional Agenda (document 3C/PRG/4.5)  was adopted.  Proposal for the establishment of a Cultural  Liaison Office for the Middle East (docu-  ment 3C/OXR/2-PRG, Annex II).  Discussion began on a point of wording : was  the proposal for an office. for cultural liaison, to  be opened in Paris, or for a regional cultural  centre operating in the Middle East, as provided  for in the resolution adopted by the Second Ses-  sion of the General Conference? The first alterna-  tive involved a body with limited objectives and  the second a cultural centre of much wider scope.  M. RABATH (Lebanon) indicated that his  Government favoured the second alternative.  Dr. SALIBA (Syria), on the other hand, was in  favour of a temporary office in Paris, to lead later  to the opening of a centre in the Middle East.  Mr. INSKIP (Union of South Africa) remarked  that the sum budgeted for the project in the Esti-  mates (document 3C/6, page 94) did not tally  with the figure of $45,000 in the resolution  submitted to the Sub-Commission (document
3C/OXR/2 - PRG, page 8).  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that the Budget Estimates had been drawn  up several months previously on the basis of  information then in the Secretariat’s possession.  In point of fact, the final figure arrived at by  the Bureau of the Budget was $41,178; the  necessary correction would be made.  The CHAIRMAN remarked that the new figure  limited the scope of the proposed liaison organi-  zation, as the Sub-Commission was not competent  to make provision for larger appropriations.  M. RABATH (Lebanon) thought that such  purely financial considerations should not affect  the question of principle, which was whether or  not it was essential to set up a regional centre in  the Middle East. In his view it was essential.  NADJIB-ULLAH Khan (Afghanistan) concurred.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) (Rap-  porteur) pointed out that so far the Sub-Com-  mission had been discussing two different ques-  tions, which should have been kept separate :  firstly, the functions of a liaison organization in  the Middle East; and, secondly, the administra-  tive machinery required for the project's exe-  cution. He asked that the accent should be placed  on the cultural questions dealt with in the work-  ing paper, with which the Sub-Commission was  qualified to deal, and not on the administrative  side of the question. He accordingly proposed  the following amendment to paragraph 1 of the  suggested resolution on page 9 of document
3C/OXR/2-PRG :
1. to instruct the Director-General to promote the  exchange of ideas, information, materials and persons  in the fields of the arts, letters, philosophy and  humanistic studies, among the countries of the Middle  East, and between those countries and the other  countries of the world.  Sir Leich ASHTON (United Kingdom) sup-  ported the Rapporteur’s view and asked the Sub-  Commission to remember that the scheme was  only an experiment; it was advisable to begin on  a small scale and decide on the final form there-  after, in the light of the results obtained.  M. TOPRAK (Turkey) agreed; the liaison body  should be set up in two stages : (1) the opening,  immediately, of a liaison office in Paris, and (2)  subsequent expansion into a regional centre.  Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) thought that the kind  of centre envisaged at the Mexico City Conference  should be set up.  M. FEBVRE (France) agreed with the views  expressed by the representatives of Turkey and the  United Kingdom; he asked, however, that in  deciding on the establishment of the liaison  organization for the Middle East, the Sub-Com-  mission should bear in mind the three following  points : (1) the project should be on a small scale  and its geographical limits clearly defined; (2) it                           should involve no danger to the unity and cohe-  sion of Unesco, which was still a young body;
(3) human culture was a whole and not divisible  into parts.  M. RABATH (Lebanon) again emphasized the  Lebanese Government's point of view. He  favoured the notion of a small-scale experiment,  but was against its being conducted elsewhere  than in the Middle East. He accordingly pro-  posed that paragraph 1 of the resolution should  be amended as follows :
1. to approve the establishment, at the earliest  possible date, at a place to be decided later, on an  experimental basis, of a cultural liaison office for  the Middle East.  He asked for the discussion to be postponed  to a later meeting.  After a discussion between Dr. SALIBA (Syria),  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) and M. THOMAS (Assis-  tant Director-General), the Lebanese motion for  the adjournment was rejected.  The CHAIRMAN indicated that the Sub-Com-  mission had before it two proposals the first,  SECOND  Chairman:  Resolution for the establishment of an Insti-  tute of Cultural Co-operation for South and  East Asian Countries (document 3C/62).  Professor KABIR  lowing resolution :  (India) presented the fol-  The General Conference resolves that it is desirable  to establish an Institute of Cultural Co-operation for  South and East Asian Countries as soon as possible :
1. to facilitate co-operation and interchange in  education, science and culture both among such  countries and between the East and the West,
3. to act as a centre for Unesco projects and  stimulate interest in Unesco.  to study regional tensions, and  and instructs the Director-General to prepare in 1949  a project for the implementation of the above proposal  and to report to the next session of the General Confer-  ence.  submitted by the delegate of Turkey asking for  “the opening of a provisional liaison office in  Paris, as a first step towards the attainment of a  cultural co-operation centre in the Middle East”;  the second, submitted by the Rapporteur and  quoted above.  The latter motion was put to the vote and  adopted by seventeen votes in favour, with one  abstention.  The CHAIRMAN ruled that paragraph 2 and  the last part of paragraph 3 of the resolution sub-  mitted to the Sub-Commission were not within  that body's terms of reference, and put to the  vote the first part of paragraph 3, amended as  follows, on the motion of the Rapporteur:  To recommend the inclusion in the Organization's  Budget for 1949 of an appropriation of $41,178 for  these activities.  That paragraph was also adopted by seventeen  votes, with one abstention.  The two paragraphs approved by the Sub-Com-  mission were then adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 3.45 p.m.
323  Professor Paul RIVET (France)  Professor Kabir emphasized the moderate  nature of that resolution, which amounted simply  to a recommendation, the action proposed being  deferred until 1949. The recommendation was  in line with Unesco’s purposes, which had to take  into account the differences between cultures and  stimulate exchanges between them. It would  appear comparatively simple to finance the pro-  ject; it could be done out of the $45,000 shown  in the Budget, since the Sub-Commission had not  set up the Cultural Liaison Office for the Middle  Fast in the form which had been contemplated.  FARES Dr. CHU (China) and Dr.  seconded the resolution.  (Egypt)  Mr. PARTON (New Zealand) and Mr. DESRO-  CHERS (Canada) could not subscribe to it, since  the question had been settled at that morning’s