fused document. They could then be considered  by the next session of the Conference.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL promised to trans-  mit that suggestion to his successor.  The proposition of the Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board was adopted.  Other Business.  In answer to a question from Dr. MOLINARI  MONTAGNIER (Head of the Bu-  reau of Conference Planning) confirmed that  simultaneous interpretation from Spanish into  English and French would thenceforth be possible  in the Conference Hall. The verbatim records of  the meetings held in that room would not, how-  ever, contain the original text of any speech made  in Spanish.  (Argentina), M.  The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.  ELEVENTH MEETING  Wednesday, I December 19468, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: M. Victor DORE (Canada)  Programme of meetings for the day.  The programme of meetings for the day was  adopted.  The SECRETARY announced that the Joint  Committee of Fifteen wished to meet the following  day; the meeting was fixed for 10.30 a.m. on  Thursday, 2 December.  Membership of the Executive Board.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) reported that the Nominations Committee  had chosen the six persons to be nominated to  the General Conference for election as members  of the Executive Board.  He then raised the question of how best to  amend the Rules of Procedure, to ensure that all  the members of the Board attended meetings.  Dr. B. Carrion was generally absent, and was not  even able to send a deputy, so that geographical  representation on the Board had been less good  than it should have been.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) con-  sidered that the question involved a change in the  Constitution itself; the problem could not be  solved by a mere alteration in the Rules of Pro-  cedure.  M. SEYDOUX (France) suggested that it would  perhaps be possible to settle the matter unoffi-  cially, instead of going through a complicated
233  procedure in a simple case. A member of the  Board might write to Dr. Carrion, suggesting  that he should appoint a colleague to represent  him.  The CHAIRMAN agreed with that solution,  which, however, did not prohibit an amendment  of the Constitution by the normal procedure.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) remarked that, in that case, an amend-  ment would have to be prepared immediately, as  it was proposed that the next session of the Con-  ference should be held in May. Either the Pro-  cedure Committee or the Administrative Com-  mission might be asked to help.  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) (Chairman cof the  Procedure Committee) saw no objection to the  submission of the matter to the Procedure Com-  mittee.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that it  would be desirable to consult a competent legal  expert on the matter.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) thought that it would possibly also be  wise to consider any precedents which might  exist.  It was agreed that the question of the length  of the term of office of members of the Executive  Board should be considered, in due course, by the  Procedure Committee.  The meeting rose at 10.15 a.m.