Palermo Mathematical Circle.  M. SAGLAM (Turkey) wished to draw the Com-  mission’s notice to the urgency of assisting the  “Palermo Mathematical Circle”, a very old inter-  national association (with some eight hundred  members) whose library had been damaged.  Immediate assistance would be needed to save the  unprotected books and reviews and to help the  review to resume publication.  The CHAIRMAN thought that the Commission  should note the suggestion, but that nothing more  could be done at the moment, as a document  would be required if any vote were to be taken.  However, the Director-General would be sure to  consider the matter in connexion with Unesco’s  reconstruction work.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) showed how bad  was the position of the unprotected collections,  and how manuscripts which could no longer be  published in the review were held up.  FIFTH  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) hoped that, in such  urgent cases the Director-General would find it  possible to provide more tangible and less sym-  bolic assistance.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured the meeting  that Unesco would make every effort to help the  Palermo Mathematical Circle. He hoped that the  latter would help in the establishment of the Inter-  national Association of Mathematicians planned for
1950. If the Circle maintained direct relations  with the International Council of Scientific  Unions, it could apply to it, through the normal  channels, for a grant, which might very possibly  be given.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the whole of  the Natural Sciences programme, as modified and  amended (document 3C/5, Chapter 6).  The programme was adopted.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, at 8.45 p.m.  Chairman: M. Marcel FLORKIN (Belgium)  Consideration of Reports of Sub-Commis-  sions (continuation).  (e) Social Sciences (document 3C/PRG/6.4).  M. FEBVRE (France) (Rapporteur of the Sub-  Commission on Social Sciences) submitted the  Sub-Commission’s report.  As there were no remarks on the report as a  whole, the CHAIRMAN proposed that the Com-  mission should consider it in detail.  I. Tensions affecting international under-  standing.  The recommendation in document 3C/PRG/6.1  (programme resolutions 5.1 to 5.124 and the re-  levant budget and work plan) was adopted  without comment.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  and Mr. SYME (United Kingdom) took the view  that there was already an effective distinction  between projects 5.112 and 5.3 in document 3C/5,  and at their request the second paragraph of  item 1 in document 3C/PRG/6.4 was amended as  follows :  It was further agreed, at the request of the United  Kingdom delegate, that the Sub-Commission should  press for the continuance of a clear distinction in  the work programme between the two projects, the  one relating to the question of tensions, and the other  to the humanistic aspects of culture, as they are set  out in document 3C/5 (resolutions 5.112 and 5.3  respectively). The Secretariat should also continue lo  maintain close co-operation in the execution of both  projects.  The meeting further agreed that, in the  English text, the French word “‘exécution” should  be translated “execution” and not “implemen-  tation”.  The resolution submitted by the United States  delegation in document 3C/74 (study of the for-  mation of Fascist movements) was adopted,
8  i  il  ap  |  without discussion, as a recommendation to the  Director-General, on the understanding that it  could be incorporated into the enquiry into  aggressive nationalism.  II. Action by Unesco on behalf of International  Organizations in the Social Sciences.  The texts embodied in documents 3C/5 (item
5.9), 3C/PRG/6.2 and 3C/34 were adopted without  debate.  Proposal by the delegation of Egypt for the  foundation of a Centre of Co-operation for  Legal Science (document 3C/1}).  M. MOHR (Norway) recognized the value of  such a Centre, but thought that Unesco was not  at the moment in a position to carry out the  Egyptian proposal.  Baron Van der BRUGGEN (Belgium), Mr. EI-  SENHOWER (United States of America) and Mr.  SYME (United Kingdom) shared that view.  In that connexion, Baron Van der BRUGGEN  (Belgium) suggested that the insertion of the  words “in general, and law in particular” after  “social sciences” in item 5,9 in document 3C/5  (page 79) would be enough to make clear the  wish of the Sub-Commission on Social Sciences  that Unesco should devote particular attention to  international co-operation in the field of Com-  parative Law.  Following a discussion on the point, Dr. ROB-  BINS (Canada) suggested instead the insertion of  the words “including law”; that suggestion was  adopted.  Psychology.  Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) reported that  the International Congress of Psychological So-  cieties, meeting in Edinburgh, had formed an  Executive Committee (whose members were  Mr. Langfelt (United States of America) and the  Secretary-General) with the task of forming psy-  chological societies into an international fede-  ration, by the end of the current, or during the  next year, so as to be able to ensure liaison with  Unesco. The speaker pointed out that the  inclusion of psychology in the Department of  Social Sciences within Unesco would give rise to  some difficulties, as the subject was also linked to  biology (through physiological psychology, psy-  chopathology and elementary reactions), while in  certain universities it came under the faculty of  Science, not under Social Sciences or Arts; the  question would arise when the international  federation came into being, in view of the pur-  pose of the Federation and the deep interest of  psychologists in Unesco’s work.  With the foregoing amendments, resolutions
5.1, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and 5.9 in the Social Sciences  programme (document 3C/5, Chapter 5) were  adopted.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) drew attention to the  fact that no vote had been taken on resolutions
5.7 and 5.8 in document 3C/5.  In reply, the CHAIRMAN pointed out that cer-  tain resolutions had still to be considered by other  Sub-Commissions.  (f) Communication (document 3C/PRG/2.4).  Mr. JENNINGS (Canada) (Rapporteur of the  Sub-Commission on Communication) read his  report.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) approved the conclusions of the report,  and stressed its final paragraph. She agreed to  the striking out of resolution 2.2332 in document
3C/5, as Unesco had to wait to see what the United  Nations did in that matter. She went on to  explain that the request for priority for radio, in  Unesco’s work, was not to be understood to mean  priority over the two other media, despite the fact  that they were inevitably slower; it was in fact  a matter of some urgency that Unesco should  awaken the interest of the press in particular (see  resolution 2.235). Mass Communication had a  greater potential range than Unesco’s other acti-  vities and it was essential that it should not be  given a secondary rôle; such freedom of infor-  mation as existed in the world had to be utilized  for the formation of healthy and well-founded  judgments.  I. Resolution 2.27 (Technical Needs).  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the  amendment proposed on page 3 of document
3C/PRG/2.4.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) reverted to  the differences of viewpoint between delegates  which had come to light in the Sub-Commission.  The enquiries carried out had revealed extensive
8  le )  ~ ~   ly
2  —   p r e   E T   —   tl    needs for technical and intellectual equipment,  which had remained unsatisfied. What should  be done was to develop the free exchange of  information and equipment between devastated or  backward areas and more advanced areas; it  would, however, be imprudent to do as indicated  by the text, which the Executive Board appeared  to approve, and embark on new surveys in some  fifteen countries with similar needs, which would  only resull in an addition to the requests in hand.  Would it not be better to concentrate on meeting  the needs already known so far as the limited  resources available permitted? Admittedly, the  text under discussion emphasized the priority to  be given to such activities in the allocation of  resources. If, however, the accent in the discus-  sion should be on the extension of the enquiry to  other countries, the United Kingdom delegation  gave notice that it would submit an alternative  amendment.  M. GUEHENNO (France) pointed out that the  question of technical needs had brought to light  two conflicting concepts. In the eyes of the  French delegation, the survey was a preliminary  and should be followed by action, since Unesco  would not have completed its task until it had  met the requests made. However, while a com-  paratively small sum would suffice to complete  the enquiry already begun, large resources would  be needed to meet technical needs to any appre-  clable extent. Accordingly, the French delegation  pressed for the extension of the enquiry to further  countries, on the understanding that Unesco  should, as far as possible, meet technical needs  already known.  The amendment suggested on page 3 was  adopted.  lI. Resolutions 2.2211, 2.2212, 2.222 and 2.2223  (Removal of obstacles to the free flow of in-  formation ).  The resolutions were adopted in the form sug-  gested in document 3C/PRG/2.4, pages 3, 4 and 5.  III. Resolution 2.23 (Mass Media).  The resolution was adopted in the form pro-  posed on page 5 of document 3C/PRG/2.4.  Resolution 2.232 (Mass Communication Projects  Division )  The CHAIRMAN asked for the insertion of the  words “petite et compacte” before the word “ca-  pable” in the French text (page 5 of the report);  the words in question had been omitted.  Baron Van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) recalled  that the problem as a whole had been exhaustively
209  discussed in the Sub-Commission and that, at the  morning meeting, the Peruvian delegation had  proposed that a sum of $10,000, to be secured by  a deduction from the budget of the Projects Divi-  sion, should be devoted to a scientific project  (documents 3C/59 and 3C/60). It was evident  that the text of the resolution before the Com-  mission was indefinite. Within the Division there  were specialized sections for the press, radio and  films, and the Division as a whole, plus a limited  number of consultants, in practice constituted the  Ideas Bureau. Thus the Department and its  divisions had two distinct sources of general ideas  and, in addition, a budget of $90,000 to secure  the assistance of writers, scenario writers, etc.  The British delegation had submitted that Mass  Communication should be effected through out-  standing personalities throughout the world. It  was therefore unnecessary to make provision for  a group of consultants whose task would be to  incubate ideas.  Although it was outside the terms of reference  of the Programme and Budget Commission to  suggest measures concerned with administrative  organization, it could ask for the addition to reso-  lution 2.232 of a passage to the effect that the  Division’s activities should be initiated, not by a  Production Unit and an Ideas Bureau, but by the  specialized sections, with the assistance of out-  standing personalities outside the Organization as  consultants.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  felt that no good purpose would be served at the  current General Conference by laying down any  such limits to the Director-General’s freedom of  action in executing the programme prescribed for  him by the Mexico City Session.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) opposed any  reduction in the sums budgeted under that head.  After the enthusiasm of the earliest days and later  disappointments and delays, the time had come to  take the experiment to its logical conclusion. He  would like the application of the resolutions to be  left to the discretion of the Director-General, and  trusted that the project would meet with a sym-  pathetic reception from people qualified for a task  of such genuine worth.  M. GUEHENNO (France) remarked once more  on the surprise aroused by the name of the new  organization. All divisions and sections should  have ideas; it was quite impossible to reserve that  privilege to a single one of their number. In all  probability there was a “Projects Division” and  an “Ideas Bureau” in every section of Unesco, and  it was not really necessary to have a special Ideas  Bureau for Mass Communication.       Summing up the discussion, the CHAIRMAN  said that there were two resolutions before the  Commission : one moved by the Sub-Commis-  sion on Communication (document 3C/PRG/2.4,  page 5); and the other by the Belgian delegation  (the addition to resolution 2.232 of the words :  This division shall have recourse to the services of  the specialized press, radio and film sections, and  to consultation with eminent personalities outside the  Organization.  The latter was seconded by M. GUEHENNO  (France), Dr. SASSEN (Netherlands) and Dom  Joseph MORIS (Luxembourg), but was rejected.  The text recommended by the Sub-Commission  was adopted.  Recommendations to Member States (docu-  ment 8C/PRG/2.4, pages 5 and 6).  The recommendation to Member States at the  bottom of page 5 and the top of page 6 of the  report were adopted.  Resolutions 2.2331 and 2.2333  As recommended by the Sub-Commission, it  was decided to delete resolutions 2.2331 and 2.2333  in document 3C/5 and substitute the words pro-  posed on page 6 of document 3C/PRG/2.4.  Adopted.  Resolution 2.2332  The striking out of  approved.  resolution 2.2332 was  Resolution 2.23331  The new text proposed by the Sub-Commission  was adopted.  Resolutions 2.23333 to 2.2337  The new text proposed by the Sub-Commission  (page 6 of the report) was adopted.  Resolutions 2.2341 to 2.233  The wording proposed by the Sub-Commission  (page 7 of the report) was adopted.  Professor KABIR (India) pointed out that the  resolution did not completely cover the project  submitted by his delegation (document 3C/38),  and of which the Sub-Commission had adopted  the first point and the third. Only part of the  last point had been included in the resolution;  originally it had called for the supply of copies of  such films to Member States, for non-commercial       use, against payment in their national currencies,  which was in essence an amendment of resolution
2.2222 (book coupons). The Indian delegation’s  project had provided for immediate action,  whereas in the resolution adopted, the object was  limited to the formation of a film library.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  and Professor FANTAPIE (Italy) supported the  Indian delegate’s amendment.  The amendment was adopted.  Resolution 2.235 (Press)  The amendment proposed by the Sub-Com-  mission (page 7 of the Report) was adopted.  Resolution 2.236 (Mass Media : Major Themes)  Resolution 2.236 was adopted without amend-  ment.  Resolution 2.237 (Film projectors)  The resolution, on page 31 of document 3C/5,  was adopted.  Resolution 2.238 (International Press Institute)  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) mentioned  that the scheme for an International Press Institute  had not met with a very favourable reception in  the British press, and he proposed that the reso-  lution should be amended by the addition of the  words :  in so far as the need for such an institute is agreed  by journalists and by their professional organizations.  Adopted.  Issue of Unesco postage-stamps for corres-  pondence between schools (document 3C/3).  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) asked that the question  of promoting correspondence between schools by  lowering the postal charges for it should be stud-  ied. The regular use of Unesco stamps in all  countries would be excellent publicity for the  Organization.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) suggested that such an  enquiry should be undertaken in collaboration  with the Universal Postal Union; the Austrian  delegate agreed.  The Austrian delegation’s proposal was adop-  ted. (°°)
(83) In final form :  p. 32.  Resolution 7.2245, Volume II,
260            Proposal of the Peruvian delegation (docu-  ment 3C/60).  The CHAIRMAN submitted to the Commission  the motion of the Peruvian delegation (document
3C/60), for the reduction of the budget of the  Projects Division by $10,000.  The motion was rejected.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that other reso-  lutions on the programme of Mass Communi-  cation were down for later discussion by the Com-  mission.  With the amendment made by the Commission,  the resolutions which had been discussed were  adopted unanimously.  Professor RIVET (France) pointed out that the  last paragraph of the report (document 3C/PRG/
2.4), though, strictly speaking, neither a recom-  mendation nor a resolution, yet reflected the  discussions on the structure of the Department of  Mass Communication; it would, therefore, be  desirable for that paragraph to be retained, in its  existing form, in the Commissions’s report to the  Budget Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN remarked that questions of  administrative organization were not within the  Programme and Budget Commission’s terms of  reference, but that, with the Commission’s ap-  proval, the paragraph in question would be for-  warded.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m.  SIXTH MEETING  Tuesday, 30 November 1948, at 11 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of Reports of Sub-Commis-  sions (continuation).  Cultural Questions (document 3C/PRG/
3.7).  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) (Rap-  porteur of the Sub-Commission on Cultural  Questions) gave an outline of the budgetary  adjustments involved in the decisions taken during  discussion of the several projects. He explained  that, as far as the first four items were concerned,  the appropriations in the budget, though slightly  reduced, would be adequate. The position  regarding the last item (Freedom of the Artist)  was a little different; the project had already been  the subject of heated discussions, and any financial  adjustments required would depend on the deci-  sion taken by the Programme and Budget Com-  mission. Estimated requirements might be any-  thing from $8,000 to $25,000 according to the  plan of work adopted. Dr. McKeon was very  much in favour of the project, as nothing had so  far been done to associate artists with Unesco’s  alms.
(8)  I. Cultural liaison for the Middle East.  The CHAIRMAN submitted the amendment as
261  finally approved by the Joint Programme and  Official and External Relations Commission, read-  ing as follows :  As a means of carrying out resolution 4.3.3 of the  programme approved at the Second Session of the  General Conference, the Director-General is instructed  to create a service of cultural liaison to promote, in  co-operation with National Commissions or competent  cultural Co-operating Bodies, the exchange of  ideas, information, materials and persons in the  field of Arts, Letters, Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies among the countries of the Middle East of  similar culture and between those countries and the  other countries of the world.  Adopted.  II. Reproductions in Visual Arts and Music.  Dr. FARES (Egypt) advocated a clearer form  of words as regarded reproductions in visual arts  (resolution 4.143).  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General pointed  out that it was less a question of a new resolution  than of a directive to the Secretariat regarding  the arrangement of the scheme of work. He