i i ,   =     item; and, secondly, they felt that the Director-  General should investigate the possibility of  reducing the number of staff required to maintain  those specialized services, by redistributing them  to the separate Programme Departments. Sir John  regretted the summary way in which the first  resolution of the Joint Committee had been rejec-  ted by the Programme and Budget Commission.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) moved  that the resolution before the meeting should end  at the word “1949”.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) opposed  any amendment of the resolution of the Joint  Committee, because, as it stood, it gave specific  indication of the way in which the Committee  hoped the Director-General would examine the  situation.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) also opposed  any amendment to the resolution, which had been  unanimously approved by a committee of experts.  While opposed in principle to the General Confer-  ence’'s commenting upon the detailed set-up of the  Organization, he thought that the case under con-  sideration was exceptional and called for the  exceptional step of inviting the Director-General  to consider the re-organization of a Department  in accordance with specific directions from the  General Conference.  M. SEYDOUX (France) warmly supported the  views expressed by the delegate of the United  Kingdom, especially with regard to the summary  way in which the Programme and Budget Com-  mission had quashed the resolution of the Joint  Committee, without notifying the members of  that Committee that the question was about to be  discussed, and before they had even seen the Rap-  porteur’s Report of the meetings of their Com-  mittee.  Mrs. WRIGHT (Chairman of the Joint Com-  mittee of Fifteen) pointed out that the first reso-  lution of the Committee had been referred to the  Programme and Budget Commission simply  because it was concerned with a programme pro-  ject. In the same way, the resolution under dis-  cussion had been submitted to the Administrative  Commission because of its administrative aspects.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) withdrew  his amendment to the Joint Committee s reso-  lution. It was agreed to refer the resolution to  the General Conference without comment.  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.  FOURTEENTH MEETING  Friday, 3 December 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 6 (d) of the Agenda : Allowance during
1948 for the out-going Director-General.  As a representative of the Executive Board,  M. VERNIERS (Belgium), read the following  text  On 15 October 1948 the Executive Board took the  following decision (document 11EX /Decisions, page 5):  ‘Remuneration of senior officials.  The Board decided to extend to the Deputy Director-  General and the Assistant Directors-General the system  of cost-of-living adjustments approved for classified  members of the Secretariat, granting a 4 per cent  increase in their total remuneration for each 10 per  cent rise in the cost of living index, retroactively since  February 1948.  The Board also agreed that, on the precedent of
410  last year’s decision, the total remuneration of the  Director-General should be increased in the same  proportion as the increases approved for the Deputy  and Assistant Directors-General, subject to con-  firmation by the General Conference.’  The Commission has recently approved a contract  for the new Director-General which provides  for cost-of-living adjustments in accordance with such  adjustments as may be made for the staff. There-  fore the Executive Board suggests that the Commis-  sion recommend the following resolution to the  General Conference :  ‘The General Conference resolves to confirm the  decision of the Executive Board to provide for the  Director-General during 1948 an allowance, calculated  on the same basis as the cost-of-living allowance  authorized by the Executive Board for the Deputy  Director-General and the Assistant Directors-General.’  The draft resolution was adopted.     Ir  I  ti  W  h   Item 7 of the Agenda : Report to the General  Conference (document 3C/ADM/I7).  The SECRETARY read some suggested amend-  ments to the English text, including the addition,  on page 24, of a paragraph 4, embodying the reso-  lution just adopted by the Commission.  M. VERNIERS (Belgium) (Rapporteur) then  proceeded to indicate the amendments necessary  to make the French text identical with the English.  The CHAIRMAN invited the members of the  Commission to comment on the Report (doc-  ument 3C/ADM/17). He thought the introduc-  tion (pages 1 to 3) summed up the situation very  well.  M. NESOULI (Lebanon) suggested that dis-  cussion should be deferred until the delegates had  had time to study the document.  The CHAIRMAN reminded delegates that the  Commission was holding its last meeting.  At the suggestion of Mr. ZOOK (United States  of America), the CHAIRMAN adjourned the
411  meeting for a quarter of an hour in response to  the Lebanese delegate'‘s request.  On the resumption of the meeting, the Com-  mission proceeded to discuss the Report page by  page. In the course of the discussion, in which  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America), Mr. PILE  (United Kingdom), Professor CHEN Yuan  (China), M. VERNIERS (Belgium), M. NESOULI  (Lebanon) and Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) took  part, some minor amendments were adopted, the  final wording being left to the Rapporteur. (*°*)  Before closing the meeting, the CHAIRMAN  expressed his appreciation of the enthusiastic col-  laboration of delegates and members of the  Secretariat and of the production of so forcible  a report in a very short space of time.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) remarked that.  largely due to the efficiency of the Chairman, the  work had been completed according to time-table.  The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.