EIGHTH  NE AT FL  MEETING  Thursday, 25 November 1948, at 10.50 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Decisions of the General Committee.  (a) Appointment of the five members of the  Commission to serve on the Joint  Committee of Fifteen.  The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the General  Committee’s recommendation that a Joint Com-  mittee of Fifteen should be set up ('*?) and pro-  posed that the Commission should appoint five  members to represent it on the Committee.  It was decided to appoint the delegates of China,  India, the Netherlands and the Union of South  Africa, leaving the selection of the fifth delegate  to the Chairman.  (b) Resolution submitted by the delegation  of Saudi Arabia.  The CHAIRMAN announced that, at its meeting  that morning ('?%), the General Committee had  decided to refer to the Administrative Commission  a resolution submitted by the delegate of Saudi  Arabia, proposing :  That the General Conference instruct the Director-  General to entrust experts with a study of the  following points :
1. What is the proportion of non-productive  expenditure and administrative expenditure incurred  by the various activities of Unesco compared with  (a) the total budget expenditure, and (b) the admini-  strative and non-productive expenditure incurred by  other similar governmental or international or-  ganizations ?
2. What is the ratio between the salaries and  allowances of all kinds granted to officials of Unesco,  on the one hand, and, on the other, the salaries and  allowances granted to officials of other similar or-  ganizations and to government officials and members  of diplomatic missions in the country where Unesco  has its headquarters?
3. Should the salaries and allowances of Unesco  officials be found to be higher than those of govern-  ment officials and members of diplomatic missions,  or those of similar international organizations, what  recommendations would the experts deem fit to
(123) See Summary Record of the Second Meeting of  the General Committee, p. 217.
(124) See Summary Record of the Sixth Meeting of  the General Committee, p. 225.  address to the General Conference with a view to  accomplishing an acceptable degree of parity ?  The Chairman thought that the matter was  within the competence of the Commission, and  that the Committee it had already appointed was  the appropriate body to consider the proposal; he  therefore suggested that the proposal should be  referred to that Committee.  The Commission agreed.  Item 4 of the Agenda : Financial Questions  (continuation).  Item 4 (b) : Scale of contributions of  Member States for 1949 (document 3C/  ADM/3 and supplements).  The CHAIRMAN mentioned that in the resolution  submitted by the United States delegation (doc-  ument 3C/26) and adopted by the Commission at  its sixth meeting, paragraph (2) had read :  Decides that, as world conditions permit, and as new  Members are admitted, the General Conference should  modify its scale of contributions to bring this prin-  ciple into effect.  It would perhaps be desirable to substitute the  word “or” for “and” in the first line, as the  existing wording implied two conditions : not  only that world conditions should return to nor-  mal, but that there should be an increase of  membership.  It was decided to substitute “or” for “and”.  The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of the  final text of the resolution on the scale of con-  tributions for 1949.  The resolution was adopted. (**°)  Item 5 of the Agenda Staff Questions  (continuation).  Item 5 (f): Organization of the Secretariat.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) said his delegation  _ -g
(125) In final form : Volume II, Section X,  Annex II, 2 (1), p. 47.
392     (  (  -   —   —   ( r a   ~   S S P  Qn   b e d   B A "   A  e e e   e d   e d   M N   e e   b d     had felt bound to put that item on the Agenda  in view of the very serious nature of the words  contained in the Report of the Finance Committee  of the Executive Board on the Director-General’s  Budget for 1949 (document 3C/6, pages 6 and 7).  He alluded particularly to the first five lines of  the first paragraph on page 7 and asked the Com-  mission to read the remainder of the paragraph,  for 1t was in the light of what was said there that  his delegation had made the following proposal :  Having regard to the comments of the Finance  Committee of the Executive Board on the budget  relating to administrative costs, and having regard to  the appointment of a new Director-General,  The General Conference recommends that the  Director-General should, as soon as possible, critically  examine the relationship between the Administrative  Bureaux and the Programme Departments and take  such action affecting the reorganization of the admini-  stration as he deems appropriate, having particular  regard :
(1) to the need for facilitating and accelerating  operational action by Programme Departments and  for concentrating a larger measure of administrative  responsibility upon the Heads of Programme Depart-  ments;
(2) to the effecting of economies, both financiallly  and in personnel, in the administration;  requests the Director-General to report by 1 July 1949  upon the action taken upon the above recommen-  dation, both to the Executive Board and to the Fourth  Session of the General Conference.  It was a significant fact that the delegations, in  their opening addresses, had nearly all referred to  the problem. And it was even more significant  that, in discussing administrative problems, they  found themselves forced to do it either in terms  of figures and statistics or in terms of similes and  metaphors. One of the difficulties was their  inability to use a vocabulary which meant the  same thing to everyone when discussing the  administrative costs and services of the Organi-  zation. The first task, therefore, was to agree  upon what was meant by such costs and services.  At the seventh plenary meeting of the Confer-  ence, the leader of the United Kingdom delegation  had proposed that, in order to agree upon a basis  of discussion, the Conference should take Table VII  on pages 130 and 131 of document 3C/6, headed  “Comparison of 1948 Estimated Obligations and
1949 Budget Estimate, by Lines of 1949 Appro-  priation Table”. The percentages of the total 1949  estimate would be found in the last column; it  would be seen that Part IV of the Budget claimed
12.4 per cent and the Reserve 4.7 per cent,  making a total of approximately 17 per cent. If  the cost of Part I of the Budget—3.7 per cent—  were added, the total was about 20 per cent. That
20 per cent should be regarded as essential Com-  mon Services—common alike to the programme     and to the administration—and should be de-  ducted from the total before any attempt was  made to divide the remainder into administrative  and programme costs. Left with that 80 per cent,  the United Kingdom delegation thought that, for  debating purposes, the figure of 25.7 per cent  given in Part II of the Budget might be accepted  as the proportion which was really attributable  to General Administration in the strict sense the  meeting was trying to define. If the Commission  could agree that that 25.7 per cent was the figure  under discussion, everyone would be sure of dis-  cussing the same thing.  In the opinion of the United Kingdom dele-  gation, the question was not whether Unesco  needed 25 per cent of its budget for admini-  stration, but whether any Organization was  entitled to such a percentage for costs of admini-  stration. The delegation was convinced that no  organization was so entitled. What did that
25 per cent represent? What was done with the  funds? Delegates were on difficult ground because  they were talking of different concepts of admini-  stration. The British delegation did not believe  that the type of administration adopted by Unesco  was the one the Organization required. The  delegation was fully aware that they were arguing  on conviction and about conviction, but they had  certain documentary evidence of the nature of the  administration being carried on. Mr. Pile would  quote document 12 EX/7, which he believed had  been submitted to the Board but not considered  by them; he wished to deal only with the lan-  guage used to explain what that system of admini-  stration conceived as its object. A suggestion was  made to set up an Administrative Planning Divi-  sion within the system of administration sustained  by the funds of Part Il. Its functions were to be  as followed :  The Division will perform for the Head of the  Bureau (of Administrative Services) administrative  surveys and investigations as requested by the other  Divisions of the Bureau or by a Department or Bureau,  will develop standards and policies for salary and wage  administration, will assist in the development of, and  clear all forms for internal use in the Secretariat,  assist in the development of, and issue policies and  procedures necessary to administer the affairs of the  Secretariat, develop and maintain the administrative  manuals, review Secretariat-wide and, if requested,  internal procedures, develop reporting systems to  measure routine work-loads in the Secretariat, and  perform internal auditing as necessary.  That seemed to the United Kingdom delegation  to betray the kind of administration which made  work for itself. The production of administrative  manuals at the stage so far reached appeared to  the delegation quite wrong. When a problem  arose, it should be solved on an ad hoc basis, and         people should not be employed to sit apart and  solve such problems. The result of such a com-  plicated and super-efficient administration was  that the general speed of work was slowed down;  too many people were required, too many people  had to contribute to a decision. Mr. Pile had  heard that high-ranking programme officers had  their policies hindered because of the admini-  strative problems, and an officer of low rank  might question the authority of a Programme  Department for administrative reasons. Some  check was, of course, necessary, but there should  be a greater concentration of all responsibility,  financial and administrative, in the hands of the  Heads of the Programme Departments; that would  result in a reduction in the functions of cen-  tralized administrative services and in the number  of people required to carry out those functions,  and would bring about a consequent saving In  the funds necessary to maintain those Bureaux.  The United Kingdom delegation had no doubt  that the existing system was not satisfactory, but  at the same time, it was not prepared to say that  anything could be done to remedy it at the cur-  rent Conference. Mr. Pile thought it was the  Commission’s duty to put before the new Director-  General the strong views his delegation was ad-  vancing, and to advise him, in the strongest  terms, to take all necessary steps to give effect to  the Commission’s recommendations as quickly as  possible and to report to the Executive Board upon  the action taken.  The United Kingdom resolution was seconded  by Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) and Professor  CHEN Yuan (China).  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) thought  that the resolution was based too much upon the  assumption that general administration was a  brake upon the actual conduct of projects and  studies. He did not deny, however, that it might  be possible to effect economies in the programme,  or that administrative machinery might give rise  to delays. It seemed quite clear that the reso-  lution had been proposed because of the admini-  strative situation over the past two years.  Mr. Zook thought, however, that it would be  sufficient to ask the Director-General to enquire  into the matter. If he understood the situation  in administration, it seemed that, with a good  administrative system, it would not be necessary  to decentralize the administration of projects so  far as to make them often indefensible from the  point of view of both economy and good admini-  stration. While, therefore, his delegation did not  take too definite a position with regard to the  matter, Mr. Zook wished to raise the question of  the implications of the resolution for the future  co-ordination. It  administration of projects. He asked Mr. Hulten  of his delegation to give his views on the bud-  getary aspect.  Mr. HULTEN (United States of America) said  that sub-paragraph (1) of the United Kingdom's  resolution proposed a larger measure of admini-  strative responsibility for heads of Programme  Departments. He did not think that it allowed  the new Director-General the discretion which  should of necessity go with his responsibility for  took the side of one type  of organization—a decentralized organization—  which, so far as Mr. Hulten knew, did not  necessarily lead to good administration or reduced  costs. He thought the Director-General should be  left more freedom than the resolution appeared to  give him to organize the Secretariat in such a way  that he could carry out his responsibilities. He  would hesitate to support the conclusion (not  necessarily a request) for a review and action by  the Direclor-General. He did not think that there  was something necessarily bad about the fact that  an administrative officer checked on the plans of  a high-ranking programme officer, if the admini-  strative officer recognized his place in the Organi-  zation. The elimination of such checks, he  thought, might involve the Organization in more,  rather than less, expenditure.     M. VERNIERS (Belgium), Dr. EL DIWANY  (Egypt), Mr. NELSON (Australia), Mr. FYZEE  (India), M. PADOUX (France), M. HAIDAR (Le-  banon), Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa)  and Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) supported the  resolution of the United Kingdom delegate but  suggested some modifications and amendments.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to  express his great appreciation to the United King-  dom delegate for the clear way in which he had  stated what appeared to him to be the main points  involved. The Director-General had given con-  tinual attention, throughout his two years of  office, to the question of trying to arrive at a  balance, bearing in mind always the nature of the  responsibility resting upon him. Simultaneously,  however, there had rested upon him a series of  obligations and responsibilities approved by the  General Conference and relating to the whole field  of financial procedure and administration.  The suggestion had been made that it might be  desirable to appoint an advisory body of experts  from outside. The Deputy Director-General re-  minded the Commission that in the spring of
1948 a Committee, under the chairmanship of  M. Aghnides (who was also Chairman of the  United Nations Committee on administrative and  budgetary questions), had been called in; that
394         Committee had drafted a report on the admini-  stration, and the Director-General had been guided  by that report in much of the action he had taken  during the past months.  Reference had been made to the fact that  something like 25 per cent of the Organization’s  budget went to administration. The Deputy  Director-General was sorry that the only illu-  stration given of heavy-handed administration or  delaying action was that concerning a small body  dealing with problems of administrative manage-  ment. As a matter of fact, the salaries involved  there represented .004 per cent of the budget; no  great economy would, therefore, be effected by  eliminating that particular operation. The Deputy  Director-General desired to correct the impression  that the services of Personel, Budget and the  Comptroller exercised official authority over their  seniors in Programme Departments. That was  not true; the administrative services did not have  final authority; there was only one final arbiter  and that was the Director-General, who took the  opinion and advice of his budget staff or finance  or personnel staff, and then made his decisions.  From a theoretical point of view, the Deputy  Director-General thought it would be very dif-  ficult to assert that any given percentage of costs  assigned to administration in an organization was  too much or too little. The character, age, and  functions of the organization, and the programme  being carried out, had to be taken into account.  Further, the question of the qualifications of staff  available for employment by the Organization  should be considered, as well as the fact that, in  many instances, the primary consideration was  necessarily the technical competence of the indi-  vidual, and his ability to conform to the require-  ments of a public administration a secondary  consideration. Other factors to be considered  when deciding what was a fair percentage, were :  whether the organization in question was an inter-  national or a national body; the situation of the  headquarters of the organization; the degree of  economic dislocation existing in the world, and  the problems it placed upon the Director-General.  The record of the Director-General’s admini-  stration during the past two year showed certain  positive achievements. The first was that the  programme had, in broad lines and in substance,  been carried out. There had been delays in its  execution, but often such delays had been due  to factors completely outside the scope of the  meeting's current discussion. The Deputy Di-  rector-General also wished to point out that in his  judgment, and that of the Director-General, the  programme had not been unduly retarded by  administrative procedure. The Director-General  had managed to pilot the organization through  two difficult years and to come through with an  -  Auditor's Report which showed that the financial  situation of Unesco was good. The Secretariat  had never felt that the administrative organi-  zation was final, but considered that it should be  subject to review; in fact, many controls had  already been relaxed.  In conclusion the Deputy Director-General said  he welcomed the resolution, but would like to  suggest possible changes in sub-paragraphs (1)  and (2).  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), replying to the  Deputy Director-General and previous speakers,  sald his delegation had raised the question because,  after two years, it appeared to them that the  Programme Departments were not satisfied with  the service that came from the administration.  The British delegation were convinced that, if  that were so, then something should be done about  the administrative services. If the Commission  came to the conclusion that changes should be  made, and that something was wrong, something  effective should be done about it. The dele-  gation felt bound to stand by the clauses in the  resolution which asked the Director-General, after  he had made a survey, to take action.  With regard to the alteration to paragraph 1  proposed by the United States delegation, (to  omit the words “for concentrating a larger  measure of administrative responsibility upon  the Heads of Programme Departments”), he  had already said that the British delegation  disagreed fundamentally with the concept under-  lying the existing administration, on the ground  that it implied an absolute division of responsi-  bility between administration and programme  work and, in any such absolute division, the  power of veto inevitably fell into the hands of one  party. Following upon such an accumulation of  what might be called administrative power, came  all the difficulties that Mr. Pile had outlined when  he first spoke. There was not, in any general  sense, a holding back of the programme, but it  was in what the French called : “la petite vie de  tous les jours” that all the interference and the  frustration and excessive delays occurred. His  delegation had been given to understand by  reliable members of the Secretariat that they often  had themselves to pilot questions through the  administrative offices; that was not a symptom  of an easy and efficient administration. The  Deputy Director-General had asked what the dele-  gation meant by “making economies”. The United  Kingdom delegate had tried to make that point  clear when he said that administrative manuals  were not needed. The Deputy Director-General  had asked how records were to be kept. Mr. Pile  would answer that they had apparently not been  kept. The previous day he had been told of a         delay of eighteen months in replying to a can-  didate for a post. There seemed to be a tumour  of unnecessary work on the administrative side.  It was his delegation's conviction that policies  could not be manufactured; there was the natural  readjustment resulting from empirical experience.  Mr. Pile proposed that the United Kingdom re-  solution shoud go forward unchanged, except for  the Greek and Belgian amendments.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) proposed  that the second part of sub-paragraph (1) should  be omitted, to read only : “to the need for faci-  litating and accelerating operational action”.  The proposal was rejected.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) then pro-  posed that the second part of sub-paragraph (1)  should be omitted and that the second paragraph  of the resolution should read :  Recommends that the Director-General should, as  soon as possible, critically examine the relationship  between the Administrative Bureaux and the Pro-  gramme Departments, including the possible need for  concentrating a larger measure of administrative  responsibility on the Heads of the Programme Depart-  ments, and take such action...  The amendment was rejected.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) pro-  posed the substitution of the word “possibility”  for the word “need” in sub-paragraph (1).  The amendment was rejected.  The CHAIRMAN put the United Kingdom reso-  lution to the vote, paragraph by paragraph.  It was adopted. (2°)  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  NINTH MEETING  Friday, 26 November 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Appointment of a fifth member of the Com-  mission to serve on the Joint Committee of  Fifteen.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the Commission's  fifth representative on the Joint Committee of  Fifteen would be the delegate of New Zealand.  Item 6 (b) of the Agenda : Contract of the  Director-General.  The date at which the contract between the  new Director-General and Unesco should begin  had to be decided, and the CHAIRMAN proposed  that a small committee should be set up, to report  to the Commission on the proposed contract,  which would then be distributed in French and  English.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) proposed that  a member of the French delegation should be on  the Committee.  It was agreed that the Committee should consist  of the delegate of Norway, who was also a member  of the Executive Board, and delegates of France,  the United Kingdom and the United States of  America.  Item 5 of the Agenda  (continuation).  Staff Questions  Items 5 (a) and 5 (c) : Salary and allowance  system (document 3C/ADM/8 and corrigen-  dum); Medical Benefits Scheme (document
3C/ADM/10 and supplements).  The CHAIRMAN said that the Report of the  Commission’s Sub-Committee on the Salary and  Allowance System was ready, but copies of the  Report were not yet available.  It was read by the SECRETARY.  The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Commission
(126) In final form : Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 6, p. 55.