——   —   -~      SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE  NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE  FIRST MEETING  Wednesday, 17 November 1948, at 4.20 p.m.  Chairman: Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  Election of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman.  The delegates of India, Sir Sarvepalli Radha-  krishnan, and the United Kingdom, Sir John  Maud, were elected Chairman and Vice-Chairman  of the Committee.  Nominations for the offices of President and  Vice-Presidents of the General Conference.  Before any proposals were put forward, it was  agreed that each Member State elected should  nominate the member of its delegation by which  it desired to be represented.  It was agreed, by acclamation, that Lebanon  should be proposed for the office of President.  In considering nominations for the seven posts  of Vice-President, account was taken of the  countries which had already occupied those posts  at earlier sessions. The following suggestions had  been submitted to the Committee by the Executive  Board :  Argentina, Canada and the United States of  America, to represent the American continent:  China, to represent the Far East;  France and Italy to represent Europe;  Lebanon and Turkey to represent the Middle  East.  Adopted.  Composition of the Credentials Committee.  The Committee was informed that Belgium had  been chosen for the Chairmanship of the Cre-
439  dentials Committee. The other members of that  Committee were Afghanistan, Austria, Egypt,  Luxembourg, New Zealand, the Philippines and  the United Kingdom.  Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs  of Commissions and Committees.  In accordance with the Executive Board's re-  commendation, the following proposals were sub-  mitted :  Procedure Committee Chairman, Denmark;  Vice-Chairman, Philippines; Rapporteur, Egypt.  Programme and Budget Commission : Chair-  man, Brazil; Vice-Chairman, Belgium; Rapporteur,  United States of America.  Budget Sub-Commission Chairman, United  Kingdom; Vice-Chairman, Italy; Rapporteur, Aus-  tralia.  Administrative Commission : Chairman, Union  of South Africa; Vice-Chairman, India; Rapporteur,  Netherlands.  Official and External Relations Commission :  Chairman, United Kingdom; Vice-Chairman, Iran:  Rapporteur, France.  Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) was anxious. on  account of the small size of his delegation, not to  have to serve on a Commission. He therefore  asked for a substitute to be appointed Rapporteur  of the Administrative Commission.  It was decided that no recommendation re-  garding that post should be submitted to the Ad-  ministrative Commission.  The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m.