TWELFTH MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, al 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 6 (b) of the Agenda : Contract of the  Director-General (continuation).  After discussion, the following resolution was  adopted :  The Administrative Commission recommends that  the Executive Board examine what amendments could  be made to the Constitution, with a view to harmon-  izing the constitutional term of office of the Director-  General with the ordinary sessions of the General  Conference.  Item 5 (a) of the Agenda : Salary and  allowance system (continuation).  Report of the Sub-Commitee on the Salary  and Allowance System (document 3C/ADM/
16).  After discussion, it was decided that no com-  ment should be made on the first part of the  Report (the criteria adopted by the Director-  General in developing a salary and allowance  system) as the Sub-Committee had merely  enumerated what had previously been decided by  the Director-General.  The CHAIRMAN then read the second part of  the document (two instructions given to the  Director-General in connexion with salaries and  allowances by the Second Session of the General  Conference, together with the conclusions of the  Sub-Committee with regard to both instructions).  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) pointed out that,  in document 3C/ADM/16, one sentence had been  omitted from text adopted by the Sub-Committee;  in the conclusions regarding the first instruction,  the following sentence should be added :  This matter should, in the opinion of the Sub-  Committee, be given further consideration by the  Director-General.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the sentence would  be inserted.  The parts of the resolution recommended by  the Sub-Committee (pages 2, 3 and 4) were then  considered one by one.  Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 were adopted.  Paragraph +.  In connexion with paragraph 4. A., Dr. WAL-  KER (Australia) asked for a more precise  definition of the term “comparable” as applied to  the relationship between United Nations and  Unesco allowances. Was the comparison to be  made with United Nations allowances paid in  New York or in Paris? He felt that the particular  economic situation existing at the seat of any  given Organization should be a deciding factor  in fixing the rates of such allowances.  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) explained that the  intention of the Sub-Committee had, indeed, been  to set up a system which could be compared with  that adopted by the United Nations, but which  should be adjusted in accordance with local  economic conditions.  To make the point quite clear, Dr. WALKER  (Australia), seconded by Mr. PILE (United King-  dom), proposed that the last clause (‘and the  allowance provision should be comparable”)  should be replaced by :  … The structure of the allowance system should be .  similar, and the amounts should be fixed having  regard to the cost of living in different centres.  The proposal was adopted.  With regard to paragraph 4.B., Dr. WALKER  (Australia) asked whether the decision of the  Sub-Committee could not be reconsidered, as he  did not think it advisable to recommend that the  dislocation allowance should be discontinued at  the moment.  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) and Mr. ZOOK  (United States of America) both pointed out that  the Sub-Committee had not intended to recom-  mend an immediate discontinuance of the dislo-  cation allowance. It was merely felt that the  allowance provided compensation for many items  which were somewhat intangible and contro-  versial and that the Director-General, and the  United Nations Special Committee, might well  consider whether compensation, when necessary  in that connexion, could not be made in a  different manner.
404     i   +  e e   A   A c c   —   :  +   A  w m   ©  C H  OO )  = f  =   —   — _        It was agreed to change the words ‘as soon as  possible” in paragraph 4.B., to ‘as soon as  conditions permit”.  M. HAIDAR (Lebanon) pointed out that the  Sub-Committee had been constituted to consider  two aspects of the salary and allowance system :  (a)  (b) whether the system of computing and  paying allowances could be simplified in order  to reduce personnel.  what economies, if any, could be effected;  Document 3C/ADM/16 contained the con-  clusions and suggestions of the Sub-Committee  on those two points, but the Lebanese delegate  felt that the method of presentation was wrong.  The recommendations of the Sub-Committee had  been presented in the form of instructions to the  Director-General rather than suggestions for his  guidance. M. Haidar therefore submitted the  following resolution which he felt would cover  items 4B to 4K of the Report :  Considering that the system of allowances is com-  plicated, and that the amounts of these allowances are  high,  The General Conference recommends to the Director-  General that, after consultation with the United  Nations Committee which will study salaries and  allowances, he re-consider the whole system of  allowances to the staff, with a view to simplifying  and economizing, provided that such economy does  not affect the quality of the staff.  M. SEYDOUX (France) supported that point  of view and the recommendation submitted. He  felt that the document as it stood did present a  series of instructions which were rather rigid and  tended to tie the hands of the Director-General.  It was understood, however, that the excellent  conclusions and recommendations of the Sub-  Committee should remain on record as suggestions  to assist the Director-General.  The delegate of France then pointed out, as a  matter of form, that the Director-General should  not be required to report developments in the  salary and allowance system to the Executive  Board “for information”, as stated in paragraph 3,  since the Finance Committee of the Board should  be actively studying the question.  Dr. RUSTOM (Saudi Arabia) and Mr. BANER-  JEE (India) also supported the proposal of the  delegate of Lebanon. It was pointed out that  the Director-General should be allowed the utmost  freedom in determining the internal application  of the salary and allowance system. A Com-  mission of the General Conference could not  consider itself competent to give detailed in-  structions in that matter.  ki
2  |  |  |  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) thought  there appeared to be some confusion with regard  to the Sub-Committee’s Report. In no case were  the recommendations intended to represent 1n-  structions to the Director-General. Some sug-  gestions had been made, which it was hoped  might prove useful, but no definite action was  required; the suggestions, in any case, would be  subject to expert review by the Secretariat.  Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand) and Mr. CRAW-  FORD (Canada) supported that point of view,  and the latter added that the Sub-Committee had  endeavoured to follow its terms of reference and  had felt that it would be more helpful to give  the Director-General an over-all statement of the  opinion of the Sub-Committee, than a general  recommendation.  "Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) pointed out that  the situation was somewhat ironic, inasmuch as  the Commission, after a very full discussion on  the question of reducing allowances, had a week  earlier decided that it was not advisable to do so  as things stood, and had constituted the Sub-  Committee to study the principles upon which  the existing system was based, and to make  recommendations for the future. The main  purpose had been to produce a report which  would be of use to the Director-General, as well  as to the Special Committee of the United Nations,  in studying the general problem. Mr. Pile,  therefore, felt that the best way of clarifying the  situation would be to adopt the resolution propos-  ed by the delegate of Lebanon, omitting para-  graph 4 completely, and amending paragraph 2  to indicate that the Director-General, in his dis-  cussions with the United Nations Special Com-  mittee, should take into consideration the opinions  expressed by the General Conference as set out  in document 3C/ADM/16.  The CHAIRMAN. together with Dr. BENDER  (Netherlands) and Professor SOMMERFELT (Nor-  way), repeated that the Sub-Committee had not  intended to present a series of instructions tying  the hands of the Director-General.  Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) pointed out, however,  that the document did, in fact, by its very nature  as a recommendation put forward by the Third  Session of the General Conference, constitute an  instruction to the Director-General which would  emphatically restrict his freedom of action in the  matter.  The CHAIRMAN then ruled that the resolution  proposed by the delegate of Lebanon could not  be considered as an amendment to the document,      but as an additional resolution formulated to give  substance to the suggestions contained in the  document.  M. HAIDAR (Lebanon) also felt that the general  instructions contained in the report did severely  restrict the liberty of the Director-General in  taking decisions on the matter of salaries and  allowances. The resolution he had suggested  should be adopted in order to remedy that  situation, as the General Conference was not  competent to issue more than a general directive  on the matter. The two general points to be  recommended by the Conference were economy  in, and simplification of, the salary and allowance  system. It was for the Director-General and his  advisers to decide where that economy should be  made and how the system could be simplified.  Dr. WALKER (Australia) then proposed an  amendment to paragraph 4 of the Sub-Committee’s  resolution so that the paragraph would read :  The Director-General shall inform other participants  in this study of the following suggestions :  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) agreed that that  amendment would have the same effect as his  own proposal, and the amendment was adopted.  As the amendment made it clear that the doc-  ument contained only suggestions for the guidance  of the Director-General, the meeting then adopted  sub-paragraphs B, C, D, E, F and G of para-  graph 4.  With regard to paragraph 4H, the CHAIRMAN  announced that the United Kingdom delegation  wished to submit the amendment contained in  document 3C/86.  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) immediately an-  nounced that the Sub-Committee would be quite  willing for the amendment to be inserted in  paragraph 4H, and the paragraph was, therefore,  adopted, as follows :  H. An examination should be made to ensure, in  respect of identical staff grades and equal salary rates  in the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies,  comparable duties in terms of the nature of the work  done, the responsibilities borne, the degree of super-  vision received and exercised, and the qualifications  necessary.  Sub-paragraphs 4—I, J and K were all adopted,  without further discussion.  The CHAIRMAN then asked for consideration  of the resolution proposed by the delegate of  Lebanon.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) suggested that it  would be more appropriate to reverse the order  of paragraphs 3 and 4 in the draft resolution just  adopted and to add the resolution proposed by  the delegate of Lebanon as a second paragraph  to the new number 4.  In further discussion, Mr. WEITZ (Acting  Head of the Bureau of Administrative Manage-  ment and Budget) pointed out that the only  reservation to be made by the Secretariat was that,  if the Director-General was to participate in the  discussions of the United Nations Special Com-  mittee and then re-consider the whole problem  of the Unesco salary and allowance system, it  might well be impossible for him to prepare the  revised system in time for the Fourth Session of  the General Conference.  The solution proposed by the delegate of the  United Kingdom was adopted. (*?*)  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
(128) In final form : Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 1, pp. 52 and 53.