SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE PROGRAMME SUB-COMMISSIONS  SUB-COMMISSION ON RECONSTRUCTION  FIRST MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. B. B. THOMAS (United Kingdom)  Election of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) opened  the meeting and mentioned that the Nominations  Committee had suggested that the Sub-Commis-  sion on Reconstruction should appoint a delegate  of the United Kingdom Chairman, a delegate of  Turkey Vice-Chairman, and a delegate of India  Rapporteur.  Agreed.  Mr. B. B. Thomas (United Kingdom) was elected  Chairman; Dr. Tevfik Saglam (Turkey), Vice-  Chairman; and Mr. P. N. Kirpal (India), Rappor-  teur.  Mr. Thomas took the Chair.  Adoption of the Agenda.  The provisional Agenda (document 3C/PRG/1.5)  was adopted.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA asked if the working  papers would be related item by item to Chapter 1  of document 3C/5 or if they would be dealt with  separately first and adapted to document 3C/5  afterwards.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that the General Conference had decided  that Sub-Commission should give priority to the  topics contained in the working papers. At the  end of their consideration of those documents,  delegations would be at liberty to submit general
283  motions. The Conference had established prio-  rities because it wished to make sure that the  important points before the Sub-Commissions  would be dealt with in the limited time at their  disposal.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA wished to submit  an important amendment as follows :  That the Unesco General Conference, meeting in  Beirut, places on its Agenda the problem of edu-  cational relief for refugees who have been driven from  their homes by military operations in the Middle East  and requests the Reconstruction Sub-Commission to  take up the matter, at the earliest opportunity, with  a view to facilitating the organization of effective aid  from Unesco and its Member States.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM gave  notice of a motion recommending :  That Unesco should consider gradually directing its  activities from reconstruction to construction.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Australian  resolution had been referred by the Conference  to the Sub-Commission for discussion.  The delegate of FRANCE fully endorsed the  view expressed by the United Kingdom delegate.  He gave notice of a motion on construction as  well as reconstruction, designed to link the two  problems together. He stressed the excellent  work which had been done by Unesco’s Depart-  ment of Reconstruction and wished to remind  delegates that reconstruction was one of the few  really practical projects in Unesco’s programme.       The delegate of ITALY associated himself with  the remarks of the French delegate. He wished  to acknowledge with gratitude all the help his  country had already received in reconstruction  through Unesco.  The delegate of AUSTRIA also considered that  reconstruction was the most important project  among Unesco's activities; his country was most  grateful for all the contributions which it had  been privileged to receive.  Unesco’s contribution to Reconstruction in
1949 through direct emergency grants  (document 3C/PRG/1.1).  The CHAIRMAN
3C/PRG/1.1  section.  proposed that document  should be discussed section by  The “General Policy”, outlined on pages 1  and 2, elicited no comments.  Concerning the “Proposals for emergency pur-  chases in 1949” (page 3), the delegate of the  UNITED STATES of AMERICA stressed that  Unesco’s prime function should be to stimulate  private organizations to contribute to the urgent  needs of the war-devastated countries. The United  States delegation was unanimous on one prin-  ciple—that Unesco should allow only a small  sum for emergency grants and should use  as much of its budget as possible for the “Con-  struction” part of its programme. He agreed with  the delegate of the United Kingdom that it was  necessary to begin to consider passing from  “Reconstruction” to “Construction”.     The delegate of DENMARK was grateful to  Unesco for its direct help in reconstruction: it had  not been very large, but its value in establishing  the reputation of the Organization could not be  over-estimated. He was happy to see that funds  for direct emergency action had not been  decreased in the 1949 budget and, indeed, he  wished they could have been increased. He was  glad that Unesco had started work in Japan and  Germany and asked if those two countries could  also benefit from the emergency funds.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the last  question was a matter for the Official and External  Relations Commission.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES of AME-  RICA asked whether it would be possible to make  a recommendation to the Official and External  Relations Commission.  The CHAIRMAN assured him that the Com-  mission would be asked for the text of any reso-  lution it might adopt on that matter. In reply  to the delegate of the United Kingdom, he  explained that Unesco’s activities were limited by  the ceiling of $175,000, mentioned in the first  paragraph on page 3 of document 3C/PRG/1.1  and by the general principle requiring the prior  approval of the Executive Board.  The delegate of LEBANON thought that, in view  of Unesco’s very limited budget, the Sub-Com-  mission should restrict itself to co-ordination.  With respect to the “Distribution of Materials”  (page 3), the delegate of the UNITED STATES of  AMERICA noted that the appropriations were  largely allotted for the purchase of scientific  equipment; he asked whether other requirements  had been considered—such, for instance, as those  of elementary and secondary schools.  Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head of the Department of  Reconstruction) explained that the table annexed  to the paper represented work done during the  first period; new methods were to be used for  the coming year. Fifty per cent of the money  available was ear-marked for scientific equipment  and for laboratories, 20 per cent for education  (i.e. books and various aids for primary and  secondary schools), a small percentage for the  arts and letters (books and reproductions) and a  like amount for preservation materials for museum  exhibits. The work was being done on the basis  of the recommendations of the Executive Board s  Committee on Cultural Reconstruction and with  its full approval.  With regard to the “Co-operation needed from  Member States”, (pages 3 and 4), Dr. Drzewieski,  speaking on behalf of the Director-General, made  a strong appeal to donors and recipients. He  asked the former to furnish Unesco with accurate  lists of the resources available, and the latter to  supply exact information to Unesco about what  they had received, in addition to acknowledging  receipt to the donors. It was important that reci-  pient countries should realize that the money had  to be spent within the framework of the budget.  and that requests should be sent in as early as  possible. The recipient countries had been  informed in April of the amount of their credit  with Unesco; three months later no replies had  been received and some countries had not even  vet sent any requests.  With respect to the “Allocation of Funds”  (page 4), the CHAIRMAN drew attention to the  relevant resolutions on page 15 of document 3C/5  and asked for a motion to be proposed.
284           … —                L A ;      The delegate of CHINA said that the Chinese  Government was very grateful for Unesco's help.  He moved the approval of the resolutions referred  to by the Chairman and hoped that they would  be better implemented, taking into consideration  the social and psychological aspects of the  question, as well as the special problems arising  from war.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM sup-  ported the motion.  Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head of the Department of  Reconstruction) pointed out that there was a  slight misunderstanding; the documents submitted  dealt with emergency grants only. He suggested  that a resolution on principle, requesting the  Director-General to speed up the implementation  of those resolutions, should be adopted, but that  the question should not be linked with that of  emergency grants.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES of AMER-  ICA asked whether the sub-Commission, by  approving resolutions 1.5 to 1.52, also approved  the corresponding budget item of $175,000, since  that figure had not yet been formally accepted  by the General Conference. He added that the  United States delegation believed in the principle  of emergency funds.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that any resolution adopted by the Sub-  Commission was passed on to the General Confer-  ence on the assumption that the budget presented  by the Director-General would be approved.  Should that not be the case, the question could  be raised again in the Programme and Budget  Commission or at a plenary meeting.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA suggested that the  Chinese and United Kingdom delegations should  propose the approval of the programme items and  leave the work plan to the Director-General and  the budgetary questions to the Budget Sub-Com-  mission.  In view of the explanations received, the dele-  gate of CHINA agreed to limit his proposal to the  programme aspects of resolutions 1.5 to 1.52.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM agreed  that it was useless to propose a formal resolution  including budgetary implications at that stage.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA asked if the dele-  gations of China and the United Kingdom would  accept, as an amendment, the words “subject to  the decisions of the Budget Sub-Commission”.  Both the delegations accepted.  The delegate of FRANCE also supported the  resolution as amended, but, in view of the  importance of reconstruction, he urged the Sub-  Commission to recommend that, in no circum-  stances, should the sums allocated to Recon-  struction be reduced.  The resolution was unanimously adopted.  Unesco’s contribution to Reconstruction in
1949 through the stimulation of gifts by  Member States and individuals (document
3C/PRG/1.2).  The delegate of the UNITED STATES of AMER-  ICA felt that there was general agreement that  Unesco could not be a relief organization; there-  fore, the amount allocated for emergency assist-  ance was necessarily and unavoidably limited.  Unesco could, however, render a great service by  discovering what needs there were throughout the  world and by making them known to those who  could help. In the United States, for instance,  when needs were known, the response was  immediate. To date, $70,000,000 had been con-  tributed by voluntary organizations. He empha-  sized that a clear definition of the needs was  essential, as Dr. Drzewieski, Head of the Depart-  ment of Reconstruction, had rightly pointed out  earlier.  The delegate of SYRIA thanked the Australian  delegate for his resolution, and his United States  colleague for his generous offer of help. There  were then in Syria, 10,000 student refugees  deprived of schools to carry on their studies.  That was a very heavy burden for his country  and he appealed for the Sub-Commission’s sym-  pathy and for consideration of the problem.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM warmly  supported the declaration made by the delegate  of the United States of America. There was great  need for accurate information on the pitiful needs  of some war-devastated countries. He had recently  visited one where, at a University, one set of  scales only was available to the students. No  information had been supplied about what the  voluntary organizations were sending to those  areas; nothing was known about the kind of  goods wanted or the amounts already received.  Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head of the Department  of Reconstruction) assured the delegate of Syria  of the Secretariat’s sympathy, and promised him  that a way of helping would be found. He was  grateful to the delegates of the United States of  America and the United Kingdom, and repeated
280        a   p e   A         his appeal to the donor countries for information  about the contributions already made. The first  Book of Needs was the result of surveys made by  field workers who had been sent to various coun-  tries. A second Book on Asia would be published  soon. Eight recipient countries had made re-  quests for $6,150,000 worth of equipment, and  seven others had asked for materials estimated  at $620,000 for their universities. Although the  United States of America had sent enormous sums,  Unesco did not know to whom they had been sent  and had itself received only $13,000. United  States teachers had contributed $265,000. Much  help had been supplied by Canada but, again,  Unesco had no knowledge of the recipients. So  far, the best method devised was that of the Lord  Mayor of London’s Fund; Unesco had received  £67,000 sterling, to be spent under the control  of a Committee for the Fund.  The delegate of FRANCE agreed with the  remarks made by the United States delegate. He  was grateful to all donors for the help his country  had received, particularly for the University of  Caen.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in view of the  SECOND  Chairman:  Unesco’s contribution to Reconstruction in
1949 through the stimulation of gifts by  Member States and individuals (document
8C/PRG/1.2) (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of the United  States of America to make a statement on behalf  of the small committee set up at the end of the  morning meeting.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES of AMF-  RICA said that the Committee had agreed in prin-  ciple to the document as it stood, with the  recommendation that a few minor changes should  be made. A draft incorporating those changes  was being prepared for the next meeting of the  Sub-Commission and the United States delegate  late hour, the Sub-Commission should approve  document 3C/PRG/1.2, subject to the same reser-  vations as for document 3C/PRG/1.1. He pro-  posed to recommend that resolutions 1.1, 1.2,
1.3, 1.4 and 1.6 should be approved, and that  document 3C/PRG/1.2 should be forwarded to  the Programme and Budget Commission to make  the necessary budgetary allocations.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES of AMER-  ICA stated that his National Commission had  studied the proposals contained in document
3C/PRG/1.2 and wished to make some additions  to them. He asked the Sub-Commission to post-  pone its decision until the proposed additions had  been examined.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that, to gain time,  a small committee should be set up to discuss  with the delegate of the United States of America  and later submit a final draft resolution for the  Sub-Commission’s approval.  The French and Australian delegates  designated to form that Committee.  were  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1948, at 4.30 p.m.
236  Mr. B. B. THOMAS (United Kingdom)  proposed that the document should be adopted,  subject to the acceptance of those modifications.  That proposal, seconded by the delegate of the  UNITED KINGDOM, was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN remarked that the meeting  could proceed to the discussion of the three spe-  cial items brought to its attention at the morning  meeting :
1. a resolution proposed by the Australian  delegation, referred to the Sub-Commission by the  plenary Conference (document 3C/12);
2. a resolution submitted by the United King-  dom delegation (document 3C/PRG/1.6);
3. a resolution submitted by the French dele-  gation.