would apply to all the members of the delegation,  would put small countries, represented by only  one or two delegates, at a disadvantage.  M. MAST (Belgium) asked for the question to  be held over until the body instructed by the  Conference to consider the Executive Board's  FIFTH  report on its own status and responsibilities, had  had an opportunity of giving a ruling on the  question.  The Belgian delegate’s suggestion was una-  nimously approved.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.  MEETING  Thursday, 2 December 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark)  Consideration of the draft Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference (document
3C/PRO/1) (continuation).  Section XVII. Election of members of the  Executive Board (continuation).  Rule 95.  The Canadian amendment to Rule 95 (numbered
25 in Annex II of document 3C/PRO/T7), to  insert the word ‘‘successive” after “On the  expiration of the second” (term of office), was  adopted.  Rule 96.  The CHAIRMAN observed that the General  Committee had requested the Procedure Com-  mittee to amend Rule 96.  Consideration of that amendment was held  over until the Committee resumed the general  consideration of the draft Rules of Procedure.  With the exceptions set out above, the whole  of Section XVII was approved.  Additional Section.  of Procedure.  Suspension of the Rules  Mr. DESROCHERS (Canada) submitted amend-  ment 26, contained in Annex ll of document
3C/PRO/T.  Consideration of that amendment was held  over until the Committee returned to its general  consideration of the draft Rules of Procedure.  Proposals for the adoption of Spanish as a  working language (documents 3C/PRO/5 and
3C/PRO/7, Annexes IV and V).  M. BAROUDI (Lebanon) recalled that the  question of adopting Spanish as a working  language had been discussed at length at the  Mexico City Conference and that, when the vote  was taken on 3 December 1947, the Lebanese  delegation had voted for its adoption. If the  Latin American countries took exactly the same  stand in 1948, the Lebanese delegation would  again vote for the adoption of Spanish as a  working language of Unesco. However, it had  decided to suggest a compromise by which  Spanish and Arabic could be used as working  languages of Unesco for meetings where there  was simultaneous interpretation, and for the  publication of Unesco’s main documents.  Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America)  thought that the proposal just put forward by  the delegate of Lebanon came very close to a  feasible solution. He then read out a draft  amendment to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure  and a new Rule 52 (cf. document 3C/PRO/12).  As the proposal had not been circulated in  writing, the delegate of the United States proposed  taking up the matter again at the afternoon  meeting.  M. de ICAZA (Mexico) said he would wait until  the text was circulated before discussing the  American proposal. He added that he was not  satisfied with the Lebanese proposal, since it  threatened the position of the Latin American  countries. He read a letter from the Association        of Latin American Journalists, and urged the  importance of Spanish : not only was it the  mother-tongue of millions of people, but it was  also the link uniting a whole continent, not to  speak of Spain and the Philippines. Spanish  culture and civilization had been largely instru-  mental in opening up the New World; scientific,  philosophic and literary publications in Spanish  were at least as important as publications in  English. Nevertheless, the countries of Latin  America were still willing to speak English or  French, but they felt it essential that knowledge  of Unesco’s work should not be confined to the  few who spoke French or English, but should  be accessible to all concerned with education,  science and culture. The delegate of Mexico  urged that the adoption of Spanish as a working  language would not entail the huge expense  estimated.  M. FLORES (Venezuela) endorsed the views of  the Mexican delegate and asked for confirmation  of the reasons set out in the introduction to the  resolution adopted by the Mexico City Confer-  ence, which recognized the force of the arguments  put forward in favour of Spanish, which was a  widely spoken language. The inhabitants of  Latin America would feel spiritually closer to  Unesco if the Organization used Spanish in  addition to French and English; furthermore, it  was an established fact that more people spoke  Spanish than either of the two present working  languages of Unesco. The delegate of Venezuela  would wait until the proposal of the United States  of America was laid before the Committee, before  continuing his arguments in favour of the  adoption of Spanish as a working language.  M. MANZOR (Uruguay) spoke in praise of  Spanish and hoped that the proposal of the Latin  American delegations would be adopted. If  Spanish were accepted as a working language of  Unesco, the Government of Uruguay would be  prepared to pay its share of the additional expenses  which such a measure would mean for the  Organization.  M. BAROUDI (Lebanon) wished to make it  clear that his proposal was an amendment, but  that, if the proposal of the Latin American  delegations were maintained as it stood, he would  vote for the adoption of Spanish as a working  language.  Dr. SALIBA (Syria) thought that the financial  arguments which had led the Mexico City Confer-  ence to reject the request of the Latin American  countries, should not be an obstacle to the  accomplishment of Unesco’s mission. The  necessary = appropriations would be extremely  small, in comparison with the fantastic sums  which had been spent during the last war.  Unesco’s aim was to further science, culture and  international understanding, and the most power-  ful instruments at its disposal were the languages  which best expressed the thoughts and desires  of delegations. If the problem of the adoption  of Spanish were tackled without prejudice, its  solution should not present any difficulties.  M. de la VEGA (Colombia) called to mind the  principle in his country’s Constitution, according  to which members of Parliament did not  represent their respective provinces but their  country as a whole. At the Unesco Conference,  delegations should not represent their respective  countries but the whole of mankind. The point  of view of the Latin American delegations was  not narrowly regional; their main aim was to  find the best means of promoting Unesco’s work  throughout the world. All the problems which  had so far been brought up at the current Session  of the General Conference, whether they related to  Arab refugees, an Italian Research Institute, a  Field Science Co-operation Office in India or the  position of war-devastated areas, had been consi-  dered by the delegations of Latin America as  problems which affected them very closely. It  was in that spirit that the delegate of Colombia  called upon the General Conference to consider  the problem of Spanish and to show sympathy  with the Latin American countries.  When it came to the discussion, the Latin  American delegations meant to examine carefully  the financial arguments brought up against them,  and to show that the budget estimates in doc-  ument 3C/PRO/5 had been drawn up in a spirit  of dialectic opposition to the adoption of Spanish  as a working language. It was illogical to draw  a parallel between the United Nations, the Food  and Agriculture Organization, or the Universal  Postal Union, and Unesco. Unesco was concerned  with things of the mind, and, when it was  considered that there were at the moment twenty  Member States whose language was Spanish (and  out of those twenty Sates, thirteen already had  National Commissions), it should be difficult to  deny those countries the use of that wonderful  medium of expression, their noble language.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) felt that the  Committee was wasting its time in idle talk and  suggested that the discussion ought to become  a little more realistic and that the Latin American  delegations should put forward any new argu-  ments they might have, so that the Committee  could examine their proposal and that of the        _ _ _ _   X L                 United States of America with full knowledge of  the facts.  M. de ICAZA (Mexico) did not agree with the  delegate of the United Kingdom and, invoking  Rule 77, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure,  he asked that the discussion should be adjourned,  to enable delegations to study the proposal sub-  mitted by the United States of America.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not wish to go  into details for the moment, but desired to make  a few comments. The Secretariat and the  Executive Board had always taken the view that  the question of adopting Spanish as a working  language should be considered from the point  of view of its practical value for Unesco’s work.  To emphasize the number of people who spoke  Spanish, the influence of Spanish culture and the  prestige it would gain from the adoption of  Spanish as a working language of Unesco, was  to view the matter from quite a different angle.  For the Secretariat, the important thing was to  find out whether the adoption of another working  language was desirable from the practical stand-  point—in other words, whether 1t would facilitate  Unesco’s work (General Conference, meetings,  documents, etc.) or whether it would interfere  with its efficiency (delay in the issue of doc-  uments, financial repercussions, etc.). There  was also a political aspect to the question, namely,  the geographical distribution of the working  languages. 1f a third European language—and  that a second Latin language—were added to the  two European languages already recognized, the  countries of Eastern Europe and the East might  consider themselves unfairly treated. In con-  clusion, the Director-General thought that, with  relatively small additional appropriations, it might  be possible to arrive at a solution satisfactory to  all the Spanish-speaking countries.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that  the delegate of Mexico had moved the adjournment  of the discussion.  That motion was seconded by M. FLORES  (Venezuela) and Dr. de MENDOZA (Cuba), and  was adopted.  The meeting adjourned for five minutes.  Consideration of the draft Rules of Proce-  dure of the General Conference (continua-  tion).  On resumption, the CHAIRMAN suggested  returning to some items of the Rules of Procedure  which had been held over.
461  Rules 14, 77 (4) and 80.  Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) sub-  mitted two amendments drafted by the delegates  who had proposed modifications to Rule 14 of  the draft Rules of Procedure.  Those amendments, contained in document
3C/PRO/11, were adopted.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) pointed out that  the adoption of those amendments necessitated  the addition of a fresh paragraph to Rule 80, as  follows :  (f) approval for the addition of a new item to the  Agenda, in accordance with Rule 14, paragraph 1.  That addition was adopted.  Rules 27 and 78.  The additions to Rules 27 and 78, proposed  by the United Kingdom delegation in Annex I  of document 3C/PRO/9, were adopted.  Rules 22, 32 and 38.  The CHAIRMAN observed that only the English  version of document 3C/PRO/10, proposing  amendments to Rules 22, 32 and 33, had so far  appeared. Nevertheless, he moved the discussion  of those amendments.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) mentioned that  the new drait of Rule 22 had been read at a  previous meeting, and explained the reason for  the amendment which he proposed in Rule 32,  paragraph 1: the Procedure Committee had  carried out a number of duties, not all of which  were laid down in the Rules of Procedure, and  the United Kingdom delegation wished the  omission to be rectified. The justification for  the proposed amendment to Rule 33 was the  desire not to refer automatically to the Inter-  national Court of Justice to interpret the Con-  stitution. In the cases provided for under both  paragraphs (1) and (2), it was the General  Conference and not the Procedure Committee  which should take the decision, by a simple  majority of the Member States present at the  Session (incidentally, it should be noted that the  author of the amendment had avoided using the  customary term “members present and voting”).  The CHAIRMAN remarked that the application  of the same procedure to the interpretation of  the Rules of the Procedure might be considered.  Further consideration of the amendments  embodied in document 3C/PRO/10 was deferred  to a later meeting.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.