surrendered in the 1949 Budget; of that sum,  $100,000 was to be for self-liquidating expenses.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) explained  that his question was concerned with the Com-  mission’s action in advancing from the surplus  $100,000, which, it had understood, was to be  a part of the Revolving Fund; actually, the balance  transferred was less than $800,000.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to  avoid any misunderstanding. He quoted the  relevant paragraph, (paragraph (5) on page 6 of  document 3C/ADM/6). It really made no differ-  ence if the Commission felt it would be wiser to  have the full amount put in the Revolving Fund,  and then take $100,000 out of it.  The CHAIRMAN said that the question was  whether paragraph (5) was a correct reflection  of what had been decided.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought the Com-  mission should adhere to the decision taken when  the question had been discussed.  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) was not satisfied  that the paragraph was correct. His impression  was that the loan came from the Revolving Fund.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) agreed  with the delegate of Canada.  The CHAIRMAN thought that if the Commission  had voted under a misunderstanding, then he  could permit a motion to vary the resolution; it  would, however, be a substantive motion, and  not an amendment to the minutes. He had before  him a resolution by the delegate of the United  States which read :
(5) that the amount appropriated in 1947 from the
1947 surplus, to create a Special Fund for self-  liquidating expenditure, be surrendered to the  Revolving Fund as in (2) above, and that from the  Revolving Fund, a sum of $150,000 be constituted  as a sub-fund of the Revolving Fund for financing  self-liquidating expenditure.  If there was no objection to the proposed pro-  cedure, the Chairman would put the resolution  to the vote. The Commission was, in fact, putting  the whole of the surplus from 1947 into the  Revolving Fund, thereby reducing the amount to  be contributed to the $1,000,000 now being called  up. The Commission was also recommending  that, out of that Revolving Fund, the sum of  $150,000 should be used as a Suspense Account.  The resolution proposed by the delegate of the  United States of America was adopted.  The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m.  TENTH MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 5 (c) of the Agenda : Medical Benefits  Scheme (continuation) (document 3C/ADM/10  and Annexes I and II).  The SECRETARY read the Report of the Sub-  Committee on the Medical Benefits Scheme, which  contained the following resolution :  The General Conference resolves that the Medical  Benefits Scheme (document 3C/ADM/10, Annexes I  and II), proposed by the Director-General, be provi-  sionally adopted for the year 1949, subject to the  following :
(1) The Director-General shall provide a full report  to the Fourth Session of the General Conference on  the first year of operation of the Scheme; this report  shall include a detailed actuarial analysis.
(2) The Scheme shall be amended as follows :  (a) Statutes of the Medical Benefits Scheme  Article XI.  The second sentence of the first paragraph shall read  as follows :  ‘The Board of Management shall consider the  recommendations adopted by the Assembly by a two-  thirds majority of the members present and voting and  shall make such recommendations as it deems appro-  priate to the Director-General. The Director-General  shall then take such action as he believes advisable.’  (b) Rules of the Medical Benefits Scheme—Rule 8.  The first paragraph shall read as follows :  ‘The Fund shall reimburse 75 per cent of the cost  of medicines and remedies prescribed by a physician.  This reimbursement shall not exceed 600 francs for  each medicine or remedy.’
(3) The provision for the reimbursement of the
398    cost of orthopaedic and dental apparentus (Rule 8—  Rules of the Medical Benefits Scheme) shall be  retained, subject to further investigation by the  Director-General with a view to establishing more  definite controls.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Commission  should consider the resolution and amendments  suggested therein.  After discussion, it was agreed that, in order  to express the Commission’s intention more  clearly, the words “and be put into operation”  should be inserted in the resolution between *‘pro-  visionally adopted” and “for the year 1949”.  The amendment to Article XI of the Statutes—  was also approved.  The amendment to Rule 8 of the Rules of the  Medical Benefits Scheme was discussed at length  and it was decided, in order to cover the Organi-  zation against risk of fraud and at the same time  to allow staff members the utmost freedom to  choose their own doctor, to replace the work ‘“phy-  sician” by “legally recognized medical practi-  tioner”.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) then pointed  out that all reimbursements figures were quoted  in francs in the document, and asked what pro-  vision, if any, was made for altering those figures  during the year if any further devaluation of the  franc occurred.  M. PEISSEL (Comptroller) replied that the  Commission was free to recommend the General  Conference to instruct the Secretariat in the  matter, but that the Medical Benefits Fund had  always been maintained in francs and that it  would greatly increase the Organization's dollar  expenditure if it were decided that the Fund  should be maintained in dollars.  A discussion followed, during which M. HAI-  DAR (Lebanon) said that he felt the Secretariat  received adequate compensation for any deva-  luation of the franc by virtue of the fact that the  base salary and all allowances of staff members  were calculated in dollars. The provision of
600 francs in Rule 8 did not appear to be un-  reasonable, even if a further devaluation of the  franc were to take place.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) felt that some  provision should be made for payments under the  Scheme to be made in francs at the rate of  exchange applicable at the time of reimbursement.  On the suggestion of Professor SOMMERFELT  (Norway), it was finally agreed that the following  paragraph should be inserted under Rule I of  the Rules of the Medical Benefits Scheme :  All references in these Rules to specific amounts of  payment shall be subject to the following :  The Board of Management is authorized to make any  changes in amounts of payment necessitated by  fluctuation in the value of the French franc.  The CHAIRMAN then read paragraph (3) of  the resolution, which was adopted without further  discussion.  The resolution, as amended, was then adopted.  Item 4 (h) of the Agenda : Preliminary  examination of Budget Estimates (document
8C/18).  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) proposed  a resolution (document 3C/18) concerning the  examination of Budget Estimates by the Advisory  Panel on Finance and Administration. He  explained that the Executive Board had introduced  a resolution at the Mexico City Conference, estab-  lishing an Advisory Panel for finance and admini-  stration, and that the Panel had been constituted  in the early part of 1948. It had met in Paris in  June, and made recommendations which had been  reported to the current session of the General  Conference through the Executive Board. Due to  lack of time, it had not been possible in 1948 for  the Panel to review the Budget Estimates before  their submission to the General Conference.  Mr. Zook explained that this resolution was not  aimed at grafting on to Unesco that kind of expert  review of the Budget which existed in the United  Nations. The resolution should not, and did not,  propose that the Advisory Panel should make any  comment whatsoever on the programme of the  Organization. It was inspired simply by the idea  that the Executive Board would find it most useful  to be able to satisfy itself, through the Advisory  Panel, on all aspects of the Budget before pre-  senting it to the General Conference.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) explained the position : the Executive  Board had decided in 1947 to establish an Advisory  Panel of Experts on Finance and Administration,  under the authority for such action delegated to  the Board in Article V, paragraph 10, of the Con-  stitution. The Board had communicated its de-  cision to the General Conference in its annual  Report and the Conference had adopted that  Report at Mexico City. No specific resolution  actually existed, as the provisions of Article V,  paragraph 10, and the adoption of the Board's  Report by the Second Session of the General           Conference had been considered sufficient author-  ity for the Board’s action in constituting the  Advisory Panel. Nevertheless, Dr. Walker doubted  whether the resolution in its existing form would  be entirely acceptable. Some amendments would  probably have to be made.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) also a member  of the Executive Board, supported Dr. Walker's  remarks and read the relevant passage from the  Board’s Report to the Second Session of the Gen-  eral Conference (document 2C/C.2/1, page 15).  With regard to the resolution submitted by the  delegate of the United States of America, he felt  that the phrase “one week” should be deleted  from paragraph (1), as consideration of the Budget  by the Advisory Panel would undoubtedly take  more than one week. He felt that the Board  should be free to consult the Advisory Panel at  any time. He suggested that a much shorter,  simpler form of resolution would serve the pur-  pose required.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) pointed  out that the Report of the Finance Committee of  the Executive Board was already contained in the  Budget Estimates (document 3C/6); he, therefore,  did not entirely agree that the resolution of the  United States delegation was necessary.  The CHAIRMAN emphasized that no consti-  tutional question was involved, nor was any cri-  ticism of the Board implied. The only question  was whether it was necessary to assist the Board  in carrying out its fuctions by submitting the  recommendation to the plenary Conference for  adoption.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) did not feel  that the resolution was essential, as the Executive  Board already possessed the necessary authority to  set up and consult the Advisory Panel. In any  case, he entirely agreed with the remarks of the  delegate of Greece with reference to the deletion  of the words “one week”.  M. HAIDAR (Lebanon) felt that the resolution  was necessary, but proposed the following two  amendments :  should be de- (i) that the words “one week”  leted;  (ii) that the following phrase should be added  to paragraph (2) of the recommendation, after  the words “should be considered by the Board” :  in the light of the recommendations already passed  by the Administrative Commission and the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) expressed doubt  over the use of the words “Request the Executive  Board” in paragraph (1), as he felt that the  wording laid no obligation upon the Board to  accept the recommendations of the (General  Conference. He felt that the resolution might be  better presented as a Financial Regulation, in  which case the most appropriate Regulation was  legulation 5. In any case, a Report, with recom-  mendations, was about to be presented by the  Temporary Committee on the Status and Respon-  sibilities of the Executive Board, and Mr. Pile felt  it might be wiser to postpone the decision on the  American resolution until the Report in question  was received in its final form. It had not yet  been definitely decided whether the Executive  Board or the Director-General should be re-  sponsible for the presentation of the Budget  Estimates to the General Conference.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) considered that,  if the text of the American resolution were  amended slightly, there could be no contradiction  between it and the intentions of the Board. He  proposed to delete the whole of the first intro-  ductory paragraph; to amend paragraph (1) of  the recommendation to read :  The Administrative Commission recommends that  the General Conference approve the measures which  have been taken by the Executive Board in convening  the meetings of the Advisory Panel...  and to delete paragraph (2) of the recommen-  dation.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) explained  that his delegation had originally proposed their  resolution at the Mexico City Conference, but had  withdrawn it in view of the statement contained  in the Report of the Executive Board. It would  appear that the resolution, in its existing form,  gave rise to some confusion and the United States  delegation would certainly not object to amending  it. The delegation simply wished to establish the  principle that it would serve the purposes of the  Organization to have such a Panel established. He  had no objection to the proposals of the Lebanese  delegate.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) believed that the terms of reference of the  Advisory Panel, as established by the Executive  Board, did provide for examination of the Budget  Estimates. He would verify the point and inform  the Commission at the afternoon meeting. While  the Board welcomed the desire of the United States  delegation to assist its work, Dr. Walker wished
400    to make it clear that the Board already possessed  full authority in the matter; he therefore doubted  whether the resolution was really necessary.  The CHAIRMAN then suggested that the meeting  should adjourn and that the United States dele-  ST ie  gate should prepare an amended resolution to take  account of the points made during the discussion.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  ELEVENTH MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 3 p.m. /  Chairman:  Item 4 (h) of the Agenda : Preliminary  examination of Budget Estimates (continua-  tion) (document 3C/18).  The CHAIRMAN submitted the amended  resolution prepared by the delegate of the United  States of America :  Whereas, pursuant to Resolution... of the Second  Session of the General Conference, there has been  established an Advisory Panel on Finance and  Administration,  Considering that the budget of an international  organization presents many complex administrative  and financial problems,  The General Conference  Recommends that the Executive Board request its  expert Panel on Finance and Administration to make  an examination of the budget estimates and report to  it concerning financial or administrative questions  arising from the estimates, together with the Panel’s  recommendations thereon.  Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand) considered that, as  the ultimate responsibility rested with the Confer-  ence, 1l was necessary for it to have such expert  advice before it when considering the budget  estimates; he suggested the addition of the  following words at the end of the resolution :  and that the Panel's report and recommenda-  lions be made available to the General Conference.  Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) thought that the  Executive Board should be left free to decide  whether it wished to ask the Panel to examine  the budget, and suggested the following admend-  ment :  The Executive Board is authorized to call upon the  Expert Panel, when it deems necessary, in order to  deal with certain financial and administrative prob-  lems for the next year’s budget.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) proposed the  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  following amendment, which corresponded to  the provisions of the Constitution :  to make an examination of the Director-  (eneral’s proposed budget estimates...  The resolution, as amended by the delegate of  Greece, was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then called for a vote on the  additional sentence proposed by the delegate of  New Zealand.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) was opposed  to the addition of the sentence.  The CHAIRMAN said that, as he understood  the proposal of the New Zealand delegate, it was  not that any recommendation should be made to  the Conference by the Panel but that the Panel’s  report and recommendations should be made  available to the General Conference in the same  way as the Auditor's Report was submitted for  comments.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL was re-  luctant to say anything in a discussion which  involved the immediate relations between the  Conference and the Board. He wished, however,  to draw the Commission's attention to the fact  that to propose that the Panel's report should be  made available to the Conference did potentially  involve an additional burden on the Organization.  The principle involved was that, under Unesco’s  present Financial Regulations, it was the Director-  General who submitted the budget to the Confer-  ence; the Executive Board's proposal, which was  to come before the Commission later on for  discussion, was that the Board should itself attach  its recommendations to the Budget. The Deputy  Director-General would have thought that, if the