THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 6 December 1948 at 4 p.m.  CONTENTS
22. Consideration of the season in which the Fourth and Fifth Sessions of the  General Conference shall be held; decision on the place of the Fourth  Session and provisional consideration of the place of the Fifth Session. 137
23. Consideration of ithe Reports presented by Member States for 1948 . 138
24. Report of the Official and External Relations Commission . 140
25. Report of the Administrative Commission 144  President : M. Tevfik SAGLAM (Turkey)  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  our Agenda three items :  Item 12 : Consideration of the Reports presen-  ted by Member States for 1948.  Item 15 : Consideration of the season in which  the Fourth and Fifth Sessions of the General Con-  ference shall be held; decision on the place of  the Fourth Session and provisional consideration  of the place of the Fifth Session.  Item 19 : Consideration and adoption of the  Reports of the Commissions.  We shall start with item 15.  Vice-Chairman  We have on  I call upon the  of the Executive Board.
22. Consideration of the season in which the  Fourth and Fifth Sessions of the Gen-  eral Conference shall be held ; decision  on the place of the Fourth Session and  provisional consideration of the place  of the Fifth Session.  Dr. C. PARRA PEREZ (Vice-Chairman of the  Executive Board) (Translation): Mr. President,  fellow-delegates, as a result of the joint meeting  of the Executive Board and heads of delegations,  the Executive Board at its meeting this morning  considered the question of the date and place of  the Fourth Session of the General Conference, as  well as the date and place of the Fifth Session.  As a result, the Board has instructed me to submit  to the Conference, on its behalf, the following  draft resolution. The first two parts of this  resolution are included in document 3C/8R,  which was distributed a few days ago. The last  part of the resolution was decided on this morn-  ing by the Executive Board. Here is the proposal  submitted by the Board :
137  The General Conference, taking into account the  recommendations of the Executive Board.  Decides :  (a) that its Fourth Session shall be a short business  Session, but in which opportunity will be provided for  general discussion of two or three major themes of  Unesco interest, to be selected by the Executive Board;  (b) that this short Fourth  in the early autumn of 1949;  (c) that its Fifth Session shall be of full duration  and scope and shall be held in the spring of 1950 to fit  in, from that year onwards, with the proposed United  Nations calendar of Conferences of Specialized Agen-  cies.  Further, having taken grateful note of the invitation  issued by the Italian Government to hold the Fifth  Session of the General Conference at Florence, the  General Conference recommends that the Fourth Ses-  sion of the General Conference should accept this  invitation, which has received the general support of  the delegations present in Beirut.  Session shall be held  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  delegate of the Union of South Africa.  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa):  [ want to second the proposal of the Chairman of  the Executive Board. I would like to ask that, if  it is convenient, the session may be held as near  the middle of the year as possible. It would be  more convenient for my own country if it could  be, say, in June rather than in April.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  wish to speak?  Does anybody  M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft  resolution which has been submitted to you has  been studied very carefully by the Executive  Board. There is one question to which the             French delegation has asked me to draw your  very particular attention. It is the question in  paragraph (a) on page 2 of the French text of  document 3C/88—the general discussion of two  or three major themes of Unesco interest, to be  selected by the Executive Board. The French  delegation thinks this is a very wise resolution,  for it enables Unesco to raise questions of par-  ticular importance, especially questions which are  of concern to world opinion. But the French  delegation wonders whether it would not be  advisable to define to some extent, in this reso-  lution, the task of the Executive Board, for  instance by limiting the questions which the  Executive Board will have to select to one. We  know already that the next session of the General  Conference of Unesco will be a limited one; we  have even talked about a working session, and the  hope has been expressed that at this session the  number of delegates, and especially of experts,  will be few. If we contemplate the discussion of  several matters of general interest, one concerned  with education, another with mass communica-  tion, and a third with scientific questions—and  these are only examples—this will almost auto-  matically entail, in each delegation, the presence  of several experts; and we think it would be  better, for this first year of a smaller Conference,  to confine ourselves to one question only.  I therefore propose that paragraph (a) of this  resolution be amended so as to limit the general  discussion to one question of special importance.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The Italian  delegate supports the French delegate’s proposal.  Does anyone else wish to speak?  Mr. George D. STODDARD (United States of  America): Mr. President, delegates, I think we  are all in the same general position as the delegate  of France, but this has been gone over rather  carefully by the Executive Board and I think it  has been discussed considerably within the dele-  gations. I do not think we need fear that with  the kind of restriction which is proposed we shall  have a full-dress Conference in 1949. Not only  the phraseology here, but everything in our pre-  parations for that Conference, indicates that it  shall be limited in scope and be chiefly a working  session. However, our delegation fears that, if  you say that one major theme shall be discussed,  there may be a great deal of lobbying to see which  of several might be the most prominent, or the  most crucial one to come up for discussion. It  seems better to us therefore to keep in mind a  restriction, though not such an arbitrary re-  striction as limitation to a single theme.  As a half-way house between what Professor  Seydoux would like and what our delegation would            approve, I suggest that we substitute the words  “one or two major themes”. As preparations are  made for the Conference, it might turn out to be  a single topic, but the Executive Board and the  Secretariat would not consider themselves com-  pletely tied to a single theme.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone  wish to speak?  Mr. R. G. RIDLING (New Zealand): The dele-  gation of New Zealand likes the suggestion of the  delegation of the United States, but it wonders  whether it would not be wise to alter the wording  a little and say ‘not more than two major  themes”. That will achieve the purpose of the  United States and it will also realize, a little more  nearly, the idea that has been expressed by the  delegate of France. The New Zealand delegation  offers this amendment for your consideration.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): There is only  one more proposed amendment—that put forward  by the delegate of the Union of South Africa. We  must, however, bear in mind that, under Rule 1  of the Rules of Procedure, the opening date of the  session is fixed by the Director-General after  consulting the members of the Executive Board,  the authorities of the inviting country and the  Secretary-General of the United Nations, taking  into account any preference which the General  Conference may have expressed at the previous  session. Hence, should we adopt this amendment,  we must send it to the Director-General, so that  he can consult the Executive Board.  The other proposed amendment, put forward  by the delegate of the United States of America,  is that, instead of saying “two or three major  themes” we should say ‘one or two major  themes”.  I put to the vote the amendment proposed  by the delegate of the United States of America.  The amendment was adopted.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 now put to  the vote the whole resolution.  The resolution was adopted unanimously. (7)
23. Consideration of the Reports presented  by Member States for 1948.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We shall now  discuss Item 12 of the Agenda : Consideration of  the Reports presented by Member States for 1948.
(7) In final form : Volume II, Section VIII, A. and  B., p. 11.
0  F g   ee   Be   OP   T r   — —   p t   j é   +   |   ld »  h d   e e   p e   ' n   m r   r a m      In accordance with the decisions taken by the  General Conference at its Second Session, the  Executive Board at its Sixth Session decided  that Member States would, in accordance with  Article VIII of the Constitution, be invited to sub-  mit for 1948 a report bearing on the following  points :
(1) general remarks on the present programme  and future orientation of Unesco, and on the relations  between Unesco and the Member State concerned  in 1948;
(2) action taken by the Member State concerned to  establish or, where already in existence, to develop a  National Commission or Co-operating Bodies in  accordance with Article VII of the Constitution;
(3) action taken in 1948 by the Member State  concerned on the recommendations made to Member  States by the General Conference at its Second Ses-  sion;
(4) participation of the Member State concerned  and its National Commission, or Co-operating Bodies,  in the execution of the Programme adopted by the  General Conference at its Second Session.  This decision was communicated to the Member  States with a request that their reports should  reach the Director-General before 15 August 1948,  in order to enable the reports to be communicated  to the Member States with the other preliminary  documents of the General Conference. Unfor-  tunately, most of these reports were not submitted  in due time and reached the Secretariat only on  the eve of the opening of the present session. So  far, the reports of the following twenty-five Mem-  ber States have been circulated to delegations  under reference 3C/4 : Australia, Austria, Bel-  gium, Canada, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Den-  mark, Dominican Republic, France, Hungary,  India, Iran, Italy, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mexico,  Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines,  Syria, Turkey, the Union of South Africa, the  United Kingdom and the United States of America.  Furthermore, the Director-General has today  received the reports presented by China and Peru;  it has not yet been possible to circulate them.  The General Committee of the Conference  recently examined the procedure to be followed  for considering this item of the Agenda. It felt  that it would not be opportune for these reports  to be presented separately by each Member State.  This does not mean, however, that there could not  be a useful discussion here on one or another of  the points raised in the reports. As you will have  noted, the reports submitted by Member States in
1948 vary considerably in scope, content and pre-  sentation. On the other hand, a number of Member  States have not presented the report for this year  provided for under Article VIII of the Con-  stitution.  You will doubtless agree that this position is     not entirely satisfactory and that a special effort  must be asked of Member States in future, to  ensure that their reports give a full account of the  work they have done towards achieving Unesco's  alms.  These reports can, indeed, become a very im-  portant means of mutual information for Member  States, and thus enable us to measure the results  obtained by Unesco.  This question has engaged the attention of the  Official and External Relations Commission, which  in its Report to the General Conference will sub-  mit to the latter a draft resolution in the following  terms :  The General Conference,  Considering that Article VIII of the Constitution  provides that each Member State shall report period-  ically to the Organization, in a manner to be  determined by the General Conference, on its laws,  regulations and statistics relating to educational, scien-  tific and cultural life and institutions and on the  action taken upon the recommendations and conven-  tions referred to in Article IV, paragraph 4,  Considering the resolutions of the Second Session of  the General Conference and of the Executive Board on  reports by Member States,  Resolves :  I. That the yearly reports that Member States have  to submit to the General Conference should include :  (a) information on those laws and regulations  which concern Unesco, promulgated during the year  in the territory of the Member State;  (b) a statement on the measures taken by the  Member State in pursuance of the recommendations  and international conventions adopted by the General  Conference;  (¢) a statement on the measures taken by the  Member State to create, promote or assist a National  Commission or Co-operating Bodies;  (d) action taken by the Member State, its National  Commission or its Co-operating Bodies in the carrying  out of the programme adopted by the General Con-  ference, and a report on the activities of these bodies  where they exist.  II. In preparing annual reports, Member States  should take into account, and comply with as far as  possible, suggestions relating to their form and con-  tent made to them by the Director-General, and  particularly those suggestions made with the object  of adjusting the reports as far as possible to the  general plans of Unesco for the collection of informa-  tion and documentation on educational, scientific and  cultural life and institutions.  II. The Director-General shall communicate to  Member States, within two months after the termi-  nation of each session of the General Conference, a  suggested outline for reports, together with the  recommendations of the Conference. Member States  shall transmit to National Commissions or Co-  operating Bodies those recommendations concerning  them.  IV. Member States and National Commissions are  requested to submit the reports provided for by this  resolution to the Director-General, not later than  three months before the opening of the General  Conference.
139                Ré  E  x  i      This draft resolution will be submitted formally  to the General Conference for adoption, when the  Official and External Relations Commission pre-  sents its Report to the Conference.  Meanwhile, 1 shall open the discussion on the  reports of Member States which have so far been  communicated to delegations.  Does anyone wish to speak?  As nobody wishes to speak, we shall take the  next item on the Agenda.
24. Report of the Official and External  Relations Commission  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The third  item on the agenda is the Report of the Official  and External Relations Commission (document
3C/OXR/19). I call upon the Rapporteur of that  Commission.  M. Francesco Giorgio MAMELI (Italy) (Rap-  porteur of the Official and External Relations  Commission): Mr. President, it is my privilege  and honour to present the Report of the Official  and External Relations Commission. It is not my  intention to read the whole of this document of  some fifty-five pages. I ask to be allowed to read  only the introductory part.  During the Third Session of the General Conference  at Beirut the Official and External Relations Com-  mission held six meetings.  The Joint Programme and Official and External  Relations Commission met, at the same session of the  Conference, four times.  At the first meeting (19 November 1948) the Offi-  cial and External Relations Commission, following the  suggestions of the Nominations Committee, elected  Mr. D. R. Hardman (United Kingdom) Chairman,  and Dr. Gholam-Hossein Sadighi (Iran) Vice-Chair-  man. On the proposal of the French delegation,  M. F. G. Mameli (Italy) was elected Rapporteur.  The meetings of the Joint Commission were  alternately presided over by the Chairman of the  Official and External Relations Commission and by  the Chairman of the Programme Commission,  M. Paulo de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil). M. Mameli  acted as Rapporteur for both Commissions.  The two Commissions gave the most assiduous and  detailed attention to the numerous items submitted to  them, which appear in the Agenda (Annex I). Only  very seldom was it necessary to take a formal vote.  The atmosphere of goodwill and mutual collaboration  between delegations from all parts of the world made  it easier, even where there were evident differences of  opinion, to find a way to a fair understanding, in the  true spirit of Unesco.  It is hardly necessary to emphasize that the reso-  lutions on such important subjects, related both to  the internal and external organization of our Associa-  tion, will undoubtedly be of great help to the work  of Unesco and will contribute to the increasing  activities of our Organization throughout the world.    Having thus presented our work, 1 would add  that the Resolutions will be found in Annexes Il-  XII. I would like to add that very few comments  or explanations will be found in the Report. I  thought it would be more to the point and more  businesslike, and would save a great deal of time,  if the resolutions themselves were put forward for  examination and decision by the General Con-  ference.  After this, I think I have only to thank the  Chairmen of both Commissions and the delega-  tions which took part in the discussions. As  Rapporteur, I would add that, if it was my duty  to record all discussion, it was also my privilege  to note the goodwill and understanding between  the delegations, which made it possible to ac-  complish quickly a difficult job, difficult because  of the many items and the importance of the sub-  jects. I should like also to thank the Director-  General for the help he gave us with his Report  and for his support, and also his Secretariat,  which helped the work of the Commission  throughout and assisted the Rapporteur in his not  easy task.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  Secretary of the Commission  The SECRETARY OF THE OFFICIAL AND  EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION : All the  resolutions are recorded in Annexes II (No. 1 is  the Agenda of the Commission) to XII. As these  resolutions have already been approved by the  Commission as a whole, and as these documents  have been submitted to the different delegations  two days in advance of this meeting, it is proposed  that the discussion take place Annex by Annex  and not resolution by resolution. If there are any  comments on any of the Annexes, a detailed dis-  cussion may take place.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Discussion of  Annex II : Representation of Unesco in the main  cultural areas of the world. This includes :  (a) Cultural liaison service for the Middle East:  (b) Regional Office in the Western Hemi-  sphere.  On (a), the following is the resolution :  The General Conference resolves that, as a means  of carrying out Resolution 4.3.3. of the Programme  approved at the Second Session of the General Con-  ference, the Director-General is instructed to create a  service of cultural liaison to promote, in co-operation  with National Commissions or Co-operating Bodies,  the exchange of ideas, information, materials and  persons in the fields of arts, letters, philosophy and  humanistic studies, among the Middle-Eastern coun-  tries of similar culture, and between those countries  and other parts of the world.
140                    Dues anyone wish to speak? I put this resolution  to the vote.  This resolution is adopted. (*)  (b)  sphere :  Regional Office in the Western Hemi-  Does anybody wish to speak?  I put this resolution to the vote.  The resolution is adopted. (°)  We pass to Annex III : Relations with Member  States.  (a) Reports by Member States.  Adopted. (1?)  (b) Draft Regulations concerning recommen-  dations to Member States, and international  conventions.  Adopted. (1)  (c) Reports to Member States on conferences  and meetings held on education, science and cul-  ture, sponsored by Unesco or not.  The Conference refers this item to the Joint  Committee of Fifteen, as it is considered that  the question is linked to the general problem of  Unesco’s clearing-house activities.  We now come to Annex IV : Relations with  Trust and Non-Self-Governing Territories.  Adopted. (**)  We now take Annex V : Relations with Non-  Member States.  A. Relations with Germany.  I. Adopted. (3)  lesolution II. Adopted. (**)  Resolution  B. Relations with Japan.  I. Adopted. (1%)  Resolution II. Adopted. (*)  Resolution
(83) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex Il, (a), p. 60.  (?) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex II, (b), p. 61.
(19) In final form Volume II. Section XI,  Annex III, (a), p. 61.
(11) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex III, (b), p. 62.
(12) In final form Volume II, Section XI.  Annex IV, p. 62
(13) In final form : Volume II, Section XI.  Annex V, (a), Resolution I, p. 63.
(14) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex V, (a), Resolution II, p. 66.
(15) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex V, (b), Resolution I, p. 66.
(16) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex V, (b), Resolution II, p. 69.
141  Admission of “Diminutive States” to member-  ship of the Organization.  C.  Any comments? Any objections? Adopted. ('7)  Annex VI : National Commissions and Co-  operating Bodies.  Adopted. ('®)  Annex VII : Relations with the United Nations  and Specialized Agencies.  First, (a) General Convention on the Privileges  and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies.  There are two resolutions on this point.  I call upon the delegate of the United States  of America.  Dr. George D. STODDARD (United States of  America): Mr. President, I wanted to say a few  words because I was not sure whether or not you  were going to pass both Resolutions I and Il at  the same time.  I have an amendment to suggest to Resolution II.  This form of a rather simple resolution was  considered at length by the Joint Meeting of the  heads of delegations and the members of the  Executive Board. It was again considered this  morning in the Executive Board and we feel that  we have a simple formula which will reflect the  general sentiment of these two bodies. I shall  now read it. It would come as a fifth paragraph  on page 4 of Annex VII in the English text :  Recommends that high officials of the United  Nations and its Specialized Agencies should be urged  to attend the full General Conference of Unesco.  The agenda should include such questions as might  particularly engage the attention of these Agencies  and call for joint action. At the same time, Member  States should endeavour to include in their delegations  public leaders whose contributions to the international  aspects of education, science and culture would fur-  ther Unesco’s aims and help to link them more  closely to the activities of the United Nations and  other Specialized Agencies.  I might say a word about the meaning of this  slight revision. We are hopeful—as a kind of  reciprocal recognition on the part of the United  Nations—that they will pay more attention to  Unesco than they have in the past. Our delega-  tion feels that Unesco has done a good thing in  changing its calendar in 1950, and in bringing  one more of the United Nations’ offspring, as it  were, a little closer to the home-grounds of the  United Nations, conforming better to their calen-  dar, and, we trust, being more closely tied in       ——
(17) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex V, (¢), p. 69.
(18) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VI, p. 70.             with the other United Nations agencies and with  the parent structure. At the same time we are  anxious to have leading men come here, as they  have in the past, particularly in the fields of our  special competence, in order to give a lift to the  discussions and to the public relations of Unesco.  It is my understanding that the delegate of France  has a resolution which he may wish to offer at an  appropriate time along that line.  Mr. President, I move the adoption of this  paragraph as an amendment to Annex VII.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Will the Se-  cretary please explain the position.  The SECRETARY OF THE OFFICIAL AND  EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION : May |  explain, Mr. President, that the resolution just  proposed by the delegate of the United States of  America will come up for discussion when we  arrive at paragraph (d) of Annex VII. We now  proceed to the consideration of the resolution at  paragraph (a) of Annex VII, i.e. General Con-  vention on the Privileges and Immunities of the  Specialized Agencies.  Once we have gone through (a), (b) and (c),  we will consider the proposal of the delegation  of the United States of America under para-  graph (d).  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Are there any  comments on this question of the General Con-  vention on the Privileges and Immunities of the  Specialized Agencies, i.e. paragraph (a)?  Adopted. (1*)  We will now take paragraph (b) of Annex VII :  Proposed amendment to the Agreement between  the United Nations and Unesco.  Adopted. (2°)  We now take paragraph (c): Budgetary co-  ordination and development of similar admini-  strative and financial practices between the United  Nations and Specialized Agencies.  Adopted. (**)  Now we come to paragraph (d): Policy.  I shall ask the Secretary to read the resolution  submitted by the delegation of the United States  of America.  The Secretary re-read the proposed resolution.
(19) In final form :  Annex VII, (a), p. 72.
(2°) In final form :  Annex VII, (b), p. 73.
(71) In final form :  Annex VII, (¢), p. 73.  Volume II, Section XI,  Volume II, Section XI,  Volume II, Section XI.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Are there any  comments on the amendment submitted by the  delegate of the United States of America?  Mr. D. KR. HARDMAN (United Kingdom): 1  hope very much, Mr. President, that this will be  agreed to. It is simply an attempt to bring this  Organization into line with principles already  adopted by some of the other Specialized Agencies  of the United Nations. I therefore beg to second  the proposal made by the delegate of the United  States of America.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The delegate  of the United Kingdom seconds the proposal of  the delegation of the United States of America.  Are there any comments? I put this amendment  to the vote.  The amendment is adopted.  I now put to the vote resolution (d) (Policy)  as amended.  Adopted. (**)  We now come to Annex VIII : Relations with  International Organizations.  (a) Inter-governmental Organizations : Provi-  sional Agreement between Unesco and the Inter-  national Bureau of Education.  Adopted. (*3)  (b) Non-governmental Organizations : (i) Re-  port on the criteria adopted for the granting of  Contracts and Grants-in-Aid.  Adopted. (**)  On the same page there is (ii): Review of  Formal Agreements concluded with (1) the Inter-  national Council of Museums.  Adopted. (2%)  On the next page there is (2): International  Council of Scientific Unions.  Adopted. (2%)
(3): International Studies Conference.  Adopted. (*7)
(22) In final form :  Annex VII, (d), p. 73.
(73) In final form :  Annex VIII, (a), p. 74.
(24) In final form :  Annex VIII, (b), (i), p. 75.
(27) In final form : Volume II,  Annex VIII, (b), (ii) 3, p. 75.     Volume II, Section XI,  Volume II, Section XI,  Volume II, Section XI,  Section XI,  Section XI,  Section XI,
142                of United Nations World Federation  Associations.  Adopted. (2%)
(4):  Paragraph (b) (iii): Review of organizations  approved for consultative arrangements.  A dopted. (+9)  Paragraph (b) (iv): Review of co-operation  with Advisory Committees during 1948.  Adopted. (3°)  Paragraph (b) (v): Future Policy.  Adopted. (**)  In adopting this resolution you have also adopted  the “Directive on Relations with and Payments to  International Non-Governmental and Semi-Govern-  mental Organizations” and all the subsequent  paragraphs.  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa):  Mr. President, you must forgive me if I am unable  to follow you at the speed at which we are travel-  ling. I do not know whether we are supposed to  have adopted the following paragraph on page 6  of Annex VIII, and I would like some information  about that resolution. It reads :  In developing its relations with non-governmental  and semi-governmental international organizations,  Unesco will take into account the following resolution  passed by the Economic and Social Council of the  United Nations concerning Spain.  I would like to know why it is necessary to  raise this matter at all. Up to the present Unesco  has always adopted the opinion that the sooner  every nation comes into the fold the better for  world peace. We have not made any discri-  mination, and I would like to know whether we  are bound by this resolution of the United Nations.  If we are bound, then I cannot see why we should  put it in here. If we are not bound, then I think  it 1s a great pity that we go out of our way to  insert it. I am not here to defend any policy of a  government or to oppose any particular philo-  sophy of government, but it seems to me that it  is contrary to the spirit of Unesco to go out of our  way to attempt to bar anybody who comes to us  and says : “I am prepared to subscribe to the  principles of Unesco, and I wish to take part in
(8) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VIII, (b), (ii) 4, p. 75.  (*?) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VIII, (b), (iii), p. 76.
(70) In final form : Volume. II, Section XI,  Annex VIII, (b), (iv), p. 76.
(3!) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VIII, (b), (v), Resolution I, p. 76.
143  furthering our campaign for universal peace.” 1  think it is a very great pity if we cannot admit  such persons and if we take steps beforehand to  exclude them.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call on M. de  Blonay, the representative of the Director-General.  M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) (Translation):  Mr. President, the paragraph included in the  Directive on relations with non-governmental  organizations, to which the delegate of the Union  of South Africa has referred, was inserted in this  Directive at the Second Session of the General  Conference in Mexico City. It is in the amended  draft of the Directive which the Executive Board  has recommended to this session of the General  Conference, and it is in this amended form that  this Directive was approved by the Commission  for submission to the plenary meeting of the  General Conference. Unesco is not formally  bound by the decision of the Economic and Social  Council but, in view of the agreement with the  United Nations, the General Conference at its last  session felt that Unesco should in this matter  follow the policy established by the Economic  and Social Council in its relations with inter-  national non-governmental organizations. More-  over, the Executive Board and the General Con-  ference itself have recommended on several  occasions that, in its policy towards non-govern-  mental organizations, Unesco should take into  account, to the maximum degree, the procedure  and principles adopted by the Economic and  Social Council.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Are there any  other comments? I call upon the delegate of the  Union of South Africa.  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa):  Mr. President, I only wish to suggest that this  paragraph is unnecessary at this stage; it seems  that we are not bound to insert it and there is  no reason for our going out of our way to put it  there. I move that it be deleted.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anybody  second this proposal of the delegate of the Union  of South Africa?  If no one seconds it, we will take the next  item. On page 15 there is another resolution  concerning international organizations. Are there  any comments? If not, I shall put the resolution  to the vote. Are there any objections?  Adopted. (32)
(37) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VIII, (b), (v), Resolution II, p. 82.         We shall now examine Annex IX : Study of an  International Union of Organizations working for  peace or promoting international understanding.  Adopted. (°°)  Annex X : Institute of Cultural Co-operation for  South and East Asian Countries.  Adopted. (**)  Annex XI : Liaison with Labour Organizations.  Adopted. (°°)  Annex XII : Travel and passport facilities for  families of members of the staff.  Adopted. (3°)  Before putting the whole Report to the vote,  I call upon the Director-General.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : A number of these  resolutions which you have, I am glad to say,  approved, have financial implications and there-  fore have gone to the Budget Sub-Commission.  That Sub-Commission will report, tomorrow |  believe, to the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion, and the latter will report to the plenary  Conference. The extent to which we can imple-  ment, in the coming year, some of those reso-  lutions which have financial implications depends  on the report of the Budget Sub-Commission. I  would simply like to remind you of this fact at  this stage.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): After the  explanations given by the Director-General, I shall  put to the vote the whole of the Report as it  stands in the document.  ad  The report was adopted unanimously. (37)
25. Report of the Administrative Commis-  sion.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We shall now  examine the Report of the Administrative Com-  mission. You have received document 3C/ADM/17  (rev.). 1 call upon M. Verniers, the Rapporteur  of that Commission.
(33) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex IX, p. 82.
(34) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex X, p. 83.
(35) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex XI, p. 83.
(36) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex XII, p. 83.
(37) See Volume II, Section XI, p. 57.
144  Annex I of document 3C/ADM/17 (rev.)  M. Louis VERNIERS (Belgium) (Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission) (Translation):  Mr. President, it is my duty to present to you the  teport of the Administrative Commission. This  Commission has had to deal with numerous sub-  jects which are of great importance from the  point of view of the Organization’s future success.  No less than eighteen subjects have been studied  during fourteen meetings, meetings which have  been followed with great interest and assiduity by  the delegates of the various Member States here  present. These questions have been grouped under  two general headings : Financial Questions, and  Staff Questions. You will find them listed in  To the questions under these two headings have  been added the following four others : A better  implementation of the programme; the contract  of the Director-General; the status and respon-  sibilities of the Executive Board; and finally, the  allowance during 1948 for the Director-General.  The distinction made between the financial  and the staff questions has been useful in order  to clarify the discussion, but the connexion be-  tween them emerged very clearly from the discus-  sion on these questions within the Commission.  Unesco cannot be successful unless it rests on  a firm financial basis. Nor can it be successful  unless it is served by a staff of officials with high  moral and technical qualifications, who will devote  all their energy, enthusiasm and knowledge to  the ideals of human progress, to serve which the  Organization was established. |  There is thus a double requirement, on which  the various members of the Commission insisted  many times; first, to ensure permanent super-  vision of the general, and especially the financial,  administration; and, second, to guarantee to  highly qualified members of the staff, recruited  by severe tests, general living and working con-  ditions that are fully satisfactory.  Does Unesco at present fulfil this double  requirement? To this question the Administrative  Commission gives a clear reply in the shape of  the various resolutions which it submits today to  the General Conference.  While it is happy to recognize the considerable  improvements which have been brought about in  the administration in general and in the financial  administration in particular, the Commission  regards it as essential that further progress should  be made in the course of the next fiscal year, and  that a quicker and therefore more effective im-  plementation of the programme should be brought  about by a greater flexibility in working methods.  As regards the officials’ living conditions, these  should be in harmony with those of the officials  of the United Nations, so that Unesco should not  appear as a poor relation in the United Nations         family. Regard should also be had to the pur-  chasing power of emoluments at the headquarters  of the Organization and to the need for the  constant and careful observance of strict economy.  The annual contributions of Member States  to the Organization's budget must be expended  primarily on the educational, scientific and cul-  tural work recommended in the programme  adopted by successive Conferences, and secondarily  on the Administration properly so called. There  should be no “administration for administration’s  sake”, any more than there should be ‘art for  art’s sake”. Administration is of course necessary.  It is, indeed, essential. But its object is to pro-  mote the execution of the programme. The Admi-  nistrative Commission recommends, therefore, an  administration that is both flexible and econo-  mical.  [ think, Mr. President and fellow-delegates, that  reliance may be placed in the work accomplished  by the Administrative Commission, and we  therefore suggest to you the adoption of the various  resolutions contained in document 3C/ADM/17  (rev.).  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Having heard  the Rapporteur, we shall start by discussing the  Financial Questions.
1. Item 4 (a): Presentation by the Executive  Board of the Reports of the Auditors for the  Financial Year 1947 and for the period to 30 June
1948 (document 3C/ADM/2 and supplement).  Are there any comments or objections?  Adopted. (°°)
2. Item 4 (bb):  Member States for  and supplements).  Adopted. (*?)  Contributions of of  (document  Scale
1949  J. Item 4 (c): Payment of Contributions of  Member States (document 3C/ADM/4).  Adopted. (*°)
4. Item 4 (d): Currency of Contributions to  the Budget (document 3C/ADM/5 and Addendum,  Supplementary Report).  Adopted. (**)  (°%) In final form Volume 1I, Section X,  Annex IL, 1, p. 47.
(89) In final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex II, 2, p. 47.
(4°) In final form Volume II, Section \X,  Annex II, 3, p. 48.
(41) In final form Volume II, Section \,  Annex II, 4, p. 49.
5. Item 4 (e): Administration of the Revolving  Fund (document 3C/ADM/6).  Adopted. (**)
6. Item 4 (f): Amendments  Regulations (document 3C/ADM/7).  Adopted. (**)
7. Item 4 (g): Re-appropriation of certain  categories of miscellaneous income (document
3C/ADM/12).  Adopted. (44)
8. Preliminary Examination of Budget Esti-  mates (document 3C/18). Additional Item pre-  sented by the delegation of the United States of  America.  Adopted. (45)  to Financial  Staff Questions.
1. Item 5 (a): Salary and Allowance System  (document 3C/ADM/8 and supplements), page 15.  Adopted. (4%)
2. Item 5 (b): Joint  (document 3C/ADM/9).  Adopted. (47)
3. Item 5 (c): Medical Benefits Scheme (do-  cument 3C/ADM/10 and Annexes I-11).  Adopted. (4%)
4. Item 5 (d): Amendments to Staff Regu-  lations (document 3C/ADM/11 and 11B).  Staff Pension Scheme  Are there any comments?  I call upon the delegate of France.  M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation):  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the French dele-  gation would like to draw your attention to the  new Regulation 8 of the Staff Regulations (page 19  of the English text), which reads as follows :  The Director-General appoints staff members as  necessary, subject to such consultations on the highest  posts as the Executive Board may require.
(47) In final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex II, 5, p. 50.
(43) In final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex ll, 6, p. 50.  (#4) In final form Volume II, Section \X,  Annex Il, 7, p. 51.
(4°) In final form Volume I, Section X,  Annex Il, 8, p. 52.  (+6) In final form Volume II, Section \,  Annex III, 1, p. 52.
(37) In. final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 2, p. 53.
(4%) In final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 3, p. 53.                   Gentlemen, this question has been discussed at  length by the Executive Board because, during the  past year, the members of the Executive Board  and those who follow closely the work of Unesco,  realized how difficult it was for the Director-  General, in the case of urgent appointments, to  consult the Executive Board in advance about a  particular nomination. After very thorough dis-  cussion, the Executive Board decided unanimously  that the Director-General should consult the  Executive Board as regards the appointment of  the Deputy Director-General and appointments of  Heads of Departments, that is to say, as regards  the appointment of some eight or ten high officials  in all. This seems quite reasonable, for the  Director-General is of course the chief official of  the Organization. But he is not alone; he and  those around him form a team; it 1s this team  that is alone responsible for the working of the  Organization. As Member States pay contributions  towards the work of the Organization, it seems  natural that, since they are consulted about the  appointment of the chief official of Unesco, they  should equally be consulted about the appoint-  ment of those who are, so to speak, his associates.  For this reason the French delegation favours  returning to the text which had been carefully  studied and unanimously approved by the Execu-  tive Board. That is our proposal.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone  wish to speak? The Director-General will give you  some explanations.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : 1 should have  thought that this amounted to exactly what the  delegate of France has just asked for. What is  said here is “such consultation on the highest  posts as the Executive Board may require”. That  is more flexible. The Executive Board requires  the Director-General to consult it further on the  highest posts; it retains that power. If it wishes  to waive that consultation, it can do so. Per-  sonally, I shall have no further responsibility in  the matter, 1 regret to say, but I should have  thought it would have been better for all parties  concerned, and especially for the Executive Board,  to leave it in this form, which is permissive. |  personally can see no advantage in having a more  specific mandate laid down, as to precisely those  posts on which consultation shall be required. It  may be that the new Director-General will wish to  alter the structure of the Secretariat, in which case  this particular form of resolution, in the form  which the French delegation would wish adopted,  would then have to be amended. The present  text would seem to me to give the Executive Board  more flexibility.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call on the  delegate of France.  M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation):  Mr. President, I thank Dr. Huxley for his explan-  ation, but I am not convinced that the text of  Regulation 8, as it now stands in the document,  gives us the guarantees which the Executive  Board’s original text gave us. I would like to  know—for probably I was not then present in the  Administrative Commission—when this matter  was discussed. Could the Chairman or the Rap-  porteur recapitulate for my benefit how the dis-  cussion developed in the Commission on that  occasion, for I remember the decision of the  Executive Board was taken unanimously and my  colleagues here also remember it distinctly. I  should therefore be grateful for further infor-  mation.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Would the  Chairman of the Administrative Commission like  to furnish any explanation on this subject?  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  (Chairman of the Administrative Commission):  Mr. President, it is a little difficult for me to  answer the question of the delegate of France.  As far as I recollect, there was no difficulty at all  about the Regulation in the Commission, and |  would, with deference, suggest that this reso-  lution, as amended, fully protects the Organization  in the sense in which the delegate of France would  like to have it protected. It reads :  The Director-General appoints staff members as  necessary, subject to such consultations on the highest  posts as the Executive Board may require.  My only difficulty in the Commission was about  that somewhat vague term ‘highest posts”, and  it seemed to me then, and I think to the Com-  mission, that it was one of those occasions where  it would be unwise to try to specify with greater  particularity. The control remains with the  Executive Board, and I would suggest that there  is adequate protection and that this form leaves  the matter in the hands of the Executive Board to  lay down such general directives as it thinks fit.  I am sorry I cannot give any further answer.  I would say that no difficulty was experienced in  coming to this conclusion. I think all of us were  anxious to secure the very type of protection for  which M. Seydoux is now asking. No amend-  ment has been moved, so that I take it there is  nothing more that I can do than to suggest that  we take it in the form suggested by the Com-  mission.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  delegate of the United Kingdom.
146                Mr :-b KR.  Fellow-delegates, in this connexion I would like  to draw your attention to document 3C/10 (rev.),  (United Kingdom)  page 9. This document is the report of the  Temporary Committee of the Executive Board on  the Status and Responsibilities of the Board.  This Regulation 8, which we are now discussing,  is, 1 think, an excellent attempt to conform with  what is to be found in document 3C/10. May I  read the extract to refresh the memories of  honourable delegates here present? Paragraph 23  reads as follows :  Similarly, if the General Conference can settle the  various questions of financial policy relating to cur-  rency of contributions and the administration of the  Revolving Fund, there should be no need to bring  these matters before the Board. Further...  —and this 1s the relevant line—  the provisions for consultation between the Board  and the Director-General on appointments might be  relaxed so that consultation on administrative matters  need only take place on a few points of the greatest  importance, such as the nominations for the highest  positions only in the Secretariat, such as those of  Deputy Director-General, Assistant Directors-General  and Heads of Departments and Bureaux.  In order to meet that, our Regulation 8 is, as  printed on page 19 of document 3C/ADM/17 :  The Director-General appoints staff members as  necessary, subject to such consultations on the highest  posts as the Executive Board may require.  | suggest that, if any attempt were to be made  to include in Regulation 8 specific posts which  should be referred to the Executive Board, we  should destroy the flexibility which is to be found  in the Regulations as at present submitted to this  meeting. Surely, we must trust the Board and we  must trust the Director-General and, as soon as you  begin making hard and fast rules, there are all the  elements of distrust. I hope that Regulation 8  will be carried as it stands.  M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation):  Mr. President, this discussion is very instructive,  for only a moment ago we heard there was no dif-  ference between the proposal made by the Board  and that incorporated in Regulation 8. The  delegate of the United Kingdom has just told us,  on the contrary, that in his opinion the new pro-  posal was much better, because it was much more  flexible and gave the Director-General much  greater discretion. I think therefore that there is  still a very great difference between the new  proposal incorporated in Regulation 8 and the one  made in the Executive Board’s Report. If my  memory 1s accurate, this question was discussed  in the Board at very great length, and I do not  think, anyhow, that the fact of specifying the  appointments as regards which the Executive  Board should be consulted should hamper the  Director-General. On the contrary, it gives us  more clarity and precision in the matter of appoint-  ments than we had before. This, I remind you,  concerns only a very small number of posts—the  less, as some of them are already filled—and 1  think the Director-General himself would be glad  to know, in advance, which are the posts on  which he should consult the Executive Board. 1  repeat that this decision was taken unanimously  by the Executive Board after very careful con-  sideration; 1 am sure that the Administrative  Commission has also studied the matter very  carefully; but I wonder whether we should not do  well to revert to the original resolution as adopted  by the Executive Board, which in my opinion is  much clearer and more precise and does not tie  the Director-General’s hands any more than the  new one does.     Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia): Mr. Pre-  sident, 1 should be grateful if the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission would give us a little  more information on the meaning he would place  on the terms of the new draft resolution. It is  true, as the delegate of France has said, that,  when the Executive Board considered this matter,  we did have in mind that the Director-General  should consult the Board in connexion with the  highest positions in the Organization, but not on  subsidiary positions. We thought it desirable in  the Board to specify in our Report which particular  positions were to be regarded as the highest  positions for the purpose of this particular pro-  cedure of consultation. Now 1 would like, for  the record, to obtain from the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission some light on the  following point : does the Regulation, as now  drafted, mean that it will be for the Executive  Board to define which particular positions are to  be regarded as the highest posts for the purposes  of this Regulation?  If that 1s the meaning to be placed upon this  Regulation, then clearly the Conference, in pas-  sing it, leaves it to the discretion of the Board to  indicate which particular positions in the Secre-  tariat are to be submitted to the Board for con-  sultation before actual appointments are made.  In its own report on this matter, the Board thought  it desirable to specify the positions, but, if the  intention of the Regulation is to leave it to the  discretion of the Board to specify the posts in a  simple resolution, then it would seem to me that  the resolution would probably meet the objections  which the French delegate has raised.  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  (Chairman of the Administrative Commission):
4  Mr. President, I shall endeavour to answer  Dr. Walker. It is of course clear that inter-  pretations by the Chairman of a Commission are  not canonical, and his guess is as good as mine.  It does seem to me, however, perfectly clear that  the difference between these two drafts would  require an affirmative answer to his question. I  do not want to waste time in criticizing the draft  of the Executive Board, but, if I might just read  the two, it would be possible for delegates to see  what has happened as a result of this proposed  change. 1 take it this is what the Executive Board  wanted :  Appointments to the posts of Deputy Director-General,  Assistant Directors-General, Directors of Divisions, and  Heads of Services will be made by the Director-  General after consultation with the Executive Board.  I pause there to point out that this limits the  discretion of the Executive Board very definitely  to those posts and to no others. So that, if another  post became of primary importance, the discretion  of the Director-General could not be interfered  with by the Executive Board. I proceed :  Appointments of other members of the staff shall  be made by the Director-General, having regard to  the opinions expressed by the Nominations Com-  mittee appointed by the Executive Board from amongst  its own members.  I do not want to go into details, but I may sug-  gest that this is a very much more complicated  procedure than that suggested by the Commission.  I also suggest that it is even more ambiguous than  the interpretation of the word “highest”. It is  not quite clear, for instance, whether every single  individual application for a contemplated appoint-  ment should be referred ad hoc to the Executive  Board for an expression of opinion, or whether it  is intended that general expressions of opinion  should be laid down for the guidance of the  Director-General. I might continue, Mr. Pre-  sident, but I just want to indicate that the feeling  of the Commission was that this much more  lengthy regulation, on the one hand, tied down  the Director-General and the Executive Board  much more than we think desirable and, on the  other hand, left more ambiguity than that  contained in the short form which is now before  you. This form is—it is the fourth time it has  been read to you—  The Director-General appoints staff members as  necessary, subject to such consultations on the highest  posts as the Executive Board may require.  Now, again with the proviso that my opinion
1s not binding on anybody, I would suggest that  the text says what it means, and that it is for the  Executive Board to determine just how far it is
148  necessary to tie the hands of the Director-General.  If it 1s found unnecessary to interfere, even in  respect of some of those posts which are high, the  Executive Board will say so. If, on the other  hand, it finds that it is necessary to go further  down, it has the power to do so. I find it dif-  ficult to see how there can be any objection from  the Executive Board to this short form, which  places this wide power in their hands, while still  making it possible for the Director-General to dis-  charge his functions with the minimum of inter-  ference. 1 therefore urge that we accept this  recommendation of the Commission, which others  find contains what we are all aiming at, that is :  efficiency without unnecessary delay in carrying  out the work which Unesco has placed upon the  Director-General.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  Director-General.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : 1 think I am cor-  rect in saying that no draft of the Staff Regulations  was ever proposed by the Executive Board. The  Executive Board suggested what I might call a  directive, which should govern it, and should  govern the relations of the Director-General and  the Executive Board in regard to the making of  appointments. It was not in my recollection of it,  when the discussion was held on the status of the  Board, that it was regarded as a draft staff regu-  lation. It is a directive to be followed, if possible,  in the staff regulations which this Conference is  now framing. This method of procedure would  not be possible under the old Staff Regulations.  We could not go back to the old Regulation 8 if  we wanted M. Seydoux’s motion to be passed.  I would also remind you that an attempt has  been made to get away from specifying details too  much in Staff Regulations. In the past there have  been a number of specifications made which have  in certain cases proved embarrassing. There has  been an attempt to make these regulations broad  and flexible, so that for instance if the new  Director-General decides to abolish the term  “Bureau”, which he might well want to do, then  it would be very embarrassing to have the word  “Bureau” in the Staff Regulations, and I must still  reiterate that I think this gives not merely more  general flexibility but actually more power to the  Executive Board than the substitute regulation  which M. Seydoux is thinking of.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Belgium.  M. Louis VERNIERS (Belgium) (Translation):  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the minutes of the  meeting at which the changes in the Staff Regu-            lations and the Rules appertaining thereto were  discussed have not, so far as I know, been cir-  culated. In any case, I personally have not seen  them, but during the discussion that has just  taken place I have consulted the personal notes  which I made , and I find that according to those  notes Regulation 8 in question was never the sub-  ject of any discussion and was adopted at once.  However, 1 do not know if the delegate of France  was present, or 1f Professor Sommerfelt, the  delegate of Norway, or Professor Photiades, the  delegate of Greece, who are all members of the  Executive Board, were present. I think it was at  the beginning of a meeting, and M. Seydoux will  remember that under Mr. Roberts’ energetic  chairmanship the meetings always began on time;  perhaps it was disposed of in that way. There was  no discussion, no one raised the point now at  issue; consequently I cannot give you any idea of  the opinions of the members present; I myself,  as Rapporteur, did not wish to intervene. When  I read Regulation 8, it seems to me that it safe-  guards sufficiently the right of the Executive  Board to intervene, if necessary, in the appoint-  ment of officials to the highest posts. I think that  the expression ‘such consultations ...... as the  Executive Board may require” enables the Board  to intervene and if necessary to demand that the  Director-General consult the Board and perhaps  even the Member States. In conclusion, for my  part, I hope that the text of Regulation 8 as pro-  posed will be adopted.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone  else wish to speak?  M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation):  Mr. President, I hear with the greatest interest  that a question such as the appointment of high  officials of the Secretariat, which had been dis-  cussed for an hour or two at least and then  carried over to another meeting in the Executive  Board, has passed through the Administrative  Commission without any discussion. It means  that all the members of the Administrative Com-  mission were in agreement on the proposed text.  As far as I and the French delegation are con-  cerned, we shall raise no objection to Regulation &  being kept in the form given in document
3C/ADM/17 (rev.) on the understanding, as the  Chairman of the Administrative Commission has  pointed out—and this is the question I venture to  ask him—that the Executive Board retains full  freedom of action, that is to say that it is for the  Board itself to define the “highest posts” on which  the Director-General will be bound to consult it.  If the Chairman of the Administrative Commission
1s prepared to answer this question in the affir-  mative, I will withdraw my amendment.
149  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone  else wish to speak?  M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation):  Mr. President, I have received a reply in the affir-  mative from the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission; consequently I withdraw my amend-  ment.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We will take  a vote on this point.  (On a vote being taken by a show of hands,  Item 5 (d), Amendments to Staff Regulations  (documents 3C/ADM/11 and 11B) was adopt-  ed). (1%)  The PRESIDENT (Translation) :  J
5. Item 5 (e): Distribution by nationality of  members of the Secretariat (document 3C/ADM,
13  Adopted. (°°)
6. Item 5 (f): Organization of the Secretariat.  Adopted. (**)  Other Questions.
(1) Plans for implementation of Programme  projects (Additional item 6 (a)).  Adopted. (**)
(2) Contract of the Director-General.
(3) Report on the Status and Responsibilities  of the Executive Board.  In respect of these second and third points,  there are no resolutions. (°°)
(4) Allowance during 1948 for the Director-  General.  Here there is a resolution on which I shall ask  you to vote. Any objections?  Adopted. (**)  Since all the items in the Report presented to
(49) In final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 4, p. 54.  (°9) In final form  Annex III, 5, p. 55.  (°1) In final form  Annex III, 6, p. 55.
(32) In final form  Annex IV, 1, p. 56.
(33) See Volume II, Section X, Annex VI, 2 and 3,  , 156.  (°4) In final form  Annex IV, 4, p. 56.  Volume II, Section X,  Volume II, Section X,  Volume II, Section X,  Volume II, Section X.    vou have been approved, I shall now ask vou to  vote on the Report as a whole.  (On a vote being taken by a show of hands, the  Report of the Administrative Commission was  adopted unanimously.) (°°)  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We now have  a resolution, sent to the Conference by the Admi-  nistrative Commission, concerning the Depart-  ment of Exchange of Information. The joint  Committee of Fifteen has referred back to the  Administrative Commission the following reso-  lution :  The General Conference invites the Director-General  to reconsider as soon as possible the organization and  title of the Department of Exchange of Information  and the work plan suggested for 1949, with a view  to possible reduction in the scope of its activities,  especially those concerned with the provision of  information services to the Programme Departments  by specialists and those concerned with statistics. In     order to avoid the danger of duplication, certain of  these activities might, if necessary, be transferred to  the appropriate departments.  The Administrative Commission has referred  the above resolution to the plenary Conference  without comment. It is document 3C/91. I have  only read this for vour information; there is no  need to vote on it.  Does anybody wish to speak?  Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom): As  this is a very important matter and as it 1s very  late in the meeting to take up the point, 1 suggest  that we adjourn and take it as the first item on  our agenda tomorrow.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Do you ap-  prove the proposal by the delegate of the United  Kingdom to adjourn? Will those in favour please  raise their hands? Adopted.  The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.  FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 7 December 1948 at 17 a.m.  CONTENTS
26. Consideration of resolution submitted by the Joint Committee of Fifteen,  regarding the Department of Exchange of Information . . . . . . 150  President : Dr. King CHU (China)
26. Consideration of resolution submitted  by the Joint Committee of Fifteen  regarding the Department of Exchange  of Information.  The PRESIDENT : I call upon the Rapporteur  of the Joint Committee of Fifteen to explain the  resolution before us.  Mr. A. J. A. NELSON (Australia) (Rapporteur  of the Joint Committee of Fifteen): Mr. President.  [ have the honour to submit to the Conference  that part of the Report of the Joint Committee of  Fifteen which deals with the resolution, set out  in document 3C/91, on the Department of Fx-  change of Information.     (°°) See Volume II, Section X, p. 45.     The Committee discussed at some length the  project labelled in the Budget Estimates “World  Centre for the Exchange of Information”, and  came to the conclusion that the title of the pro-  ject was misleading, since the activities budgeted  are primarily centralized services for the Secre-  tariat, such as the maintenance of the library.  archives, statistical unit, publications and sales  division. It was established that these facilities  are designed primarily for internal use and not  for use by the general public. The Committee  agreed therefore that the title “World Centre  should be modified.  It further agreed that reference, documentation,  publication, and statistical services, on a continu-  ing basis are essential to the work of Unesco, and  do not necessarily need programme authorization.