Proposal of the Peruvian delegation (docu-  ment 3C/60).  The CHAIRMAN submitted to the Commission  the motion of the Peruvian delegation (document
3C/60), for the reduction of the budget of the  Projects Division by $10,000.  The motion was rejected.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that other reso-  lutions on the programme of Mass Communi-  cation were down for later discussion by the Com-  mission.  With the amendment made by the Commission,  the resolutions which had been discussed were  adopted unanimously.  Professor RIVET (France) pointed out that the  last paragraph of the report (document 3C/PRG/
2.4), though, strictly speaking, neither a recom-  mendation nor a resolution, yet reflected the  discussions on the structure of the Department of  Mass Communication; it would, therefore, be  desirable for that paragraph to be retained, in its  existing form, in the Commissions’s report to the  Budget Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN remarked that questions of  administrative organization were not within the  Programme and Budget Commission’s terms of  reference, but that, with the Commission’s ap-  proval, the paragraph in question would be for-  warded.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m.  SIXTH MEETING  Tuesday, 30 November 1948, at 11 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of Reports of Sub-Commis-  sions (continuation).  Cultural Questions (document 3C/PRG/
3.7).  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) (Rap-  porteur of the Sub-Commission on Cultural  Questions) gave an outline of the budgetary  adjustments involved in the decisions taken during  discussion of the several projects. He explained  that, as far as the first four items were concerned,  the appropriations in the budget, though slightly  reduced, would be adequate. The position  regarding the last item (Freedom of the Artist)  was a little different; the project had already been  the subject of heated discussions, and any financial  adjustments required would depend on the deci-  sion taken by the Programme and Budget Com-  mission. Estimated requirements might be any-  thing from $8,000 to $25,000 according to the  plan of work adopted. Dr. McKeon was very  much in favour of the project, as nothing had so  far been done to associate artists with Unesco’s  alms.
(8)  I. Cultural liaison for the Middle East.  The CHAIRMAN submitted the amendment as
261  finally approved by the Joint Programme and  Official and External Relations Commission, read-  ing as follows :  As a means of carrying out resolution 4.3.3 of the  programme approved at the Second Session of the  General Conference, the Director-General is instructed  to create a service of cultural liaison to promote, in  co-operation with National Commissions or competent  cultural Co-operating Bodies, the exchange of  ideas, information, materials and persons in the  field of Arts, Letters, Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies among the countries of the Middle East of  similar culture and between those countries and the  other countries of the world.  Adopted.  II. Reproductions in Visual Arts and Music.  Dr. FARES (Egypt) advocated a clearer form  of words as regarded reproductions in visual arts  (resolution 4.143).  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General pointed  out that it was less a question of a new resolution  than of a directive to the Secretariat regarding  the arrangement of the scheme of work. He           assured the Egyptian delegate that the Secretariat  would take note of his point.  Dr. FARES (Egypt) agreed to his resolution s  taking the form of a recommendation.  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) pointed  out that the catalogue in question was already  in hand and would be published at an early date.  Mr. LELAND (United States of America)  explained that the work plan for the project had  been prepared in accordance with the recommen-  dations of experts who had been specially called  together for the purpose. Far from asking the  Director-General to extend the project's scope, he  should rather be requested to complete the work  begun as soon as possible. Accordingly, Mr. Le-  land would ask the Egyptian delegate to with-  draw his recommendation.  Dr. FARES (Egypt) agreed to do so.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the resolution  submitted by the Sub-Commission (document
3C/PRG/4.7, page 2) with the relevant resolutions  from document 3C/5 (4.14 to 4.146, including  the supplementary resolution 4.1431).  Adopted.  III. The Arts in General Education.  The item, with the Sub-Commission’s amend-  ments to resolutions 4.162 to 4.1632 (document
3C/PRG/4.7, pages 2 and 3) was adopted.  IV. The Contribution of the Arts to Unesco’s  Purposes.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) (Rap-  porteur of the Sub-Commission) proposed the  adoption of the resolution submitted by the Sub-  Commission (document 3C/PRG/4.7, page 3).  Dr. CHU (China) said that his delegation had  asked for lists of three, and not ten, works from  each country.  Professor BRANCA (Italy) asked that steps  should be taken to ensure co-ordination between  that proposal and the project for the translation  of the classics.  M. THOMAS (Assistant-Director-General) gave  an assurance that that would be done.  With those  was adopted.  two amendments the resolution
262  V. Freedom of the Artist.  The CHAIRMAN asked for remarks on the  resolution contained in document 3C/70, which  the Sub-Commission had adopted (document
3C/PRG/4.7, page 3).  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) wished  to support the proposal in his capacity as a  member of the American delegation, and not as  Rapporteur. Although art was the most explicit  expression of every culture and civilization, artists  had thitherto always been neglected by society,  which took no interest in their living conditions;  that was unworthy of a true human democracy.  Unesco should find means at once of helping  artists, who should at last enjoy ordinary ameni-  ties, and of securing for itself the help of artists,  for it was perfectly possible to associate artists  with scientists in the building of the world  republic.  The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission  should free their minds of all consideration of  finance, as the matter would later be submitted  to the Budget Sub-Commission.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the gen-  eral lines of the project were identical with those  of the projects unsuccessfully submitted first to  the Paris, and then to the Mexico City Confer-  ence: he himself, therefore, regarded it with a  kindly eve. In his view, part of the project could  be executed even without the need for requesting  additional appropriations, provided the existing  form was slightly amended. Perhaps the Com-  mission would consider leaving him the respon-  sibility for a preliminary study of the matter,  with a view to the drafting of a more concrete  resolution and an appropriate plan of action. For  instance, full data might be collected about the  material living conditions of artists regarded as  individuals living in an increasingly industrialized  world, as well as about the private and public  institutions concerned with artists and the value  of those bodies’ contributions. That was a real-  istic method which struck him as an acceptable  compromise,  Professor RIVET (France) recalled that the  Institute of Intellectual Co-operation had already  begun the study of the question on those lines;  it would certainly be useful to consult the works  that body had already published, particularly its  volume on “Art and the State”.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) thought  that the Sub-Commission's project was more  modest than that suggested at Mexico City. lt      consisted in investigating the living conditions of  artists and securing their co-operation with  Unesco, not by lengthy questionnaires but by the  execution of a definite programme allowing of  definite budgetary planning : (1) compiling a  card index of data on the living conditions of  artists in various countries; (2) evolving practical  suggestions to improve their working conditions  and stimulate their co-operation with Unesco:
(3) deciding the exact contribution which Unesco  could make to that programme.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was completely  satisfied with that conception of the project.  Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) supported the resolution  and remarked that one way of protecting artists  was to strive for the perfecting and general accep-  tance of copyright legislation.  Note was taken of the suggestions of the dele-  gates of France and Cuba, and the resolution  (document 3C/70) was adopted.  (h) Scientific and Cultural History (Report  of the joint meeting of the Sub-Com-  missions on Natural Sciences and  Cultural Questions (document 3C/PRG/
4.8).  Dr, NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) (Rapporteur)  presented the summary record of the joint meeting  of the Sub-Commissions (document 3C/PRG/4.8).  He devoted special attention to outlining the form  which might be taken by an international Foun-  dation, distinct from Unesco, having relations with  specialized international organizations and subsi-  dized by them. The task, as the two Sub-Com-  missions saw it, consisted in compiling a history of  the scientific and cultural development of mankind,  including the relation of man to his social setting.  Requests had been made for popular versions of  such a work and for adaptations of it for use in  schools. The delegates of Norway and Canada  had maintained that all that was required was an  adequate bibliography; but the average reader  usually had no access to the books included in  bibliographies. The delegate of Egypt had sug-  gested that the project was more suitable for a  publishing house than for Unesco. Another  question raised had been who should be in  charge : could a single scientist speak for all  branches of science and for all the cultural regions  of the world? New Zealand, Afghanistan and  Egypt had expressed fears that Unesco, or the  Member State concerned, might be held respon-  sible for any errors or omissions in a work of  such importance; it had been suggested that,  before publication, the text could be submitted  to States for revision. That had given rise to  the comment that the international Foundation  responsible would necessarly be independent of  Unesco. The delegates of Belgium and France  had supported programme resolution 5.7, and the  latter had suggested that the work should be  begun with technology and labour. The Aus-  tralian delegate had made the point that the  history of civilization was quite as important as  the description of current ways of life, and that  it was desirable to acquaint the whole world with  the contribution of each social group to the  heritage of mankind. Furthermore, the Chair-  man had pointed out that what was in question  was not a political contribution, but the history  of the world for citizens of the world. Finally,  the draft resolution (adopted by thirteen votes to  seven, with one abstention), had rejected the  bibliographical method, but had amended pro-  gramme resolution 5.7 to provide for the compi-  lation of a work, designed equally for the average  reader and for experts, to be proposed at the next  session of the General Conference.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the meet-  ing that, in the last two years, much had been  done. Great scientists and eminent scholars had  joined the Organization in the consideration of  the question; they had made it clear that doubts  could be dissipated, that the scheme of work was  practical and that it was necessary to speed things  up and to make a beginning on the task by com-  piling material of university standard and, there-  after, school books and popular versions.  The task should be the responsibility of one  man, assisted by a small body of experts, as no  scientist could shoulder such a burden absolutely  single-handed. It had been suggested that it was  essential that the work should be entrusted to a  group, which could take full responsibility;  whence the suggestion for an international Foun-  dation in touch with the Director-General.  It would not be possible to refer the question  back to the General Conference and Member  States, but, if anything worth doing was to be  achieved, the experts would have to be trusted.  Only an international entity such as Unesco could  successfully accomplish such a task.  The Director-General then considered the reso-  lution of the Joint Sub-Commission. All special-  ized international organizations and national  bodies would be consulted. On that point the  panel of experts would give the necessary advice  to the new Director-General. The proposed period  of a year before the project could be put into  execution seemed excessive. The experts were of  the opinion that no delay need be feared and that  substantial results could be secured within the     ww .  -   r o   T R   a   +  A  ro b
2   P  e t   tri   rh   -  = ,   a  E a n       time envisaged in the working paper, 1.e. five to  ten years.  The project was of fundamental importance to  Unesco, and Unesco was the only body which  could initiate it.  Dr. FARES (Egypt) remarked that the Organi-  zation should be consulted before, and not after,  any such Foundation was established. Moreover,  he observed that the document made no mention  of similar undertakings (e.g. study of the evolution  of mankind), which it would be wise to take as a  model. Instead of embarking at once upon the  proposed project, could not the Secretariat carry  out an investigation and list material already in  existence?  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that, in  the working paper 3C/PRG/4.4, there was, before  the suggestion for the adoption of resolution 5.7,  an explicit statement as follows :  This Foundation, which will be separate from  Unesco, ... will take appropriate steps to arrange for  the preparation and publication of the works men-  tioned in Section IT above, or any other works which  may be deemed necessary. The Foundation will enter  into relations with such international organizations  as may be useful for its purposes. It may receive  grants-in-aid from Unesco and any other national or  international body, whether public or private, which  may desire to take part in carrying out the project.  Mr. LELAND (United States of America) drew  attention to the General Conference's insistence  that Unesco’s projects should be practical. The  enterprise under consideration was comparable to  SEVENTH  ï TIT =  the preparation of an encyclopaedia and would  take a very long time. Further, if the inter-  national Foundation was to act as a permanent  research institute, it would require a competent  staff and funds. Mr. Leland accordingly sup-  ported the resolution submitted by the Joint Sub-  Commission.  M. FLORKIN (Belgium) was unconvinced by  the arguments advanced against the original reso-  lution, for one of Unesco's tasks was to show  the part played by each culture in the general  progress of humanity in the paths of peace.  Professor KABIR (India) thought that the  Egyptian delegate’s remarks met the case as far  as the first project was concerned. The document  under discussion did not make it clear whether  approval should be obtained before or after the  setting up of the international Foundation. The  five to ten year period asked for by the Director-  General would certainly give rise to objections.  The work proposed could not be entrusted to a  publisher; the actual writer's position would in  fact be dependent on the viewpoint adopted in  the book, and publishers would not accept a  responsibility of that nature unless the work was  sponsored by organizations connected with Unesco.  in which case the successful accomplishment of  the work would be more important than its  financial returns. Unlike the records of wars,  the history of mankind could not be detached, as  it was in so many books, from the whole question  of international understanding.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  MEETING  Tuesday, 30 November 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of Reports of Sub-Commis-  sions (continuation).  (h) Scientific and Cultural History of  Mankind (continuation) (document 3C/  PRG/}.8.).  Professor RIVET (France) warmly supported  the project for the publication of a Scientific and  Cultural History of Mankind. He considered that
264  the unfavourable reception given to the project in  the Sub-Commissions might have been caused by  misunderstanding of the project by the delegates.  Some of them were under the impression that  the project was to be carried out by one individual:  that was not the intention of those who had  initiated it, who realized that such a project could  only be the work of an international team of spe-  cialists, co-ordinating their efforts in a harmonious  and flexible whole.         Other delegates had thought that the project  was impracticable because of its magnitude; it  was not, however, intended that the work should  be of an encyclopaedic nature and the initiators  of the project had recognized that, at the outset,  the activity of the team of writers would have  to be limited to a definite field of study. The  French delegation had proposed that a history  of technology should be tackled first, leaving  aside for future study a history of philosophy,  of religion and of art. It was already possible  to find fragmentary information on those subjects,  while a history of the technical progress of man  throughout the ages had never been produced.  Still other delegates thought that the necessary  material for such a work was lacking; Professor  Rivet was convinced, however, that it would be  possible to find the necessary material in special-  ized monographs already published; it would be  for the writers of the work to co-ordinate and  synthesize such fragmentary data.  Lastly, some delegates thought that the project  was impracticable because it would take too long  to bring to fruition; Professor Rivet maintained  that a work of the kind envisaged could be pro-  duced in four years at the most and could then  form the basis of more enlightened textbooks to  replace the badly written books in common use.  Existing textbooks were bad in that they were  written from a nationalistic point of view. They  were Incomplete, concentrating on great events,  such as wars, instead of on the discoveries which  formed the basis of modern life throughout the  world such as the invention of the boomerang by  the aborigines of Australia, and of blow-pipes by  the Malays. The relative importance of eras was  wrongly stressed, as the Middle Ages, for instance,  fruitful in invention and craftsmanship, were  neglected in comparison with modern times. If  the project for a Scientific and Cultural History  of Mankind was adopted, it should prove an im-  portant factor in the development of international  understanding, which was one of the prime aims  of Unesco.  Dr. ROBBINS (Canada) said that, in view of  the very considerable amount of preparatory work  that had been done and the urgency of the matter,  his delegation would be happy to see the project  go forward on the basis of the original resolution  in the programme.  Mr. SYME (United Kingdom) wished to men-  tion that the views of the Rapporteur were not  those of the United Kingdom delegation, which  was in entire agreement with the United States  delegation and supported the Egyptian delegate’s  resolution.
265     M. NAJJAR (Lebanon) supported the project, it  being understood that it would be a work of syn-  thesis and not a general encyclopaedia; his dele-  gation therefore accepted the Executive Board's  resolution.  Dr. TUDE-DE-SOUZA (Brazil) took up a similar  attitude.  M. MOHR (Norway) and M. NOVRUP (Den-  mark) supported the original resolution.  The CHAIRMAN said that the French delegation  had proposed an amendment to resolution 5.7,  to the effect that international and non-govern-  mental organizations should be consulted as soon  as possible in the planning of that great enter-  prise.  After a statement by Dr. NEEDHAM (United  Kingdom) (Rapporteur) about the use of the  words “delaying resolution” on page 3 of his  report, Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of Ame-  rica) said that his delegation was opposed to the  project for practical reasons concerned with the  carrying out of such an undertaking, and not  because they were not in favour of the idea.  Professeur PHOTIADES (Greece) called for the  goodwill of all delegates in overcoming the diffi-  culties so that the idea could be carried out.  Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) felt the pro-  ject was extremely interesting, and that it would  grow by degrees as it was implemented. If  Unesco hesitated at that great task, it might raise  doubts about the efficiency of its programme.  Dr. SALIBA (Syria) thought the project deserved  to be examined and implemented, although he  understood the force of the United States delega-  tion’s arguments.  Dr. SADIGHI (Iran) asked the Director-General  for information regarding possible funds for carry-  ing out the project.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that all that  was necessary at the beginning was sufficient  funds to arrange for a meeting of experts and  administrators to establish the Foundation, which  would then become somewhat similar to the Inter-  national Theatre Institute, though not, of course,  organized on the same basis. It would be in a  position to receive funds from Member States inter-  ested, learned societies and other institutions, to-  gether with some funds from Unesco itself.  The amendment to paragraph 5.7, proposed by  the Egyptian delegation at the previous meeting,  was put on the vote and rejected.           Draft resolution submitted by the French  delegation (document 3C/49).  Professor RIVET (France) submitted a draft  resolution (document 3C/49) dealing with appro-  priations for cultural questions.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  recommended that the resolution should be  referred to the Budget Sub-Commission for consi-  deration.  The proposal was adopted.  Report of the Joint Committee of Fifteen  (document 3C/94).  Mr. NELSON  Joint Committee of Fifteen)  report.  (Australia) (Rapporteur of the  read his interim  The CHAIRMAN said that the only point of con-  cern to the Commission was the modification of  resolution 5.8 (World Register) in document 3C/5.  The other points in the Report, in his judgment,  were for consideration by the Administrative Com-  mission.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the  new form of resolution 5.8 would involve a num-  ber of essential programme services, namely,  library, archives, etc. Furthermore, it was the  function of the Director-General to set up whatever  organization within the Secretariat he thought best  to carry out the tasks laid upon him, and the  Conference could not issue definite recommen-  dations or resolutions specifying the precise struc-  ture within the Secretariat.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  was fully in agreement with the Director-General.  His delegation was, however, considerably worried  about such a “World Register”; they did not see  how such a register could be assembled without  the use of almost unlimited funds, or how, if  such. a resolution were adopted or that type of  activity were continued, there could be any reduc-  tion in the budget.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed that the new  project seemed more ambitious than the original  one; he also agreed with the criticism made by  the Committee of Fifteen that the title “World  Centre” was perhaps not the best. The title might  be changed to something less ambitious and defi-  nite, (such as “The Provision and Exchange of  Information”) and the less specific wording of  resolution 5.8 might be restored.  The CHAIRMAN, having asked the opinion of the  United States delegate, said that the points at issue  were : the resolution emanating from the Joint  Committee of Fifteen, explained by its Rapporteur;  and a proposal from the United States delegate to  maintain the original text of resolution 5.8 as given  in document 3C/5, and to change the title from  “World Centre for the Exchange of Information”  to “Provision and Exchange of Information”.  There was also an amendment requesting the  Director-General to continue the preparation of a  plan for a World Register.  Mr. SYME (United Kingdom) attached great  importance to retaining the formula agreed by the  Joint Committee of Fifteen.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that  neither resolution specified whether such matters  as exchange of information should be handled by  the Programme Departments or by a central body.  The question had only been touched upon by  implication in the title “World Centre for Ex-  change of Information”.  A vote was taken on the text recommended by  the Joint Committee; it was rejected by eight votes  to five.  The proposal of the United States delegate to  maintain the text of resolution 5.8 on page 79 of  document 3C/5, with the title amended to “Pro-  vision and Exchange of Information” was adopted.  Draft resolution submitted by the Austrian  delegation (document 3C/31).  The CHAIRMAN then read a proposal from the  Austrian delegate for a conference to consider the  establishment of a universal standard of musical  pitch.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the  matter should be referred to the proposed Inter-  national Music Institute, as soon as it was set up  in accordance with resolution 4.12.  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) agreed to that suggestion.  Resolution proposed by the United Kingdom  delegation (document 3C/61).  After discussion, the resolution was amended  by the United Kingdom delegation and adopted  as follows :  Considering that one of the purposes of Unesco is to  encourage the recognition everywhere of the best work
266      done in the fine arts, the humanities and education,  in order to advance mutual understanding of the  peoples of the world and a truer and more perfect  knowledge of each others lives, regardless of  nationality, race or creed,  The General Conference resolves that the Director-  General should be instructed to enquire into the possi-  bility of Unesco’s making a series of annual awards  for the best achievements during the preceding twelve  months in music, arts, drama, literature, education  and the humanities; that these awards should be  made on the advice of tribunals of recognized inter-  national authorities; and that the Director-General  is instructed to report to the next session of the Gen-  eral Conference.  Draft resolutions proposed by the French  delegation (document 3C/50) and the United  States delegation (document 3C/76).  As the two resolutions dealt approximately with  the same subject (Index Translationum), the  CHAIRMAN proposed to take them together.  With the agreement of the delegates of France  and the United States of America, it was decided  that paragraph 1 of the French resolution (doc-  ument 3C/50) should be replaced by the United  States resolution (document 3C/7). (5%)  The remainder of the proposals contained in  document 3C/50 (i.e. paragraphs 2, 3 and 4) were  adopted (°°) as recommendations to the Director-  General to guide him in preparing his plan of  work under resolution 4.21 (Translations of Great  Books).  Draft resolution submitted by the Lebanese  delegation (document 3C/21).  Following remarks by M. THOMAS (Assistant  Director-General), the draft resolution concerning  the millenary of Avicenna was adopted. (°°)  Motion submitted by the delegations of Brazil  and Egypt (document 3C/53).  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the  two questions of the preservation of historical sites  and monuments and the possibility of establishing  an international fund to subsidize such preser-  vation and restoration work should be considered  in collaboration with the International Council of  Museums.     rr —— _ —
(84) In final form : Resolution 6.222, Volume II,  p. 27.
(85) In final form : Resolution 6.2212, Volume II,  p. 27.
(36) In final form : Resolution 8.5, Volume I,  p. 35.  Dr. TUDE-DE-SOUZA (Brazil) and Dr. AWAD  (Egypt) supported that suggestion.  The motion was adopted with that amend-  ment. (*?)  Draft resolution submitted by the Norwegian  delegation (document 3C/87).  After some discussion, during which the DI-  RECTOR-GENERAL said that the organization of  a Summer School for working Librarians would  involve quite a substantial addition to the budget,  but that he hoped it might nevertheless be pos-  sible, M. MOHR (Norway) withdrew his reso-  lution.  Amendment proposed by the French dele-  gation (document 3C/48).  After Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of Ame  ica) had spoken of the great expense which would  be entailed if that resolution regarding a list of  bibliographies were adopted, Professor RIVET  (France) agreed to delete the words “and, 1f  necessary, provide financial assistance for”.  The resolution, as amended, was adopted.  Proposal submitted by the delegation of the  United Kingdom (document 3C/37).  The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the proposal  for financial support to Ex-German Libraries in  Italy was a continuation of resolution 2.3.1.5. in  the Programme of Unesco for 1948 (document
2C/132, Vol. Il, p. 15).  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, if the Gen-  eral Conference so instructed him, he would try  to find means to arrange for a loan.  The resolution was adopted. (°°)  Draft resolution submitted by the French  delegation (document 3C/51).  With the agreement of Professor RIVET  (France), the resolution was amended and adopted  in the following form :  Whereas in many lands the publication of works of  importance in the fields of science and learning,
(87) In final form :  p. 28.
(88) In final form :  p. 29.  Resolution 6.4, Volume II,  Resolution 6.514, Volume II,
267            necessarily designed for a limited public, is fraught  with material difficulties.  The Director-General is instructed to consider the  possibility of establishing a special fund to assist  the publication of important works in the fields of  science and learning, and to report to the next Session  of the Conference.  Amendment submitted by the delegation of  the United States of America (document
3C/77).  After statements by the DIRECTOR-GENERAL  and M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) and  a reply from Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of  America), the amendment to resolution 2.423  (Universal Convention on Copyright) was modi-  fied at the Secretariat’s suggestion and adopted  as follows :  To circulate among Member States for comment the  results of the comparative survey and the replies to  the questionnaire circulated in 1948, preparatory to a  meeting of experts to consider that material and com-  ments, with a view to the drafting of a universal  convention.  The CHAIRMAN then put the whole group of  resolutions concerning cultural questions to the  vote (resolutions 2.3 to 2.522; 4.1 to 4.5; 5.2 to
5.43: 5.7 10.5.8).  The resolutions were adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then put document 3C/5 as a  whole to the vote and it was adopted, subject to  EIGHTH  the corrigenda, addenda and amendments agreed  upon during the Commission’s debates, and to the  report of the Budget Sub-Commission.  Draft resolution proposed by the delegation  of the United States of America (docu-  ment 3C/68).  Following remarks from the DIRECTOR-GEN-  ERAL, the resolution was amended and adopted  in the form given below :  The Programme and Budget Commission :  (a) instructs the Drafting Sub-Committee, in its  drafting of the programme for 1949, to keep in mind  the desirability of developing a code of Unesco policy  and to take steps in this direction where feasible;  (b) recommends that the General Conference  instruct the Director-General and the Executive Board,  in preparing the draft programme for 1950, to seek  so far as possible to separate the programme into two  parts, and in pursuance of this aim to preface the  project programme for 1950 with a code of all policies,  so far approved by the General Conference, which it  is proposed to continue in effect.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that a Drafting Com-  mittee should be appointed, composed of delegates  of Belgium, Brazil, France, the United Kingdom  and the United States of America.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 8 December 1948, at 11 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of the Report of the Budget  Sub-Commission (document 3C/PRG—Bud-  get/2).  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) (Rapporteur of the  Budget Sub-Commission) submitted the Report.  After the fullest discussion, the Sub-Commission  had agreed that it would be possible to fix or  recommend a sum that would permit adequate  execution of the work of the Organization, pro-  vide for a balanced programme, come within the  terms of the relevant resolution of the General
268  Conference, and would also have regard to future  budgets.  For the guidance of future sessions of the  Conference, the Budget Sub-Commission believed  that it would have been helped considerably in  its work if it had been possible for the Confer-  ence to set it up at least a week earlier. It would  then have been able to discuss earlier the general  problems which had taken up its first meeting,  and prepare a detailed plan of work for the later  meetings.  The Report would show that the Sub-Commission