TWELFTH MEETING  Thursday, 2 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Programme of meetings.  The programme of meetings for Friday, 3, and  Saturday, 4 December, was adopted.  Procedure to be followed for the election of  members of the Executive Board.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) called  for an explanation of the procedure which had  been followed for the election of members of the  Executive Board. Several votes had been cast for  delegates who were not candidates. Were such  votes valid? He thought that there should be a  more rational set of rules to be followed on such  OCCASIONS.  After an exchange of views between Mr. ROB-  ERTS (Union of South Africa), Mr. HARDMAN  (United Kingdom), Mr. ALLEN (United States of  America) and Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark), the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed that, while nothing  could be done about the past, such a complex  question should be submitted to the Procedure  Committee, so that clear rules could be drawn  up for the following year’s elections; it would  be clearly understood, in accordance with a sug-  gestion made by Professor KABIR (India), that  a definite voting procedure would be laid down.  Agreed.  Form in which the Reports of Member States  should be presented.  The SECRETARY consulted the General Com-  mittee on the manner of presenting the Reports  of Member States at the following week’s plenary  meeting. He reminded the Committee that the  Board had thought of making it a rather formal  meeting, but wished to know how it should be  arranged.  Several delegates pointed out that the question  was complex : some of the Reports were very  detailed, while others were very brief. Should  they be considered as a whole or should each  Member State be left to comment on its own  report?  It was agreed that it would be desirable :
(1) that, as suggested by Mr. HARDMAN  (United Kingdom), the Reports of Member States  should be received well before the opening of a  session of the Conference;
(2) that in future, as proposed by M. SEY-  DOUX (France), there should be some degree of  uniformity in the way the Reports were set out,  so that their common items could be compared,  and their new features discussed:
(3) that, at the current Session, as suggested  by Mr. ALLEN (United States of America), the  President of the Conference should draw the  attention of the plenary meeting to the Reports,  leaving each delegate free to speak on his own  country s Report.  Action to be taken on the decisions of the  Joint Committee of Fifteen.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) thought  that the Joint Committee of Fifteen should sub-  mit its report to the plenary Conference.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) emphasized,  however, that the report might have budgetary  implications, and the DIRECTOR-GENERAL there-  fore suggested that it should first be referred to  the Budget Sub-Commission and then submitted  to a plenary meeting.  Agreed.  Officers of the Executive Board for 1949.  The CHAIRMAN noted the results of the elec-  tion of officers of the Executive Board for 1949,  which would be communicated to the next  meeting of the General Conference : Chairman :  Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan; Vice-Chairmen :  Dr. C. Parra-Perez and M. Roger Seydoux.  The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m.