FIRST PLENARY MEETING ©  Wednesday, 17 November 1948 at 8.45 p.m.  CONTENTS
1. Opening of the Third Session of the General Conference . . . . . . . 35
2. Appointment of the Credentials Committee, Nominations Committee and  Procedure Committee
3. Report of the Credentials Committee
4. Adoption of the Agenda
5. Report of the Procedure Committee
6. Report of the Nominations Committee  President : Dr. Francisco del RIO Y CANEDO (Mexico)  later :
1. Opening of the Session by the Head of  the Mexican Delegation.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Gentlemen,  | feel that those of you who were able to under-  stand my poor French this morning will have  had enough speeches from me. We have come  to Beirut to work, to prove to the whole world  that Unesco is an Organization that works to some  purpose. We did not come here to hold an inter-  national Conference or meeting solely in order  to listen to speeches or to talk. I shall, therefore,  not waste your time and we will start work imme-  diately. I have pleasure in declaring the Third  Session of the General Conference of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Or-  ganization open. I hope that your work will fulfil  everyone's hopes. Gentlemen, the meeting is  open.    —  Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)
2. Appointment of the Credentials Com-  mittee, Nominations Committee and  Procedure Committee.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): In accordance  with the Agenda which has been distributed to  you, and the draft Rules of Procedure of the Gen-  eral Conference, three Conference Committees  should be constituted, viz., the Credentials Com-  mittee, the Nominations Committee, and the Pro-  cedure Committee.  Under Rule 26 of the draft Rules of Procedure,  the Credentials Committee shall consist of nine  members elected by the General Conference on the  proposal of the Acting President. I have the  honour to propose to the General Conference that  this Committee should be composed of represen-  tatives of the following countries Afghanistan,  Austria, Belgium, Egypt, Luxembourg, New Zea-  land, Peru, Philippines, United Kingdom.  | () At an Inaugural Meeting, held at Unesco House, Beirut, on 17 November 1948 at 11 a.m. speeches were  made by Dr. Francisco del RIO Y CANEDO, head of the Mexican delegation, Sheik Bechara EL KHOURY.  President of the Republic of Lebanon and Hamid Bey FRANGIE, Lebanese Minister for Foreign Affairs and  Education.  _ Note.—The references contained in the footnotes to Resolutions by number are to the final form of the  Resolutions, which appear in Volume II of the Records of the General Conference of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Third Session.          The Credentials Committee will meet, in  Room 129, immediately after this meeting is  adjourned. 1 hope that the Committee will be  able to make its report when the meeting is  resumed, 1.e. about 5 o'clock.  Rule 31 of the draft Rules of Procedure pro-  vides that the Procedure Committee shall consist  of one representative of each delegation to vote.  I would therefore ask the heads of the delegations  to appoint one member each to serve on the Pro-  cedure Committee, which will meet, immediately  after the adjournment of this meeting, in Room 176  on the second floor of this building.  Delegations have already received the draft  Rules of Procedure for the General Conference  (document 3C/PRO/1), drawn up by a committee  of experts and approved by the Executive Board.  To speed up the work of the Conference, I would  suggest that this Committee should adopt docu-  ment 3C/PRO/1 provisionally and that it should  later examine it in detail during the Session.  Finally, the Nominations Committee, which,  according to the draft Rules of Procedure, shall  include the heads of delegations entitled to vote  in the Conference, will meet in Room 141 imme-  diately after the adjournment of this meeting.  This Committee will submit to the Conference the  names of candidates for the offices of President  and the seven Vice-Presidents. It may also submit  for the consideration of Commissions and Com-  mittees, proposals for their respective Chairmen,  Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs. If the Nomi-  nations Committee can agree on its recommen-  dations immediately after the adjournment of this  meeting, we shall be able to elect the President  and Vice-Presidents forthwith, and the General  Committee of the Conference will be able to meet  at 9.30 tomorrow to examine the plans for the  organization of this session of the Conference.  Does the General Conference approve these pro-  posals?  Approved.  The meeting adjourned, and resumed at
3. Report of the Credentials Committee.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon  M. Camille Huysmans, Chairman of the Creden-  tials Committee, to give his report.  M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Chairman  of the Credentials Committee) (Translation):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Creden-       tials Committee met this afternoon, consisting of  the delegates of the following Member States  Afghanistan, Austria, Belgium, Egypt, Luxem-  bourg, New Zealand, Peru, Philippines  United Kingdom.  and the  The Committee appointed as | nn Chairman  Belgian Minister of Education.  ils the  The Committee examined the documents issued by  the Member States mentioned below, which had been  submitted to it by the Director-General of the Organ-  ization. It found that the delegates of the following  States had been duly accredited, in accordance with  Rule 22 of the draft Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, by documents issued either by the Head  of the State or by the Minister of Foreign Affairs :  Afghanistan, Argentina, Austria, Canada. Cuba, Den-  mark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Sal-  vador, Greece, India, Iraq, Italy, Lebanon, Luxem-  bourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,  Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Union of South  Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America and  Uruguay.  The Committee recommends that the delegations of  these Member States be allowed to take part in the  session of the General Conference with full voting  rights.  Credentials were submitted by the representatives of  the Governments of the States mentioned below, in the  form of letters, telegrams or documents issued either  by a Minister (other than the Minister of Foreign  Affairs) of the country which they represent, or by  Heads of Diplomatic Missions or permanent delegates  to Unesco : Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, France,  Iran, Turkey, Venezuela.  The Committee recommends that these documents  be regarded as provisional credentials for the delega-  tions of the Member States listed above, subject to the  subsequent submission of credentials in due form.  and that, in the meantime, these delegations be  allowed to attend the Third Session of the General  Conference with full voting rights.  The Committee has considered the documents accre-  diting observers from the following States, which are  not members of the Organization : Eire, Nicaragua,  Pakistan, Siam, Sweden, Switzerland, Vatican and  Yugoslavia.  The Committee proposes that the observers from the  above-mentioned States be admitted to the Third Ses-  sion of the General Conference, without the right  to vote.  The Committee agreed that recommendations,  designed to facilitate the examination of credentials  in future, should be transmitted to the Procedure  Committee.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  any comments on this report?  The report is adopted.  Are there
4. Adoption of the Agenda.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) We  come to item 4—Adoption of the Agenda.  now                 In accordance with Rule 13 of the draft Rules  of Procedure, ! call upon the Chairman of the  Executive Board. He will submit the provisional  agenda to the General Conference. This docu-  ment has been issued to delegations and bears  the reference 3C/1 (rev.2).  Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Chairman of the  Executive Board) : Before presenting to the Con-  ference the provisional agenda which has been  prepared by the Executive Board in accordance  with the provisions of the Constitution of Unesco,  [ desire, on behalf of my colleagues on the Exe-  cutive Board, to express the great satisfaction of  the Board that the decision of the Mexico City  Conference to convene the Third Session of the  General Conference in Lebanon has been success-  fully carried out.  On behalf of the Executive Board, I desire to  express our appreciation of the excellent arrange-  ments provided by the Lebanese Government  for the reception and comfort of the delegates,  and the facilities provided for the work of the  Conference. We are very glad to be here and we  are greatly touched by the warmth of the wel-  come we have received. The Executive Board,  which, under the Constitution, is responsible for  preparing the agenda and programme of work  of the General Conference, looks forward not  only to a happy stay in this beautiful country, but  also to a successful Conference, due largely to the  magnificent effort of the Government and people  of Lebanon.  The document before you, document 3C/1  (rev. 2), sets out the provisional agenda for the  Conference, as approved by the Executive Board.  There are, however, two additions to be made to  this list.  At the request of the United States Government  the following additional item has been placed on  the provisional list : Draft Convention for faci-  litating the international circulation of visual and  auditory materials of an educational, scientific  and cultural character. The Executive Board, at  a recent session, approved the inclusion of this  item.  The second addition to be made to this list is a  matter arising out of item 7—namely, “Consi-  deration of the recommendations of the Executive  Board concerning the admission of new Mem-  bers’. The only application which the Executive  Board, at this stage, wishes to bring before the  Conference, 1s that of Monaco, and the Board has  decided to propose that the Conference should  place on the agenda the problem of “diminutive  States”, and that the question of the admission  of the State of Monaco should be considered,
37  subsequent to the judgment by the Conference of  the general problem of diminutive States. This  matter would figure on the agenda under  item 9.C—Official and External Relations Com-  mission, (a) Relations with Member States.  There should be an additional line to read : Prob-  lem of the admission of Diminutive States.  I would request you to make a note of it now.  À proper document conveying this decision of the  Board, which was taken some time ago, will be  circulated by the Secretariat.  I would add, Mr. President, that although the  Board proposes this agenda to the Conference, its  adoption at this stage does not imply any decision  as to the order in which the items shall be taken.  According to our Rules of Procedure, that is a  matter for decision by the General Committee.  I beg to move the adoption of the Agenda with  the two additional items which I have just  mentioned.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): You have  heard the report of the Chairman of the Executive  Board. Are there any comments on that report  or on the provisional agenda? If no one wishes  to speak, 1 propose that the Agenda be adopted.  The Agenda was adopted.  Oo. Report of the Procedure Committee.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  Chairman of the Procedure Committee to present  his report.  Dr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark) (Chairman of  the Procedure Committee): The Procedure Com-  mittee, after a short discussion at its meeting this  afternoon, proposes that the present meeting  should provisionally accept, as the Rules of Pro-  cedure for this Conference, the Rules as they are  stated in the draft put before us by the Executive  Board (document 3C/PRO/1), a copy of which  is in the possession of all delegations. The Com-  mittee hopes at a later date to place before you a  proposal for Standing Rules of Procedure for the  General Conference.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Are there any  comments on this report? As there are no  comments, I declare the report adopted.
6. Report of the Nominations Committee.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The Chair-  man of the Nominations Committee will now  present his report.  Sir  Sarvepalli  (Chairman of the  RADHAKRISHNAN  Nominations  (India)  Committee) :       Mr. President, the Nominations Committee,  appointed by the General Conference at its first  plenary meeting on
1948, met this afternoon. On behalf of the Com-  mittee, which appointed me as its Chairman,  | submit to the General Conference the following  nominations for the offices of President and Vice-  Presidents during the present Session :  President of the Conference : Lebanon:  Vice-Presidents Argentina, Canada, China,  France, Italy, Turkey, the United States of Ame-  rica;  In addition, the Nominations Committee, acting  in accordance with Rule 30, paragraph 2, of the  Rules of Procedure, decided to submit the  following suggestions as regards other Committees  or Commissions :  Vice-Chairman of the Nominations Committee :  United Kingdom;  Procedure Denmark; Committee : Chairman,  Vice-Chairman, Philippines; Rapporteur, Egypt;  Programme and Budget Commission : Chair-  man, Brazil; Vice-Chairman, Belgium; Rappor-  teur, United States of America:  Budget Sub-Commission : Chairman, United  Kingdom; Vice-Chairman,  Australia:  Italy; Rapporteur,  Administrative Commission : Chairman, Union  of South Africa; Vice-Chairman, India; Rappor-  teur, to be elected by the Commission :  Official and External Relations Commission :  Chairman,  Iran:  United Kingdom:  Rapporteur, France.  Vice-Chairman.  With a view to ensuring an adequate geograph-  ical distribution, the Nominations Committee  will at a later date, submit suggestions for the  offices of the Sub-Commissions.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does any dele-  gate wish to speak with regard to the nomina-  tions proposed by the Committee?  As no one wishes to speak, the report and  proposals are adopted.  [ now ask the various delegations, and first  of all the Lebanese delegation, to make known  the persons designated to represent them in the  posts to be filled.  The delegate of LEBANON (Translation): The  head of the Lebanese delegation is Hamid Bey  lrangie.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I will ask His  Excellency, the -Minister of Foreign Affairs and  head of the Lebanese delegation, to take the Chair.  The Chair was taken by Hamid Bey Frangie.     Wednesday 17 November     The PRESIDENT (Translation): Ladies and  gentlemen, bearing in mind the remarks made  by the Mexican Ambassador to France, Dr. Fran-  cisco del Rio y Canedo, I do not mean to make  you a speech. I want simply to tell you how proud  I am of the honour which has been done to my  country, both by the choice of it for the seat of  this Session and by the election of a representa-  tive of Lebanon as President of the General Confer-  ence. I hope your visit here will be a pleasant one  and I wish your Conference the fullest success.  We now have to nominate the Vice-Presidents.  | will call upon delegations, in order to designate  the proposed Vice-Presidents.  The Argentine delegation has not arrived; when  it does so, we will ask it to appoint a Vice-  President.  Canada? M. Victor Doré, head of the Canadian  delegation.  China? Dr. King Chu, head of the Chinese  delegation.  M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation) :  Pending the arrival of M. Georges Bidault, the  head of the delegation, the French delegation has  nominated M. Paul Rivet.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : M. Rivet will  act as Vice-President until M. Bidault arrives.  [taly? Count Stefano Jacini.  Turkey? M. Huseyin Cahit Yalcin.  United States of America? Mr. George V. Allen.  Having elected the President and Vice-Pre-  sidents of the Conference and having approved  the Nominations Committee's recommendations  for the offices of Chairman of the various Com-  mittees, we can consider that the General Com-  mittee of the Conference is duly constituted (7)  in accordance with Rule 33 of the Rules of pro-  cedure. The Chairman of the Executive Board,  or, in his absence, the Deputy Chairman, will  attend the meetings of the General Committee  without the right to vote. Under Rule 35 of the  Rules of Procedure, the General Committee has  to fix the hour, date, and order of business of  plenary meetings, and co-ordinate the work of  the Conference, its Commissions and Committees.  A draft scheme (document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.) has  been prepared by the Executive Board and distri  buted to delegations. The General Committee of  the Conference will have to examine this docu-  ment as soon as possible, so that the General  Conference may know, without delay, how long  its work is to last and how the time is divided.  The first meeting of the General Committee will  be at 9.30 tomorrow morning  The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.  ——— — —  ed (*) Volume II, Section IT, p. 7.