{ shall support the proposal of the delegates of  Afghanistan and Iran that we await the solution  of the problem, whatever it may be, and go on  with our work. As I said yesterday, Unesco's  main task is to conquer war and work for a better  world and a better race of men.  M. Mohamed KHALAFALLAH (Egypt) (Trans-  lation): Mr. President, gentlemen, the question  before us is not one for debate between Arabs  and Jews; it is not a question of tolerance or  hospitality. The Arabs have known all through  their history how to tolerate other peoples, other  cultures and other creeds; the Arabs have known,  throughout their history, how to be hospitable  even to their enemies, once they are in their  homes. The question today, ladies and gentlemen,  is one affecting the principles of Unesco. We  are gathered here in this Conference to try fo  bring about human understanding, understanding  between nations and peoples, and to encourage  cultural exchanges between the various nations  of the earth. We are trying very hard to re-build.  That is our business here, but today a question  arises concerning organizations which belong to  a movement whose philosophy of life is the abso-  lute negation of these principles of Unesco. This  movement's basis is segregation; here you have  people who do not want to live in peace with the  rest of humanity, who cannot live in a country  with other people, who refuse to have cultural  relations with the people around them, and seek  only to flee from the rest of humanity, to cut  themselves off from the world and live withdrawn  in their own religion. This movement's object  at the moment is destruction, and 1 fail to see  how we can possibly think of admitting into the  community of nations gathered here today people  belonging to that movement, whose presence  cannot fail to imperil the harmony of the Confer-  ence. There is no hurry; this decision, which  some delegates seek to take forthwith, for the  admission of certain of these organizations to the  Conference, would have serious effects on the  Conference's work. We do not want to do  anything today that will prejudice our future  work. I suggest that for the present the organ-  izations in question be excluded. Later we shall  see if steps can be taken for the re-education of  the persons in question, to give them the conscious-  ness of human dignity; only then can we receive  them into our great Organization.  The discussion  | have to attend  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  has been going on a long time.  a meeting of heads of delegations after this  plenary meeting and I suggest that the debate  be adjourned until 4 p.m. this afternoon.  Is there any objection to the adjournment of  this meeting?  As there 1s  adjourned.  no objection, the meeting 1s  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 18 November 1948, at 4.15 p.m.  CONTENTS
8. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning  the admission of observers of international non-governmental organi-  zations to the Third Session of the General Conference (continuation) 46
9. Establishment of Commissions and reference to them of certain questions;  establishment of eight Sub-Commissions to consider certain technical  aspects of the programme  President :  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We are to  resume this morning’s discussion but I have  received a suggestion that the plenary meeting  should be postponed until 5 p.m. Are there any  objections?  Hamid Bey  CO
40  FRANGIE (Lebanon)  The meeting adjourned and resumed al
5.10 p.m.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) We have  received a telegram from M. Alberto Lleras, the  General Secretary of the Organization of American    States. The Secretary of the Conference will read  the telegram.  The SECRETARY (Translation): “At the inau-  guration of the Session of the General Conference  of Unesco, I wish, through Your Excellency, to  convey to all the delegates the best wishes of the  Organization of American States for the success  of your important work. Our Organization was  unfortunately unable to send an observer, for  reasons 1 have explained to Dr. Huxley, but all  the delegates of the American States to your  meeting serve there, as everywhere, as our spokes-  men and representatives, and I feel certain they  will try to find the best way to achieve that fruit-  ful co-operation that we so much desire, between  our regional agency and your world organization.  Please accept our cordial greetings.” Signed :  Alberto Lleras, General Secretary, Organization of  American States.
8. Consideration of the recommendations of  the Executive Board concerning the  admission of observers of international  non-governmental organizations to the  Third Session of the General Con-  ference (continuation).  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : We shall  resume this morning's debate. The head of the  [Lebanese delegation has informed me that he has  a statement to make.  M. Joseph ABOUKHATER (Lebanon) (Trans-  lation): Mr. President, gentlemen, in the interests  of general harmony at the beginning of the  Conference's work, the Lebanese delegation would  like to submit to you the following proposal:  The Lebanese delegation affirms its loyalty to the  fundamental principles of Unesco’s Constitution,  especially to Article I, which specifies :  The purpose of the Organization is to contribute to  peace. and security by promoting collaboration among  the nations through education, science and culture  in order to further universal respect for justice, for  the rule of law and for the human rights and funda-  mental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of  the world, without distinction of race, sex, language  or religion, by the Charter of the United Nations.  The Lebanese delegation asserts that these prin-  ciples apply to the admission of observers, and to  the solution of all questions concerning Unesco.  Desiring to avoid any misunderstanding as a  result of this morning's debate, it consequently  suggests the following resolution :  The General Conference, having taken note of the  recommendations of the Executive Board, decides to
46     admit those non-governmental and semi-governmental  organizations, listed in the Annex to document 3C/8  which have accepted the Director-General's invitation  to send observers to the General Conference.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Your applause,  gentlemen, clearly shows that this proposal is  adopted. Is there any objection?  The proposal is adopted. (?)
9. Establishment of Commissions and refer-  ence to them of certain questions;  establishment of eight Sub-Commis-  sions to consider certain technical  aspects of the programme.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We now come  to Items 9 and 10 of the Agenda—Establishment of  Commissions and reference to them of certain  questions; establishment of eight Sub-Commis-  sions within the framework of the Programme  and Budget Commission. 1 have various state-  ments to make on these two items of the Agenda.  First of all, I must emphasize that the list of  questions for consideration by each Commission,  shown under item 9 of the Agenda, is not com-     plete. For each of these Commissions more  detailed agendas have been drafted and distributed  to delegations. They are: documents 3C/2  (rev.) and 3C/PRG/0.1 for the Programme and  Budget Commission; document 3C/ADM/1 (rev.)  for the Administrative Commission; and docu-  ment 3C/OXR/1 (rev.) for the Official and  External Relations Commission.  You will find all the details concerning the  constitution, competence and dates of meeting  of these three Commissions, and of the eight  Programme Sub-Commissions, in document
3C/BUR/1 (rev.) the draft plan for the organ-  ization of work of the Session, which has been  prepared by the Executive Board and distributed  to delegations.  This morning the General Committee of the  Conference approved these documents with the  following reservations :
(1) The head of the United States delegation  requested, at the meeting of the General Com-  mittee, that certain joint meetings of the three  main Commissions should be held, to consider  the following points :  World Centre for the Exchange of Infor-  mation;  Publications policy to be followed by Unesco;  Unesco and public information.    —  F 2 N (7) Volume 11, Section V, p. 9.                   The delegate of the United States also asked  for the draft Convention to facilitate the inter-  national circulation of audio-visual material to  be referred for preliminary examination to the  Sub-Commission on Communication.  The Committee has decided to examine, at  tomorrow morning's meeting, the various  points raised by the United States delegation.
(2) The Committee adopted the resolution,  which is to be found on page 10 of the English  text of document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.), fixing the  time-limit for the submission by delegation of  draft resolutions and amendments involving a  substantial modification of the Programme.  The Committee has decided that the date,
21 November, should be replaced by 23 No-  vember.
(3) Finally, the General Committee requests  each Programme Sub-Commission to give prio-  rity to the consideration of the resolutions  concerning the Programme which are listed in  document 3C/5, and of all resolutions referred  by the General Committee of the Conference, or  by the Programme and Budget Commission, or  by the Chairman of that Commission. Each  Sub-Commission will have to consider the  appropriate working papers, which bear the  reference 3C/PRG/... and are easily recogni-  zable by their blue heading and also the Plan of  Work and Budget Estimates presented by the  Director-General in document 3C/6. The Sub-  Commissions will all report to the Programme  and Budget Commission, asking for the adop-  tion, amendment or deletion of the proposed  resolutions.  I ask the Conference to adopt today the plan  for the organization of work contained in docu-  ment 3C/BUR/1 (rev.), with the changes 1 have  just mentioned and subject to the decisions to be  taken tomorrow on the point raised by the United  States delegation.  I would remind all delegations that each of  the Commissions and Sub-Commissions men-  tioned in document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.), with the  exception of the Budget Sub-Commission, for  which a smaller membership has been planned,  must include a representative of each of the  Member States present at this Session. It is there-  fore essential that each head of delegation appoint  at least one member of his delegation to represent  it on each Commission.  Before these changes are approved, I should add  that the General Committee this morning sub-  mitted another change concerning the date for  the election of the Director-General.  I shall first propose the adoption of these three  changes, which I think should not meet with any
4  Fay  objection, and shall then submit the question of  the date of the election, which will give rise to  discussion.  Is there any objection to the proposed pro-  cedure?  The procedure is approved.  Are there any observations?  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway): Mr. Pre-  sident, I wish to raise a point of order. The Pre-  sident has just told us that the date of the election  of the Director-General will probably be the sub-  ject of discussion here. 1 want to point out that  we have adopted Rules of Procedure, provisionally,  for our meetings, and Rule 35 “Func-  {ions—The functions of the General Committee  are to fix the hour, the date and the order of  business of plenary meetings of the Conference.”  As I see it, it is the duty of the General Committee  to fix this, and it cannot be discussed by the  Conference unless the Rules of Procedure are  modified beforehand. I, therefore, suggest that  we must first discuss the question of this Rule of  Procedure.  Savs :  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : 1 agree that  the General Committee of the Conference can  itself fix the dates, but the General Committee has  instructed me to submit this question, with the  others, to the Conference for its approval. 1 shall  therefore take this point concerning the change  in the date originally fixed for the election of the  Director-General.  This morning, at the meeting of the General  Committee, the delegate of India asked for the  election of the Director-General (Item 14) to take  place before 26 November, the date proposed.  At the meeting of the General Committee it was  decided to fix the election for the afternoon of
23 November. Does the Conference approve this  measure?  Dr. Carlos MONGE (Peru) (Translation) :  Mr. President, gentlemen, this morning we were  informed that the date which had been fixed was
26 November and that later it was decided that  it would be 23 November. As far as I am con-  cerned, as delegate of Peru, I must consult my  Government, because I was not in my own  country when I was appointed to attend this  Conference. In any case, I am obliged to consult  my Government. I think that the date originally  chosen—26 November—would allow the necessary  time for consultation. One cannot get an imme-  diate answer. I ask that the date be left at
26 November.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  any remarks to make?  Has anybody             Dr. Hermann ZEISSL (Austria): On behalf of  the Austrian delegation, I support the proposal  made by my colleague, the delegate of Peru. The  Austrian delegation is in the same position as he.  We have to ask instructions from our Government,  as its attitude may have changed. We cannot  get the necessary instructions from our Govern-  ment by 23 November. We have no Diplomatic  Mission in this country and we therefore have to  send all our communications through the Aus-  trian Legation in Rome; we cannot anticipate  that instructions will reach us before 26 November.  M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Trans-  lation): 1 support the proposal of the previous  speakers. But, as I am very inquisitive by nature,  [ should like to know why the Executive Board  wished to change the dates.  I would also like to ask a second question. Is  it true that not all the delegations have yet  arrived? 1 think it would be wise to wait until  they come, so that they may take part in the vote.  I do not understand, in this case, why the date  of the vote should be put forward.  Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  Mr. President, my friend Professor Sommerfelt  raised a point of order just now. It is for the  General Committee to decide the order of business,  to adjust, revise, modify and present what if  considers to be in the best interests of the Organ-
1zation.  It has been asked why the provisional date 1s  being altered. When the provisional agenda was  issued weeks ago, we had no idea whether the  Executive Board would be ready with its recom-  mendation about the Director-General. The Exe-  cutive Board has had several meetings recently  and 1s ready now with its nomination. This  recommendation of the Executive Board has now  been communicated to all heads of delegations.  The General Committee, which 1s the authority  to decide the order of business, met this morning  and agreed to advance the date to the afternoon  of 23 November.  It is said that some delegations have not arrived  yet. Possibly by 26 November some other dele-  gations may leave. This should not be a deter-  mining consideration. The General Committee  had the best interest of Unesco in mind in pro-  posing the new date for the afternoon of 23 No-  vember,  It was mentioned that the heads of delegations  would not have sufficient time to communicate  with their Governments and obtain their advice.  In these days of fast communications five days  cannot be regarded as insufficient.  We have come here to discuss the programme
48  and the budget of Unesco. That 1s our main  task. The atmosphere is charged. There  already a good deal of excitement. We must do  our best to terminate this uncertainty and get to  work on the programme. If we are to devote  ourselves to that task with energy and earnestness,  we must settle this question of the Director-  General as soon as possible. That is why the  General Committee suggested 23 November.
1S  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The Confer-  ence has two proposals before it : the General  Committee's proposal is that the date be fixed  for the afternoon of 23 November: the other,  submitted by the delegate of Peru and supported  by Austria and Belgium, asks that the original  date be retained. ! shall have to ask the Confer-  ence to vote.  I shall take first the proposal for the later date.  [ shall take the vote by roll-call on the Peruvian  delegate’'s proposal that the date of the election  be fixed for 26 November.  The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour : Afghanistan, Argentina,  Austria, Belgium, Cuba, Dominican Republic,  Egypt, France, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Lebanon,  Luxembourg, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Phi-  lippines, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Union of South  Africa, United States of America, Uruguay, Vene-  zuela.  Brazil,  Norway,  Canada,  Netherlands,  Voted against : Australia,  China, Denmark, India,  Turkey, United Kingdom.  Abstained : (Greece.  Absent : Bolivia, Colombia, Czechoslovakia,  Ecuador, El Salvador, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,  Liberia, Poland.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The result of  the vote 1s : 23 in favour of the adoption of the  Peruvian delegates motion, 10 against, 1 ab-  stention and 10 absent. Consequently, the date  for the election of the new Director-General  remains 26 November.  The next item on the agenda is the presentation  and discussion of the Director-General’s Report  on the activities of the Organization during 1948  (document 3C/3). But, to enable delegations to  examine the document, containing the Executive  Boards Comments on the Director-General’s  Report, document 3C/11, I think we should  adjourn until tomorrow morning. Consequently,  the agenda of the fourth plenary meeting tomorrow  morning will be : “Presentation by the Chair-  man of the Executive Board of the Director-                 General's Report on the activities of the Organ-  ization in 1948, and general discussion thereon.”  After hearing the comments of the Chairman of  the Executive Board, and of the Director-General,  the countries which have asked to speak will do  so in the following order : India, Peru, the  Philippines, the United States of America, Greece,  the Netherlands.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  FOURTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 19 November 1948, at-17 am.  CONTENTS
10. Presentation, by the Chairman of the Executive Board, of the Director-  General’s Report on the activities of the Organization during 1948. 4)  ll. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report :  Speeches by the Director-General and delegates of India, Peru, the Phi-  lippines and the United States of America 54  President : Hamid Bev FRANGIE (Lebanon)
10. Presentation, by the Chairman of the Board with or without comment. The Board is  Executive Board, of the Director-  General's Report on the activities of  the Organization during 1948.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We now come  to Item 11 of our Agenda : Presentation by the  Chairman of the Executive Board of the Director-  General's Report on the activities of the Organ-  ization during 1948. 1 call upon the Chairman  of the Executive Board.  Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Chairman of the  Executive Board): Mr. President, fellow-delegates,  copies of the observations of the Executive Board  on the Director-General's Report for the year have  been distributed in English and should be in the  hands of all delegations. The Secretariat has not  been able, in the time at its disposal, to distribute  a French translation of my remarks, and for that  reason I propose to present the Board's comments  in French. Members will be able to follow the  English text which is in their hands.  Dr. Walker presented, in French, the following  comments :  The Constitution of Unesco provides that the  Director-General’s Report on the activities of the  Organization for the year shall be presented to the  Conference by the Chairman of the Executive  responsible, under the Constitution, for the exe-  cution of the Programme approved by the Confer-  ence, and the presentation of the Director-  General’s Report affords an opportunity for the  Board to draw the attention of the Conference  to the achievements of the past vear, and at the  same time to indicate parts of the Programme  with which it has not been possible to make satis-  factory progress. The Board has considered the  Director-General's Report, and has decided to  offer a number of comments on Parts II and III,  which contain all the necessary information  regarding the activities of the Organization during
1948. As regards Part I, which contains an  interesting appreciation, from the Director-  General’s personal viewpoint, of the record of the  past year and the future prospects of the Organ-  ization, no comment 1s offered.  The material presented in Parts II and Il}  the Report shows that, on the whole, the Secre-  tariat has followed closely the decisions reached  by the Second Session of the General Conference  at Mexico City, and the priorities laid down by  that Conference.  Part II of the Report is divided into six sections  corresponding to the six parts of the Programme  approved at Mexico City. Before commenting on  each of these six sections, I desire, on behalf of  the Board, to stress the progress that has been  of