SECOND PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 18 November 19)8 at 11.20 a.m.  CONTENTS
7. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning  the admission of observers of international non-governmental organi-  zations to the Third Session of the General Conference . . . . . . 39  President : Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : We have on  this morning’s agenda the consideration of the  recommendations of the Executive Board concern-  ing the admission of new Members (document
3C/7). However, as the Chairman of the Board  explained yesterday, the Official and External  Relations Commission has to examine the question  of the admission of “diminutive States”, and  [ therefore propose that we adjourn the consider-  ation of Item 7 until the Official and External  telations Commission has presented its report.  Is there any objection to this procedure?  Agreed.
7. Consideration of the recommendations of  the Executive Board concerning the  admission of observers of international  non-governmental organizations to the  Third Session of the General Con-  ference.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Consideration  of the recommendations of the Executive Board  concerning the admission of observers of inter-  national non-governmental organizations to the  Third Session of the General Conference (docu-  ment 3C/8 and 3C/8 Addendum). Does anyone  wish to speak?  M. Joseph ABOUKHATER (Lebanon) (Trans-  lation): Mr. President, gentlemen, I regret that  in the first speech made by Lebanon from this  platform we should have to raise an objection,  but you will all understand and, I venture to say,  approve the attitude of the Lebanese delegation  and of all the Arab Member States of Unesco.  I wish to state formally, at once, that the Leba-  nese delegation objects to the admission of the  Jewish organizations included in the list given in  document 3C/8. I am certain that the assembly  will fully understand the attitude of Lebanon
49  and of all the Arab countries on this question.  At the present time—when the Jewish question  is a burning topic both in Paris and in  Palestine—the Lebanese delegation and the Arab  delegations can hardly agree to the admission  as observers of Jewish organizations, whether  governmental or not. In the name of the Leba-  nese delegation, 1 therefore have the honour to  propose that we reject the proposal made by the  Executive Board of Unesco.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  wish to speak?  The delegate of Egypt seconds the proposal of  the Lebanese delegate.  Does anyone  Dr. Munir AJLANI (Syria) (Translation): In  the name of the Syrian delegation, and for the  reasons which the head of the Lebanese delegation  has briefly explained and which are already well  known, my delegation supports the proposal of  the Lebanese delegation.  Fuad Bey HAMZI (Saudi Arabia): Mr. Presi-  dent, I need not repeat what has already been  said. The Arabs are united in their support of  the Lebanese delegations proposal.  Dr. Matta AKRAWI (Iraq): Mr. President, the  delegation of Iraq would have liked to avoid, at  the beginning of our Session, the introduction  of such a political issue as that which has now  arisen. But in view of present conditions in the  Arab world and in Palestine, and the opposition  of Arabs and Zionists, both in Palestine and in  Paris (and indeed wherever there is support for  the so-called State of Israel), we cannot in any  circumstances go on record as approving the  admission of organizations which might support  the aggression now taking place against the Arab  world, even though the request for admission be  seemingly based on reasons of culture. It is     A l t   a s d   “ l i e m e a t i l   L i m   NP   B =
4   s i   À  =  c e     therefore with great regret that we have to take  our present stand before this assembly. 1 support  the proposal put forward by the delegation of  Lebanon, and 1 hope you will understand that  our position in this matter is not due to anti-  Semitism but to the aggression which is now  taking place against the Arab world.  Mr. D. KR. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I am sure  that we can all understand the sentiments which  have been expressed, but I am going to take the  stand this morning that 1 do not agree with this  proposal.  First of all, our Rules of Procedure state that  any body which has consultative status has a  right to attend the Conference. The Executive  Board has approved consultative status for the  organizations in question. May I remind my  fellow delegates that the purpose of Unesco is to  contribute to peace and security by promoting  collaboration among the nations through edu-  cation, science and culture, in order to further  universal respect for justice, for the rule of law  and for the human rights and fundamental free-  doms which are affirmed for the peoples of the  world, without distinction of race, sex, language  or religion, by the Charter of the United Nations.  If there 1s one Organization which prides itself on  being outside political differences and getting  down to those fundamental things which can  bring peoples, religions and nations together, it
1s surely this one. I do appeal to my fellow dele-  gates to remember the principles on which Unesco  was founded—to see the vision and to stand by  that vision.  Professor Paul RIVET (France) (Translation)  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, with all my  heart 1 wish that this question had never been  raised. It would have been preferable for it to  have remained in the shadows. As my colleague  of the United Kingdom delegation has just remin-  ded us, we must conform to Article 1 of our  Organization's Constitution; that is to say, we  must promote co-operation between the nations  in order to further universal respect for justice,  for the rule of law and for human rights and  fundamental freedoms, without distinction of  race, sex, language or religion. At our interna-  lional sessions we must try—though painfully  and with difficulty—to rise to the international,  the human, plane. We must try to think as men,  and not as citizens of any particular country.  That is the way of the future; that is the only  goal towards which we should aim, and it is the  principal end of Unesco itself. Here, more than  anywhere else, we must acknowledge the great  virtue, known to so few, called tolerance. I there-
40        fore appeal to you all : we must eradicate all the  causes which may at this time divide us and  divert us from our essential task, for which we  have been sent here by our countries. 1 make  this appeal from the bottom of my heart and  | cannot believe that it will not be heard.  Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Ame-  rica): Mr. President and members of the Con-  ference, the members of the American delegation  have seldom been so moved as by the efforts made  by the Government of Lebanon to accommodate  this great Conference. We have been moved by the  spirit which has motivated the Government of  this small country—by its desire to adhere to  the principles of the United Nations, and parti-  cularly to the United Nations Organization which  devoted to education, science and culture.  | think that the fact that this Conference has  been held at Beirut will have a tremendous impact,  not only on the Middle East and Lebanon, but also  on the rest of the world. 1 am particularly glad  that, of the fifty or so Americans participating  in this meeting, perhaps not more than five or six  have been to this part of the world before. Their  interest in it and their understanding of it have  been tremendously increased, and I am certain  that holds true for most of the other delegations.  | therefore wish to express the extreme gratitude  of the American delegation for the spirit in which  Lebanon has, I am certain, strained its resources  in order to be the host of this great Conference.  | am confident that Lebanon, the whole of the  Middle East and the Arab world will benefit  greatly from the fact that the Conference is being  held here.  My delegation had hoped, as other delegations  have said, that questions of the kind we are  debating this morning would not crop up to  disturb our consideration of strictly Unesco prob-  lems. The Executive Board has considered at  length the particular question that has now come  up for consideration : organizations which will  be admitted for association with Unesco. Some of  the organizations that are complained of, I know  from personal experience, have no political bias  at all; they are humanitarian organizations. They  are organizations which were created for the very  reason for which Unesco was created. There are  undoubtedly organizations affiliated to Unesco  which support both sides in the contest which  LS  now, most unfortunately, disturbs the Middle  East. However, 1 would draw your attention to  the fact that one side has no delegates here to  express its opinions. The Government of Lebanon  gave very warm assurances, when this Conference  came here, that observers from affiliated organ-  izations would be greeted, admitted and treated  with every courtesy. We consequently hope that            the Government of Lebanon will adhere strictly  to those assurances. My Government supports  the recommendation of the Executive Board.  M. Victor DORE (Canada) (Translation) :  Mr. President, gentlemen, I will be brief. I wish  to speak on this question which is now troubling  our assembly, because, following other speakers,  [ stated in Paris that I should vote for the  Conference to be held in Lebanon. In so doing,  I counted on the promises and assurances of the  Lebanese Government. We are all very happy  to be here. I approve and support what has been  sald respectively by the French, American and  British delegates. 1 consider that our Organ-  ization did and does owe it to itself to support  the recommendations of the Executive Board.  I think it would be deplorable if our deliberations  were disturbed, at the very beginning, by a  question which might cause a split, when all of  us here are united to one end : the advancement  and development of peace through education,  science and culture.  Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Bra-  z11) (Translation): Mr. President, fellow-delegates,  Brazil is a country unconditionally friendly with  the Arab countries. Brazil has always given them  proofs of goodwill, and cordial interest. Within  the Brazilian community we have absorbed into  our intellectual, political and economic life, na-  lionals of all the sister-countries of the Arab world,  without prejudice on grounds of religion or race  but in a spirit of brotherly love. In the name of  that friendship, that traditional welcome, that  unreserved brotherhood, I now request the Arab  countries not to destroy, by discrimination or  distinction between any cultural groups, that  fellowship of hearts and minds which Unesco  seeks to establish.  Dr. C.  Spanish.  PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) - spoke in  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : As Spanish is  not a working language of the Conference,  delegates who desire to speak in Spanish must  provide their own interpretation into English or  French.  Dr. C. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (Trans-  lation): In the name of the Venezuelan dele-  gation, I support the remarks of the delegates of  Canada and Brazil. I ask the delegates of the  Arab countries and of Lebanon not to seek to  establish within this assembly such a distinction  as this proposal calls for.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) At meetings  of the General Conference and its Commissions,
41     interpretation is from English into French and  vice versa. Delegates are free to use any language  in addition to the two working languages, but  must arrange for interpretation of their speeches  into either English or French, at their option.  I'he Secretariat is responsible for interpretation  into the other working language.  Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) :  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, we are all very  happy to meel  Fastern culture.  in this great centre of Middle-  We know how much the people  oi this region have contributed to the cultural  life of the world. The conquest of Europe by  Christianity, and that of a large part of Asia and  \frica by Islam, are outstanding facts of human  history.  Our delegations, both at Mexico City and at  the Extraordinary Session of the General Con-  ference in_ Paris, pleaded earnestly for holding  the Conference at Beirut. We are greatly  impressed by the hospitality that the Government  and people have shown us. It is our earnest  desire that the Conference should be a great  SUCCESS.  This area has had a long cultural history. This  land has ever been hospitable to other races and  other cultures, and has contributed to them. We  quite agree with the President of the Lebanese  Republic, who said yesterday that Lebanon is the  friend of truth and a home of tolerance and under-  standing. I do not want anything to happen today  to impair your reputation for tolerance of other  races, religions and cultures.  We are aware of the difficulties with which  you are faced. We deeply sympathize with you  and the Arab States in your present troubles, but  we should not forget that we are not a political  Organization but a cultural one and our Consti-  tution provides that, in all our activities, we  should make no distinction of race, religion,  class, etc. 1 would, therefore, earnestly appeal to  my friends of Lebanon not to press their objection.  Their prestige will rise and the sympathy of the  world will be gained if, even in this state of  trouble, they stand for a larger spirit. I therefore  beg the Lebanese delegation to make this Con-  ference a success by adhering to the fundamental  principles of Unesco's Constitution.  M. Huseyin Cahit YALCIN (Turkey) (Trans-  lation): Ladies and gentlemen, 1 would have  preferred this question not to be raised in this  assembly. 1 understand the sensitiveness of our  Arab friends. If I were in their place, perhaps  I would take the same view, but I must recall  the wise words uttered here yesterday by the  President of the Lebanese Republic, and take to  heart his advice to-us all, his message to the      J U S   T
3     civilized world, and the principles which are  supposed to guide us in relationships between  the races.  I need not say much about my feelings for the  \rab Countries. We have lived together for  centuries like brothers and have had a single  culture. If I followed my heart alone, I should  not hesitate to take their side, but—there is always  a “but” to be considered—this is a body in which  we must seek to surmount difficulties and  transcend differences or strife between the peoples,  to attain heights where the only considerations  are liberty and human brotherhood.  | would beg our Arab friends to think over this  question and to take one point into consideration.  We have only to look at the Constitution of our  Organization to perceive that it 1s completely non-  political. If all nations are eligible, regardless  of their internal régime, how can we now exclude  the Jews?  Therefore, in the spirit which inspired the  founders of our Organization, I would beg our  Arab friends to consider the possibility of admit-  ting observers from Jewish semi-official and non-  governmental organizations.  Dr. H. F. EL DIWANY (Egypt) (Translation):  Mr. President, delegates, I too regret that this  question should have arisen from the decision of  the Executive Board. However, speakers who  preceded me have made three statements which  | would like to deal with, to remove, as far as  possible, any false impression they may have given  lo the Conference.  Firstly, mention was made of a formal commit-  ment by the Lebanese Government and the Arab  countries to accept everyone whom Unesco might  invite to this Conference. Is that true, gentle-  men? No such assurance was ever given. An  assurance was given only as regards members of  all delegations, whatever their race or religion,  and the members of the Secretariat. You can see  for yourselves, gentlemen, that all our colleagues  here are on an absolutely equal footing and are  treated with perfect civility and courtesy not only  by the Lebanese Government, but also by all the  Arabs here present. Thus, there is no question  of a breach of faith.  Secondly, “tolerance” was mentioned; there is  talk of race and religion and we are told that no  distinction should be made on that score; but  these organizations are racial and religious. As  regards tolerance, gentlemen, you have only to  use your own eyes. You are going to travel  through Moslem countries; I hope you will do  my own country the honour of visiting it to make  contact with our ancient civilization. You will  see that most of the merchants whose shops you  visit, a large proportion of the people speaking           your language and with whom you rub shoulders  are Jews—Egyptian Jews—of whose loyalty,  uprightness and devotion to their country, Egypt,  we are proud. Need I point out that there are  Jews in our cultural and political societies, in  our Parliament, and in the public service, some-  times in the highest offices. It may surprise you  to learn that the Grand Rabbi of Egypt, the  highest Jewish religious authority, is a member  of the Royal Academy of the Arabic language and  still sits among us at the meetings of the Academy.  The reproach of intolerance therefore does not  apply to us.  This state of affairs, which vou can check with  your own eyes when you visit our country, will  make it clear to you that our protest is not directed  against the two world organizations in question,  as Jewish organizations. That would be ridi-  culous, especially as we have here among us many  Jews who merit the fullest courtesy, respect and  cordiality. We believe, however, that these two  organizations are political dependencies of a State  which is now at war with us. We are not con-  cerned with the purity of their declared objects;  we simply feel that these are organizations, not  of Jews as such, but of the State of Israel and  that the persons concerned are thus at war with  this country which has been glad and proud to  offer us such generous hospitality.  NADJIB-ULLAH Khan (Afghanistan) (Transla-  tion): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I need  not, 1 think, point out that my country has always  followed a policy of friendship with all other  peoples. There has been frequent proof that we  have no hostility towards any other country or  community. We have in Afghanistan many diffe-  rent religious communities, all of whom, Jews  included, have the same privileges and receive the  same treatment. There is no anti-Semitism in  Afghanistan. But if we consider the facts and  review the events occurring very near to this  country, we cannot deny that there are incidents,  nay even a state of war, between the State of  Israel and the Arab countries. I know that Unesco  is a cultural organization and must never forget  it but must be above all political considerations.  That is the truth as we all understand it, includ-  ing, I believe, the Arab States, which is a useful  guarantee for us, as we are today meeting in one  of those States.  But we cannot deny that the main problem,  or at least the most important aspect of it, is at  present under discussion in the United Nations.  Unfortunately, that great organization has not so  far been able to find a solution. They are  trying—and we hope with all our hearts that they  will be successful—to find a satisfactory and  pacific solution; but up to now this has not come            to pass. Therefore, in the name of the Afghan  delegation, I propose that the question of the  admission of the Jewish organizations should be  postponed until a peaceful and satisfactory solution  has been reached in the United Nations.  Dr. Munir AJLANI (Syria) (Translation) :  Mr. President, gentlemen, the Arab Member States  of Unesco have not taken up their attitude in a  spirit of fanaticism. I owe it to myself to explain  their view to you. It is our lofty concept of Unesco  which has led us to object to the proposal by  the Executive Board for the admission of inter-  national organizations of world Jewry. There  are national divisions enough in the world, and  we do not wish that Unesco should add a further  division based on religion or sect. It is because  we believe in Unesco’s international humanitarian  mission that we want it to keep clear of religious  and racial questions. The delegate of Turkey  asked why Jews should be excluded from Unesco  when Arab members are represented there.  Gentlemen, there is only one reason : it is that  Unesco cannot take the very grave decision of  admitting the existence of a Jewish State includ-  ing all the Jews in the world. It is a serious  matter to proclaim to Arabs, at a moment when  they see refugees by the hundred thousand, child-  ren and students, flooding into their countries,  that the title of admission to Unesco of Jews  throughout the world is not that they are Ame-  ricans, English or Yugoslavs, but solely that they  are Jews.  We have Jews too but they are Syrians and,  I hope, good Syrians. They can form part of our  delegation, but as Syrians, not as Jews. I myself,  who am a Moslem, would not agree that Moslem  religious associations should be represented in  Unesco.  What 1 am trying to point out is that our  objection 1s not based, as was felt or said or  understood in certain quarters, on fanaticism or  regionalism. On the contrary, it is because we  are faithful to the ideals of Unesco that we want  Unesco to be faithful to its statutes and its spirit;  that we want all the nations to be represented  in Unesco but that the only religion acknowledged  should be the religion of science, the religion  of truth; that there be one religion only, the  religion of Unesco. We are not here as Moslems  or Christians or Jews; we do indeed represent  nations, but above all we are men.  Dr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark): Mr. President,  gentlemen, first of all, I want to say that my  present remarks are not an expression of political  opinion. The truth of this is the more evident  as my own country has not recognized the State  of Israel. Secondly, I want to make it clear that
43  I fully understand the feelings expressed by the  speakers from the Arab countries. If, never-  theless, 1 support the suggestion that our Arab  colleagues should not press this matter, it is  because the eyes of the world are at present  centred upon Unesco and the Arab world; and  [ can think of no more powerful demonstration  of what Unesco can do and what is the spirit of  our work here, than agreement by our Arab  colleagues to withdraw a motion which might  have damaging repercussions on our work.  | think this is a splendid opportunity for Unesco  to demonstrate to the world that we want to  remain above political controversies, that we want  it to be possible for all points of view to be  expressed in the truest spirit of world co-ope-  ration.  I want to stress another point. We all know  that Unesco, now in the beginning of its career,  may expect future occasions when there will be  political tensions between this or that of its  Member States. That is inevitable and we are  anxious that, in all such cases, both sides should  be represented. Should there be such an occasion  in the future, 1 think it would be of immense  value for this Organization to be able to point  to the example set in 1948, for us to be able to  say that on that occasion the Arab world, in spite  of its feelings, which may be fully justified,  agreed not to press a matter which might set a  bad precedent for Unesco. It would be well then  to be able to remind men that the Arab world  in that year agreed to the adoption by Unesco  of a truly universal standpoint, unclouded by the  faintest shadow of political discrimination.  M. Huseyin Cahit YALCIN (Turkey) (Trans-  lation): I apologize for speaking a second time,  but I do not wish to let a misunderstanding  persist between my honourable Syrian colleague  and myself. 1 thought that I made myself clear,  but unhappily I see that my meaning was misun-  derstood. When I alluded to the composition of  our Organization, I did not mean to say : “Why  exclude the Jews when we admit the Arabs?”  I never meant that. The idea in my mind was  quite clear, namely that, generally speaking, as  we have not been concerned with the systems  of government of the people, we cannot, there-  fore, have two standards. We have accepted all  the nations without regard to their political  régime, and although consideration of this factor  might be considered desirable when two peoples  are in a state of war, once we have left it out of  account, we cannot arrogate to ourselves the right  to exclude a particular people or organization.  M. Joseph ABOUKHATER (Lebanon) (Trans-  lation): Mr. President, gentlemen, the Lebanese              delegation is really amazed at the surprise shown  by certain delegations in connexion with the  question which we were obliged to raise. Far  from causing surprise, our attitude should appear  completely logical. It is not so much a question  of tolerance—this small country has shown and  will always show an example of the broadest  tolerance—this principle is not in question.  Some of you have perhaps doubted the deter-  mination of the Lebanese Government and the  Arab States to fulfil the commitments undertaken  in Paris. We call to witness the Secretariat of  this Conference, which knows full well that the  [.ebanese Government and all the governments  of the Arab States have never failed, and will  never fail, in any of the commitments which they  have freely incurred. The question at issue is  quite different. We cannot agree to the taking,  at the beginning of this Conference, of the very  serious decision to admit Jewish bodies which  are certainly not independent, but are offshoots  of the State which the Jews wish to set up by  force in Palestine. The Lebanese delegation  maintains its attitude and asks the Conference  to reject the Executive Board's proposal.  Dr. Gholam-Hossein SADIGHI (Iran) (Trans-  lation): Gentlemen, having regard to the attitude  of the Iranian delegation at the United Nations  \ssembly, our delegation to this Conference  supports the proposal of the delegate of Afgha-  nistan, that a decision be postponed until the  problem has been settled by the United Nations.  Dr. Diego Luis MOLINARI (Argentina) —spoke  in Spanish— (Translation from the speaker’s French  interpretation): 1 shall endeavour to repeat in  lrench what 1 have just said in Spanish. First of  all, 1 asserted my right to speak in Spanish  because it is an international language, and we  shall never abandon our attempts to make Spanish  an international working language. More than  twenty nations speak it. 1 went on to say that  the guiding principles of Unesco are identical  with those of the Argentine Constitution. More-  over, the same principles are enshrined in the  constitutions of all the American countries. For  ourselves, we have found no difficulty in accepting  or applying those principles; but account must  be taken of the facts of history, and Unesco  cannot establish a body of facts other than those  which now exist. We shall strive to conform to  Unesco’s ideals and our object will be to convert  into fact the aspiration : Man above the Nations.  Our first task is to achieve Unesco’s ideal within  each nation, and on the day when, in their home  affairs, all countries conform to those ideals  historically, politically, legally, and economically,  then we can say that the world is indeed set on  the path of liberty. Our first task is a national  one : to organize Unesco's projects.  [ next said that I fully understood the position  of the Arab States. We are faced with an  essentially political problem : the birth of a new  State. At this very moment, in Paris, the Argen-  line delegation is doing its utmost to ensure that  the peace shall be a true peace for all the peoples  of the world without exception. We shall continue  our efforts to the end. As the representative of  my country, and until our delegation in Paris has  said its last word, I cannot vote on the proposals  which have been put before this Assembly.  | shall therefore abstain.  Dr. Francisco del RIO Y CANEDO (Mexico)  (Translation): Mr. President, gentlemen, I wish  lo say a few words but, to support the proposal  made by my friend and colleague, the represen-  tative of the Argentine, I shall speak in Spanish  with a consecutive translation; I also believe that  the Castilian or Spanish language ought to be a  universal working language, not only since 1t is  spoken by many great nations but also since 1t 1s  a historical language in the world of yesterday  and has a great rôle to play in the world of  tomorrow,  The speaker continued in Spanish (Translation  from the speaker's French interpretation):  [ think the proposal, made by the delegate  of Afghanistan and supported by the delegate of  Iran, is a very wise solution to the problem which  has unfortunately been raised today. We are not  here to discuss political issues. Unfortunately,  the problem now before us is a political one and  it 1s not our place, in Unesco, either to listen to  arguments or to resolve it. I think, however,  that the views of Mexico should be heard today,  because it was in Mexico that the decision was  taken to hold the Conference in Beirut. Moreover,  | was President of the Extraordinary Session in  Paris in September, when the final decision was  taken to come to Beirut for the Conference.  When we took this step in September, however,  it was expressly to show that Unesco 1s not a  political organization; Unesco decided to work  in a country which is in fact at war, because  Unesco is not interested in political problems.  Now that we are here we cannot take sides and  say that we are against the idea of the State of  [srael, as the political position is of no concern  to Unesco. And, on the heels of our decision,  with many Arabs and many Jews, now naturalized,  in our several countries, who brought their  labour and skill to aid our progress, we cannot  even raise the question, or solve it, without  affecting the susceptibilities of one or the other.  Consequently, until the United Nations have  reached a decision on the Palestine problem,              { shall support the proposal of the delegates of  Afghanistan and Iran that we await the solution  of the problem, whatever it may be, and go on  with our work. As I said yesterday, Unesco's  main task is to conquer war and work for a better  world and a better race of men.  M. Mohamed KHALAFALLAH (Egypt) (Trans-  lation): Mr. President, gentlemen, the question  before us is not one for debate between Arabs  and Jews; it is not a question of tolerance or  hospitality. The Arabs have known all through  their history how to tolerate other peoples, other  cultures and other creeds; the Arabs have known,  throughout their history, how to be hospitable  even to their enemies, once they are in their  homes. The question today, ladies and gentlemen,  is one affecting the principles of Unesco. We  are gathered here in this Conference to try fo  bring about human understanding, understanding  between nations and peoples, and to encourage  cultural exchanges between the various nations  of the earth. We are trying very hard to re-build.  That is our business here, but today a question  arises concerning organizations which belong to  a movement whose philosophy of life is the abso-  lute negation of these principles of Unesco. This  movement's basis is segregation; here you have  people who do not want to live in peace with the  rest of humanity, who cannot live in a country  with other people, who refuse to have cultural  relations with the people around them, and seek  only to flee from the rest of humanity, to cut  themselves off from the world and live withdrawn  in their own religion. This movement's object  at the moment is destruction, and 1 fail to see  how we can possibly think of admitting into the  community of nations gathered here today people  belonging to that movement, whose presence  cannot fail to imperil the harmony of the Confer-  ence. There is no hurry; this decision, which  some delegates seek to take forthwith, for the  admission of certain of these organizations to the  Conference, would have serious effects on the  Conference's work. We do not want to do  anything today that will prejudice our future  work. I suggest that for the present the organ-  izations in question be excluded. Later we shall  see if steps can be taken for the re-education of  the persons in question, to give them the conscious-  ness of human dignity; only then can we receive  them into our great Organization.  The discussion  | have to attend  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  has been going on a long time.  a meeting of heads of delegations after this  plenary meeting and I suggest that the debate  be adjourned until 4 p.m. this afternoon.  Is there any objection to the adjournment of  this meeting?  As there 1s  adjourned.  no objection, the meeting 1s  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 18 November 1948, at 4.15 p.m.  CONTENTS
8. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning  the admission of observers of international non-governmental organi-  zations to the Third Session of the General Conference (continuation) 46
9. Establishment of Commissions and reference to them of certain questions;  establishment of eight Sub-Commissions to consider certain technical  aspects of the programme  President :  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We are to  resume this morning’s discussion but I have  received a suggestion that the plenary meeting  should be postponed until 5 p.m. Are there any  objections?  Hamid Bey  CO
40  FRANGIE (Lebanon)  The meeting adjourned and resumed al
5.10 p.m.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) We have  received a telegram from M. Alberto Lleras, the  General Secretary of the Organization of American