agreed that the matter should not be raised again  in plenary meeting, as otherwise the door would  be opened to any number of amendments.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) proposed  that the General Committee should merely take  note of the French delegate’s intention to raise  the matter in plenary meeting, in the form he  had suggested.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked for  the Chairman’s ruling, as the point of procedure  at issue was most important.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) sug-  gested that such a ruling should be given by the  President of the General Conference in plenary  meeting, rather than by the Chairman of the Gen-  eral Committee.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) agreed with the dele-  SIXTEENTH  Thursday, 9 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  gates of the United Kingdom and the Union of  south Africa that the debate should not be re-  opened in plenary meeting and that the matter  should be referred to the Executive Board.  M. SEYDOUX (France) maintained his position,  as he considered that the debate which had taken  place in the plenary meeting had been too brief  for such an important subject.  As it was impossible to obtain general agree-  ment, and as the Programme and Budget Com-  mission was due to meet, the CHAIRMAN pro-  posed that the discussion should be continued at  the following day’s meeting of the General Com-  mittee.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m.  MEETING  Chairman: Count Stefano JACINI (Italy)  Programme of meetings for the day.  The SECRETARY announced that the pro-  gramme for the day was to be altered : the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission had not finished  its work the previous day and would meet in the  morning instead of the plenary Conference. If  it did not conclude its work in the morning, it  would continue in the afternoon and the plenary  Conference would meet later. The Nominations  Committee would meet at 3.15 p.m.  Adopted.  Draft resolution concerning the business of  the Fourth Session of the General Confer-  ence (continuation).  M. SEYDOUX (France), referring to the draft  resolution which he had presented the previous  day, stated that he had learnt from the Secretariat  that a general debate on the forthcoming session  of the Conference would take place under item 17  of the Agenda, at which time an intervention
241  could be made by the French delegation. The  French delegation had contacted several other  delegations, which shared its point of view regard-  Ing a general debate at the next session of the  Conference, and the Acting Chairmen of the Exe-  cutive Board had informed M. Seydoux that he  thought it would be advantageous for the Board,  if discussions on the subject took place between  delegations before the end of the Conference; the  Director-General was of the same opinion. In  view of the above facts, the French delegation  withdrew its resolution, asked the General Com-  mittee to take note of M. Seydoux’s statement,  and apologized for having taken up so much of  its time at the previous meeting.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) expressed  the General Committee's gratitude to the delegate  of France for his gesture; he hoped the Committee  would take note of the statement and that an  excellent discussion in plenary meeting would  ensue.  It was agreed to take note of M. Seydoux’s state-  ment.         N   e d     Statement by the Director-General concern-  ing the withdrawal by the Provisional  Government of the State of Israel of its  application for membership of Unesco.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL read his statement  explaining the sequence of events which had led  up to the Provisional Government of Israel’s with-  drawal of its application for membership of  Unesco :
1. At a previous meeting the General Committee  was informed that it had been advisable to issue a  press communiqué on the contents of a letter received  from the Provisional Government of Israel, which has  been submitted to the Executive Board, stating that  the Provisional Government of Israel has decided to  withdraw its application for membership to Unesco.
2. As the Provisional Government of Israel has  requested that this decision be communicated to the  General Conference, the Director-General feels that the  following explanation should be submitted to the  General Committee :  (i) In July 1948, the Executive Board of Unesco  decided that, if application were be received to this  effect, the Provisional Government of Israel should  be invited to attend the present session of the General  Conference in an unofficial capacity, as the repre-  sentative of the Spanish Republican Government had  done on previous occasions.  (ii) At a later date, the Provisional Government  of Israel applied for membership of Unesco and  requested to be admitted as observer to the present  session of the General Conference.  (iii) In reply to the latter request, an invitation  to attend the Conference in an unofficial capacity was  extended to the Provisional Government of Israel and  this news was placed before the General Conference at  the time of its Extraordinary Session on 15 Sep-  tember 1948.  (iv) The Government of Lebanon was then  requested to grant the representative of the Provisional  Government of Israel the facilities required for him  to attend the Conference in Beirut. In spite of all  efforts to this end, no positive result was achieved and  on 11 November the Government of Lebanon in-  formed us that it could not see its way to supply the  facilities requested. This information was submitted  to the Provisional Government of Israel which, as a  result, sent the letter mentioned at a previous meet-  ing, withdrawing at the same time its application for  membership as a Non-Member of the United Nations.  (v) As this question is not on the agenda of the  General Conference, it does not seem appropriate to  report on it in plenary meeting, but the General  Committee should formally take note of the decision  taken by the Provisional Government of Israel con-  cerning its application.  The General Committee took note of the Director-  General’s statement.  Communications received by the Director-  General from the World Union of Jewish  Students and the World Jewish Congress.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) asked  when the letters had been received.
42  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the letter  from the World Jewish Congress had left London  on 11 November but was not received by the  Conference until 6 December; he did not under-  stand the delay and intended to ask for an expla-  nation. The letter from the World Union of  Jewish Students was despatched on 10 November  and was received on 16 November.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) thought  that no useful purpose would be served by re-  opening the matter in plenary meeting, as the  Conference was already aware of the facts. He  therefore proposed that the Committee should  merely take note of the two letters.  Referring to the letter from the World Jewish  Congress, M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) observed that  the first part was a protest which had already  been before the Conference, so that there was no  need to raise the matter again. In the second  part of the letter, he did not understand why  Israeli nationals should wish to attend a Confer-  ence in a country with which they were at war.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that both  Organizations had protested against holding the  Conference in a country which was at war; the  Lebanese Government, however, had denied that  Lebanon could be regarded as in a state of war,  and the Extraordinary Session of the Conference  had come to the conclusion that Lebanon was not  indeed an active belligerent. He agreed that the  General Committee should simply take note of  the letters.  M. SEYDOUX (France) pointed out that, after  the Extraordinary Session of the Conference,  Unesco had sent an invitation to the two Organi-  zations to attend the Conference as observers. He  thought that the reasons given by the Organi-  zations for not attending the Conference should  be communicated to the plenary meeting, in order  to show that Unesco was not indifferent to the  arguments of Organizations which it had invited  to attend the Conference. He agreed that it would  be preferable not to have another debate on the  subject in plenary meeting, and proposed that a  summary of the letters should be published in  the Journal of the Conference.  In order to avoid the danger of ending the  Conference on an unfortunate note, Mr. HARD-  MAN (United Kingdom) supported the South-  African delegate’s proposal that the Committee  should merely take note of the letters.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) seconded the French  delegate’s proposal, on condition that the summary      À  |  |  |  should appear in the Journal after the Conference  had closed.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) was  strongly in favour of open, free and frank action  by Unesco, and proposed that the full text of the  letters should be communicated to the Press.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that a  press release on the subject had already been  issued.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought that  the compromise solution suggested by the dele-  gate of France would, after all, be the wisest solu-  tion; he therefore withdrew his support of the  proposal that the Committee should merely take  note of the letters.  The CHAIRMAN closed the discussion and took  a vote on the French proposal.  The proposal was adopted.  Ratification of the Constitution of Unesco by  Switzerland.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was sure that the  General Committee would be glad to learn that  the Swiss Federal Chamber had ratified the Con-  stitution, so that Switzerland had become a  member of Unesco. As the instruments of rati-  fication had not yet reached the Foreign Office  in London, Switzerland would unfortunately be  unable to vote during the rest of the Conference.  He proposed that Professor Piaget, the head of  the Swiss delegation, should be asked to communi-  cate the news to the plenary meeting in the after-  noon.  The General Committee received the Director-  General's announcement with applause and agreed  to ask Professor Piaget to make the announcement.  The meeting rose at 10.46 a.m.  SEVENTEENTH MEETING  Friday, 10 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Resolution proposed by the Egyptian dele-  gation (document 3C/101).  M. SEYDOUX (France) approved of the form  in which the Egyptian delegation’s draft resolution  was presented, and also of the substance, as he  considered that Unesco had not so far given suffi-  cient attention to the question of “Law in the ser-  vice of peace”. He proposed that the resolution  should be transmitted to the plenary Conference.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) seconded the  French delegate’s proposal.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) understood  that a similar resolution from the Egyptian dele-  gation had already been passed by the plenary  meeting. At future sessions of the Conference,  there should be a closing date for the submission  of resolutions.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America)  explained that a similar Egyptian resolution had  been submitted, among other resolutions, to the  Sub-Commission on Social Sciences, which had  recommended that no special body should be set  up to deal with the question, as the words  “including law” had been added to the general  instructions given to the Director-General in  connexion with the social sciences, in a resolution  adopted by the Programme and Budget Com-  mission. (51)  M. SEYDOUX (France) was surprised at  Unesco’s attitude towards jurisprudence; every  resolution on the subject was submerged in other  matter, as the Egyptian resolution had been in  the programme resolution. He asked the General  Committee to take the responsibility of reopening  the question.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Secretariat  should inform the Egyptian delegation that it  could present the resolution in document 3C/101  in the form of an amendment, when the plenary
(81) See resolution 4.11, Volume II, Section IX. I.  Chapter 4, p. 23.  pe