THIRD MEETING  Thursday, 25 November 1948, at 3.15 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. CHU Shih-Ying (China)  Consideration of clearing-house functions as  the central activity of Unesco in general  education (document 3C/PRG/3.1) (continua-  tion).  The CHAIRMAN called upon the observer from  the World Federation of United Nations Asso-  Clations.  Mr. ENNALS (Observer for WFUNA) stressed  how necessary it was to encourage the efforts  of private organizations through the National  Commissions, in addition to steps taken by  Unesco. As for co-operation between Unesco and  international non-governmental organizations, as  considered on page 5 of document 3C/PRG/3.1,  he thought that his organization should lay more  stress on the value and possibility of educational  measures to promote international understanding.  Success depended on the acceptance of principles  by the man in the street. The speaker asked that  the attention of the competent authorities should  be drawn to such desirable co-operation.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) asked if the  encouragement suggested on page 5 of the  working-paper (“stimulate the formation of new  international organizations”) consisted merely in  giving advice, seeing that at the moment there  was no provision in the budget for such activity.  Without wishing to allude to any particular  organization, he drew the attention of the Sub-  Commission to the principle involved. Very  substantial subsidies had been granted for natural  sciences. Would it not be possible to provide  some $2,000 for educational organizations?  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) pointed  out that certain grants-in-aid had been provided  for in the programme, for instance, for the  Interim Universities Committee, or for an inter-  national organization for adult education. But  the British delegate’s question referred to  emergency grants not provided for in the pro-  gramme. Such grants might be covered by a  separate resolution fixing a general policy.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  asked for an explanation of the last sentence of  paragraph 1, on page b of document 3C/PRG/3.1,
314  stating that Unesco intended to carry on research  on two projects—the revision of school textbooks,  and education for international understanding—  because ‘such work did not lend itself easily to  treatment at the national level”. How would 11  lend itself to treatment at the international level?  In the United States, the great amount of research  which had been carried out in that field had  yielded good results. The value at the inter-  national level depended in fact on progress at  the national level.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ad-  mitted that the document had not been drafted  very satisfactorily. In point of fact, all that had  been implied was international co-ordination of  national work. Besides, the working paper was  intended only as a guide and did not bind the  Sub-Commission in any way.  M. ABRAHAM (France) endorsed the observa-  tions of the United States delegate and expressed  agreement with the remarks of the Assistant  Director-General. © The expression used would  appear to discourage countries from carrying out  their own research, but they had already done  so. In France, the Ministry of Education had  taken steps to develop teaching on international  understanding. As for the revision of textbooks,  the delegate of France would be glad to know  what the Secretariat had done at the international  level. As an expert had been employed, the  work should be under way. The Secretariat  should be aware of similar work carried out in  certain countries. For instance, there was the  work of the French “Syndicat National des Insti-  tuteurs” on the question of textbooks. In 1939,  committees had drawn up recommendations  regarding Franco-German relations.  Dr. BEEBY  that very full  that France's  consideration.  (Assistant Director-General) replied  research had been carried out and  achievements had been taken into  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) then moved  the adoption of resolutions 3.2 to 3.23 (document
3C/5, pages 43 and 45).  The motion was seconded by Dr. STODDARD  (United States of America).       M. BOUSTANY (Lebanon) reminded the meeting  of the speeches made by the delegates of Belgium  and India at the preceding meeting. In order  to spread Unesco’s ideals throughout the world,  Member States should be asked to shun nation-  alism and to eradicate from textbooks, parti-  cularly literary textbooks, any appeal to hatred,  envy, vengeance, racial superiority or contempt  for things foreign. He proposed the revision of  textbooks on literature.  In connexion with section V of document
3C/PRG/3.1, M. NOVRUP (Denmark) asked if  the organization of international seminars was  included in resolutions 3.2 to 3.23; if not, he  intended to submit an amendment.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) pointed out  that the remarks of the Danish delegate in fact  related to section IV, which had already been  adopted.  The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on resolutions
3.2 to 3.23, which were adopted, subject to the  amendments already adopted at the first two  meetings.  Consultative Educational Missions (docu-  ment 3C/PRG/3.}).  The CHAIRMAN remarked that, as educational  missions (resolution 3.211) were included in  programme resolutions 3.2 to 3.23, no vote would  be required on document 3C/PRG/3.4.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) explain-  ed that document 3C/PRG/3.4 was intended to  guide the discussion on the means of implementing  resolution 3.211. He specially wished to consult  the Sub-Commission on one matter. On page 3,  Section B, it was proposed that the final decision  upon the form and content of the published  report should lie with Unesco, after full consul-  tation with the Member State concerned. It  might be felt that the matter should be left to  the Member State to decide; but that State might  decide not to publish anything, in which case the  other Member States of Unesco would remain  ignorant of the work carried out. On the other  hand, if the final decision rested with Unesco,  some Member States might hesitate to ask the  Organization to send a mission. A compromise  would be to publish two reports, one public and  the other to be sent to the Member State concerned,  which would be free to decide which passages  it did not want published. The opinion of the  Sub-Commission on that point was requested.  Dr. HASAN (observer for Pakistan) did not  understand the reasons for having two reports,  one confidential and the other public. The  educational missions organized by Unesco should  carry out full surveys and draw attention both  to the merits and the demerits of the educational  systems considered. If the missions were to be  of a diplomatic character, they would be valueless.  M. VERNIERS (Belgium) requested that the  inviting State should be left discretion to publish  what it pleased. On page 1 of the working paper,  it was stated that three Member States had asked  for missions to be sent : the Philippines, Hungary  and Afghanistan, the first two being war-  devastated countries. Other Member States had  made enquiries concerning the conditions under  which such missions would be organized. There  might be so many requests that the budget  appropriations would be insufficient. In that  case, should not priority be given to Member  States which had suffered from the war?  Furthermore, on page 3 of the French text,  mention was made of : “Les experts techniques  jugés nécessaires par les deux parties aux besoins  de la mission” (point 2 d.), but in point 2 e. “Le  personnel de secrétariat également jugé nécessaire  aux besoins de la mission”, there was no mention  of agreement between the two parties.  With regard to the first question, Dr. BEEBY  (Assistant Director-General) replied that the  Executive Board had decided to give priority to  war-handicapped countries. Afghanistan's case  was a rather exceptional one. Afghanistan had a  mixture of three different educational systems  (French, English and German), with three types  of schools. Only an international mission could  help Afghanistan to unify its school system.  To the second question, Dr. Beeby replied that  there would always be agreement between Unesco  and the inviting State on the staff needed for the  mission.  Dr. KINANY (Syria) drew special attention to  that new branch of Unesco’s work. His country  also was in great need of a consultative educational  mission. The Government had just asked to have  a mission sent to undertake a special study of  the problems of technical and agricultural  training. The delegate asked for priority for  Syria, which was a young nation in need of advice  for working out its educational system; it was  prepared to bear a large proportion of the cost  of the mission. Lastly, though it was not a war-  devastated country, Syria had to meet the edu-  cational needs of 100,000 refugees.  M. ABRAHAM (France) was glad that a mission  VTT a LE              —   J  L S   e n   N N   er   ey ,
15   T T   t e s   EN  ed
315       to Afghanistan was being contemplated. He  wondered whether the words used by the Assistant  Director-General had not been slightly misleading  and whether the mission was really to act as a  kind of umpire between teaching systems based  on different languages and cultures. If the  delegate of Afghanistan were present, he would  perhaps view the question in a slightly different  light. Countries such as the United Kingdom or  France had been of real assistance to institutions  in Afghanistan, which had themselves felt unequal  to their tasks. There was, therefore, no question  of arbitration between rival countries.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) asked what was the  policy adopted by other Specialized Agencies with  regard to the publication of reports. If the  inviting country were to receive nothing but  advice, there was no need for any publication,  but, if the Member State requested the assistance  of an international organization, publication was  perhaps necessary. Did the words : “the final  decision shall lie with Unesco” mean that the  Director-General had the power to decide?  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) replied  in the affirmative.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America),  referring to page 4, section D, suggested that the  Member State should be requested to guarantee  free access to all sources of information, as  missions might sometimes encounter political and  even professional opposition.  The delegate also wished the adjective “formal”  or “official” to be inserted in front of the word  “report” in section B on page 3. That would  provide for the possibility of drawing up addi-  tional technical reports, for which no preliminary  consultation would be necessary.  The proposal was adopted.  Clearing-house functions as the central  activity of Unesco in Fundamental Educa-  tion (document 3C/PRG/3.2).  The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the  recommendations contained in paragraph IV, on  page 4 of the working paper. Delegates were  invited to move the adoption of those recommen-  dations, which related to part III. C of the  Programme Operations (document 3C/6, pages 81  to 83).  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) had submitted  amendments which appeared in document 3C/23.  He would propose the adoption of the recommen  dations if his amendments were included in them.  The CHAIRMAN was of the opinion that the  adoption of the recommendations should be  proposed before the discussion on the amendments  was opened.  The adoption of the recommendations was  proposed by Professor CHEN Yuan (China) and  seconded by Dr. TUDE-DE-SOUZA (Brazil).  Amendments proposed by the United King-  dom delegation (document 3C/23).  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the  amendments submitted by the delegation of the  United Kingdom, the first part of which related  to the resolutions, while the second part related to  the working paper and therefore did not require  a vote.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  saw no objection to the amendments relating to  resolutions 3.41 and 3.425, the meaning of which  was thereby made clearer. As for the regional  study conferences provided for in the amendment  to resolution 3.424, he thought that they required  administrative machinery and additional appro-  priations to which the United States delegation  would be unwilling to agree.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) observed that  the resolution to which his amendment referred,  was contained in the Programme (document
3C/5, page 51), but not in the Budget Estimates  (document 3C/6).  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Directeur-General) drew  attention to a printing error in the Budget  Estimates : resolution 3.424, given in document
3C/5, referred to a long-term programme without  any budget estimates for 1949, but it should  nevertheless appear in document 3C/6, page 82.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) observed that  the principle of regional conferences was accepted,  though the resolution would not be implemented  in 1949. He added that, instead of convening  such conferences itself, Unesco should leave the  initiative to Member States, as suggested in his  draît amendment.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  suported the United Kingdom amendment.  The amendment was adopted.
316       Amendment to resolution 3.425 presented  by the Chinese delegation  Professor CHEN Yuan (China) pointed out  that pilot projects provided Unesco with an  opportunity of studying new methods and  techniques in fundamental education. To be able  to launch a pilot project, the Member State con-  cerned had to draw up a co-ordinated plan of  work. In China, for instance, the Government  had prepared a small textbook for the use of  adults (containing ideas of general interest,  lessons in hygiene and information on the United  Nations, etc.), all within the understanding of  those who would study it.  For the campaign against illiteracy, the assis-  lance of outstanding specialists had been sought.  I'he diversity of Chinese provinces necessitated  several different regional experiments, which  would be compared with each other.  I'he Member State was responsible for assem-  bling the necessary documents, equipment and  staff. It was long-range work and not spectacular  at the outset. Resolution 3.425 (document 3C/5,  page 51) indicated that “at any time” Unesco  might discontinue its assistance to the country  in which a pilot project was being tried. The  delegate of China wanted that restriction to be  ruled out. In China, the work was certainly  necessary, whether Unesco took part in a pilot  project or not.  It was proposed, on page 4, section IV (4) of  document 3C/PRG/3.2 that the consultants for  China and Nyasaland should become “‘regional  field representatives”. That was precisely the  role which Unesco’s consultants played in China.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the amendment  proposed by the Chinese delegation : modification  of resolution 3.425 by deleting the words “at any  time” and adding at the end of the resolution :  “after agreement with the Member State con-  cerned”.  The amendment was adopted.  Amendment to resolution 3.4212 presented  by the United States delegation.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  proposed improving resolution 3.4212 by the  substitution of a new text.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) replied  that the problem of language teaching raised  great difficulties and that it was a field in which  the Secretariat was sorry not to have achieved  more. It was difficult to find the necessary staff.  The problem concerned not only the fundamental
317  education programme, but other fields of Unesco’s  work, such as modern methods of language  teaching and the place of language teaching in  the study of international tensions. But the  inclusion of an amendment relating to the teach-  ing of languages in the fundamental education  programme would not have a satisfactory result,  except with respect to the part relating to the  campalgn against illiteracy, and the teaching of an  auxiliary language.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  admitted that the question of languages covered  several fields. He therefore confined his first  amendment to fundamental education and modi-  fied his proposal as follows :  Languages, including the provision of materials  designed to combat illiteracy and for the teaching of  a second or auxiliary language.  The amendment was supported by Dr. NAN-  NETTI (Colombia).  M. ABRAHAM (France) agreed with the delegate  of the United States of America, on the under-  standing that the auxiliary language would be  one of the leading cultural languages and not an  artificial one.  Dr. AKRAWI (Iraq) was in favour of an  auxiliary language being taught in his country.  But would it be taught to that part of the popu-  lation which did not need a second language?  Was it not intended mainly for those who were  to continue their studies in secondary schools?  That part of the resolution should be included in  general education under resolutions 3.53 and 3.54  and only the part regarding illiteracy should be  covered by the current discussion.  Dr. EL-KOUSSY (Egypt) agreed with the sug-  gestions of the delegate of Iraq. He considered  that fundamental education, which was intended  to raise the standard of living of the masses of  the people, did not necessarily involve the teaching  of a second or auxiliary language.  M. MOHR (Norway) endorsed the French pro-  posal that the auxiliary language should not be  an artificial one.  Mr. SOLARU (United Kingdom) supported the  suggestions of the United States delegate and  expressed agreement with the delegate of Norway;  but he did not hold with the assertion that the  teaching of an auxiliary language did not come  under fundamental education. In Nigeria, where  there was a great number of languages, English  was the auxiliary language.         M. ABRAHAM (France) thought that there had  been some misunderstanding. By an artificial  language he had meant one which had been  invented, while he took the cultural languages  to be French, English, Arabic, Spanish, etc.  Mr. SOLARU (United Kingdom) hoped that  his mother-tongue would not be regarded as  artificial, as it was spoken by six million people.  The CHAIRMAN put the United States amend-  ment to the vote.  The amendment was adopted.  New resolution 3.54 presented by the United  States delegation.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  thought it would be useful to insert the rest of  his resolution relating to languages in the section  on general education. He proposed adding a new  resolution 3.54, as follows :  Consideration of possibilities of bringing about  international collaboration between linguists and  experts on the teaching of languages,  consideration of the relative efficiency of methods  of teaching languages and other linguistic problems.  The proposal was supported by Dr. AKRAWI  (Iraq).  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) was also in  favour of the proposal and asked the Secretariat  if it would involve additional expenditure.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) replied  that everything cost money. The Secretariat  would like to appoint a language specialist to the  Education Department, but the budget estimates  made it impossible.  M. YORUKOGLU (Turkey) thought it would  be very useful to have a centre for the exchange  ol information on the teaching of living languages.  M. VERNIERS (Belgium) drew attention to the  existence of the International Federation of  Teachers of Living Languages.  The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the United  States’ amendment.  The amendment was adopted.  Draft amendment presented by the delegation  of Iraq.  Dr. AKRAWI (Iraq) suggested adding the  following sentence to resolution 3.4212 relating  to languages :  In countries where the national languages are not  sufficiently developed, Unesco should, as part of its  fundamental education programme, organize surveys  on the possibility of writing the national language or  languages, and only where that is found to be impos-  sible, encourage the use of an auxiliary language.  Dr. EL-KOUSSY (Egypt) seconded the motion.  Dr. AKRAWI (Iraq) remarked that in some  under-developed countries, attempts were being  made either to develop the local language or to  introduce an auxiliary language. He pointed out  that it might be dangerous to encourage a second  language to the detriment of local languages.  Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) concurred. The  United Kingdom had experience of the problem  of diversity of languages and knew how difficult  it was to decide which should be used as the  medium of fundamental education.  He apologized, however, for being unable to  second the motion. The text submitted said that,  if it was impossible to develop local languages,  use would be made of an auxiliary language. That  policy was far too binding for Unesco.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) agreed  with the United Kingdom delegate. The delegate  of Iraq would realize that his resolution differed  from the preceding ones. The programme should  serve as a guide for the Director-General, but was  not a plan of work or a statement on the policy  to be followed.  Dr. AKRAWI (Iraq) thought that there was  not always a clear distinction between the pro-  gramme and Unesco’s plan of work. He had  wished to emphasize the danger of using an auxi-  liary language in under-developed countries. He  would be satisfied if the Director-General would  take his remarks into consideration, and there-  fore withdrew his motion.  Amendment to resolution 3.427 presented by  the delegation of Colombia.  Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) referred to a special  aspect of fundamental education : the conser-  vation of natural resources. He wished to add a  new paragraph to resolution 3.427 proposing that  one of Unesco’s clearing-house functions should  be to undertake a survey on methods of teaching  designed to assist the conservation of natural  resources. The Fontainebleau Conference had
318              Clé  in                dealt with that problem. Reports on the decline  of natural resources, particularly in the Arab  countries, Australia, South Africa and South Ame-  rica, were terrifying.  The CHAIRMAN moved the addition of a new  resolution, 3.4217, relating to the conservation of  natural resources.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) seconded that motion.  However, the problem of nature protection, which  had been raised in connexion with fundamental  education, was not confined to countries needing  fundamental education. Like languages, it also  concerned general education.  Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) wholeheartedly  supported the Colombian proposal, which went  further than fundamental education. In East  Africa, no means had been found of preventing  the wastage of natural resources.  Professor CHEN Yuan (China) emphasized the  fact that fundamental education was more than  a fight against illiteracy. The programme of  clearing-house functions (resolution 3.421) would  have to be completed by the addition of a new  resolution (3.4217) covering hygiene, agriculture,  the conservation and protection of natural  resources, and other steps for economic improve-  ment.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that that would  be an amendment to the Colombian amendment.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) seconded the new  amendment, since it was favoured by the delegate  of Colombia, whose original amendment he had  supported.  The amendment was put to the vote and  adopted.  Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) proposed adding the  conservation of natural resources to resolution
3.427 (Co-operation with other Specialized Agen-  cies).  The proposal was supported by Professor CHEN  Yuan (China) and adopted.  Amendment to resolution 3.4215 submitted  by the United Kingdom delegation.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) suggested re-  placing resolution 3.4215 by the following :  The value and possibilities of rural small-scale  industrial development as the technological element  in fundamental education.  Professor CHEN Yuan (China) indicated that,  although scientific work was respected in the field  of education, a specialist with sound notions of  hygiene and citizenship was not regarded as an  educationist in an undeveloped country. He  referred to industrial co-operatives and the work  carried out by industrial and agricultural services.  In China, there were two essential elements  in fundamental education : science had to be  brought to the man in the street and an attempt  had to be made to accustom him to join others in  common work for the improvement of living con-  ditions.  The CHAIRMAN put the British motion to the  vote.  Adopted.  All the resolutions relating to fundamental edu-  cation were adopted unanimously.  Consideration of plans for the preparation of  a Conference on Adult Education (document
3C/PRG/3.3).  The CHAIRMAN observed that resolutions 3.62,
3.621 and 3.622 (document 3C/5, page 59) were  involved.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  moved the adoption of the resolutions.  The motion was seconded by Dr. EL-KOUSSY  (Egypt).  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) wanted changes  to be made to the working document. Without  wishing to open a discussion on the possibility  of setting up an international organization of spe-  cialists in adult education, he wished to draw  attention to the fact that such an international  organization should include really active national  organizations. It would also be worth while to  establish a preparatory commission to define the  alms and the terms of reference of the proposed  conference.  The CHAIRMAN noted that observation.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) re-  ported that a Committee of Experts, responsible  for preparing the agenda of the Conference, had  met in Paris and that their report was expected  at any moment. He notified the meeting of the  letter of 15 November 1948 from the Danish Mi-  nistry of Education, inviting Unesco to hold the  proposed Conference in 1949 in Denmark. There  would be between 125 and 150 delegates.      The Sub-Commission could therefore add to the  resolution a recommendation that the Conference  should be held in Denmark.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) suggested  adding to resolution 3.621 a note to the effect that  the invitation of the Danish authorities should  be accepted.  The proposal was seconded by Dr. STODDARD  (United States of America).  In the interests of the small countries, Dr.  AKRAWI (Iraq) would prefer the Conference to  be held in June or July rather than May.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) read a  telegram just received from the Committee of  Experts, proposing that a seven to ten-day confer-  ence should be held in Denmark in June 1949.  to be attended by 150 delegates at the most.  Resolution 3.621 was adopted, with the addition  of the note proposed by the delegate of the United  Kingdom.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  wished the following paragraph to be added to  the resolution which had just been passed :  The General Conference requests the Direclor-  General to take the necessary steps to ensure that the  term ‘adult education’ include educational pro-  grammes for workers in industry and agriculture, and  that the official invitation to the Adult Education  Conference, scheduled for 1949, ask Member States to  include in their representation persons who are  experienced in such programmes.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) supported the  resolution and pointed out to the Secretariat that  the Conference would certainly result in an active  exchange of views; the exchange of persons was,  however, even more important for adult education.  He asked if it would not be possible to include  his observation in the working paper  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  called for the addition of the words “including  workers in industry and agriculture” after  “workers in adult education” in resolution 3.621.  The rest of the resolution which he had submitted  could be incorporated in the working paper.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) accepted that  proposal.  The proposal was adopted unanimously.
3 Aw 0  Other Business.  Financial assistance to educational organi-  zations.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) pointed  out that if the Sub-Commission wished an amount  for such grants-in-aid to be included in the budget,  it should draft a special resolution.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) proposed that  an item covering such grants-in-aid should be  added to the 1949 budget. A sum of $2,000 would  be sufficient for a beginning.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of  supported the proposal.  America)  Adopted.  Report of the Executive Board on the grant  made to the World Federation of United  Nations Associations.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) read  the Report of the Executive Board. The resolution  taken by the Board on 24 November emphasized  that, at its Eleventh Session, the Board had ap-  proved a sum of $12,600 for financial assistance  to WFUNA in 1948. For 1949, the Board sug-  gested allocating a sum of $10,000 to WFUNA to  finance work which would obviously not be  finished by the end of 1948.  In reply to a question from Dr. STODDARD  (United States of America), Dr. BEEBY (Assistant  Director-General) stated that the Mexico City  Conference had not provided for any grant-in-aid  to WFUNA but, in 1948, Unesco had granted that  organization a subsidy of $12,600 in accordance  with the contract which had been concluded  with it.  M. MOHR (Norway) was in a position to inform  the Sub-Commission of the details of the nego-  tiations, but he suggested calling upon the obser-  ver of WFUNA, who was present, to make a state-  ment on the subject.  M. Mohr moved the adoption of the Executive  Board’s proposal.  The motion was not seconded and therefore not  put to the vote.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) considered that  the note drafted by the Executive Board did not  contain sufficient information to enable the Sub-  Commission to take a decision.  Dr. KINANY (Syria) shared that opinion.                                  The CHAIRMAN thought, therefore, that the  question should be referred to the Programme and  Budget Commission.  New resolution 3.55 submitted by the United  States delegation.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America) sub-  mitted a new resolution with no budgetary impli-  cations, which he proposed numbering 3.55 and  which would come under clearing-house func-  tions :  The Director-General is instructed to promote the  study in schools of the contribution of organized  labour to the advancement of civilization, and as a  first step, he shall invite Member States to contribute  texbooks and illustrative teaching materials to Unesco,  as a means of stimulating clearing-house activities in  this field.  The proposal, seconded by Dr. NANNETTI (Co-  lombia), was adopted.  Amendment to resolution 3.222 proposed by  the Colombian delegation.  Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) asked for resolution
3.222 (publication of selected material from the  seminars organized by Unesco in 1947 and 1948)  to be extended to cover the documents written  during the seminar organized in 1948 by the Pan-  American Union in collaboration with Unesco.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) thought  that the Colombian delegate’s wish could be met  by adding the words “or sponsored by” (Unesco)  after ‘seminars conducted”, in resolution 3.222.  Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) accepted that sug-  gestion, and the amendment was adopted unanim-  ously.  Draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of the Union of South Africa (document
3C/22).  Mr. THERON (Union of South Africa) submitted  a draft resolution (document 3C/22), not 1n-  volving any additional expenditure, and relating  to certain teaching principles in primary and  secondary schools.  The motion was not seconded and was there-  fore not voted upon.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) thanked the  officers of the Sub-Commission for their work.  The meeting rose at 7.40 p.m.  SUB-COMMISSION ON CULTURAL QUESTIONS ©  FIRST MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  (Chairman:  Election of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  On the proposal of the Nominations Committee,  the following were elected :  Chairman Professor Paul Rivet (France)  Vice-Chairman : Nadjib-Ullah Khan (Afgha-  nistan  Rapporteur : Dr. Richard P. McKeon (United  States of America).     Professor Paul RIVET (France)  The Sub-Commission also decided to appoint  as additional Vice-Chairmen : Professor Humayun  Kabir (India), Professor Vittorio Branca (Italy),  Dr. Mohammed Bey Awad (Egypt) or his deputy.  Adoption of the Agenda.  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) re-  minded the Sub-Commission that :  (*°) See also the summary records of the joint meetings of the Sub-Commissions on Cultural Questions and  Natural Sciences, p. 337.