meeting discussed the relevant programme reso-  lution.  The Chairman’s proposal was adopted.  Solemn declaration by the new Director-  General.  On behalf of the Director-General, the DEPUTY  DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the new  Director-General, after making his maiden speech,  should be asked to make the following solemn  declaration :  “I solemnly undertake to exercise in all loyalty,  discretion and conscience the functions entrusted  to me as Director-General of Unesco, to discharge  these functions and regulate my conduct with the  interests of Unesco only in view, and not to seek  or accept instructions in regard to the perfor-  mance of my duties from any Government or other  authority external to the Organization.”  The pledge was identical with that taken by  EIGHTEENTH  staff members upon their appointment, except  that the words “as Director-General” were sub-  stituted for “as a member of the Secretariat”.  Dr. Huxley had not made such a declaration when  he took office, as Unesco was not sufficiently  organized at that time, but he thought it would  be a good procedure for future Directors-General  to follow.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought it  was an admirable proposal. He hoped the decla-  ration would be made with due solemnity and  dignity.  The proposal, which was also supported by  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy), M. HUYSMANS  (Belgium), Mr. ALLEN (United States of Amer-  ica), M. SEYDOUX (France) and Dr. PARRA-  PEREZ, on behalf of the Executive Board, was  adopted.  The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 17 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  later: M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium)  Resolutions on the closure of the Session.  (Draft resolution expressing the thanks of the  General Conference to the Lebanese Government  and Press, and draft resolution establishing three  Unesco Conference Fellowships for citizens of  Lebanon, in gratitude for Lebanon's contribution  to the Third Session of the General Conference of  Unesco.)  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the two reso-  lutions should be referred to the plenary meeting  of the Conference.  Agreed.  Draft resolution of thanks to Dr. Huxley.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the resolution  should be submitted by the Brazilian delegation.  Agreed.
0  Po  Agenda of the eighteenth and nineteenth  plenary meetings.  The Agenda was adopted.  Publication of speeches made at the General  Conference.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) said that the Belgian  Government intended publishing a pamphlet con-  taining certain speeches made at the Third Ses-  sion—those made by the President of the Republic  of Lebanon, the Lebanese Minister of Education,  Dr. Huxley and Dr. Torres Bodet.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, in reply to a ques-  tion from M. SEYDOUX (France), said that there  was no question of permission to publish such  documents; the Secretariat was always very glad  to see them appear.
44              In that connexion, the CHAIRMAN mentioned  that the Lebanese National Commission had  arranged for several publications for the Unesco  Month, but not all of them had appeared in time  for circulation. He asked delegation to leave  their addresses with the Secretariat so that the  publications could be forwarded to them later on.  Credentials of the delegations of Brazil and  Yemen.  The SECRETARY announced that, since the  third meeting of the Credentials Committee on
27 November, the credentials of the Brazilian  delegation (already admitted provisionally) and  those of the delegation of the Kingdom of Yemen  (invited, as a Member of the United Nations,  to send an observer) had been received.  The meeting took note of the announcement.  Question of indigent Arab and Palestinian  students in Great Britain.  The SECRETARY outlined the measures taken,  in conformity with the instructions given to the  Director-General by the General Committee, to  help Arab students in the United Kingdom. The  President of the League of Arab Students had sent  a telegram outlining the situation in that country.  The Secretariat thought the problem was beyond  the powers of Unesco, and that all the Organi-  zation could do would be to call the attention of  the competent bodies to the problem, and remain  in contact with the United Kingdom Ministry of  Education.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) said that  enquiries had been made on receipt of the tele-  gram. The Government of the United Kingdom  could not take responsibility for private students.  A further point that emerged from the telegram  was that approximately £60,000 was being spent  on continued assistance to all those Palestinian  students who were entitled to a grant under  various educational training schemes or who held  scholarships or exhibitions. Enquiries were still  being made to discover what other sources were  available, but the Ministry was not, at the moment.  aware of any other sources of help for such  students. Apparently, in London, the Inter-  national Student Service knew what the position  was and, in the worst cases, where it was under-  stood there was real need, grants were made under  the Assistance Board schemes.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) observed that the  same situation obtained in Belgium, where there
245  were 350 Polish, 75 Yugoslav and 50 Syrian stu-  dents. He had discussed the matter with the  President of the Republic of Syria, at Damascus,  and a proposal was to be made to the Belgian  Ministries of Education and Finance to establish a  fund of 3,000,000 Belgian francs to provide fellow-  ships or scholarships for the Syrian students: in  return, Belgian archaeologists in Syria would  have their subsistence paid by the Syrian Govern-  ment, and the Belgian Government would pay  that of the Syrian students in Belgium.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) said that the  Committee should ask the Secretariat to look into  the problem as a whole.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Secretariat  should be asked to contact the Cultural Com-  mission of the Arab League, as the best qualified  body. Certain members of the Secretariat were  shortly going to Cairo with the Executive Board,  and that opportunity could be taken to enter into  contact with the Cultural Commission of the Arab  League.  Agreed.  Communications received by the Director-  General from the World Union of Jewish  Students and the World Jewish Congress  (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the texts of  letters received by the Director-General from the  World Union of Jewish Students and from the  World Jewish Congress were published on  page 183 of the Conference Journal. He did not  wish to open a debate on the subject, or to enter  into political details. At one of its meetings, the  General Committee had decided to publish certain  passages of those letters, and he thanked the Com-  mittee for having taken action which avoided a  debate in a plenary meeting. He wished to point  out, however, that the Lebanese Government had  been the victim of calumny in the matter. The  Government had been accused of pre-judging the  situation. He wished to stress that Lebanon was  the only country in the region which had accepted  a large number of refugees—100,000 Arabs, 6,000  Poles, 10,000 Greeks and 10,000 Turks. Lebanon  had accepted them as refugees because they came  as refugees, but had refused entry to persons whom  they considered as forming a veritable ‘fifth  column”—such persons as those mentioned in the  letter in question. The Lebanese Government had  never taken discriminatory measures against Jews  in Lebanon, nor against Jewish students, and there  were many of them in the country; there were  Jewish scholars teaching in Lebanese schools.       Because of the events in Palestine, the Government  had had occasionally to take certain protective  measures, but those measures had been taken only  against the individual students involved. Lastly,  the Lebanese Government had at no time under-  taken to grant visas to persons from the so-called  State of Israel, because it did not, and would not,  recognize that State, and had no intention of  entering into relationship with it. Certain re-  quests for transit visas had been refused, because  the Lebanese Government felt that persons going  to Palestine could undoubtedly take another route  to that country.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) thought that, as  the text of the letters had been published in the  Journal, a summary of the Chairman’s statement  to the General Committee should be printed in  the last number of the Journal.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) said that  any session of the Conference might receive such  letters from bodies connected with Unesco. If  the precedent were adopted of giving such full  accounts as that printed in the Journal (which  was much fuller than anything Mr. Hardman had  expected to see printed), a brief paragraph giving  the gist of the Chairman'‘s statement was not  enough; if the Committee agreed that there  should be a statement, it should be a full and fair  one. Mr. Hardman had been very surprised to  see in the Journal not the short paragraph he had  expected but the substance of the whole corres-  pondence.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) and M. DORE  (Canada) supported Mr. Hardman's views.  As the CHAIRMAN felt it would be out of place  for him to preside over the discussion, M. HUYS-  MANS took the Chair.  It was decided unanimously to adopt the pro-  posal made by Mr. Hardman, that a full account  of the statement made by the Chairman should  be printed in the last number of the Journal.  The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.