se   a u   c s   L œ Û   —   — — — _ — — —   —   set up by the meeting of representatives of Natio-  nal Commissions (document XR/NC/Conf./4);  a four-page type-written document on the Publi-  cation Programme for 1949; a list of Unesco  agencies. Document 3C/ADM/12 also referred to  the matter to be discussed, as it contained a pro-  posal for the setting up of a Publications Fund;  that proposal had been passed by the Admini-  strative Commission. Document 3C/PRG/0.2 set  out the Publications Policy. A complete list of  publications was also available.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) pro-  posed the adjournment of the meeting, as the  THIRD  Chairman:  How Unesco should improve its publications  policy and carry out its publications pro-  gramme in 1949 (continuation).  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) reminded the meeting  that, though a sum of $246,315 had been provided  for publications for 1948, obligations had in fact  amounted in all to $219,600. The need to allocate  degrees of priority to publications had always been  obvious, but it had proved difficult, and during
1948 the Publications Committee had been forced  to deal with its problems from day to day.  In connexion with the question of priority, the  CHAIRMAN asked what was the exact situation  with regard to the publication of “Human Rights”  through commercial channels.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) explained that, in that  particular instance, it had been proposed to work  through a publishing house, as considerable sales  were assured in advance, but, so far, no publishing  house had been willing to undertake the task.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) expressed  the view that Unesco should do all its own  publishing and should approach suitable organi-  zations, similar to those existing in the United  Kingdom, to handle sales and distribution.  hour was late and the Committee should study  the papers before discussing the item.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested  that the Committee should ask the Chairman of  the Programme and Budget Commission for its  recommendations to be transmitted directly to  the Budget Sub-Commission, for reference back  to the Programme and Budget Commission after  consideration by that Sub-Commission ; that would  give the Committee time to do its work.  The suggestion was approved.  The meeting rose at 9 p.m.  MEETING  Tuesday, 30 November 1948, at 6 p.m.
431  Mrs. Louise WRIGHT (United States of America)  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) agreed that the sug-  gestion was a good one. He added, however,  that, where heavy sales were involved, Unesco  would experience great difficulty, in existing cir-  cumstances, in ensuring the distribution of a  large number of copies.  The CHAIRMAN took the view that Unesco  should publish its own pamphlets, as its repu-  tation depended on them, but should have them  sold through commercial distributing organi-  zations.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) stressed  that it was important for Unesco to produce all  its publications or at least to have them produced  under its auspices; the Organization would thus  be able to supply its pamphlets and documents to  all Member States. His own forecast was that  Unesco would be able to undertake both publi-  cation and distribution of its own productions  in 1950-51.  Mr. DAVIES (Australia) agreed with the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom and drew attention  to the difficulty experienced by the Australian  public in securing Unesco publications, despite  the existence in Australia of a United Nations  agent from whom they could be obtained. He  concluded that it was necessary for Unesco itself             to handle the distribution and sale of its publi-  cations, though he pointed out that such a policy  could not be put into full operation at short  notice.  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) also supported the United  Kingdom proposal, as it would enable soft-cur-  rency countries, such as Austria, to obtain  Unesco’s publications without difficulty.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) remarked  that apparently the meeting as a whole was not  hostile to his point of view; he proposed that all  Unesco publications should bear the Unesco device.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) asked the delegate of  the United Kingdom whether his proposal was  meant to apply to all categories of publications :  official publications (e.g. budget and conference  documents), publicity matter, publications con-  cerned with various programme subjects and  lastly, works to be published, under the terms of  Conference resolutions, by bodies external to the  Organization.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) explained  that his proposal covered all categories save the  last. He moved the draft resolution below :  Every publication issued under the authority of  Unesco should bear a clear indication of its origin  and of the responsibility assumed by Unesco for its  production. Publications for which Unesco assumes  part of the cost of production need not fall under this  rule, but some indication should be given of the part  Unesco has taken in them.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that the words  “when possible” should be added at the end of  the resolution.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) suggested an amend-  ment to the British resolution, to read as follows :  Unesco should publish all publications except those  produced in collaboration with other organizations, in  which case some indication of the part taken by  Unesco should be given.  The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of the  United Kingdom and the Head of the Department  to draft a text for submission to the next meeting  of the Joint Committee.  Publication of Unesco documents in numer-  ous countries and languages, to awaken  the interest of the masses in Unesco.  The CHAIRMAN explained that the item raised  the question of the selection of documents and  the securing of the necessary budget appropriations  for their translation. She submitted the resolution,  forwarded to the Joint Committee of Fifteen by  the Official and External Relations Commission,  on the publication of the National Commissions  Newsletter in English, French and Spanish.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Fxchange of Information) outlined the budgetary  problems arising in connexion with the trans-  lation of documents. He pointed out that, if  Spanish were to be adopted as a working language,  the suggested publications estimate for 1949  would be increased by $140,000, without counting  the corresponding decrease in the sales figures of  French and English versions in Latin America.  It was thus probable that translations would  involve a decrease of revenue.  Professor CHEN Yuan (China) disagreed. He  felt that translation into many languages was  necessary to secure the greatest possible number  of readers outside the countries where French or  English was spoken.  Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) found it difficult  to believe that the translation of the most impor-  tant documents into many tongues was a finan-  cially unsound policy.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) accepted the view of  the Chinese delegate, at least as far as concerned  publications in the Public Information category,  such as the Courier in Spanish and Arabic, and  the pamphlets in Czech and German.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, under the  Committee’s terms of reference, it was concerned.  not with the financial side, but with publications  policy. In that connexion, she remarked that, if  the appropriation proposed under that head  amounted to $250,000, a percentage could be  ear-marked for translations into selected languages.  Mr. HOLCROFT (New Zealand) suggested that  Unesco should arrange for the translation into  other languages of those documents which had  met with a favourable reception in English and  French.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) thought that the  value of a publication was not always directly  proportionate to the reception given to its English  and French versions.  Mr. KAPLAN (Secretariat) pointed out that,  under the heading “Public Information” on  page 72 of document 3C/6, only nominal sums            were set aside for publications. He added that  there were popular booklets in existence such as  You and Unesco, whose translation into other  languages should be undertaken.  Mr. DAVIES (Australia) was anxious to know  the policy governing the translation of certain  publications. For instance, why were the “odd”  pages in the Bulletin for Libraries in English and  the “even” pages in French?  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) explained that that was  due to purely economic considerations.  In reply, Mr. DAVIES (Australia) expressed the  view that it was not really a good thing to send  some of the more distant countries twice the  weight of documents which they actually required,  though of course that procedure might be the  best in the case of certain countries and a limited  number of documents.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked  that it was of the utmost importance to Unesco  that its publications should reach the masses.  The increased number of publications, translated  into the maximum possible number of languages,  notably eased the task of National Commissions.  It was the responsibility of the Publications Com-  mittee to select the most important documents  for translation into languages other than Unesco’s  official languages.  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) enquired whether publi  cations for translation were selected according to  publicity value or financial criteria.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied  that the governing factor was the question of  publicity.  Resolutions appended to the Report of the  Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Pub-  lications, set up by the meeting of represen-  tatives of National Commissions (document
3C/OXR/18, Annex II).  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the
433  Publications Sub-Committee) suggested that the  meeting should begin with resolutions 3 (i) and
3 (11), as he felt that the question of the Courier  was one of the most important and urgent to  resolve.  The CHAIRMAN expressed a preference for  taking resolution (1) first, as the representatives  of the National Commissions had sent her a  memorandum asking the Joint Committee of  Fifteen to decide whether the National Com-  missions Newsletter should be published in other  languages than English, French and Spanish.  Resolution 1 (National Commissions Newsletter).  Professor CHEN Yuan (China) proposed that the  National Commissions Newsletter should be trans-  lated into the seven official languages.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE concurred.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the  Publications Sub-Committee) again stressed the  importance of the Courier and pointed out that  the National Commissions Newsletter was read  only by the members of those Commissions, like  the Official Bulletin (resolution 4) and the Hand-  book of National Commissions (resolution 5).  He added that the Courier was one of the most  effective means of reaching the general public.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) agreed with the  Chairman of the Publications Sub-Committee and  felt that the French and English versions of the  National Commissions Newsletter would be under-  stood by all the members of National Com-  M1SS10ns.  The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the motion that  the Newsletter should be published in the seven  official languages, regardless of financial consi-  derations.  The motion was rejected, and the proposal that  the National Commissions Newsletter should be  published in French, English and Spanish was  adopted.  The meeting rose at 8 p.m.