M. FLORKIN (Belgium) also supported the pro-  posal but asked how it was proposed to finance  the Institute.  M. AUGER (Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that the proposal of the Indian  delegation was to follow the system adopted for  the establishment of the International Institute of  the Hylean Amazon. The Institute itself would  work in close co-operation with Unesco, but would  be an entirely independent unit.  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) remarked  that there seemed only to be a small difficulty  over the wording of the resolution. He proposed  the following text, with which the Indian dele-  gation was in agreement :  The Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences, taking  note of the success recently achieved by Unesco in its  initialive to arrange for the setting up of an Interna-  tional Institute of the Hylean Amazon; and  having in mind the special problems of the region  in which the present General Conference is meeting;  recommends that the Conference instruct the  Director-General to investigate during the coming year  proposals for an International Institute of the Arid  Zone, such as that which has been forwarded to the  Economic and Social Council by the International  Union of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics; and  THIRD  Chairman:  Adoption of the Agenda.  The provisional Agenda for the meeting (doc-  ument 3C/PRG/5.6) was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN informed the meeting that, in  the absence of Dr. Joseph Needham, the United  Kingdom delegation had appointed Sir Harold  Spencer Jones as Rapporteur.  Accepted.  International Computation Centre (document
3C/19).  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the  resolution of the United States delegation with  recommends that a budgetary provision of $8,000  be found for a committee of experts and delegates of  other Specialized Agencies to report in 1949 on the  utility, programme and structure of an International  Institute of the Arid Zone, with a view to an interna-  tional conference in 1950.  Professor RIVET (France) supported the reso-  lution, but was not happy about the reference to  the success of the Hylean Amazon activities of  Unesco during 1948. From personal observance,  he felt that a great deal of time and money had  been wasted.  M. AUGER (Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that a large amount of money  had indeed been spent in an effort to compress  the gradual stages of the Institute's development  into one year and to begin research work. at the  same time. He pointed out that the Indian dele-  gation proposed that Unesco should proceed more  slowly in establishing the new Institute, but he  felt that the Organization could well profit from  the experience gained with the Institute of the  Hylean Amazon. |  The resolution presented by the United King-  dom delegate was adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  MEETING  Friday, 3 December 1948, at 10.30 a.m.
333  Dr. H. KR. KRUYT (Netherlands)  regard to the establishment of an international  computation centre had already been discussed by  the Programme and Budget Commission, which  had agreed to ask the Director-General to look  into the proposals.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) pointed  out that, while for budgetary reasons it had been  deemed impossible for the Secretariat to arrange  for a Conference of experts, as proposed in the  resolution, out of Unesco’s funds, it might be  possible to obtain funds from elsewhere. He sug-  gested that the Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences should write to the National Research  Council in the United States of America (which  had instigated the resolution) asking for further  clarification of the proposal, and for information            RE, SFR TE Sak    about the possibility of obtaining funds for ifs  implementation.  That proposal was supported by M. JAWAD  (Iraq).  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) also supported the  proposal and stressed the fact that the General  Conference had already discussed the idea of a  computing centre at an earlier session. When  proposed before, the project had been considered  in relation to the scheme for international labora-  tories, and it had been suggested that the Centre  should be in India or China. Dr. Nielsen asked  whether the Centre would merely be a centre for  computational work by an international staff on  specific problems, or whether it would also be a  laboratory for carrying out research on the deve-  lopment of computing devices.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) thought  that, because of the expense involved, the Centre  should stimulate research rather than carry it out  itself. The American astronomers—the group of  scientists primarily interested in the promotion  of such an institute—had also suggested that the  Centre should become a repository for astrono-  mical information. Harvard Observatory had al-  ready expressed its willingness to contribute some  of its plates to such an information centre.  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) thought that it would  be useful if the Centre could also perform the  service of a central editing house for the compi-  lation of numerical tables of special functions used  in such sciences as engineering.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) wel-  comed that suggestion as a possible ultimate  function of the Centre, although, for financial  reasons, he did not consider it could be embarked  upon at the outset.  While supporting the proposal for such a Centre  in principle, Sir Harold SPENCER JONES (United  Kingdom), speaking from experience at the Royal  Observatory in the United Kingdom, drew the  attention of the meeting to some of the practical  difficulties involved. Because of the extremely  complicated machinery used, it would be essen-  tial that the Centre should possess a staff of experts  who could service the machines (especially if  electronic computing machines were installed),  reduce the problems set them to equations suitable  for solution by numerical methods, and carry out  the required computations. The computation of  special tables might very well constitute the rou-  tine work of the Centre.  M. BERKER (Turkey) welcomed the proposal  as a means of co-ordinating the development of  computation machinery and the computation of  tables of functions in the various countries.  The Sub-Commission agreed to endorse the view  of the Programme and Budget Commission that  the United States proposal should be looked into,  with the additional suggestion that the Head of  the Department of Natural Sciences should write  to the National Research Council in the United  States of America on the lines indicated by the  United States delegate.  Science in General Education (document 3C/5.  page 57, resolution 3.53).  Professor PIAGET (Observer for the Interna-  tional Bureau of Education) reported on the  research into the rôle of science in general edu-  cation being carried out by the International Bu-  reau of Education for Unesco. Studies had been  made, both from the purely scientific and from  the psychological point of view, of the develop-  ment of scientific notions in children and ad-  olescents. Data had been obtained by sending  questionnaires to Ministries of Education, asking  for information on the training of teachers, on  curricula and teaching methods in use, and on  textbooks. Literature on teaching methods, and  actual textbooks, had also been investigated. Re-  search had been carried out into the development,  within the mind of the child or adolescent, of  notions of space, time, speed, the conservation of  matter, the elements of physics, and of the rela-  tion between mathematics and logic, etc. It had  been found that all a child’s notions come from  action; for example, its first notions of space were  topological rather than metrical, and the notion  of speed came before that of time. The con-  clusions drawn from those researches had been  that science needed to be taught more experi-  mentally in schools than it was, and that logic  was not innate in the pupil. Given close co-  operation between scientific specialists, edu-  cationists and psychologists, it should be possible  to formulate more adequate methods of teaching.  The next Joint IBE-Unesco Conference would  study the results of questionnaires sent out by the  IBE on the subject of elementary science teaching  in primary schools, and on methods of teaching  arithmetic.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) stated  that the educational system in many countries  was not suited to the needs of the modern world,  in which science played such an important part.  The teaching of science had two objects : (1) the  creation, through elementary education, of a  public opinion sympathetic to science; and (2) the  training, in secondary and university education
334      of technicians and scientists. That was a task  which each country should do for itself.  M. AUGER (Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that, while Unesco had decided  to restrict its enquiry, at the outset, to primary  education, and had asked the IBE to carry out  the surveys mentioned by Professor Piaget, it was  hoped, later, to extend the enquiry to cover  secondary and higher education also.  Dr. MAROUN (Lebanon) outlined the rôle of  science in Lebanese education, where every effort  was made to interest children in the sciences and  to teach them to reason logically. He thought  it most important that Unesco should look into  the problems of the training of teachers and me-  thods of teaching, beginning with elementary edu-  cation, and then passing on to secondary and  higher education.  Programme resolution 3.53 was adopted.  Symposium on High Altitude Biology (docu-  ment 3C/32).  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the  Programme and Budget Commission had already  accepted the resolution of the Peruvian delegation  containing an invitation for the holding of a sym-  posium on high altitude biology at Lima in 1949.  Dr. MONGE (Peru) emphasized that high alti-  tude biology was a subject which should be  developed. Many millions of people and animals  in different parts of the world lived at high alti-  tudes, but the biological effect of such conditions  had not yet been adequately studied. He extended  an invitation to scientists to work in the high  altitude laboratories of Peru, including the Magne-  tic Observatory of the Carnegie Institute which  was located on the magnetic equator.  M. AUGER (Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences) asked if it were intended that the  Symposium should make suggestions concerning  the setting up of high altitude stations throughout  the world and the co-ordination of their work.  Dr. MONGE (Peru) regretted that the documents  from the Conference at Montevideo, which had  approved the proposal for a symposium, had not  reached Unesco, as they set out the points which  would be considered : the physiology of man,  climatic conditions, and the fertility of races at  high altitudes.  M. MANSOUR (Egypt) hoped that the sympo-  sium would be organized in close co-operation
335     with the International Union of Biological  Sciences.  Professor FLEURY (Observer for the Interna-  tional Council of Scientific Unions) was sure that  the International Union of Biological Sciences  would be glad to co-operate and remarked that  ICSU had already set up a joint committee of  representatives of the international scientific  Unions of biology, astronomy, physics and geo-  physics, to co-ordinate research at high altitude  stations.  Atomic Energy Exhibition.  Mr. REID (Secretariat) suggested that many  countries might be interested in receiving the  Unesco Month Atomic Energy Exhibition, which  had been opened on 2 December and had been  made possible by the loan of instruments by the  Atomic Scientists Association of the United King-  dom.  M. BERKER (Turkey), Dr. AIDI (Syria), Dr.  THIRRING (Austria) and M. MANSOUR (Egypt)  welcomed that suggestion on behalf of their re-  spective governments, the Egyptian delegate re-  marking that he hoped it would be possible for  the Exhibition to visit Egypt in February, when  an Industrial and Agricultural Exhibition would  be taking place in Cairo.  It was agreed that delegates interested should  meet representatives of the Secretariat and the  Lebanese Government after the meeting to discuss  the matter.  Palermo Mathematical Circle.  The CHAIRMAN read to the meeting a reso-  lution submitted by the Turkish delegate with  regard to the Palermo Mathematical Circle :  The Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences resolves  that Unesco should give assistance to the Palermo  Mathematical Circle, whose library and equipment  have been, to a great extent, destroyed by the war, in  order that it may re-open its library and continue the  publication of its review.  The resolution had already been discussed by  the Programme and Budget Commission.  M. BERKER Turkey) reminded the meeting that  the Palermo Mathematical Circle, founded over  sixty years ago, with an international membership  of brilliant mathematicians, and publishing a  review containing articles by all the outstanding  personalities in the field, had been, as it were, a     Pig s
4  CA S  L e   Te  C r   A   a   A   E E   L i   e b   er  SN   SN       Unesco achievement before Unesco was born. Al  though the great majority of the periodicals and  books contained in its library had been saved,  the library itself had been destroyed during the  war, and money was urgently needed to help  reconstruct the library before the winter, and to  enable the publication of the review, which had  many papers waiting, to be resumed. There was,  as yet, no International Union of Mathematics,  but M. Berker suggested that the International  Unions of Physics and of Theoretical and Applied  Mechanics could help in the work.  Professor FLEURY (Observer for the Interna-  tional Council of Scientific Unions) was sure that  the two Unions would be willing to act as sug-  gested.  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) and Professor GAB-  RIELI (Italy) seconded the Turkish delegate’s  resolution. Dr. Nielsen felt that it was a case for  emergency aid, although even moral or symbolic  support alone from Unesco would be valuable.  The resolution submitted by the Turkish dele-  gation was adopted.  Reproduction of periodicals (document 3C/5,  page 17, resolution 1.913).  The SECRETARY outlined the pilot project pro-  posed for 1949 for the reproduction of scientific  periodicals. Unesco was drawing up a list of  twenty to fifty unobtainable periodicals for which  there was a large demand. If the agreement of  the publishers of those periodicals could be  obtained, negotiations would then take place with  firms specializing in photo-lithographic and micro-  film reproduction. The names of the periodicals  which it was suggested should be reproduced  would then be sent to libraries, together with  prices, so that a list of the needs of libraries could  be compiled. As Unesco would be acting only as  a clearing house for negotiations between the ori-  ginal publishers, reproducing firms and libraries  (the money transactions taking place between the  libraries and the reproducing firms direct), 1t was  not likely that the scheme would cost much. If  the publishers and reproducing firms were un-  willing to accept the financial risks involved in  the scheme, it would have to be recast. If, how-  ever, it proved successful, it was hoped to extend  the plan, in consultation with ICSU, to cover a  much larger number of periodicals. The Libraries  Division of Unesco was maintaining close contact  with the International Federation of Library Asso-  ciations and the International Federation of Doc-  umentation on the whole question.  M. BERKER (Turkey) pointed out that a firm  had already been established in the United States  of America, which carried out reproduction work  such as that envisaged in the Unesco scheme;  Unesco might profit from that firm's experience.  M. Jamal FARRA (Syria) informed the meeting  that there was already in existence a Cultural Insti-  tute, founded by the Arab League, which had  made microfilms, and drawn up lists of periodicals  and manuscripts on the subject of Arab civilization  (whether they were to be found in the Arab States  themselves or elsewhere). He invited delegates  to contact the Arab League’s representative if they  were interested in hearing more details and seeing  the lists.  Programme resolution 1.913 was adopted.  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.