methods used in Europe and the United States of  America, and from day to day—thanks to the  efforts of the Government and to the assistance  of the people themselves—we are able to establish  new schools and institutions of learning. In our  country we have, in our schoolbooks, given equal  emphasis to Occidental and Oriental history. I  hope that future generations of young Afghans  will always be capable of understanding the men-  tality of the West as well as of the East, and that  their culture may be the culture of Unesco and  of humanity. In order not to take up your  happy to see in this Assembly, which we are  attending for the first time, a spirit of solidarity,  a spirit of union and of co-operation. 1 hope  that, thanks to that spirit and good will, Unesco  will successfully attain the goal of international  co-operation and human brotherhood.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We shall  continue the discussion on the Director-General’s  Report on Tuesday.  valuable time, 1 will just say that I am very The meeting rose al 6.50 p.m.  Tuesday, 23 November 1948 at 11 a.m.  CONTENTS
14. Second Report of the Credentials Committee . 85
15. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation) :  Speeches by delegates of the United Kingdom, the Union of South  Africa, France, Saudi Arabia and Iraq . ; 36  President :  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The meeting  this afternoon will consider the total Budget  figure. We shall interrupt the discussion of the  Director-General’s Report to allow us to fix that  figure at the meeting this afternoon.  I now call on the Chairman of the Credentials  Committee.
14. Second Report of the Credentials Com-  mittee.  M. Camille HUYSMANS (Chairman of the Cre-  dentials Committee) (Translation) :  The Credentials Committee held its second meeting  this morning and noted that the delegation of Colom-  bia had been duly accredited in accordance with  Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, by a telegram from the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs for Colombia.  The Committee also took note of a telegram from  the Principality of Monaco accrediting its represen-  tative as observer. It accordingly proposes that the  observer be allowed to attend the Third Session of the  General Conference without the right of vote.  Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  The Committee noted that the delegations of Bel-  gium and Venezuela, provisionally admitted to the  Third Session of the General Conference pending later  presentation of credentials in due form, had subse-  quently been duly accredited by documents signed  by the Foreign Ministers of Belgium and the United  States of Venezuela respectively.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) :  comments  The report is adopted.  I have to read you a telegram sent to me as  President of the Conference by the Polish Minister  of Foreign Affairs :  “Mr. President, I have the honour to inform you  that the Polish delegation will not take part in  the Third Session of the General Conference of  Unesco in Beirut for reasons of principle. The  Polish Government considers it inadmissible for  the Conference to be convened in a belligerent  country. The aims of Unesco are defined in that  Article of the Constitution of 16 November 1945,  reading : ‘The purpose of the Organization is to  contribute to peace and security by promoting  collaboration among the nations through educa-  Are there any       tion, science and culture, in order to further uni-  versal respect for justice, for the rule of law and  for the human rights and fundamental freedoms  which are affirmed for the peoples of the world,  without distinction of race, sex, language or reli-  gion, by the Charter of the United Nations’. By  choosing as a site for the debates of the General  Conference a country which is infringing the  decisions of the United Nations on Palestine and  whose Government calmly promises suspension of  hostilities only until the end of the General Con-  ference, Unesco violates its own basic principles.  Observing with deep regret that Unesco, consi-  dered and valued by the Polish Government as an  Organization designed to work for peace, has  strayed from the path laid down for it by the  Charter of the United Nations, by the San Fran-  cisco Conference, by the Final Act of the London  Conference and by its own Constitution, dated
16 November 1945, the Polish Government finds  itself unable to send a delegation to Beirut for the  Third Session of the General Conference of Unesco.  I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient ser-  vant.” (signed) Mopzerewski, Minister for Foreign  Affairs, Poland.
15. Discussion of the Director-General’s  Report (continuation).  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : We shall  resume the discussion of the Director-General’s  Report. I call upon the delegate of the United  Kingdom.  Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) :  Mr. President and fellow-delegates, on behalf of  my country and delegation I want to add a British  tribute, a tribute of gratitude for the generous wel-  come we have received from our hosts in Leba-  non, and of sincere admiration for the tremendous  efforts that have undoubtedly been made to erect  these magnificent buildings in which the Confer-  ence is now being held. I only wish that, with  the same speed and thoroughness, the many  bombed cities in devastated areas of the world  could be rebuilt in the same way.  It is indeed a memorable experience to be able  to plan the future of Unesco in Mediterranean  sunshine, and to plan it in that corner of the  globe where first arose that civilization of the West  which still has so powerful a sway over the hearts  and minds of men. The President of the Republic  of Lebanon in his thoughtful and inspiring address  which opened our Conference, showed us by his  eloquent and moving words that the spirit of that  civilization is still a vital force in our world. This  country of Lebanon has for centuries been venera-  ted as part of the Holy Land by generation after
86  generation of the people of the British Isles. Its  geography and its history have been as familiar to  us as the geography and history of our own land.  Seven centuries ago generations of the bravest  and best of our leading men thought it their  supreme duty to join a Crusade to preserve its  independence. The wars that they fought are  long forgotten. The enmities then aroused have  passed into oblivion. Now those enemies are firm  friends, and today perhaps, in that firm friend-  ship, we can consider ourselves, fellow delegates,  as crusaders in another holy cause. Therefore,  inspired by this magnificent city and by the words  of the President of Lebanon, we may confidently  attack the formidable agenda which is before us.  We can with confidence, and with the crusading  spirit, set about planning Unesco’s work in the  years ahead.  My theme this morning, Mr. President, can be  expressed in a very simple phrase. I am con-  cerned with “Unesco in Action”, and I want here  to say something of a personal nature. I am an  educationist and a lover of the arts, but I am also  à politician, and I have learned in politics in our  country with what suspicion our people view ora-  tory. It is true we have produced great orators  —J] do not wish my fellow delegates to think I  am one of them. What I have to say today 1s  what a British audience would expect to hear,  namely, what the United Kingdom delegation  thinks of the Director-General’s Report, and what  it proposes as a fitting and practical programme  for Unesco in the next few years.  “Unesco in Action”. If we look at the Director-  General’s Report, we can, I think, very quickly  answer those critics we find in Britain and other  countries who ask a simple question : “What has  Unesco done?”. To date, we can say that the  Organization has been in being, has been at work  for some twenty-four months. But to answer the  question : “What has Unesco done during that  time?”. I would select from a vast body of work  of different kinds, certain things that appeal to  the British delegation.  First of all, we notice in the Director-General’s  report an item of real worth. Something accom-  plished, and something accomplished well, the  holding of the three seminars and the School for  Librarians: these would not have been held had  it not been for our Organization.  Again I think we can congratulate the Director-  General and the staff concerned on certain of their  publications. Of their kind, I think they are the  best that any of the international organizations  have yet produced, and I give as an example that  magnificent publication known as Museum:  Then there is a third item, a third accomplish-  ment : the creation of the International Theatre  Institute, The introduction of this is due again,            I. think, to Unesco, it has been launched under  the aegis of our Organization. So has the Insti-  tute for the Hylean Amazon. A number of differ-  ent disciplines, a number of different nations  have joined together for the good of mankind.  As an adventure in getting nations together for the  good of mankind as a whole, Unesco can congra-  tulate itself upon this achievement.  Then from the Director-General’s Report we can  add another achievement : the scientists who have  been able to meet and get on with their job  through grants given to the International Council  of Scientific Unions. There again Unesco has  done a job of which it can feel proud.  In the realm of fellowships we have achievement  to record. Some two hundred people have been  enabled to leave their own countries and continue  study in their own fields, to continue their own  professional work in other countries.  In the field of the universities Unesco in 1948  entered the arena, and I believe that, in the year  that lies ahead, a world universities bureau will  be built upon the excellent foundations laid at  Utrecht.  Those are some of the things that I would select,  upon which my delegation lays emphasis, among  the things that Unesco has done.  You will notice that I am beginning in a  very practical way. We British have been de-  scribed in the past as a nation of shopkeepers, and  curiously enough the British people have learned  rather to appreciate that cynical condemnation;  to them it seems to convey the impression that  they are a people who like to be practical, who  wish to keep their feet firmly upon the ground.  So in developing the next part of my address,  namely, “What about the practical programme of  Unesco in the years that lie ahead?” I may appear  to be humdrum, but you must take it that I am  typically British.  First of all, in looking at the work of Unesco  that lies ahead, my delegation is going to ask  you to plan for more than one year ahead. We  agree with the Director-General that the foundation  has now been securely laid for a continuing pro-  gramme of work in many fields, which we can  confidently leave to the Director-General and his  staff to undertake. We have made this proposal  before. At the emergency session of the Confer-  ence held in Paris in September last, we made  a proposal which was approved at a subsequent  session of the Executive Board, namely, to recon-  sider the Programme as a whole every two years  instead of every year as at present. It is laid  down in our Constitution that the Conference must  meet every year, under the present arrangement.  Between the two-year programme-shaping Confer-  ence, we want to hold a small business Conference  to approve the annual Budget and to undertake
87  other essential business. Savings under our plan  are obvious and nowhere should they be more  apparent than in the activities of the Secretariat,  which will no longer suffer the inevitable dislo-  cation involved by the present annual preparation  and departure to a new home. In Mexico City  last year the Director-General emphasized the im-  portance to the Secretariat of that dislocation and  how it affected their general work. We see in  his Report this year some telling reference to this  important matter. Every two years, we suggest,  a programme-shaping Conference, and between  those Conferences, small business conferences.  There is a second suggestion, a propos of Con-  ference meetings, which my delegation wishes to  make, namely, to move the date of the annual  conference back to the first half instead of hold-  ing it in the last half of each year. This, I  suggest, allows for better co-ordination with the  United Nations and makes it easier for many  people, such as university staffs, to attend the  Conferences. We know that in all countries uni-  versity staffs have their heaviest work at this time  of the academic year. My delegation has already  suggested that this change should begin with the  Fifth Session of this Conference, which should  be held in the first half of 1950.  In due course we shall make suggestions for  the revision of certain parts of the Programme.  I am not going to detain you with those sugges-  tions now. 1 must admit that we shall have no  startling novelties to suggest. We believe that  the Organization has already mapped out a very  wide field, vast enough to engage all our energies  for some time to come. Contrary to the views  of some critics, and indeed in contradiction to  some views of our own, we now agree with the  Director-General that it is impossible for an Organ-  ization such as this to concentrate all its activities  on one or two subjects. If anvone is inclined  to disagree, let him tell us how we could convince  any specialist in any field of human endeavour  that his specialty is less important to mankind  than any other. We are all proud of our jobs in  whatever field we work, and Unesco should in  as wide a field as possible represent the enthu-  siasms and the abilities of those specialists. It
1s true that already at this Conference the case for  concentrating on limited projects has been elo-  quently made out by the delegates of the Nether-  lands and New Zealand, but we feel, contrary to  their views, that our Constitution serves certain  aims and we believe that we should enlist the  enthusiasm of those in science, arts and education  in the widest possible fields. It is surely essential  for Unesco to recognize that an international  society, like a national society, is founded upon  the division of labour. Once you accept that great  principle, you are inescapably committed to the     T i e   a  >     belief that every section of the world's work 1s  intrinsically as important as every other. On that  fact, 1 believe, rests the strength of modern social  doctrine. Unesco will neglect it at its peril. Our  motto must surely be “A tout seigneur, tout hon-  neur”.  This philosophical defence of a wide programme  does not mean that we must accept every scheme  put up to us merely because we cannot see any  strong argument against it. It is only reasonable,  I think, to beg specialists in all fields to exercise  à strict rationing system. We in Britain know  how rationing systems work, and we call upon  those who have not yet had so severe an experience  as ourselves in their particular spheres to realize  that Unesco cannot be asked to take the whole  universe for its province at once. Specialists,  too, must discipline themselves in making their  demands. They must remember that they are  using resources which are scarce. We must beg  them to be economic in their employment. Not  only that, they must use the utmost energy to  ensure the success of their chosen projects.  Mr. Allen, the distinguished leader of the United  States delegation, spoke for all of us when he said  that it was essential for Unesco to be able to report  significant, concrete accomplishments. That is  entirely our view, and that is why, this morning,  | began by giving vou a short list of those accom-  plishments which my delegation admires.  The only other comment I have to make upon  the Programme is concerned with the balance  between the various items in it as reflected in the  Budget, and to this I now turn. First, we must  all be impressed by the efficient workmanlike  way in which the Budget is now presented. |  think it reflects great credit upon all concerned,  and especially upon the Deputy Director-General,  Dr. Walter Laves. It is natural that, when any  of us have to consider a bill for expenses, we try  to get it reduced, and the United Kingdom dele-  gation, as vou well know, has good reasons for  sharing this characteristic quality of human  nature. We agree with Mr. Allen of the United  States in hoping that further scrutiny may reveal  possible savings. Then we may be able to report  a Budget somewhat lower than the estimates  indicate.  I return to the balance of the Programme, which  Is most clearly revealed in the Budget analysis.  Working out the relative percentage of the total  Budget devoted to the many fields of effort, I  find that education and cultural interchange  remain at about the same levels as in 1948.  Human and social relations receives a small in-  crease, which we think is justified by the fact  that its programme activities are taking shape.  Expenditure upon cultural interchange, recon-  struction and natural sciences, however, all show
33     a reduced percentage, while a big advance is regis-  tered in favour of communication and programme  promotion, which you will notice now absorb  one-fifth of the Budget, and more than twice as  much as any single programme activity. 1 suggest  that we must look closely into the balance of the  Budget and, in particular, enquire whether  reconstruction and the natural sciences do not  deserve somewhat more generous treatment. The  United Kingdom delegation believes that ways of  redressing this lack of balance could be found  probably in the revision of administrative expen-  diture. May 1 for a moment turn to that very  vexed question. It has already been referred to  by the delegate of China, and it has been dealt  with effectively, from their point of view, by the  delegates of Denmark and New Zealand, so I feel  that I am strictly in order in making a comment  upon this matter.  We all know that the Constitution makes admi-  nistration the responsibility of the Director-General  and that may cause us to hesitate before seeming  to interfere in this matter. But I feel compelled  to sound a note of real alarm. In the United  Kingdom we think, with some humility, that we  have learned something about the principles of  public administration, and I say frankly, fellow-  delegates, that there are features of the present  organization and of the proposed reorganization  that we do not like at all. 1 am not going to  follow the irresponsible critics who manipulate  the Budget figures, in attempting to prove that  over half our income is devoted to administration.  But we do feel, as a delegation, that present admi-  nistrative costs are too high. They amount, on  our reckoning, to about one-quarter of the sum  left to Programme and Administration after paying  for the Common Services, the Conference, the  Executive Board and the Reserve, which together  amount to one-fifth of the total Budget. Out of  about 80 per cent of our total Budget, therefore,  about 25 per cent goes into administrative costs.  Out of a total of 604 posts, about half are engaged  on administration, and we sincerely hope that the  Administrative Commission will look closely into  this question, for we believe that so heavy an  investment in administrative overheads runs a  grave danger of complicating operational work.  If 1 may express it in a phrase, 1 hope a vivid  phrase, we fear the ratio of brake-power to engine-  power is unnecessarily high.  I do not wish this note of concern about admai-  nistrative matters to mar the admiration we have  for Dr. Huxley's work in creating the vast enter-  prise we now know as Unesco. He started from  the slenderest of beginnings. 1 suggest that what  he has done will be his enduring title to fame  in the long history of Unesco. This note of            admiration for one of my most distinguished  countrymen has happily, at this Conference, al-  ready been sounded by others, and I may perhaps  be excused from dwelling upon it too much, lest  in praising our first Director-General, 1 seem to  be praising my country, which has now for three  generations learned to respect the name of Huxley  in connexion with education, with science and  with culture.  Dr. Huxley's Report is now before us. It  a comprehensive and characteristic document  recording a remarkable advance in our work over  a great many fields. What we, as a delegation,  hope to see 1s a more streamlined administrative  model, with a lighter body and greater powers  of acceleration. We have had, at the three Con-  ferences of Unesco already held, many speeches  on the principles and the ideals of this Organ-  ization. 1 take it for granted that on those prin-  ciples we all agree, and I am sure that delegates  do not expect me to reiterate those principles  after the way they have been so eloquently de-  scribed and emphasized by other delegations here.  Where we differ is not over a matter of principle,  over the vision or over our ideals. Where we  differ is in the translation of these principles into  action, and I want for a few moments to concern  myself with that theme.  I have suggested already that Unesco must enlist  as many contributors from as many fields and in  as many countries as possible in executing its  great programme. What common aims can  direct their effort and how can the general prin-  ciples enshrined in the Constitution become the  effective force in world affairs we all want them  to be? It is not enough to say things, it is not  enough to publish things, it 1s not enough to  pass resolutions; the important thing is to connect  thought with action, to connect truth and ideals  with action in our own fields. If I had to give  an answer to this question of principles in action,  to give an answer in a few words, 1t would be  these “Work together in trust and charity to make  our world more civilized”.  Work must begin in the Member States; Unesco  is not the Secretariat in Paris. That has been  said again and again, but I suggest that it cannot  be said too often. Work begins in the Member  States. Hence the tremendous importance of Na-  tional Commissions and Co-operating Bodies,  hence also the important rôle which the confer-  ence of representatives of National Commissions  should always play at these Conferences. The  Constitution requires us to work for peace and  for the welfare of all, but peace, however much  we desire it, is not to be found in human society  merely by saying that we want it. It is perhaps  a conceit of western civilization in particular that.  when it has said something, or when it has printed
39  something, it thinks that a job of work has been  done. Even the best publicity is not enough.  Peace, like happiness, comes from willing co-  operation in common activity; it is a sign of social  health rather than social health itself. As the  President of Lebanon so well reminded us, with-  out charity we are nothing.  Charity, willingness to co-operate in trust and  friendship, an indispensable preliminary to  Unesco’s activities. Surely active opposition to  Unesco’s aims would be unthinkable. If we en-  counter it, it can only come from people who  refuse us a charitable understanding with them,  who will not open their minds to us, and who  are not willing to follow where the argument  leads.  We cannot shut  IS  our minds to new influences  in that way. We are charged to communicate  ideas, to exchange persons, to stimulate transla-  tions, but we have to do more than transfer words  between each other; we have to ensure that the  ideas the words are meant to convey, are really  conveyed. That is, I suggest, a tremendously  difficult task.  In the United Kingdom, for example, we have  what is to us a sacred principle in the rule of law.  To achieve that principle, and to make it a reality  in our lives, has cost us ten centuries of constant  endeavour. But how can we convey to others  what that rule of law means to us, and what its  implications are? In particular, how can we  convince countries which do not guarantee what  we consider to be the fundamental requirements  for human liberty and freedom, that we also tried  out their methods three centuries ago and found  that they would not work? How can we convince  them that we, and many other like-minded free-  dom-loving peoples, have discovered the better  way in a society by obeying laws which are freely  consented, instead of trying the bad method of  dictation and policies backed by terror, assassin-  ation, and forced labour camps? Those things  are anathema to the countries represented here,  they are anathema to us, but how can we get our  ideas across to those who live under such con-  ditions? How can such societies be made to see  what is reasonable to us in the light of our longer  and richer experience?  This may be an extreme example that I have  taken, but surely it confronts us wherever we turn  in the crisis of our times. Other examples will  occur to all of us; they are to be found in our  Constitution. That document calls for general  respect for the democratic principles of the  dignity, equality and mutual respect of men.  It calls for universal respect for the rule of  law, for justice, for human rights and funda-  mental freedoms. That Constitution asks us  freely to exchange ideas and words so that we           El  A  T E   Be   A  =  »    may seek a peace founded upon the intellectual  and moral solidarity of man. We know that over  wide areas we cannot hope at present to achieve  any of these aims. The apparent lack of all hope  of being able to impart understanding of this  type, so vital to the peace, prosperity and welfare  of humanity, must surely stir up the greater effort  to ensure they do not fail of full appreciation else-  where. We must critically review and revalue all  those traditional methods we have so far employed,  whether they be in the realm of translating books,  exchanging persons, holding seminars or arran-  ging international conferences. And as I say this,  [ am not casting doubt upon their efficiency; I  am trying to inspire a lively effort to subject them  all to constant critical review in the hope, certain-  ly, of improving them, but also of getting some  measure of their relative efficiency. 1 do not  think we have yet more than vague ideas of the  exact benefits we reap by arranging seminars and  conferences. Perhaps it is impossible to devise  any accurate measure, but I think we ought to  try to improve upon many of our present notions  concerning them. Obviously the search for new  methods in achieving international understanding  is an essential part of Unesco’s task. It is espe-  cially needed, also, I think, in three great depart-  ments of our activities: in Mass Communication,  in the Arts and in Philosophy and the Humanities.  None of these three as yet promises as rapid and  effective action as we now begin to see to be  possible in the Natural Sciences and in Education.  Let us, therefore, always set ourselves the task  of discovering new methods and fresh techniques  to aid us in this great and desperately urgent duty.  Only then will that new social cohesion, that new  One World, be born. It is not enough, fellow-  delegates, to recognize cleavage and conflict.  We have to meet them, we have to transcend  them. That is a task we must undertake not for  Unesco alone but for the sake of all international  organizations, for every Specialized Agency and,  indeed, for the United Nations itself.  I do not despair of great progress in this cause,  but in any case, let us resolve to pursue it in the  spirit of an English poet who knew and loved  this country, who wrote in inimitable verse about  the land in which we find ourselves, who loved  the snows of Lebanon, who wrote about the streets  of Istanbul, who describes in great verse, I think,  the caravans departing for the gates of Damascus  and Baghdad. He was a young poet who died  soon after the first world war had begun—who  died but a few weeks after Rupert Brooke, another  young wartime contemporary of his. He was a  poet who, in those troubled times, knew uncer-  tainty and had to meet constant frustration, but  he had hope and he had courage. Above all,  though a weak man physically, he stood for reso-
90  lute action. Some of us here, Mr. President, will  remember some of his poems, and I wish to quote  but four lines from one of them describing life  in this country. He was speaking to the whole  world, he was talking to an irresolute, frustrated,  suffering humanity, from the slopes of Mount  Lebanon :  Waste of the waves, Oh for dawn,  For a long low level of shore,  Better be shattered and slain on the reef  Than drift for evermore.  Unesco is built on the conviction and the vision  of artists, scientists, educationists throughout the  world. Let such men and women, let those of  us here assembled, ourselves, show the politicians  and the economists that there is one world. It  is the world of the charity of the human spirit.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : I call upon the  delegate of the Union of South Africa.  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, it is my privilege,  on behalf of the delegation of the Union of South  Africa, to present our reactions to the Director-  General's Report, and, generally, to the stage at  which this great Organization has arrived. It  will be seen that we follow fairly closely what has  been so forcefully and lucidly said by the leader  of the delegation of the United Kingdom, although  we cannot go with him all the way.  I do not propose to deal with the Report in detail.  The attitude of my delegation both in Paris and  at the Mexico Conference was one of optimism,  and we see no reason in the light of what has  happened in the past year to alter that attitude.  We are however more than ever convinced of  the correctness of our contention that, at any rate  in these early stages, there should be strict eco-  nomy in expenditure and greater concentration  in our programme upon what is immediately  practicable; or, as the distinguished leader of the  United States delegation put it, on the accomplish-  ing of specific and concrete tasks. We welcome  the suggestion of the Director-General that a large  proportion of our resources should be devoted to  education. Upon my departure from South Africa,  the Minister of Education gave me a message of  goodwill from our Government and, after expres-  sing his fervent hope for a fruitful and successful  session, concluded by saying that education 1s  the only sure road to world peace.  It would be premature to criticize the budget  at this stage, but, unless convincing arguments  are adduced to change our view, we shall not be  able to support any proposal for increasing the  total amount to be provided beyond the amount  accepted for 1948, including contributions to the  Revolving Fund.            The Secretariat appears to us to have made  marked progress in its organization and there  has been a welcome improvement in the machi-  nery for keeping South Africa informed of what  is going on. But we still feel that there is not  that close liaison between Unesco and our country  that we would like to see. The reasons for this  are manifold : the Secretariat is still growing and  is subject to reorganization; there are still too  many projects, too many documents, too many  conferences; the unavoidable delay in supplying  full reports on proceedings and details of the  agenda makes it impossible for us adequately to  study them before the Conference.  In this connexion, I might add that we, like  my friend from Great Britain, would like to have  the possibility investigated of holding the General  Conference at longer intervals. The present  arrangement militates against effective action on  projects of any magnitude and makes it difficult  for senior officers of the Secretariat to visit distant  Member States. The removal of these obstacles  would be a material contribution towards making  Unesco a vital force in less favourably situated  countries.  We have, of course, also our domestic problems,  which are not easy of solution, such as the delay  and expense caused by the need for translation,  the scattered nature and the variety of the groups  to be reached and the lack of a whole-time liaison  officer in Paris.  At the Mexico Conference the South African  delegation pleaded for the reconsideration of the  constitution of the Executive Board and the intro-  duction of other measures calculated to give better  opportunities to the more distant and smaller  nations to make their full contribution to Unesco’s  activities. We were given the assurance that the  matter would be gone into sympathetically by  the Secretariat and I sincerely hope that some  satisfactory formula will be suggested. It is with  us not a matter of national prestige, but solely  of making the best use of the combined wisdom  and resources of Member States, for the further-  ance of Unesco’s ideals. The Executive Board  consists of men of very high standing, but I ques-  tion its ability, as it is at present constituted, to  fulfil its proper function in our Organization. It  is not clear why so large a body should have to  meet so frequently and why greater powers should  not be vested in the Director-General in consul-  tation with his senior officers. We recognize the  need for a small, strong body able to make quick  decisions on matters of principle, and for that  purpose we accept the fact that the more favour-  ably situated and bigger nations must necessarily  play leading rôles. Such a body could act as a  finance and general purposes Committee, but I  am inclined to think that if an Executive Board
91  with such wide powers as the present one is to  continue, it should be so constituted that every  Member State would have the right to a voice on  it.  If sessions of the Conference were in future to  be held less frequently, it would be all the more  desirable to have permanent representatives of all  Member States within easy reach of the head-  quarters of Unesco, who could act as a repre-  sentative body when the full Conference was not  in session. But such an arrangement would of  course only be possible if the governments con-  cerned maintained such officers at their own  expense. I think that such an arrangement is  worth recommending to Member States.  Another suggestion put forward last year was  that the number of items on the agenda should  be reduced, and that discussion of technical details  should not be indulged in at the full Conference.  These points appear to have been considered too,  and we look forward to a more efficient and  expeditious conduct of business than in the past.  We also heartily welcome the return to the  system of working through Commissions and Sub-  Commissions instead of through a large number  of Working Parties, as in Mexico. It looks as  though the arrangement of meetings this year  will allow a small delegation to cover all pro-  ceedings reasonably well, if only meetings could  be held as scheduled and start at the advertised  time! Without certainty in its engagements and  discipline in its proceedings, no organization can  work efficiently.  Financial control appears to have been placed  on a much sounder basis. We would, however,  like an assurance that salary scales are not as  top-heavy, as they appear to be to the uninitiated.  Last year, we took up a strong attitude on the  desirability of holding conferences in countries  situated at a distance from headquarters and  hitherto not privileged to act as hosts to big  international meetings. We based our arguments  largely on the excellent result of the Mexico  session. Our opinion has been greatly streng-  thened by the magnificent response of Lebanon to  the challenge of organizing the present conference,  and we think the cost of a 15 per cent reduction  in working efficiency mentioned by the Director-  General in his Report, is very well worth paying.  The benefit to the people of this friendly and  fascinating country and to its associates, as well  as to the rest of us, has already been demonstrated.  [t was Kahlil Gibran, the man from Lebanon,  who said : “Your neighbour is your other self  dwelling behind a wall. In understanding, all  walls fall down.” Already the walls between us  and Lebanon are as the walls of Jericho at the  sound of the trumpet of Unesco.  We should like to compliment the Director-                   RT TR TR CE RL Fa RTE EE  General, both on his Report, which we find a sti-  mulating and encouraging document, and on  what the Secretariat has been able to accomplish.  We welcome, too, the valuable comments of the  Chairman of the Executive Board. It is to be  hoped, however, that the complimentary remark  he made about the three educational seminars  does not indicate a lack of readiness to criticize  adversely; one at least of those seminars was by  no means an unqualified success.  One more thought I should like to put to you.  We have again laid emphasis on education, but  I wonder if we are not in danger of directing  our energies rather too much towards fundamental  education, to the exclusion of other educational  work. Although continuance, on an ever-increas-  ing scale, of the campaign against illiteracy is  essential, I believe that sufficient momentum has  been gathered by the movement for it to continue  with little more than a guiding hand. Our task  is now to mobilize the forces of the educated and  to lead the semi-educated over the dangerous stage  of a little knowledge.  There is far too much pessimism today, espe-  cially among those who ought to know better.  These Jeremiahs maintain that war is inevitable,  they point to strife and intolerance all over the  world, they claim that the standards in schools  and universities have deteriorated, and that cul-  ture and learning are fighting a losing battle  against primitive instincts and ignorance. But,  thank Heaven, friends, they are wrong. There is  today, a greater percentage of learned, cultured,  and peace-loving men and women in every country  than ever before in the history of the world. Even  a short two hundred years ago the masses were  illiterate, economically impotent and intellectually  inarticulate. Leadership was to all intents and  purposes in the hands of a small aristocracy.  Today, the results of a revolutionary change  have become apparent. The normal requirements  of modern life necessitate the acquisition by the  average school-leaver of more general knowledge  than a successful, educated man of mature years  would have possessed a century ago. I doubt  whether art, music, poetry and ethical ideals have  advanced qualitatively since the Renaissance, but  | believe that knowledge and wisdom, unselfish-  ness and honesty, good manners, good morals and  good taste are more widespread than in any pre-  vious age.  On the other hand, it is well to remember that  the masses who have suddenly been given the  advantage of full school facilities and often of a  university education, were the hewers of wood  and the drawers of water of yesterday. They have  become conscious of their power, self-assertive,  articulate.  the ipse dixit of what used to be called their  They are no longer prepared to accept  betters; but, being little accustomed to intellectual  discipline or to the use of analytical faculties,  they are still capable of being swayed and aroused  by the skilful techniques of modern propaganda.  The situation is such as has in the past produced,  and may still produce, bloody revolutions. It 1s  packed with dynamite, but its potential for good  is immense. Knowledge has been made available  quicker than it can be assimilated, but much has  been absorbed, and each succeeding generation  will make a substantial advance. We of the South  African delegation do not underrate the magnitude  of the task, but we have faith. It is an exciting  thought that the rebellion against the old order  of things, the countless inflammatory and un-  balanced speeches that are being poured out on all  sides, the mountains of provocative articles, pam-  phlets and books issuing from the presses of the  world—that all these have lighted a fire in which  we, who have pledged ourselves to the principles  of Unesco, if we do our duty, shall melt down  the meretricious idols of our past to forge shining  and efficient tools with which to build our future  on the sure foundations of good will and under-  standing.  M. Georges BIDAULT (France) (Translation) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, although I  know from past experience that it is a compliment  that one should use sparingly, may I begin by  saying, on behalf of the French delegation, that  we, at our first coming to this sister land, do not  feel ourselves foreigners.  The greeting which we extend today to Lebanon  is first of all one of gratitude to this country,  which, in the triple splendour of earth, sea and  sky, has managed, by a mighty effort, to be ready  in time and to offer to this Conference a hospitality  whose generosity and quality betoken alike its  gladness to welcome us and its natural liberality.  Secondly, our greeting reaffirms the friendship  which united our two nations, a reciprocal attach-  ment which goes back too far in time for time  now to weaken it, built upon foundations which  neither the march of events nor the endeavours  of men can any longer shake, of which the proof  is the myriad instances of intellectual commerce  now before our eyes.  France is happy on this occasion to pay the  homage due to a noble country, a stronghold of  the intellect and of human traditions, where dele-  cates of so many nations of the modern world  have rightly resolved to assemble, for here our  mission of service to universal causes finds inspi-  ration in the surroundings.  “Eminently humane land” as the President of  the Lebanese Republic said, a few days ago, in  his fine speech : “the chosen land of understand-  ing, tolerance and freedom”.        These titles are confirmed by a millenary his-  tory, punctuated by storms but living on, thanks  to perseverance and wisdom, with the stress now  on enterprise and now on adaptability, but with  a continuing undercurrent of both. These virtues  and these gifts of the peoples of the “great high-  way” where we find ourselves today fit so well  the spirit of our Conference, that it may be said  that the conditions are those best calculated to  inspire it.  Here a modern civilization continues the story  of peoples whose history is one of the longest and  most eventful in the world. The keenness and  fecundity of the Lebanese mind, with its qualities  of imagination and awareness alike of the voices  of the past and the challenge of the future, have  flowered today in a modern state, small in size  but with a great future before it, which, while  part of the Arab world, retains its own indivi-  duality and remembers to remain open, as its  history and geography teach it, to every current  of human thought.  In this land, on the shores of this unforgettable  sea, it is good to remember that those who in past  centuries trod this soil taught all the Mediter-  ranean peoples by precept and example to dare  the seas beyond. It was a bold and difficult  undertaking to sail through the Pillars of Hercules  in fragile craft for Ultima Thule or the raging  ocean, and not less so to force a way across the  isthmuses impassable to ships and to find, to the  north, beyond yet other straits, a way to the  Scythian Steppes. But the impossible was at-  tempted and achieved. Thus the first lesson  taught us by this country is not that of retreat  but of research, of discovery, of enterprise and  therefore of progress.  Thus our meeting on this sort of moral 1sthmus,  where East meets West, should recall to us that  the world is one, that the Fatherland of Mankind  is one close-knit entity, that civilizations are inter-  connected, whatever their apparent divergences or  contradictions, and that, in the face of this evi-  dence, no mere distance in time or space is of  any weight.  My hope is that such distances, however great  they seem to be, will not be exaggerated and that,  when they occur, the oppositions dear to instincts  which rarely lead to any good may be surmounted  by common effort. There is no lack of instances  of reconciliations, as splendid as amazing. In the  thirteenth century, in the West, purely and emi-  nently Christian, the century of Saint Louis and  Saint Thomas Aquinas, the first Universities of  Europe gathered into their teaching the heritage  of Greek thought, particularly Aristotle. But this  heritage came to them through Islam—a strange  progression, not without its touching side. The  fact that Arab scholars transmitted the heritage
93  of Greece to the West should be meditated, espe-  cially in these days when the assertion of national  identity subjects some people to the seductive  attractions of intolerance. Still, history, which  too often emphasizes victories (that is to say the  supremacy of one force over another, which means  ultimately the destruction of one by the other)  is not made up only of such dramas and heroic  clashes; it consists too of unforeseeable rappro-  chements and of a harmony, perceptible only to  the ears of later ages, of voices of long ago which,  in completest unawareness of each other, yet were  attuned to the same note. History is a river, a  torrent, but at times too it flows like a secret  stream beneath the earth and slowly, often imper-  ceptibly, all its affluents converge.  One World, hearts high! That should be the  watchword of true courage and wisdom. Clearly  we can no longer accept the easy mechanistic  optimism of the last century; too many perils—  already outlined to you today—menace not only  one nation or group of nations but the human  community as a whole, for the mere assertion of  automatic progress still to suffice to dissipate our  fears. Uundoubtedly we have learnt that the con-  comitants of progress are anxiety and distress of  mind, and that the tranquillity of the world  depends, not on any blind impersonal progression,  but on human wills bent on good or evil.  We all feel in our hearts the fears which our  host, M. Frangie, President of this Conference,  put into words in terms which merit our attention  and call for reflection.  The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Public Edu-  cation of the Lebanese Republic, stressing the  fact that the continuing evolution of science does  not of itself improve human conditions, expressed  the doubts of the whole eastern world about the  message of liberation by science, which to him  is the kernel of the West's contribution. “It 1s  not science as such which makes us uneasy”, said  M. Frangie, “but the spirit in which it has been  directed. To the choice of a section of the West  of ‘nothing but the earth’, the East opposes its  devotion to spiritual values”.  I feel I am not mistaken in Wading into this  solemn statement, beyond the traditional oppo-  sition of values as normally defined, an anxious  questioning of ultimate intentions and final re-  sponsibilities. The question of East and West is  an old one and probably eternal. But we still  think that a well balanced synthesis can reconcile  many antinomies wherein over-simplification plays  perhaps as large a part as the actual difficulties.  The first common ground between East and  West 1s that of certain anxieties common to all  longitudes. Asked about the latest advances in  applied science and the uses to which they could  be put, the scientists of Europe and America are          et RT a BAR re a PE | Tt NGL YJ le Liat fA Ll up Eh  seen to feel the same fears as scientists in any  other country—nay more, the same as the man  in the street throughout the world. Scientists  cannot be held responsible for the uses to which  science is put. Science is not evil because it is  sometimes put to bad use. It is good in itself  and useful in essence. It is not scientists as such  but, unfortunately, men as such who continue  to turn science from the straight path. It was  a man of the West, as much a scientist as one  could be in his day, something of a doctor, more  than something of a writer and, to cap it all, a  cleric, the worthy curé of Meudon, François Rabe-  lais, who always said : ‘Science without con-  science is the damnation of the soul”. That is  a maxim which every scientist should take for  his own. I should add that, as with many other  maxims, there may be a converse. In other  words, we should ask ourselves how far conscience  can get without the light of science on its verdict,  especially in a world where each new day brings  new complications in the application of even the  most incontestable principles.  Furthermore, science is not the prerogative of  any one area, nor of a special type of culture and,  if in certain branches or from certain attitudes,  it has appeared to be the exclusive property of  certain countries, that is not an irreversible decree  of fate nor a rule without exceptions. Egypt,  Chaldea and the Arab world had their scientists  at a time when the West comprehended barely  or not at all the problems with which the Orient  was wrestling.  Though both rationalism and spiritualism do  exist, I should hesitate at over-simplified defini-  tions, at too clean a demarcation between them,  and still more at accepting an explicit contra-  diction. If we turn to the serious political and  social implications in the life of today, arising  not indeed from the present discussion but from  the questions I re-echo, it may seem reasonable  to doubt whether either the vague aspirations of  sentiment or the soulless applications of science  will suffice to ensure peace. What we must do  is to get beneath both the lacquered surface of  progress and tHe dust of routine living to find  Man, the whole man, to raise and ennoble him,  and by thus protecting him against himself to  cure him of his greatest present fear which is  himself.  I understand the feelings of those who tell us  that our responsibility for universal peace cannot  adequately be fulfilled by a mere condemnation  of war proclaimed to a milliard common men  who yet have weapons put into their hands. But  where 1s a remedy to be found? How are we to  enable the world-wide conscience of men of good-  will to declare itself and reach its goal? How  can we ensure a hearing for that noblest impulse
94  of free men, Fraternity, and invest it with autho-  rity? How are we to make of Unesco, which is  the chief hope of an age that has but little, an  undertaking common to all peoples and able to  play its full part in the solving of those problems  on which depends the life or death of civilization  and, with it, all that makes life worth living?  On these questions, Dr. Julian Huxley, in a  report instinct with thought as Protean as it is  penetrating and valuable, has furnished the basis  of a reply to which we should give serious atten-  tion. This survey, this examination of conscience,
1s a document which shows great breadth of mind  and calls for a reply of equal quality. This tri-  bute has no dagger beneath its cloak and does  not pave the way for sarcasm. Bold and uncom-  placent thought deserves praise on the same level.  Dr. Huxley has reminded us that the aims of  Unesco are of a world order. But the Organ-  ization is inter-governmental. The result is that  its policy is fixed by delegations representing the  point of view of various national governments.  The difficulty of reconciling a congeries of  national platforms and a world object is not  peculiar to Unesco, but is all the more keenly felt  by the very nature of its activity, because the  mind is, by definition, less subject to frontiers,  less tolerant of direction, than administrative,  economic, political, social and other matters which  are the concern of international organizations of  the more usual type. The method suggested by  Dr. Huxley far achieving immediate progress 1s  to delegate a large part of the functions of the  Organization to individuals, to be chosen from  among eminent thinkers in different spheres, not  as representatives of their governments, but in  their own right, that they may feel their chief  loyalty to be to humanity.  No one will be surprised if I say that this  suggestion will meet with difficulties in appli-  cation. If there were no difficulties the work  would not be worth doing. At the Constituent  Conference in London, France advocated an inter-  national cultural organization, in which thinkers,  educationists and the peoples themselves would  play a part. This point of view did not prevail.  The war, and the immense tasks resulting from  it, everywhere led the authorities, for reasons of  considerable weight, to extend their control over  everything, to the point where culture itself  seemed to them a proper subject, not for full  control, to which I think no one here could agree,  but for close supervision. Today we see the draw-  backs of too close a dependence on governments  and of the extension of the State’s power to include  matters of this kind. The difficulties encountered  in the free exchange of information and books  and, in general, of all the means of mass com-  munication, contrary to the general desire of the                  United Nations, are clamant proof of the obstacles  which, so far, in spite of all our good intentions,  we have set before our own feet in the executior  of our own aims.  Thus the media for the communication of ideas  are regarded as goods like any other category,  taxed like other goods, needing licences and im-  port permits, just as if we were concerned only  with the paper, the cardboard and all the raw  material which serves to sustain science, litera-  ture, the arts and all the activities of the mind.  It 1s distressing for men who do not accept the  ascendancy of the doctrines of the State to see  economic difficulties resulting in practice in the  replacement of a political by a customs censor-  ship.  Since we are the delegates of our governments,  let us ask them to make a great effort for Unesco.  Let us ask them to help the Organization, which  needs them for the work of propagation which  is 1ts duty; let us study to persuade them to listen  to those of their nationals who, unconfined by  frontiers, know the needs, see the means and think  for the future.  Unesco is three years old; that is still very  young, and any criticism should take it into  account. Admittedly there were predecessors.  The Institute of Intellectual Co-operation must leap  to the memory of the French delegation. But  in many respects our undertaking has started from  new premises and it is therefore natural and even  inevitable that a certain time of adjustment should  precede the phase of full activity and expansion.  It took nearly twenty years for the International  Labour Office, whose tasks were neither as diverse  nor as difficult to deal with or even to define,  as those of Unesco, to surmount the hostility or  the indifference of world opinion. It is painful  to have to add, to complete the comparison, that  at that time the confidence of public opinion in  international organizations was greater than what  is left after the grievous experiences which still  continue in another place. That is why it is only  fair to refrain from precipitate judgments and to  limit criticism of our work to what is justified by  charity and fairness.  When, three years ago, I had the privilege of  speaking for the first time before your Conference  as Prime Minister of the Provisional Government  of the French Republic, I uttered a warning  against the imperialist attitude and against impe-  rialistic attempts on the intellect. I need not  renew that warning. Today, the peril is known,  plotted and denounced; I take it for granted that  there are no quislings among us. This major  peril eliminated, there remain other to which  large-scale undertakings are always exposed; I refer  to politics outside their proper sphere, and bureau-  cracy.     )  “As to politics, Unesco has so far managed to  eschew such pernicious pleasures, which are not  for it. It must remain a cultural organization.  Naturally many questions, perhaps all, have poli-  tical aspects; but here they must be treated not  politically but in that scientific, objective spirit of  which we must be the refuge and citadel. Thus  questions such as the problems of incitement to  war or the relations between Unesco and Germany  and Japan are discussed both here in the Confer-  ence and in the Executive Board in the right spirit.  Regarding ideological conflicts, Dr. Huxley in  his Report, recalling the conclusions of M. Mari-  tain in Mexico City, wisely declared that we ought  not to aim at the achievement of unity on the ideo-  logical plane, but should concentrate our efforts  on concrete projects. This, in the present state  of the world at least, is the wisest and most prac-  tical rule. It does not, of course, imply abandon-  ing the ambition of one day establishing a unity  of all peoples on the essential principles of life,  but it conforms, for the good of the causes for  which we are responsible, to the facts as they  actually and unhappily are.  On the other hand, certain criticisms, both  from inside and outside Unesco, are not without  foundation—for instance, as regards the size and  deadweight of the bureaucratic machinery 1in-  stalled for the launching of the institution. These  complaints are not peculiar to Unesco and it is  even probable that things are often worse else-  where when it comes to multiplicity of question-  naires, excess of documents, overlapping, compe-  tition between sections and the slowness of the  whole process. But although bureaucracy is a  sickness of wide incidence in the modern world  —indeed we even complain of it “bureaucrati-  cally”—it is clearly our duty to try in this respect  to provide a better example of efficiency and speed.  There are two ways of paralyzing history : one  is the absence of documents, which means we  have no data, and the other is a superabundance  of documents, which means we have no time to  read them. Between these two extremes a proper  equilibrium, difficult to define and difficult to  preserve, must yearly be achieved and maintained.  Another charge, with which I do not associate  myself, is sometimes brought against Unesco. It  is a charge often levelled at all altruistic enter-  prises : that of Utopianism. Since the time of  Thomas More, that has been the word with which  wiseacres have tried to damp the faith, the energy  and the efforts of those who seek to accomplish a  difficult task. It is true that there are Utopias,  and many of them, in the world of today, as there  were in the world of yesterday; I mean by that  impracticable projects and visionary lunacies. But  the sticking of such a label on an enterprise does  not justify men who temper courage with reason          IRE SE SR ES RIN ia  in losing heart. In a world where the failure of  this enterprise and all that work of international  collaboration of which it is an essential part  would bring with it the threat of the darkness of  a cultural ice age, we are determined to preserve  and preach the great concept which has gathered  us together. It is not a question of having one’s  head in the clouds; this is a positive practical  undertaking, and those who labour in it realize  the full implications of their humblest efforts.  We seek to serve the cause of peace and we  must realize that each day we are in fact serving  it by accomplishing our task with those tools  which lie to our hands and in the spirit of our  high vocation. Helping to organize science,  making Unesco a great centre for cultural infor-  mation and exchanges, with human contacts and  exchanges spreading in circles from it, is a way  of working for peace, for the poor and disinherited  of the earth. I say emphatically that the great-  ness of our objects is not inconsistent with multi-  farious and seemingly humble means. A high  total of definite practical achievements, properly  distributed throughout the world, will do more  for the union of minds and the peace of the  nations than even the largest-scale repetition of  a few slogans, however legitimate and well inten-  tioned these may be, for whose diffusion we have  neither suitable machinery nor the type of  audience for which they are designed.  We serve our ideal by practical action among  men who are, by definition, linked to us and who  are naturally inclined towards Unesco. What we  have to do is to work in the medium for which  we were designed, in close liaison with all insti-  tutions of education and of science throughout the  world and with every international undertaking  which thinks as we do.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : 1 call upon  the delegate of Saudi Arabia.  Fuad Bey HAMZI (Saudi Arabia) : Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow-delegates, this is Saudi Arabia's first  appearance at the annual General Conference of  Unesco. I need not say how gratifying and sti-  mulating it is for me to participate in the Third  Session of the Conference on behalf of my Govern-  ment.  Saudi Arabia is the cradle of a world-wide his-  toric civilization, and the birthplace of a universal  human doctrine, both of which have considerably  influenced the growth and development of human  civilization and the destiny of millions of men.  That this civilization and universal doctrine should  have yielded the very human principles which,  after the lapse of some fourteen centuries, our  present Organization —Unesco—now advocates and  propagates, is a fact from which we derive con-  siderable exhilaration and pride.  The teachings which have radiated from the  Holy Places of Islam preach full equality between  men regardless of colour, race or social standing.  Their basic principle calls for equality and forbids  discrimination except where it rewards good  deeds, as provided for in the Holy Koran :  O, Mankind, we created you from a single pair,  of a male and a female, and made you into nations and  tribes, that ye may know each other; verily the  most honoured of you in the sight of God is he who  is the most righteous.  And although the Arabs themselves are the  mainstay and the pillars of Islam, “an Arab”, in  the words of the Prophet, ‘has no surpassing  merit over a non-Arab except by righteousness”.  As for the principles of forbearance and toler-  ance, and the provisions made for them in the  Constitution of Unesco, 1 take pleasure in recalling  what my distinguished colleague, the United States  delegate, implied when he said that the American  people will not tolerate intolerance, and in stres-  sing that our culture rests on that principle. This  is best proved by the fact that not only Arabs  fostered the development of that culture, but that  Iranians, Indians, Turks, Afghans, Slavs, Latins,  Greeks, Syriacs and others took part in it as well.  [ikewise, regardless of religious considerations,  the Moslem, the Christian and the jew have played  their part. And nothing could more convincingly  bear witness to the tolerance of our civilization  than the fact that it is we who, for the past four  hundred years, have extended protection and  afforded shelter to Jewry while it was being indis-  criminately persecuted by all Europe.  We have all too often been accused of fanaticism  and isolationism, but I am sure that what has  been said or might again be said is nothing but  unfounded allegation. I regret to find that such  accusations are not merely confined to the profane  and the illiterate, and that an eminent scientist  of very considerable standing, holding one of the  highest positions in this Organization, should,  under the impact of propaganda, have reverted to  these accusations in the first part of his report  now under discussion. I most sincerely desire to  believe that Dr. Huxley’s allusions were not deli-  berately meant to hurt our feelings but were  prompted by a spontaneous reaction to certain  peculiar circumstances. I am relieved to find that  the Executive Board did not wish to associate itself  with the opinion of the Director-General in this  respect and regarded the first part of the Report  as a record of his personal impressions. 1 need  not say that our very presence here and our par-  ticipation in this Conference should be sufficient  to dispose of such allegations, while the very fact               that this Conference is held in Lebanon indicates  the intellectual awakening in the Arab East and  its readiness to absorb all that is useful and good  in foreign cultures and to stand for a universal  human civilization.  In the circumstances, as we recognize in the  basic principles of Unesco the very principles and  doctrines we have adopted, I ask the indulgence  of the Conference if I appeal for the application  of these principles in a concrete, practical and  realistic way, so that, by eliminating the barriers  set up between nations by isolationism and lack  of mutual understanding, Unesco may bring the  peoples closer to one another.  Unesco is still a young organization and has not  yet matured and borne fruit. But we place great  hopes in its success and the great benefits it will  impart to mankind.  [ heard one of my colleagues say that even if  the United Nations failed we should see to it that  Unesco succeeds. I share the feelings of my  honourable colleague, and recall, with a sense of  deep regret, that the faith of the Arabs in the  United Nations has been shaken to its very foun-  dations. Our only consolation lies in the hope  that wisdom and justice may again prevail over  recklessness, impulsiveness and passion.  Although born of the United Nations, Unesco 1s  fundamentally different. The United Nations  deals with Governments and States; its aims,  among other things, are settlements and com-  promises; and to this end its resorts to negotiating,  bargaining and lobbying, whereas Unesco deals  directly with individuals and masses. Its noble  objective is the promotion of education, science  and culture, and to achieve this, it resorts to  accurate scientific research and investigation.  We should, therefore, not doubt the possibility  of Unesco’s attaining its aim, in spite of the pessi-  mism professed in certain quarters and the fear  that politics may divert it from its objectives or  that those who direct its destiny may, for some  other reason, fail to implement its programme.  Gentlemen, the programme laid down for  Unesco at the previous Session and which the  present Session is called upon to ratify, is indeed  wide in scope. It provides for its implementation  lo be spread over a number of years. Ii is indeed  an ambitious programme, and should succeed.  It will succeed if we pave the way.  The highest and sovereign authority of Unesco  is of course the General Conference, whose task  it is to lay down, in broad outline, the policy of  the Organization and to decide on its execution.  The executive authority, however, is vested in the  Executive Board and exercised by the Office of  the Director-General. We are, therefore, bound  by our obligations to the principles of Unesco and  to our own peoples, to facilitate the task of the
97  Executive Board and the Director-General and, in  the same way, to discuss the Organization's acti-  vities frankly and without prejudice. Unesco is  a free and democratic body. It is in this spirit  that I come forward with the request that I be  allowed to submit a few remarks on the Report of  the Director-General.  Before doing so, may I thank Dr. Huxley for  the great services he has rendered since his  assumption of office; may 1 express my appre-  ciation of his efforts and my regret that we must  now be deprived of his energy and drive. What  [ have to say does not in the least affect my esteem  for him, or my appreciation of his work.  One of the first things I should like to mention  is the very short time which has been allowed  for a careful study of the Director-General’s  Report; it was put before the delegates only a few  days prior to the meeting of the Conference. |  hope, therefore, that in future the Report will be  submitted to governments and distributed to dele-  gates a reasonable time in advance.  Some of my colleagues have already referred to  the need for a more equitable distribution of posts  in the Secretariat. which shall take account of  geographical and cultural factors as well as of per-  sonal merits. I wish to assure you that in taking  this stand I do not intend to seek employment for  any unemployed person. That is certainly not  what I am aiming at. We in the East greatly  need the services of our own intellectuals. We  even have recourse to Europe and America for  expert advice and service. The question therefore  is one of national pride and moral gratification;  of feeling that we are participating in the respon-  sibilities of the Organization, sharing both its pri-  vileges and its obligations. It moreover our  desire to provide information about our countries  through our own men, who are better qualified  to understand and appreciate our needs and to  explain our point of view. I hope, therefore, thai  this will be properly understood, and that these  remarks will be given the attention they deserve,  so that next year we shall not be content with  the slight progress referred to by the Executive  Board in its comments on the Director-General’s  Report.  The problem of the refugees and displaced per-  sons in the Middle East, especially those whose  studies have been interrupted by the painful events  now taking place, is a grave human problem.  The unanimity of the Conference in referring the  \ustralian proposal to the Committees concerned  is very gratifying. It is to be hoped that this  question will receive a final and adequate solution.  | do hope that the Administration of Unesco  will find itself able to extend the scheme of  scholarships to countries of the Near East. This  would serve a double purpose : firstly, it would  IS          lead, wherever possible, to a fair distribution of  scholarships and fellowships and secondly, such  extension would bring the various cultures  together and promote mutual understanding.  The question of a Cultural Centre is of interest  to all the countries of the Middle East. It would  seem as though there were two different tenden-  cies : one, to confine the work of this Centre to  Arab countries; the other, to extend the work to  include Turkey, Iran and Afghanistan. We would  prefer to limit the work of the Centre to the Arab  countries. Not that we have any desire to keep  ourselves away from countries which are our  neighbours. We are only too anxious to make  the work of this Centre more harmonious, and  consequently more successful. What is of con-  cern to me, however, is the fact that the procedure  suggested for giving this project a trial during  the coming year is very slow and costly, and  promises but limited results. I would, therefore,  suggest that the funds allocated for the project be  spent on the immediate establishment of the  Centre in the Middle East, instead of setting it up  as suggested at Unesco headquarters.  J shall now mention a subject which I have  deliberately left to the last. I wish to express my  sincere appreciation of the titanic work which the  Government of our sister State, Lebanon, has  accomplished in preparing the holding of this  Conference, and in erecting this spacious hall in  such a very short space of time. To the generous  Government of Lebanon, therefore, and to the  hospitable Lebanese people I would tender our  most hearty thanks.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : I call on the  delegate of Iraq.  Dr. Matta AKRAWI (Iraq) : Mr. President,  fellow-delegates, it would be presumptuous on  my part to begin my statement on a congratu-  latory note. We in Iraq feel so close to our sister  Arab state, the Republic of Lebanon, that in con-  gratulating the Lebanese authorities on the splen-  did preparations they have made for this Con-  ference, it would be as if we were congratulating  ourselves. I do wish to say, however, how proud  we are to see Lebanon undertake such a huge  enterprise and achieve so great a success in carry-  ing it through.  We are also happy that the Third General Con-  ference of Unesco is being held in this historic  region. It will give our people an opportunity  to become acquainted with the work of Unesco  and to appreciate its activities. This is highly  necessary at the present juncture for, if you will  pardon my saying so, certain international acti-  vities in recent months have rendered our people
98  suspicious of the kind of decisions taken at some  international conferences. Holding this Con-  ference here, therefore, will, we hope, result in  proving to the peoples of the Middle East that here  is at least one international organization which 1s  definitely working for the good of humanity and  in which education, science and culture are effect-  ively used to bring about a better understanding  among men. It will also help Unesco to study  the peculiar cultural and educational problems of  this part of the world, so as to be able to devise  programmes better suited to its needs. In addi-  tion, it is our hope that delegates will avail them-  selves of this opportunity to travel about the other  countries of the Arab world and the Middle East  and see at first hand the progress they have made,  the problems they are facing and the resources  with which they are trying to solve some of those  problems. We in Iraq would certainly be pleased  to see more of you visiting our country, including  such historic places as Baghdad, Nineveh and  Babylon.  I would like also to express, on behalf of the  Iraqi delegation, our appreciation of the great  work accomplished by our retiring Director-Gen-  eral, Dr. Julian Huxley, whose genius, courage,  versatility and far-ranging imagination have con-  tributed so much to the setting up of a broad and  comprehensive programme for Unesco. The cul-  tural needs of humanity are so various that it  requires men with the broadest interests and sym-  pathies to take the lead in meeting them. We  only hope that Unesco will be able to secure the  services of a man of equal genius to direct its  work.  Ladies and gentlemen, the State of Iraq, which  is little more than a quarter of a century old, has  already made notable progress in the fields of  education and culture. Thirty years ago, at the  end of the first world war, we had little more  than 6,000 children in our primary schools. Of  these, only a few hundred were girls. Today, we  have more than 160,000 children in our primary  schools, of whom about one-quarter are girls.  Instead of a few schools situated in the larger  towns, we now have approximately a thousand  Government primary schools alone, set up in some  of the farthest corners of the country. Although  the progress has been great compared with what  we started from, the number of children in the  primary schools is only a little over one-fifth of  the number of children of primary school age in  the country. Iraqi educationists are fully alive to  the problem of universal primary step education  ahead of them. In our Government secondary  schools we now have about 14,000 children, as  compared with a couple of hundred in 1920. This  number is matched by an almost equal number in  the private schools. Our higher institutions are         F e   A
2        now attended by more than 4,000 students and  comprise colleges of medicine, pharmacy, law,  engineering, commerce and two higher teacher's  colleges which train teachers for our secondary  schools. In addition, we have primary and rural  teacher’s training colleges, technical, agricultural  and home art schools, schools for nurses and health  workers and an institute of fine arts. Taking into  account the increase in numbers that has taken place  during this academic year, the number of students  in our schools is now approximately 200,000.  Most of this educational effort has been undertaken,  and is supported, by the Government. Private  effort has accounted for less than one-sixth of the  total school enrolment.  I need hardly mention to you other aspects of  our cultural life, such as the fine museum of  Babylonian and Assyrian antiquities, the museum  of Arab antiquities and the number of smaller  museums scattered about the country; our newly  established Iraq Academy; our P. E. N. Club; and  our small but active group of artists, some of  whose work we hope to show you in a few days.  In our educational policies we try to follow  progressive lines. All our primary, secondary and  vocational schools are free. So are our higher  institutions, with the exception of the Colleges  of Law and Commerce, where a comparatively  small fee is charged. Our schools are accessible  to the children of all classes, and when, in the  more advanced schools, selection is necessary, it  is done on the basis of ability. Thus our system  is a single-ladder system in which the abler pupils  gradually rise and get the benefit of a higher  education. We are not content, however, merely  with free schooling. Our Teachers’ Training  Institution, our College of Engineering and our  vocational schools provide free board, lodging,  books, medical care and transport for the students.  These institutions, therefore, are truly democratic  in that they draw their students from all classes,  rich and poor, and from all parts of the country.  Another aspect of our progressive policy is the  development of co-education. In a country in  which the segregation of men and women pre-  vailed, this is a development which would hardly  have been regarded as possible twenty years ago.  Today we have experimented successfully with a  type of co-educational primary school which is  unique in the Arab world, and we now have more  than 10,000 boys and girls in equal numbers  in these schools. The response of our people to  the mixed primary schools has been encouraging,  and this type of school is likely to be multiplied.  Co-education is also the practice in our higher  institutions, in which we had last year about
600 women students. One of our two Higher  Teacher’s Colleges is co-educational, the number           of women amounting to about one-third of the  total enrolment. The other is solely for women,  with the result that we are this year actually train-  ing more women secondary school teachers than  men.  Our progressive educational policy is still further  exemplified by our increasing cultural contacts  with the West. The number of our students  studying abroad at Government expense is approxi-  mately 250, and the number is increasing almost  daily. We expect that it will reach about 400 by  the end of this academic year. The number of  students studying at their own expense is even  larger, so that the total number of Iraqi students  studying abroad is estimated at about 1,000.  Almost a million of our 14,000,000 precious dollars  was spent on the education of our students in the  United States of America alone. We are inviting  an increasing number of foreign teachers and pro-  fessors to teach in our schools and colleges. In  collaboration with the other States of the Arab  League, we are undertaking the translation of  many of the classics and important modern works.  A good deal of independent translation is also  being done. We have always welcomed archaeolo-  gical expeditions from England, France, Germany  and the United States of America A cultural  treaty binds us to the other States of the Arab  League, while another cultural treaty binds us to  Turkey. We are ready for cultural treaties with  other countries, based on principles of equality,  mutual respect and help.  These instances should provide ample proof of  the fact that modern Iraq is definitely committed  to the policy of cultural interchange with other  nations. Culturally, we are out to meet the rest  of the world, and for the last thirty years we have  been receiving, with ever-increasing force, intel-  lectual, social and artistic influences that have  been gradually changing our intellectual outlook,  our mode of life and our system of values. No  one who was familiar with the country forty years  ago can fail to see the marked change which it  has undergone. Ours is no cultural isolationist  policy. Indeed, if it is to be characterized by  any name, it is that of exceeding receptivity, parti-  cularly from the West.  It is therefore in no spirit of conservatism that  [ here sound a warning note. We have gone far  enough in our cultural borrowing from the West  to enable us to stop and enquire whether we could  not be more critical in our borrowing, and  whether in the process we are not neglecting our  own cultural heritage. In our schools we have  been teaching Western languages and literatures,  Western sciences, Western social, economic and  political theories and Western forms of art. The  question can legitimately be asked whether, in            S a   our schools as in our general outlook, we are pay-  ing to the study and development of our Arab  heritage an attention which is in any way com-  parable to that we are paying to things Western.  It may also be asked whether, if we continue in  this precipitate policy, we shall not sooner or later  lose our cultural individuality. Like the crow in  the Arab proverb, which tried to learn the gait  of the partridge and thus lost his own gait without  properly learning that of the partridge, we are in  danger of uprooting ourselves from our own cul-  ture without properly assimilating that of the  West. Is it not a sign of an inferiority complex  if we leave aside our own cultural heritage, in  order to run blindly after a different culture, how-  ever beneficial it may be? Is it not true that we  can borrow from the West more intelligently if  we are better acquainted with our own back-  ground, our own cultural resources and our own  cultural needs? My delegation wishes to declare  its belief that the proper way to approach Western  civilization is first through a study, a critical  study, of our own civilization, accompanied by  another critical study of Western civilization. In  this way we shall not remain without roots,  dangling in the air. In this way, ideas from the  West will become dynamic stimulants which will  animate our old culture and raise it to new  heights, rather than an outer garb which hides an  empty shell.  Yet our cultural heritage is a truly great and  rich one. For the last thirteen centuries it has  been essentially an Arab-Moslem culture, but its  roots, like those of Western civilization, are in  antiquity and embrace the contributions of a large  number of nations and races—Sumerian, Baby-  lonian, Assyrian, Egyptian, Aramean, Phoenician,  Kassite, Hittite, Medo-Persian, Greco-Roman, In-  dian, Sassanian, Arab and Turkish. The blend  of all these has been unified into one culture,  which we now call the Arab-Moslem civilization,  because, for the last fifteen hundred years, the  Arab and Moslem peoples have been its prota-  gonists and representatives. There are, to be sure,  various shades of it—Arab, Turkish, Iranian—just  as there are various shades of Western civilization  —FEnglish, French, German, American, Italian  and Spanish. The association of the countries of  the Fertile Crescent with the Turks goes back at  least twelve hundred years, while their association  with the Iranian races goes back at least three  thousand years. To suppose that the change of  direction of a quarter of a century can sever the  intimate cultural associations of millenia is to  ignore the logic of history. My delegation looks  forward to a further development of this culture  at the hands of those nations that now are the  standard-bearers of Arab-Moslem civilization.  Coming to the work of Unesco, I would like to        LOU     state that, although Iraq was one of the signatories  of the Unesco agreement drawn up at the Pre-  paratory Conference in 1945, it was not until this  summer that it ratified this agreement and thus  became a full member of Unesco. A National  Commission of twenty-two members was imme-  diately set about familiarizing itself with the work  of Unesco, getting in touch with other National  Commissions in the Arab world and with the  Cultural Committee of the Arab League. The time  between the formation of the National Commission  and this Conference was too short for the Com-  mission to develop an all-round positive pro-  gramme. It is hoped that this will be the task  of the coming year.  As our delegation went through the Report of  the Director-General and the programme recom-  mended by the Executive Board for 1949, it  thought it should emphasize certain features of  it which are of particular interest to us. In the  first place, the Iraqi delegation welcomes any  party of experts whose object it is to ascertain,  on behalf of Unesco, the needs of this part of the  world in fundamental education, preparatory to  a regional conference on this subject to be held  later in the year. Our delegation thought that it  noticed, in the comments of the Executive Board  on the Report of the Director-General, a certain  impatience with the pilot projects and the meagre  results they have so far produced. Our delegation  is of the opinion that concrete efforts in the field  of fundamental education involve peculiar diffi-  culties, owing to the complexity of the factors  involved, many of which are independent of the  field of education, and require the combined  efforts of a number of agencies. This is a difficult  thing to achieve and therefore requires a longer  time than has yet elapsed since the starting of  the pilot projects. If no more has been done than  to acquire an appreciation and knowledge of the  obstacles and difficulties in the way, this is never-  theless a good step forward. It is our hope that,  as a result of the proposed survey, a new pilot  project in co-operation with one of the Arab or  Near-Eastern Governments will be undertaken  which will provide valuable data in this field, so  important to this part of the world.  Our delegation has been struck by the scanty  attention so far paid, in our deliberations, to the  problem of the translation of the classics. Apart  from a reference to it in the Director-General’s  Report, there has been little mention of it, except  for one negative reference by an English-speaking  delegate, who thought that it could be left to  private initiative. Such a policy may be suited to  the circumstances prevailing in the English-speak-  ing world, where almost all the classics are already  translated, and where the reading public is vast.  It would, however, be disastrous from the point                   of view of many other nations, whose reading  public 1s too limited to be able to support such  a huge project and where only a beginning has  been made with the translation of great works.  The Iraqi delegation would therefore like to see  this project prosecuted with the utmost vigour, in  such a way as to embrace not only the classics,  but also great works of modern literature and  learning. We are aware that one of the best ways  to bring about international understanding is to  enable men to share the best intellectual heritage  of mankind, whatever its source.  Our delegation also commends to the General  Conference the splendid educational programme  worked out by the Secretariat and recommended  by the Executive Board. It also suggests that the  concept of educational reconstruction be broaden-  ed to include assistance to newly rising nations  in the equipment of their libraries and laborato-  ries.  Finally, the Iraqi delegation would like to bring  to the attention of the Conference, in the most  forcible terms, the pressing needs of the Arab  children of Palestine in the matter of educational  relief. Before the present debacle in Palestine,  there were in the Arab schools more than 110,000  children. A huge refugee problem has since been  created and most of the children are now without  schooling. A large number of students, studying  at the universities here in Beirut and in Europe  and America, who had previously been supported  by their families have lost their possessions.  While the Arab States are doing their best to meet  their needs, any help tendered by Unesco would  not only go some way to solve the problem, but  would also increase the appreciation of Unesco’s  work in this part of the world.  In conclusion, I would like to say that Iraq  and the rest of the Arab world are entering into  ever more intensive cultural relations with other  nations. While anxious to maintain and develop  their own culture, they would like also to assimi-  late a great deal from the civilizations of the West.  Their attitude towards Western civilization, how-  ever, will be largely conditioned in the next few  decades by political events in the international  sphere. If they feel they are receiving a square  deal in the solution of the problems that confront  them, they are more likely to throw themselves  whole-heartedly into the business of international  cultural co-operation. If, on the other hand, they  feel politically insecure, in the presence of the  imperialistic ambitions and the strategic and ma-  terial interests of the great powers, then they are  likely to react unfavourably towards intellectual  co-operation. The work of Unesco in this region  will depend on the conviction of our people that  it 1s a non-political, cultural organization, which  has the benefit of all humanity at heart and tries
101  to bring about true international understanding.  The meeting of Eastern and Western cultures  in this historic land, and the evolution of a new  culture which integrates both of them, depends to  a large extent upon the degree to which the prin-  ciples of justice, tolerance and mutual respect pre-  vail in the broader international sphere.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : Before ad-  journing this meeting, I would like to submit to  you the proposals of the General Committee with  regard to the amendments proposed by the head  of the delegation of the United States of America.  You remember that, when we adopted the Agenda,  we left these questions aside.  The first proposal reads :  The General Committee recommends : that the  Conference instruct the Committee of Fifteen, already  constituted to examine the problem of information,  to study the organization, scope and content of the  work of future sessions of the General Conference;  and that this Committee make its report to a plenary  meeting of the General Conference after 1 December.  Would anyone like to speak on this matter?  Are their any objections to this recommendation?  The proposal 1s adopted.  Second proposal :  The General Committee remits to the Sub-Commis-  sion on Communication the consideration of a draft  Convention on auditory and visual materials for report  to a plenary meeting of the General Conference.  Would anvbody like to speak on this matter?  Are there any objections?  The proposal is adopted.  Third proposal :  The General Committee decides that the following  sentence of paragraph 1.2.A.5. of document 3C/BUR/1  (rev.) : ‘The Commission should appoint a Drafting  Committee to edit the texts of resolutions to be sub-  mitted to the Conference’, shall be modified by the  addition of the following :  ‘to place such new resolutions and such amend-  ments to existing resolutions as are approved, in  appropriate parts of the Programme, to make any  necessary re-arrangements of the Programme, and to  make necessary revisions in the Introduction to the  Programme’.  ts  Would anyone like to speak on this matter?  Are there any objections?  This proposal is approved.  I would also submit to you a proposal that was  recommended by the delegation of Cuba. The  delegation of Cuba proposes the inclusion in the  Agenda of the Third Session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco of the following subject, in  accordance with Resolution No. 1 of the Reso-        Ra il   wo  |”  Li  R=y
3   lutions on External Relations Questions adopted  by the Second Session of the General Conference,  held at Mexico City in 1947, and contained in  Annex VII to the Report of the Administrative and  External Relations Commission (document 2C/
132, Volume II, Section IX) :  “Decision on the geographic areas in which  regional centres should be established, particularly  as regards the continent of America.”  The General Committee recommends to the  General Conference the inclusion of this question  on its Agenda, and its reference for examination  and report to the Joint Programme and Official  and External Relations Commission.  Does the Conference approve this recommen-  dation by the General Committee? Are there any  objections?  The recommendation is approved.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 23 November 1948 at 4 p.m.  CONTENTS
16. Discussion of the provisional ceiling for the total Budget figure for 1949 :  Speeches by the Director-General and delegates of Lebanon, France,  Italy, New Zealand, Norway, the United Kingdom, the Union of South  Africa :and the United States ‘of American: lai is sliver slallivag 102
17. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation) :  Speeches by delegates of Iran, Australia and Luxembourg . . . . 108  President : Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)
16. Discussion of the provisional ceiling for  the total Budget figure for 1949.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The meeting  this afternoon is to discuss the total figure for  the budget for the year 1949. I call on the Direc-  tor-General to present the budget.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : Before presenting  the budget, I should like to make a few preli-  minary remarks which I hope may assist delegates  in today’s discussion of the global figure. I would  first of all remind you that since the Budget was  printed we have been able to effect certain eco-  nomies so that the present total, instead of being  $8 473,530 is now $8,205,224, a net decrease of  something over a quarter of a million dollars.  This has come about partly through our having  since been able to make a more accurate estimate  and partly through the changed financial position  due to the realignment of the French franc.  Secondly I should like to refresh your memories  about the position of the Revolving Fund, because,  though that is not technically included in the  budget, it is very closely related to it. As you  will remember, a total of $3,000,000 1s budgeted  for the Fund, of which $2,000,000 has already  been called in, leaving, a further million dollars  to be called in 1949. However, the Administrative  Commission has just approved our suggestion  that part of the unexpended balance from the  year 1947 might be used to make up the Revolv-  ing Fund. $650,000 are accordingly being trans-  ferred to that Fund, so that only $350,000 out  of the million claimable must be called in, a  reduction of $650,000 in the total demand on  Member States.  The second point to which I would like to draw  your attention, (though undoubtedly it will later  be discussed in detail both in the Programme and  Budget and Administrative Commissions and in  plenary meetings) is the balance between the  different Sections of the Budget. In 1948, what  we call General Policy, which is mostly concerned  with General Conferences and the Executive Board,  represented 5.3 per cent of the Budget. That has  been reduced in the 1949 budget to 3.9 per cent.  Common services, translation, furniture etc. and  rent, has been reduced from 13.7 per cent in 1948  to 12.8 per cent in 1949. The total amount set