of its advantageous position in the United States  for such services. No attempt, however, was  being made to increase the staff beyond the figure  provided in the 1948 budget, since the Director-  General did not wish the office to grow out of  proportion with the rest of the Organization's  structure. It was always easy to send information  from Paris to New York, but whenever a technical  question was debated by the United Nations it was  necessary to send a member of the headquarters  staff to Lake Success. There was no doubt that, to  obviate that necessity, the New York office would  have to be reinforced by some specialists as occa-  sion demanded. Specialists could often be found  on the spot and it was very difficult to say how  much reinforcement was necessary at the moment.  The Deputy Director-General thought no Confer-  ence action was needed on the matter.  With regard to relations with other Specialized  Agencies, it should be borne in mind that, in the  early years, such relations were not so clearly  defined as they had latterly become. The cases  when overlapping occurred were rare and led to  consultations at a high level to eliminate dupli-  cation. Such consultation had taken place, for  example, in connexion with the coming publi-  cation by Unesco on “Food and People”. There  had never been any serious difficulties with the  Food and Agriculture Organization. So far as  the World Health Organization was concerned,  Unesco had undertaken certain activities before  WHO was established, but an excellent working  arrangement had been agreed upon.  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) was  quite satisfied by the explanations she had  SIXTH  received, but wished to place on record that, in  her opinion, a detailed annual report regarding  such relations was desirable.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized  that co-ordination of the activities in question  would automatically improve as the Specialized  Agencies gained experience.  Travel and passport facilities for the families  of members of the staff.  Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) declared that some  people who had accepted posts on the Secretariat  were unable to obtain from their governments  passport and other travel facilities for their fami-  lies. Accordingly, he moved the following reso-  lution :  Recognizing that it is desirable that members of the  staff should, if they so desire, be accompanied by their  families when working at the headquarters of  Unesco,  The General Conference  Requests Member States to grant full travel and  passport facilities to the families of such members of  the staff.  M. ABRAHAM (France) seconded the motion,  which was unanimously adopted. (*!*)  The CHAIRMAN thanked the members of the  Commission for their help and informed them  that the report of the Commission would be sub-  mitted to them for comment.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  MEETING  Thursday, 2 December 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Proposed establishment of an Institute of  Cultural Co-operation for South and East  Asian countries (document 3C/62).  The SECRETARY informed the meeting that the  delegate of India had already submitted to the  Programme and Budget Commission a draft reso-  lution concerning the establishment of an Institute  of Cultural Co-operation for South and East Asian  countries. Following an exchange of views,  during which speeches had been made, in parti-  cular, by the delegates of France and the United  States of America, the delegate of India had sub-  mitted a revised draft of his proposal, for consi-  deration by the Official and External Relations  Commission, as follows :
(115) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex XII, p. 83.
372              The General Conference  Instructs the Director-General to prepare a report  for submission to the next session of the General  Conference, on the desirability and practicability of  promoting the establishment of an Institute of Cul-  tural Co-operation for South and East Asian countries,  on the understanding that such an Institute would be  created and supported by the governments of the  countries in the region, in co-operation with National  Commissions and interested governmental organiza-  tions and in consultation with the United Nations and  the Specialized Agencies.  The purpose of the Institute would be to further  Unesco’s aims and principles, mainly through :  (a) publicizing Unesco’s programme and activities  in the region;  (b) promoting and facilitating educational, scien-  tific and cultural co-operation and inter-change  among countries in the region and between them  and other countries in the world;  (¢) studying regional tensions in conjunction  with Unesco and other United Nations organizations.  Professor KABIR (India) recalled the objections  raised by the delegate of France at the meeting  of the Programme and Budget Commission and  pointed out that his proposal did not aim at de-  centralizing Unesco’s work.  M. ABRAHAM (France) thanked the delegate of  India for his new proposal, which was a compro-  mise solution; he had no objection to the actual  establishment of the Institute; he merely wished  to point out the possible risks for Unesco that  might be involved in its establishment. With  regard to the new text put forward by the delegate  of India, M. Abraham wished to know what would  be the position of the proposed Institute vis-a-vis  Unesco.  The Institute would have complete financial  independence, and that implied complete indepen-  dence of action. How, then, was Unesco to  introduce its programme into an Institute which  was in no way responsible to Unesco, but entirely  free to go its own way? M. Abraham also wished  to know how Unesco, whose aim was to establish  exchanges on a world-wide scale, could encourage  cultural relations between neighbouring countries,  thus fostering cultural regionalism.  The delegate of France wished to emphasize once  more that the establishment of regional centres  involved the risk of Unesco’s action being broken  up. In conclusion, he proposed that the Indian  delegate’s project should be fitted into a general  plan and that an amendment should be drafted  which would connect the consideration of a parti-  cular case—paragraph (a)—with that of general  cases. M. Abraham therefore suggested the addi-  tion to the proposal under discussion of a sentence  stipulating that the proposal should be related to  Unesco’s various activities throughout the world.
3 7 3  Professor KABIR (India) saw no purpose in that  amendment, since the report to be drawn up by  the Director-General on the desirability and  practicability of establishing the Institute could  not run counter to the general programme of  Unesco. He pointed out, moreover, that paragraph  (b) of his draft provided for exchanges not only  between South and East Asian countries but also  between those countries and the other countries  of the world. He was, however, prepared to  accept the French delegate’s proposal.  Dr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) drew attention  to the words *““... in conjunction with Unesco and  other United Nations organizations...” in para-  graph (c), and said that that phrase indicated the  autonomous character of the Institute and con-  firmed the fears expressed by the delegate of  France. He added that he was not averse from  the idea of setting up regional centres, so long  as those centres worked as agents of Unesco and  not as independent centres.  Dr. PARTON (New Zealand) agreed with the  delegate of India that there was no purpose in the  French delegate’s proposal. Paragraph (a) of the  Indian proposal fitted in with the purposes of  the National Commissions; paragraph (b) was in  complete conformity with the principles of Unesco;  and paragraph (c) had already been studied by  other Commissions.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) paid a tribute  to the conciliatory spirit shown by the delegate  of India. He added that, quite apart from any  consideration of regionalism, the work done by an  Institute such as that under discussion was bound  to advance the aims of Unesco.  Mr. ROSIER (United States of America) sup-  ported the Indian delegate’s proposal and recalled  that the proposal was to be considered by the  Director-General, who was instructed to submit to  the next session of the General Conference a  report on the desirability and practicability of  establishing the Institute. The project was of no  urgency and there was no question of carrying it  out immediately.  As the delegate of India had accepted the amend-  ment proposed by the delegate of France, that  amendment was adopted.  The resolution, as amended, was adopted. (11°)  The meeting rose at 5 p.m.
(116) In final form  Annex X, p. 83.     Volume II, Section XI,