SECOND MEETING  Friday, 19 November 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  The CHAIRMAN congratulated the Secretariat  on the work done overnight in producing the  Conference Journal.  Organization of the work of the Session  (document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.)).  Constitution of a Joint Committee of fifteen.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) said  that, after discussions with the Secretariat, the  United States delegation had decided to put  forward the following proposals :  The General Committee recommends :  That the General Conference create a Committee to  consider : (1) whether Unesco should continue to  maintain a world centre for the exchange of  information, and how other clearing-house functions  of Unesco should be handled; (2) how Unesco should  develop its publications policy and carry out its  publications programme in 1949; (3) how Unesco  should develop its public information activities;  That the Committee consist of fifteen members, five  to be nominated by the Chairman of each of the  Commissions (Administrative, Official and External  Relations, and Programme and Budget) subject to  confirmation by the General Committee;  That the Joint Committee report to the Programme  and Budget Commission;  That the Joint Committee sit on the afternoon of
26 November.  Professor RIVET (France) was against the  creation of a new committee, because small dele-  gations would be unable to send representatives  to all meetings. He suggested that the question  might be referred to the Sub-Commission on  Communication.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) agreed  generally with the delegate of France, but wished  for further information from Mr. Allen. As far  as South Africa was concerned, the maintenance  of a world centre for the collection and dissemin-  ation of information was one of Unesco’s most  important functions and it would be a tragedy if  it were discontinued. He had already given notice  of an item on the agenda designed to increase  that service. South Africa was far from Europe  and at a disadvantage from the point of view of  communications with the rest of the world where  cultural development was active. With regard to  the remarks made by the delegate of France, the  South African representatives would be able to  attend the proposed committee only at the expense  of other important work; Mr. Roberts would there-  fore prefer an existing committee to deal with it.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) did not agree  that any other committee could deal with the  questions enumerated in the first paragraph. He  was in favour of deleting the last part of item (1)  (“and how other clearing-house functions of  Unesco should ‘be handled”) as it was partly an  educational matter and he feared overlapping.  With regard to the second paragraph, Mr. Hard-  man wished for guidance on how the Chairman  of each Commission should select the five mem-  bers to serve on the Joint Committee.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that, from the Board's point of view,  the question whether Unesco should continue to  maintain a world centre for the exchange of infor-  mation needed no discussion, since Unesco itself  was an exchange centre. Secondly, the Director-  General had made certain arrangements within  the Secretariat, establishing a unit to centralize  the Exchange of Information services; he had  reported on his action to the Executive Board,  which considered it the task of the Director-  General to deal with the internal organization of the  Secretariat. Certain members of the Secretariat,  working on the programme, were not satisfied  with the arrangement, but time would show  whether the decision had been a wise one or not;  in the meantime, the Board and the Secretariat  would be glad to know what the Conference felt  about the matter.  With regard to the organization of the Con-  ference, it would be regrettable if the creation of  a new Committee prevented small delegations  from carrying out other important work; on the  other hand, it was important that the work of  the proposed Committee should be shared equally  by all the delegations. It might, therefore, be  better if the question were examined by a legal  committee including all the delegations, and if  it were left to the discretion of heads of dele-  gations to select the members of the Joint Com-  mittee.
217    EV LA A Ra Sh     Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) noted that it was  proposed that the Joint Committee should sit on  the afternoon of 26 November. He recalled that  the Programme and Budget Commission was meet-  ing that afternoon and suggested that its meeting  should either be cancelled or held at some other  time.  Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) sug-  gested that the world * develop” in items (2) and
(3) in the first paragraph should be replaced by  “Improve”.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) said that it  had been felt in the United Kingdom that Unesco  had failed to get its publicity across; it was there-  fore urgent and appropriate for some committee  to see how clearing-house functions and public  information services could be improved.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) said that  his delegation had not intended to suggest that  Unesco’s functions as a centre for exchange of  information should be discontinued, but it desired  the fullest possible consideration of the question.  He was conscious of the difficulties which the  addition of new committees and meetings entailed  for small delegations, but he pointed out that the  presence of a large American delegation was a  manifestation of interest in Unesco, and members  could be assured that the United States’ attitude  was inspired by great sympathy and a desire to  act in accordance with the Constitution. The  time of meeting of the Joint Committee was a  matter for the Secretariat to arrange. With  regard to the amendments suggested by Mr. Hard-  man, Mr. Allen would be ready to accept any  language that would allow the matter to be given  the fullest consideration. With reference to the  selection of members of the Joint Committee, he  suggested adding the words “competent in the  field” before “five” in the second paragraph. The  choice of members had to be confirmed by the  general Committee, which could see that proper  geographical distribution was ensured. Mr. Allen  accepted the amendment proposed by the delegate  of India, but disagreed with the delegate of the  United Kingdom's suggestion that the sentence  concerning clearing-house functions should be  omitted. He wished it to be made clear that the  Joint Committee should review Unesco’s clearing-  house functions. To satisfy the delegates of the  Union of South Africa and the United Kingdom,  he proposed the following amendment to item (1) :  how Unesco can best discharge its functions as a  world centre for the exchange of information, and  how the performance of clearing-house functions may  be improved.
218  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) would vote for  the American motion as long as no note of  disapproval of Unesco’s work could be read into it.  Dr. MOLINARI (Argentina) pointed out that  Unesco’s aim should be universal and not only  international; he would, therefore, vote in favour  of the American motion, as it aimed at making  Unesco a world centre for the exchange of infor-  mation.  M. YALCIN (Turkey) agreed with the obser-  vations of the delegate of Italy.  The CHAIRMAN submitted the United States  delegation’s proposal for approval, paragraph by  paragraph.  The first paragraph was adopted, with the  amendments which had been proposed.  The second paragraph (membership of the Com-  mittee) was adopted, subject to the amendment  proposed by the delegate of the United States, and  with the addition of the word “respectively” after  “nominated”.  The third and fourth paragraphs were adopted.  The final text of the resolution was as follows :  The General Committee recommends :  That the General Conference create a Committee to  consider : (1) how Unesco can best discharge its  functions as a world centre for the exchange of  information, and how the performance of clearing-  house functions may be improved; (2) how Unesco  should improve its publications policy and carry out  its publication programme in 1949; (3) how Unesco  should improve its public information activities.  That the Committee consist of fifteen members com-  petent in the field, five to be nominated respectively  by the Chairman of each of the Commissions (Admi-  nistrative, Official and External Relations, and Pro-  gramme and Budget), subject to confirmation by the  General Committee.  That the Joint Committee report to the Programme  and Budget Commission.  That the Joint Committee sit on the afternoon of
26 November.  Other Business.  The SECRETARY suggested that the meeting of  the Procedure Committee, scheduled for the after-  noon of 26 November should be cancelled, to avoid  holding four meetings at the same time.  Agreed.  It was further agreed that the Nominations  Committee should meet immediately after the  plenary meeting that morning to elect the Chair-  men and Vice-Chairmen of the committees which  were to meet in the afternoon.              The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the  Chairmen of committees meeting in the after-  noons should be asked to arrange for a short break  of ten to fifteen minutes in the middle of the  meetings, as the simultaneous interpretation made  them very tiring.  Agreed.  As almost excessive hospitality had been offered  to the Conference the preceding year, the Director-  General submitted the following resolution for  approval :  The General Committee urges all delegations to  refrain from adding to the number of entertainments  already arranged during the period of the Conference.  The Lebanese Government and various institutions in  Beirut have provided an ample series of excellent  entertainments, and any substantial additions must  THIRD  necessarily interfere with the proper completion of  th: very heavy agenda of the Session.  Adopted.  It was agreed that the resolution should be  inserted in the Journal of the Conference.  Dr. MOLINARI (Argentina) said that Argentina  had not received the list of candidates for the post  of Director-General which had been circulated. to  all Member States.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) explained that, at the time when the list  had been sent out, Argentina had not ratified the  Constitution and was, therefore, not a Member  State; he assured the delegate of Argentina that  the list would be transmitted to him forthwith.  The meeting rose at 11 a.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that he  had an item to raise in secret meeting.  As Mr. Roberts (Union of South Africa) had to  attend another meeting at 10.30 a.m., it was  agreed to hold the secret meeting forthwith.  Request for the inclusion of a new item in  the Agenda of the General Conference :  Aid to refugees in the Middle East.  At the end of the secret meeting, the CHAIRMAN  submitted for discussion the draft resolution pro-  posed by the Australian delegation in document
3C/12 :  That the Unesco General Conference, meeting in  Beirut, places on its Agenda the problem of edu-  cational relief for refugees who have been driven from  their homes by military operations in the Middle  Fast, and requests the Reconstruction Sub-Commis-  sion to take up the matter at the earliest opportunity,  with a view to facilitating the organization of effective  aid from Unesco and its Member States.  Dr. WALKER (Australia) added that, as the  Reconstruction Sub-Commission was to meet that  afternoon, he hoped that the General Committee  would agree to submit the resolution to the  plenary meeting that morning; otherwise, there  would be delay in considering the matter, as the  Sub-Commission was not to hold another meeting  for eight days.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) asked if  Dr. Walker would accept the insertion of the  words ‘of this nature” after “effective aid”, in  order to make it clear that the aid was to be edu-  cational.  Dr. WALKER: (Australia) accepted the amend-  ment.  The General Committee agreed to submit the  draft resolution to the plenary meeting that morn-  ing.  Times of afternoon meetings.  In order to permit delegates to take advantage  of the invitation to visit the American University  at 3 p.m., it was agreed that all afternoon meetings  on 20 November should commence at 4.30 p.m.,  on the understanding that work should continue  until 7 or 7.30 p.m.  The meeting rose at 11 a.m.