to make it clear that the Board already possessed  full authority in the matter; he therefore doubted  whether the resolution was really necessary.  The CHAIRMAN then suggested that the meeting  should adjourn and that the United States dele-  ST ie  gate should prepare an amended resolution to take  account of the points made during the discussion.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  ELEVENTH MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 3 p.m. /  Chairman:  Item 4 (h) of the Agenda : Preliminary  examination of Budget Estimates (continua-  tion) (document 3C/18).  The CHAIRMAN submitted the amended  resolution prepared by the delegate of the United  States of America :  Whereas, pursuant to Resolution... of the Second  Session of the General Conference, there has been  established an Advisory Panel on Finance and  Administration,  Considering that the budget of an international  organization presents many complex administrative  and financial problems,  The General Conference  Recommends that the Executive Board request its  expert Panel on Finance and Administration to make  an examination of the budget estimates and report to  it concerning financial or administrative questions  arising from the estimates, together with the Panel’s  recommendations thereon.  Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand) considered that, as  the ultimate responsibility rested with the Confer-  ence, 1l was necessary for it to have such expert  advice before it when considering the budget  estimates; he suggested the addition of the  following words at the end of the resolution :  and that the Panel's report and recommenda-  lions be made available to the General Conference.  Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) thought that the  Executive Board should be left free to decide  whether it wished to ask the Panel to examine  the budget, and suggested the following admend-  ment :  The Executive Board is authorized to call upon the  Expert Panel, when it deems necessary, in order to  deal with certain financial and administrative prob-  lems for the next year’s budget.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) proposed the  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  following amendment, which corresponded to  the provisions of the Constitution :  to make an examination of the Director-  (eneral’s proposed budget estimates...  The resolution, as amended by the delegate of  Greece, was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then called for a vote on the  additional sentence proposed by the delegate of  New Zealand.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) was opposed  to the addition of the sentence.  The CHAIRMAN said that, as he understood  the proposal of the New Zealand delegate, it was  not that any recommendation should be made to  the Conference by the Panel but that the Panel’s  report and recommendations should be made  available to the General Conference in the same  way as the Auditor's Report was submitted for  comments.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL was re-  luctant to say anything in a discussion which  involved the immediate relations between the  Conference and the Board. He wished, however,  to draw the Commission's attention to the fact  that to propose that the Panel's report should be  made available to the Conference did potentially  involve an additional burden on the Organization.  The principle involved was that, under Unesco’s  present Financial Regulations, it was the Director-  General who submitted the budget to the Confer-  ence; the Executive Board's proposal, which was  to come before the Commission later on for  discussion, was that the Board should itself attach  its recommendations to the Budget. The Deputy  Director-General would have thought that, if the      La   " =   Board, on the basis of advice from its Panel of  Experts, was prepared to recommend the adoption  of the budget, it might be assumed that the  Board had been satisfied with the report prepared  by the financial experts, and perhaps the Confer-  ence, in those circumstances, would be prepared  to take the word of the Board.  M. SEYDOUX (France) drew the attention of  the Commission to Article V of the Constitution,  paragraphs 9 and 11; he thought that the amend-  ment, though it seemed a modest one, might  be contrary to the Constitution. He was there-  fore against the addition proposed by the New  Zealand delegate.  The amendment of the New Zealand delegate  was put to the vote and rejected.  The resolution proposed by the United States  delegation, as amended by the delegate of Greece,  was adopted.  Item 6 (a) of the Agenda : Formulation of  detailed plans for the implementation of  each project in Unesco’s programme (draft  resolution proposed by the United States  delegation).  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) said that  the question of what Unesco had done to bring  about better international understanding and to  further its ideals constantly arose in his country,  and, he thought, in other countries too. It was  certainly raised at length at the September  meeting of the National Commission of the United  States in Boston. It was, therefore, very  important to know the results and conclusions of  the projects undertaken by Unesco as speedily  as possible. He also understood that that had  been one of the chief subjects of discussion at  the Conference of representatives of National  Commissions held just before the opening of the  General Conference. It was certainly true that  until there were effective National Commissions  in each country, proper implementation of  Unesco’s programme could not be expected. The  draft resolution submitted by the United States  raised the question of how the Secretariat and  the projects themselves could be used effectively  to ensure the fullest possible consideration of the  results and conclusions of the studies and projects  on which Unesco was engaged. In the United  States of America it had even been said that  large-scale surveys were made and summed up  in documents, which were then put on the shelf;  there was, therefore, no definite result until,  possibly, some years later. Mr. Zook’s purpose in  proposing the resolution was to bring out the  fact that, if results were to be communicated
402  effectively to Member States, Unesco’s programmé  should mean something more than to carry on  a study, something more than a compilation of  data, something more than a formulation of  conclusions.  He was sure that many very excellent plans  had been made for the implementation of the  programme, and he wished to make it clear that  his resolution did not specify exactly what  procedure should be followed; that was left to be  determined by the administrative staff as the  projects developed. Furthermore, he would re-  mind the Commission that the resolution stated  that the necessary measures should be undertaken  in connexion with the programme to be sub-  mitted to the next session of the General Confer-  ence, although he hoped that it might have some  influence upon the current programme. But,  even more strongly than had been done in the  past, it put a definite responsibility upon the  staff to consider thoroughly the results of any  project before it was closed. He therefore sub-  mitted the following resolution :  In presenting the Programme of Unesco lo the next  session of the General Conference, the Director-  General and the Executive Board are instructed;
(1) to include as an integral part of each recom-  mended project a detailed plan for its implementation,  specifying as fully as possible the methods and the  mechanisms to be employed,
(2) as a part of the plan of implementation, to  provide for the most effective co-operation with other  Specialized Agencies, international non-governmental  organizations and National Commissions or other  National Co-operating Bodies.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) asked the  United States delegate what contribution would  have to be made from the budget to establish  detailed plans for the implementation of each  project.  Sir John MAUD (Union Kingdom) was entirely  in agreement with what he understood to be the  main purpose of the United States proposal—to  define in the clearest possible way the parts  which National Commissions and Co-operating  Bodies, in particular, but also other Specialized  Agencies, could play, and should play, in the  implementation of Unesco’s programme. He  felt, however, that the motion, as presented, was  disastrous. To pass it as it stood would mean  that, each year in future, the Director-General  and the Board would be obliged to present what  would be a very bulky volume, if each resolution  had attached to it a plan which purported to  show the way in which that resolution was to  be carried out.  The United Kingdom delegation felt that the  experience of the last two years suggested that                the Director-General should be given wider dis-  cretion than he had so far had for carrying  out, in the most economical and effective way,  the wishes of the General Conference as expressed  rach year. It should be remembered that, the  previous year, an effort had been made to achieve  precisely the purpose which, he thought, was in  the mind of the United States delegation. Each  resolution was framed to show, first, what the  Director-General was to do and, secondly, what  the Member States and National Commissions  were to do. At the same time, Financial Regu-  lations were passed (in particular Regulation 4),  which insisted that, in the budget statement for  future years, an effort should be made to include  a detailed table setting out specific information  about proposed expenditure on new projects; the
1948 Conference had such a statement in the  fairly bulky budget document. The United  Kingdom delegation thought that in future,  instead of increasing the amount of work required  of the Director-General, what was needed was  greater flexibility. Efforts had been made to  give the Conference a detailed picture of how  each resolution was to be carried out, and the  United Kingdom delegation did not think more  detailed information should be included in the  Programme in future years. Therefore, in order  to show that the United Kingdom delegation  agreed with the main purpose of the United Sates  resolution, they would submit an amendment, if  the American resolution was seconded, or a  substantive motion if it was not.  The amended resolution read :  In presenting the programme of Unesco to the next  session of the General Conference, the Director-  General and the Executive Board are invited to make  plain the parts which other Specialized Agencies,  international non-governmental organizations, National  Commissions, or other National Co-operating Bodies  can play in implementing the various parts of the  programme.  The United States resolution was seconded by  M. SUR (Turkey).  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) propos-  ed that the works “plan in broad outline” should  be substituted for “detailed plan”, in the United  States resolution.  M. SEYDOUX (France) thought that the United  States proposal would entail considerable addi-  tional expense; he therefore supported the amend-  ment of the United Kingdom delegation.  Dr. WALKER (Australia) was in agreement  with the main objective of the United States  resolution but did not believe that the best method  of attaining it would be to pass a resolution in  the terms suggested; for that reason, he thought  that the United Kingdom amendment was a better  formulation of what the United States delegation  had in mind.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) was prepar-  ed to second the amendment or substantive motion  proposed by the United Kingdom, and supported  the point stressed by France.  Replying to the point raised by the delegate of  France, the DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said  he did not think that the proposal, if adopted as  it stood, or slightly modified, would necessarily  entail substantially increased costs, since a budget,  to be acceptable to the Conference, had to be  based upon a work plan; the Director-General  had necessarily worked out in detail what was  going to be done with the money. The Financial  Regulations provided that there should be an  information annex attached to the budget, analy-  sing each part and chapter by individual activities  and individual objects of expenditure. Over the  last two years there had been a marked trend  towards defining the programme and various  individual activities more precisely. From the  Director-General’s point of view, the object of  the resolution was welcomed.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) thought  the United Kingdom proposal failed to take  account of the Secretariat’s obligations in con-  nexion with the implementation of the programme  and placed responsibility for that almost  exclusively upon other organizations and Co-  operating Bodies.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested  the insertion of the word “respective” before the  word ‘‘parts”, and the addition of the words “in  co-operation with the Director-General” at the  end of his resolution.  The resolution proposed by the United King-  dom delegate was put to the vote as a substantive  motion and adopted by eight votes to six. (!?7)  The United States resolution, together with the  amendment proposed by the delegate of the  Union of South Africa, was therefore rejected.  Item 6 (b) of the Agenda : Contract of the  Director-General.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) read the  draft contract between Unesco and the new  Director-General, paragraph by paragraph.  The contract was provisionally approved by the  Commission.  The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.     form Volume II. Section X, (127) In final  Annex IV, 1, p. 56.