Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) called  attention to two resolutions which his delegation  wished to propose concerning : (1) an exami-  mination of the Budget Estimates by the Advisory  Panel of Experts on Finance and Administralion;  and (2) the better implementation of Unesco’s  SIXTH  Wednesday,  programme projects. He asked for the resolutions  to be discussed under item 6 of the Agenda (Other  Questions).  The meeting rose at 4 p.m.  MEETING
24 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. P. N. BANERJEE (India)  later: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 5 of the Agenda  (continuation).  Staff Questions  Item 5 (a) : Salary and allowance system  (document 3C/ADM/8, Addendum and Corri-  gendum) (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN recalled that at the close of  the last meeting, the Commission was discussing  a draft resolution submitted by the delegate of  Lebanon, suggesting that a Sub-Committee should  be formed to consider the allowances scheme and  to report to the Commission.  M. SUR (Turkey) said the question was a com-  plex one and required careful study. It was diffi-  cult to make hasty comparisons between salaries  in different currencies. He thought the whole  question of salaries and allowances in Unesco  should be raised in connexion with the question  of relations between Specialized Agencies and the  United Nations.  Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) thought that  the broad principles put forward at the last  meeting of the Commission should underlie the  salary system and, until some very substantial  compensation for reducing salaries and allowances  could be provided, no considerable reduction in  rates was justified. The United Kingdom dele-  gation thought that one of the most substantial  compensations would be the granting of security  of tenure and long-term contracts. If such secu-  rity were granted, then the need for many of those  allowances, at the rate now paid, would be greatly  reduced. It was not, however, the moment to  labour any particular point of view and he would
387  submit a resolution which he thought should meet  the Lebanese delegation’s requirements :  The Administrative Commission resolves :  To establish a Committee of its members with the  following terms of reference :
(1) to review the principles laid down by the  Second Session of the General Conference, upon which  a salary and allowances system should be based;
(2) to consider how far the present provisional  system of salaries and allowances is accurately based  upon those principles;
(3) to consider what new criteria for salary and  allowances scales the representatives of the Organi-  zation should recommend to the Joint Committee of  Representatives of the United Nations and the Special-  ized Agencies who are to review this problem.  Mr. Thomas did not think a date could be fixed  for the submission of the Committee's report,  but, when it did report, the Commission would  have a clear idea of the principles on which it  wanted the system to be based. He hoped that,  by submitting those recommendations to the Joint  Committee of the United Nations, it would be  possible to get the whole system of the United  Nations modified.  M. VERNIERS (Belgium), Dr. BENDER (Ne-  therlands) and Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand) sup-  ported the United Kingdom resolution.  Mr. FYZEE (India) also supported it, but wished  to know whether the Committee which had been  appointed to study the Medical Benefits Scheme  should form part of the Committee proposed by  the delegate of the United Kingdom.  The CHAIRMAN said that the two Committees  would work separately.   i  Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) pointed out  that the Commission had to approve the existing  provisional scales or it would be letting the Secre-  tariat down. The Committee would have to try  to effect a change next year; at the moment, it  could do very little to alter the system for the  current year.  M. HAIDAR (Lebanon) supported the United  Kingdom resolution, which did not run counter  to his own.  The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of the  United Kingdom resolution, with an addition to  the effect that the Committee's report should be  presented to the Commission not later than Satur-  day, 27 November.  The proposal was approved.  It was decided that the Committee should consist  of the delegates of Canada, India, Lebanon, New  Zealand, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the  United States of America.  Item 4 (b) of the Agenda : Scale of contri-  butions of Member States for 1949 (doc-  ument 3C/ADM/3 and supplements).  The CHAIRMAN said that two resolutions had  been circulated, one proposed by the delegate of  the United States of America (document 3C/69)  and the other by the delegate of Norway (doc-  ument 3C/25); the latter was an amendment to  the United States proposal.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) thought  there was no real difference in the two proposals,  the Norwegian amendment being based on purely  psychological reasons. He thought it would be  dangerous if the question of the ceiling were taken  up in the legislatures of Member States in con-  nexion with Unesco’s budget; if the American  wording were adopted, that risk would be un-  avoidable.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) did not  agree. One of the chief contentions of the United  States delegation was that the principle of fixing  a ceiling, and its application, were two separate  problems. In order to make the matter quite  clear he proposed the withdrawal of his original  resolution and of the Norwegian amendment, in  order to submit a fresh resolution (document
3C/26) which dealt with the principle alone, and  had nothing to say, for the time being, concerning  its application. Mr. Zook felt that, in so doing,  the United States delegation was asking for exactly  what had already been agreed to by the United  Nations Assembly in its resolution of 8 November.
388  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) withdrew  his amendment and supported the United States  resolution.  Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand) proposed that, in  paragraph 1, the words “one third of the expenses  of Unesco” should be replaced by : ‘‘one-third of  the approved budget appropriation of Unesco”.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) agreed to  that amendment.  The resolution, as amended, was adopted. (***)  In connexion with the scale of contributions  for 1949 (document 3C/ADM/3, Annex III), Mr.  ZOOK (United States of America) said that his  delegation wished to move that the contribution  of the United States should be reduced by one-  third of the difference between the percentage  recommended in Annex III and the ceiling of  thirty-three and one third per cent which had been  adopted in principle. That would imply a reduc-  tion in the total contributions of approximately
2.85 per cent. The delegation knew that the  matter was of great interest to other delegations  and was exceedingly anxious to proceed carefully  in the matter. The delegation was, furthermore,  quite prepared to say that the contributions to be  made by Member States should be assessed on the  basis of their capacity to pay. Fortunately, the  United States of America seemed able to bear a  very large proportion of the expenses of Unesco,  and Mr. Zook wished to say that they were, in  general, proud to have had such an opportunity.  In the United States of America, a large number  of people, representing the sixty national organi-  zations in the National Commission, were devoting  a substantial amount of their time to bringing the  gospel of Unesco to as wide a public as possible.  He did not wish the Commission to feel that the  suggestion for the reduction of the percentage to  be borne by the United States reflected any less  interest in Unesco. On the other hand, the dele-  cation had come to the conclusion that it was  not desirable for any one nation to pay a very  large portion of Unesco’s expenses, if it could  possibly be avoided.  The Commission would remember that the  United States delegation had laid much emphasis  on the fact that the United States of America had  been paying not merely 41 per cent, but something  over 50 per cent and even as much as 60 per cent  in the past. Because they wanted to avoid pro-  longing that state of affairs, the delegation were
(121) In final form  Annex II, 2, p. 47.  (See also the Eighth Meeting of the Administrative  Commission, p. 392.)     Volume 11 Section X  ) )  Ya   —
5  —                    trying to secure regulations regarding the currency  of contributions, which would place the actual  contribution at what it should be. After long  discussions, Mr. Zook had been requested by his  delegation to tell the Commission that the United  States were not prepared to pay more than approxi-  mately 39 per cent of the total, representing a  reduction of one third of the difference between  the percentage suggested in Annex III to doc-  ument 3C/ADM/3, and the ceiling of thirty-three  and a third per cent which had been approved in  principle.  Mr. Zook therefore asked that the matter should  be given careful consideration and that action  should be taken upon the proposal he had placed  before the Commission. While his delegation  believed that the principle was a proper and correct  one, they certainly did not intend to apply it  immediately.  The CHAIRMAN said that, as the Commission  SEVENTH  had already indicated when it passed the resolution  laying down that the contribution of the United  States of America ought not to exceed thirty-three  and a third per cent, it was greatly indebted to  the United States for their generous attitude in  proposing to continue to shoulder some of the  additional burden.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked how  the proposal would affect the percentages paid by  other countries.  The CHAIRMAN replied that the modified scale  would be submitted to the Commission at its next  meeting, and asked the Commission to accept the  proposal of the United States delegation.  The proposal was adopted.  The meeting rose at noon.  MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 5 of the Agenda  (continuation).  Staff Questions  Item 5 (e) Distribution by nationality of  members of the Secretariat (document
3C/ADM/13).  M. FL-HASSANI (Syria) and M. SUR (Turkey)  both pointed out that their respective countries  were seriously under-represented on the Secre-  tariat. The delegate of Turkey added that Unesco  did not appear to encourage sufficiently appli-  cations from all Member States and suggested  that the Conference should instruct the Director-  General to ensure that recruitment was more  evenly distributed.  Mr. SELSKY (Acting Head of the Bureau of  Personnel) replied that the Secretariat had indeed  given every Member State an equal opportunity  to submit candidates. In April 1948, a complete  statement of the positions for which recruitment  was desired was circulated to all Member States.  As a result, a large number of applications had  been received, and were being carefully considered.
389  M. PADOUX (France) appreciated the difficul-  ties of the Secretariat, but felt that the position  was still not satisfactory and suggested that it  would be useful for the General Conference to pass  a resolution to apprise the Director-General of its  views on the matter.  Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand) also appreciated  the difficulties of the Secretariat but asked that  National Commissions should be kept more closely  informed of the action taken on applications  screened and forwarded by them.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) proposed  that, in 1949, a statement of the positions for  which candidates were desired should be circu-  lated at regular intervals.  Mr. SELSKY (Secretariat) replied that the  Secretariat had worked out a scheme for distri-  buting a complete list of vacant posts to all Mem-  ber Governments; the list would be kept up  to date month by month. All Governments and  National Commissions would thus be fully aware