ES  LE          | Yat  | us Te a Pl 4 fi ae ii] a A A  ile  SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Friday, 19 November 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Opening of the meeting and election of the  Chairman.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, opening the  meeting, announced that the Nominations Com-  mittee had suggested that a member of the Brazi-  lian delegation should act as Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commission.  The suggestion was adopted.  Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro was de-  signated by his delegation and took the Chair.  Election of the Vice-Chairman and Rappor-  teur.  The CHAIRMAN thanked the meeting for the  honour it had done to the Brazilian delegation  and stressed the importance of the work to be  done by the Programme and Budget Commission.  He announced that the Nominations Committee  has recommended delegates of Belgium and the  United States of America for the offices of Vice-  Chairman and Rapporteur respectively.  The nominations were approved.  The Belgian delegation designated M. Marcel  Florkin for the office of Vice-Chairman, and the  delegation of the United States of America named  Mr. Kenneth Holland for that of Rapporteur.  Adoption of the Agenda.  The agenda was adopted.  Presentation of the Programme recommen-  ded by the Executive Board (document
3C/5).  The CHAIRMAN requested the Chairman of the
247  Executive Board to present the Programme of  Unesco.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) explained that the main lines of Unesco’s  programme for the next few years were becoming  clearly defined and should be fairly well estab-  lished after the Third Session of the General  Conference. It would be noticed that certain  items had been marked for active prosecution in
1949, whilst others had not. The programme of  course depended upon the budget, but the Exe-  cutive Board had done everything possible to  ensure that the programme presented bore the  closest relationship to the aims of Unesco and the  work already accomplished in 1948. Dr. Walker  remarked that the Executive Board would have no  objection to minor changes in the wording of  resolutions. He then formally moved the accep-  tance by the General Conference of the Pro-  gramme of Unesco for 1949 (document 3C/5).  The CHAIRMAN took note of the motion.  Presentation of the Budget Estimates  for 1949 (document 3C/6).  The CHAIRMAN requested the Director-General  to present the Budget Estimates for 1949.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  Secretariat had estimated the costs of the pro-  gramme drawn up by the Executive Board and  had attempted to give the most careful analysis  possible of that programme in financial terms.  The foreword to the Budget Estimates (document
3C/6) outlined major policy and the Information  Annex presented the detailed work plans. Care  had been taken to present a minimum budget,  . = Hae h .  oo a LV 7 ue          bearing the closest possible relation to the pro-  gramme.  d  Poe  » ‘ |  In consultation with the Executive Board, it  had been decided to keep the total figure under  eight and a half million dollars, and the total  presented in the Budget Estimates was $8,473,530.  Since the document had been drawn up, however,  the re-alignment of the French franc had taken  place, and it had become possible to reduce the  total figure to $8,205,000. That represented an  increase of only 6.5 per cent over 1948 and that  increase was fully accounted for by the rising  cost of living and added personnel costs (such as  home leave) which the Organization had to bear.  The Director-General explained that, in addition,  a further $1,000,000 was requested to bring the  total of the Revolving Fund up to the authorized  level of $3,000,000. The total amount of contri-  butions which it was proposed to ask from Mem-  ber States for 1949 was, therefore, $9,205,000,  but that figure could be reduced by the surplus  of $750,000 still remaining from 1947, so that  the actual total would be only $8,455,000.  The Director-General hoped that the decision  on the total budget figure could be taken by  the General Conference on 23 November, 1m-  mediately after the debate on the Director-  General's Report.  The CHAIRMAN remarked on the successful  presentation of the programme and budget doc-  uments for 1949. The Programme (document
3C/5) showed the programme for 1948, as estab-  lished at the Mexico City Conference, on the left-  hand page, with the programme proposed by the  Executive Board for 1949 on the right-hand page.  In the Budget Estimates (document 3C/6) a spe-  cification of the plan of work for each project had  been given, together with its estimated cost.  Each project could thus be considered simul-  taneously from the programme and the budgetary  point of view.  Resolutions adopted by the General Com-  mittee.  The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the  meeting to two resolutions adopted by the General  Committee at its first meeting :
(1) Each Sub-Commission of the Programme and  Budget Commission (other than the Budget Sub-  Commission) shall give priority to the consideration  of such proposed resolutions of the programme (docu-  ment 3C/5) as are submitted to it by the General  Conference under document 3C/2 (rev.) or otherwise,  or by the Programme and Budget Commission or  its Chairman after consultation with the officers of  that Commission. It shall take into account the  relevant working paper, the relevant work plan and
248  budget, submitted by the Director General (docu-  ment 3C/6), and the discussions of the session.  It shall report back to the Programme and Budget  Commission its recommendations for the adoption,  modification or elimination of the proposed resolution.
(2) Delegations are asked to submit all resolutions  necessitating a substantial modification of the Pro-  gramme or Budget, in writing, before the evening of
23 November, in order that the General Committee  may refer them to the appropriate Commission or  Sub-Commission.  General Discussion.  The CHAIRMAN thought that delegates might  like to make general observations which would  be useful to the Sub-Commissions; he therefore  declared the discussion open.  Mr. LELAND (United States of America) stated  that his delegation believed that the programme  established for 1948 should be continued in 1949  with very few changes, except for the better for-  mulation of certain projects and sharper emphasis  on the chief aims and purposes of Unesco. Im-  practical and less urgent projects should be eli-  minated and, in general, new projects should not  be added unless of immediate importance. The  United States delegation felt that it was of primary  importance that the programme should be such  as to lend itself to wide participation throughout  the world. In order to achieve that aim, the  Secretariat should ensure that the necessary ma-  terial was available to Member States, National  Commissions and the general public, at all times.  Increased use should be made of the services of  non-governmental organizations and other co-  operating bodies. The United States delegation  was particularly interested in the success of the  project concerned with Education for International  Understanding; but, with regard to other more  nebulous proposals—such as the World Centre for  the Exchange of Information—the delegation felt  strongly that careful thought and consideration  should be given before such a complicated pro-  ject was undertaken.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) stated that  his delegation felt that it would be very un-  desirable for the current session of the Confer-  ence to spend as much time and energy as was  spent in 1947 and 1946 in formulating the pro-  gramme. Unesco had reached a stage in ts  progress when an entirely new programme was  unnecessary. The 1948 programme could be  accepted as a continuing activity and the emphasis  should be on improvement rather than change.  The United Kingdom delegation wished to re-  mark on the improvement in the presentation of  the programme and budget in 1948. It felt that  i 4 oT  _——                         great credit was due to the Secretariat and the  Executive Board. Both documents were excel-  lently correlated and clearly presented.  Professor KABIR (India) wished to emphasize  two items in the programme.  Firstly, he remarked on the importance of the  study of the scientific and cultural history of  mankind. The Indian delegation requested the  Sub-Commission on Education to study particu-  larly the teaching of history and geography from  the earliest stages. Professor Kabir felt that  history, in particular, could be one of the  greatest forces in bringing about better inter-  national understanding, if it were taught from an  international point of view. Great harm was, in  fact, done to international relations by the usual  method of teaching history from a narrow national  standpoint.  Secondly, the Indian delegation wished to stress  the importance of the contribution of the Arts to  the development of human contacts. There should  SECOND  be the widest possible interchange in the Arts  between nations, and the Indian delegation hoped  that that project would receive the full measure  of consideration due to it.  The CHAIRMAN said that the officers of the  Commission would take into account all remarks  which had been made by delegations.  Proposed distribution of work among the  Programme Sub-Commissions (document
3C/2) (rev.).  The document was approved.  The CHAIRMAN then gave some details about  the time-table of meetings of the Sub-Commissions  on Reconstruction, Communication and Social  Sciences.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 10.45 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of reports of Sub-Commissions.  (a) Reconstruction (document 3C/PRG/1.9).  Mr. KIRPAL (India) (Rapporteur of the Sub-  Commission on Reconstruction) submitted the  Sub-Commission’s Report. When the Programme  recommended by the Executive Board (document
3C/5, Chapter I) was compared with that pro-  duced as a result of the discussions of the Sub-  Commission, it was apparent that the new reso-  lutions to be voted upon involved adjustments  rather than real changes.  Resolution (a)  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on resolu-  tion (a) in document 3C/PRG/1.9, which em-  bodied the draft resolution in document 3C/PRG/
1.6.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  remarked that it would perhaps be useful, before  any discussion, to hear the comments of the  representative of the Executive Board.
249  In reply, the CHAIRMAN said that it would be  better to hear those views in the course of the  discussion.  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) thought it desirable to  continue the work of reconstruction until the end  of assistance under the Marshall Plan. Subject  to that, he approved resolution (a).  Resolution (a) was unanimously adopted.  Resolution (b)  Resolution (b) was unanimously adopted.  Resolution (c)  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the new reso-  lution was no more than a re-arrangement of the  Executive Board’s proposals covered by items
1.511, 1.512 and 1.52 in doeument 3C/5 (page 15);  resolutions 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, and 1.6 of the same  document 3C/5 had been adopted, subject to the  decisions of the Budget Sub-Commission. Reso-  lution (c) also concerned documents 3C/12 and,