SECOND MEETING  Friday, 26 November 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Professor Paul RIVET (France)  Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind  (document 8C/PRG/4.4) (continuation).  Dr. MANSOUR (Egypt) thought it was perhaps  too much to condemn the idea behind the project  which had been discussed at such length that  morning. In view of everything that had been  said, he submitted the following compromise  resolution, neither approving the programme  resolution, nor abandoning it altogether in favour  of bibliographies, as had been suggested by the  Norwegian delegation :  The Joint Meeting of the Sub-Commissions on Natural  Sciences and on Cultural Questions, after full discus-  sion of programme resolution 4.7, recommends that  it be amended to read :  ‘The Director-General is instructed to continue the  study of the project for the production of books which  will provide, for general and specialist readers, u  wide understanding of the scientific and cultural  aspects of the history of mankind, of the mutual  interdependence of peoples and cultures, and of their  contributions to the common heritage; and, after  consultation with the relevant existing international  non-governmental organizations and with institutes  in the different countries, to submit a report on the  project to the next Session of the General Conference.’  And further recommends that such parts of the  budget appropriation (line III, 5. E) as would have  been utilized for the original project, be utilized for  the present purpose.  The CHAIRMAN, speaking from a personal  point of view, considered the project for a  Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind to be  entirely in line with Unesco’s ideals, which  required the Organization to aim at training world  citizens whose mentality was based on a thorough  and objective knowledge of human civilization.  It was interesting to know that the origin of  the propeller was the boomerang, invented by  one of the oldest human tribes, the Australian  aborigines; or that the ancestor of all pistons  was the Malay blowpipe gun. In his last years,  Paul Valéry had been haunted by the realization  that all the history which had been written was  imperfect and incomplete; it had been written by  eminent historians, but they had been influenced  by their national outlook. What was needed was  a history of human civilization written by men  with the mentality of world citizens, who would  not disfigure history, nor colour it with national  prejudices. Many people thought of the Middle  Ages as dark, yet they had been particularly fruit-  ful in beneficial inventions : for example, the  magnetic compass by the Chinese, and the stern-  post rudder; those two inventions had enabled  men to conquer the seas and had led to the  discovery of America. The American Indian  peoples had given to mankind the potato, the  ground-nut, maize, rubber, quinine, cocoa and  tobacco; Unesco should make known how those  discoveries had been made.  The Chairman therefore asked delegates to  keep the original project, and not to fear the  greatness of the subject. He urged that no time  should be lost before starting work, and that no  money should be wasted on the preparation of  bibliographies, as that was a task which had  already been carried out. Unesco should find a  world team to collaborate in the project, which  would contribue greatly to human solidarity.  M. FEBVRE (France) supported the Chairman's  remarks, and disagreed with the delegate of the  United States of America that insufficient fun-  damental data existed to allow a start to be made.  In spite of unfavourable circumstances during the  past ten to fifteen years, enough progress had  been made to enable a general history of mankind  to be written, showing how all parts of the world,  all civilizations, all fractions of humanity had  made their contributions to the common heritage;  there had been perpetual exchanges and bor-  rowings, and it had been said that even cases of  the refusal of a contribution were instructive.  Migrations of ideas and tools were not confined  to any one period; the world had never ceased  to enrich itself. In Beirut, there could be seen  an infinite variety of plants which had existed  there for a comparatively short time only : for  example, the eucalyptus. Nothing belonged to  one people alone. Truth could not be expected  to emerge with a capital T; it was realized that  there were gaps, but those should be examined  and filled. Quite enough material existed to  demonstrate the unity of scientific and cultural  development.  With regard to the financial aspect of the  project, it would not be necessary to provide for  any very large sum; a number of members  present were ready to work on the project without  fee, and he could provide a list of fifteen to      twenty French scientists who would be ready to  collaborate. A little money would be needed,  however, for a small Secretariat, and to pay modest  salaries to a few younger men; they should not  be paid too much, for they would have to learn  the idea of scientific abnegation.  The project was of the greatest importance to  Unesco, since it aimed at the unification of  cultures and civilizations. The old nations which  had served civilization with great merit in the  eighteenth century should not keep the monopoly;  new and jealous forces were arising in the world,  and some of them had not yet shown their full  strength. A balance-sheet should be drawn up  to show the contribution to civilization which each  people had made and could make. Humanity was  a dream, an aspiration and an ideal of the future,  but one day it would become a reality, through  the collaboration of all the peoples of the world.  M. SANDBO (Norway) withdrew his draft  amendment to resolution 5.7, in favour of the  Egyptian resolution.  NADJIB-ULLAH Khan (Afghanistan) made two  practical alternative suggestions :
1. that each chapter concerning a given coun-  try should be drafted within the country itself  and then forwarded to the central body set up by  Unesco; or
2. that the chapters should be drafted by  the central Unesco body, but that, after drafting  and before publication, they should be submitted  for comments to each country concerned.  By either method it would be possible to obtain  a history accepted by all Unesco’s Member States,  which would, at the same time, be a Unesco  work.  The discussion being closed, the CHAIRMAN  submitted the Egyptian proposal to the vote.  It was adopted by thirteen votes to seven, with  one abstention.  The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m.  SUB-COMMISSION ON SOCIAL SCIENCES  FIRST MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1948, at 4.30 p.m.  (Chairman: Mr. F.  Election of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  Mr. F. S. Dunn (United States of America) was  elected Chairman: Mr. M. H. Holcroft (New  Zealand), Vice-Chairman; and M. Lucien Febvre  (France), Rapporteur.  Adoption of the Agenda.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out  that the Philosophy and Humanistic Studies Divi-  sion had on its programme a connected problem :  the study of the philosophical ideas or ideologies  peculiar to the various nations. He thought that,  for the future, that study should be more closely
341  S. DUNN (United States of America)  linked with that of tensions affecting international  understanding.  The CHAIRMAN assured him that his suggestion  would be taken into account.  The provisional Agenda (document 3C/PRG/6.3)  was then adopted.  Tensions affecting International Understand-  ing (document 3C/PRG/6.1).  Dr. AWAD (Egypt) regretted that the docu-  ment presented to the Sub-Commission did not  contain a more detailed background to the deve-  lopment of the question.