4. lt had been possible, in agreement with  the United Nations, to gather together a series of  films on the preservation of natural resources.
5. The National Commission in the United  States of America had asked the Secretariat for  documents on four of the subjects included in  the working paper. Within ten days, material  containing 20,000 words had been sent to the  United States, where it was currently being used.
6. With regard to the Unesco radio news-  bulletin, publication would be begun early in
1949; the bulletin would appear every week. The  Secretariat had been assured by the Radio Pro-  grammes Committee that the bulletin would be  used by a number of countries and private organi-  zations. That item showed that, like the British  delegation, the Secretariat wished to concentrate  on current problems and not only on subjects of  enduring interest.
7. With regard to world food supplies, a  scheme had been prepared by the Planning Bureau  of the Projects Division, in consultation with the  United Nations (Commission on Population) and  other Organizations (WHO, FAO) and several  THIRD  Departments in Unesco (particularly Natural  Sciences); before the end of February 1949, the  Secretariat would be in a position to publish some  twelve or fifteen pamphlets illustrating different  aspects of the world situation with regard to popu-  lation and food resources.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) thanked Mr. Bester-  man for his statement, which had provided a very  competent reply to the criticisms directed at the  Secretariat. She proposed that the working paper,  document 3C/PRG/2.1, should be adopted without  further discussion and without amendment.  M. SANDBO (Norway) congratulated Mr. Bester-  man and seconded the Danish proposal.  M. GUEHENNO (France) thought that the dis-  cussion which had just taken place and the  extremely informative statement made by Mr. Bes-  terman had been useful. He proposed that the  discussion should be adjourned.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m.  MEETING  I'riday, 26 November 1948, at } p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. Kamala Devi CHATTOPADHYAYA (India)  Resolution 2.231—Mass Media (document
3C/5, page 25).  Draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of the United States of America (document
3C/35, item 3).  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) stated that her delegation sought a  recommendation to Member States that they  should “recognize the rights of citizens to listen  freely to broadcasts from other countries ”  M. GUEHENNO (France) asked for the resump-  tion of the discussion of the French proposal  which had given rise to an exchange of views at  the previous meeting and to a statement by the  Director-General’s representative regarding the  Projects Division.
300  Draft resolution submitted by the Indian  delegation (document 3C/38).  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt that, as para-  graphs (a) and (b) of document 3C/38 touched  on two sections of a very wide field, the case  would be met by mentioning those points in the  summary record without their being formally  adopted as resolutions.  Professor VERONESI (Italy) supported the  Indian delegation’s suggestions, particularly para-  graph (a). Italy would like a recommendation to  be made to the competent departments of Unesco  regarding the dissemination of “shorts” of an  educational and, particularly, artistic nature:  Italian producers had specialized in the latter.  He asked the Rapporteur to take note of that fact.    Mr. HUSAIN (India) siressed the urgency of  securing distribution and exchange of educational,  scientific and cultural films as media of mass  communication; such films were a valuable  source of knowledge for Asia and Latin America,  where the high incidence of illiterates (up to 90  per cent in Asia) had already been remarked by  the Film Sub-Commission. Short films would  also be an effective aid in fundamental and adult  education, not only in the areas mentioned but  even in Europe.  [t was extremely difficult to secure such  “shorts”, if only on account of exchange diffi-  culties. Moreover, where the vast spaces of Asia  were concerned, it would be necessary to increase  the efficiency of the means of distribution. Only  recently, Pandit Nehru had said that peace was  largely dependent on the turn taken by events in  Asia. In Indonesia, China and other countries of  the Far East, there were conflicts of interests and  ideologies of the greatest danger to democracy,  and the cinema was the best means of planting  Unesco’s ideas in the mind of Asia.  The position was that the production and dis-  tribution of film “shorts” were so far from being  profitable that such films had to be subsidized by  the State and certain educational organizations.  In its report on an enquiry covering seventeen  countries, the Film Sub-Commission had indi-  cated that, to a certain extent, the provision of  educational films would be necessary for all the  countries concerned. The making of such films  required more technical skill than that of enter-  tainment films and they were in fact produced in  fair quantities by the United States of America  and the United Kingdom. The fact that their  distribution was limited to the producing coun-  fries added to their cost to the exhibitor, and  accordingly it was desirable that distribution  should be organized on an international scale.  What had Unesco done in that field? The pro-  gramme submitted by the Executive Board  provided for the collation and dissemination of  lists of film titles, but that was necessarily inade-  quate and Unesco should go further and make up  its mind to stimulate the production and distri-  bution of the films themselves and, as a first step,  to eleminate obstacles in the shape of customs  and fiscal arrangements. A Commission ap-  pointed recently by Unesco had recommended that  the “Book Coupon” system should be applied also  to auditory and visual material. Such a sug-  gestion might seem supererogatory in the light of  the draft agreement the Sub-Commission was to  vote on; apparently, however, the problem of the  free flow of auditory and visual material was dealt  with in that agreement only from the customs  duty angle. That was why the Indian delegation  was pressing for the adoption of its draft reso-  lution on the free flow of informative matter for  non-commercial ends.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) thought that dupli-  cation was to be avoided. She pointed out that  paragraph (b) of the resolution was a repetition  of the corresponding part of the draft agreement  for facilitating the international circulation of  auditory and visual material of an educational.  scientific and cultural character.  M. MAHEU (Secretariat) observed that para-  graph (b) could be made the subject of a sepa-  rate resolution, if no clause regarding restrictions  on export and import were incorporated in the  final agreement.  With that proviso, the draft resolution (doc-  ument 3C/38) was adopted.  Amendment submitted by the United States  delegation (document 3C/36, item 4).  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIÈRE (France) was  anxious to know the American delegation’s  reasons for suggesting that the last part of reso-  lution 2.231 should be struck out.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) explained that the restrictive clause  concluding the resolution was felt to be super-  fluous and it was thought better to leave the Secre-  tariat full freedom of action rather than compel  it to go through the National Commissions.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIÈRE (France)  agreed that the activities of the Secretariat should  not be hampered.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) went on to point out that the French  version of resolution 2.231 introduced a shade of  meaning not brought out in the English text, but  to which she would readily subcribe.  The amendment proposed by the delegation of  the United States of America was adopted without  opposition.  Resolution 2.232 Mass Communication  Projects Division (document 3C/6, page 27).  Amendment proposed by the delegation of  the United States of America (document
3C/36, item 5).  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) proposed an  alternative resolution embodying the amendment       submitted by the United States delegation. Reso-  lution 2.232 would then read as follows :  In pursuance of this general objective, the Director-  General is instructed to maintain within the frame-  work of the Organization a small and compact Mass  Communication Projects Division, capable of initiating  and influencing production on Unesco subjects in  press, film and radio, with emphasis on subjects of a  topical nature.  The work of the Projects Division should include  the collection and dissemination of information de-  signed to stimulate production, especially by the  employment of competent officers to make direct con-  tact with editors of leading publications, radio net-  works and film studios; and by inviting publicists,  writers and other persons of international repute to  prepare articles and broadcasts on critical world affairs  in the province of Unesco.  Priority should be given to the preparation of radio  materials and programmes and promotion of their use  by the United Nations, government and private  broadcasting organizations.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) accepted that suggestion.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France)  enquired whether, in the circumstances, the Sub-  Commission could not resume the consideration  of the draft resolution submitted by his own  delegation (document 3C/47).  The CHAIRMAN said that there were thus two  proposals before the Sub-Commission : a draft  resolution submitted by the United Kingdom and  the United States of America, and a draft reso-  lution submitted by France.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France)  was not convinced that there was any contra-  diction between the two proposals; possibly that  question was within the competence of the  Director-General or the Administrative Commis-  sion, to which their own Sub-Commission's sug-  gestions could be sent.  At the last meeting, the Director-General's re-  presentative had had occasion to give details of  the work done by the Secretariat, and the French  delegation was glad to record its appreciation of  the effort put out by the Projects Division; what  had been accomplished should be credited to the  personal qualities of the responsible officials.  while what had not been achieved could be attri-  buted to the defective structure of the Department  of Mass Communication; it was the structure that  the French amendment sought to reform.  The Director-General’s representative had  drawn attention to some confusion in the use of  terms; if it had been possible for the Executive  Board to misunderstand the wishes of the Mexico  City Session of the General Conference regarding  the structure, it was probable that the existing lay-
302  out was not clear-cut. The structure recommen-  ded by the French delegation in document 3C/47  was simple; its main difference from that ob-  taining was that the three sections for the press,  radio and films, which had been described as  within the Projects Division, would become ad-  ministrative entities; their three Heads would be  responsible to the Head of the Department of Mass  Communication, either directly or through a co-  ordinating section; the size of the Ideas Bureau  would be reduced and it would come directly  under the Head of the Department and no longer  under the Head of the Projects Division.  The French delegation wanted a reformed struc-  ture and a different division, but not a reduction,  of appropriations. The New Zealand delegation  had apparently proposed that that particular  bureau should be abolished. If that suggestion  were maintained, a vote should be taken on it  before that on the French proposal, as the former  involved the wider departure from the existing  system. If the suggestion were not maintained,  it would be desirable to proceed to a vote on the  French proposal, which sought only to secure an  improvement in the working of an administrative  section whose responsibilities were indisputable in  the fields of the press, radio and cinema.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) asked whether what  the French proposals sought was any different  from the state of affairs before 1 July and whether  the new amendments did not have to be lodged  before the evening of 23 November.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) said that the  difference in the French project consisted in the  provision of a Head for the Projects Division and  for the three sections of the press, radio and  cinema. It should be noted that those three sec-  tions were in existence before 1 July. He himself  would like to know what was to be understood by  the term “administrative entity”. Each of the  three sections came under a Head of Section, who  was so styled and in receipt of an appropriate  salary, and all three came under a common Head  who co-ordinated their work. The deadline of
23 November laid down by the General Committee  was applicable only to resolutions involving sub-  stantial changes in the programme or the budget;  it was thus perfectly proper to consider amend-  ments which had no direct effect on the budget.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) explained  that he had not submitted his amendment in  writing, so that its precise terms might be decided  in the light of the general discussion. He himself  attended the meetings of the General Committee  and of the Executive Board, and, to his mind,      the lodging of a written amendment during the  meeting was entirely permissible.  Furthermore, the French amendment did not  appear to conflict with that of the delegations of  the United States of America and of the United  Kingdom, as it proposed that instructions should  be issued to the Director-General for the main-  tenance, in the spirit of the Mexico City decisions,  of the Projects Division as a factor in mass media;  thus the French proposal properly came under  Mass Communication.  The British delegation would prefer that a  degree of caution should be exercised to avoid  tying the hands of the Head of the Department  of Mass Communication in any way; in point of  fact, the Sub-Commission had not the necessary  data to specify such obligations.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) thought it would hardly be appropriate  to set out the detailed lines of a new organization.  If any proposals were to be made, they should  preferably be in the form of directives.  Mr. HOLCROFT (New Zealand) wanted to clear  up a slight misunderstanding : the New Zealand  suggestion definitely did not seek the abolition of  the Projects Division, but a structural reform.  Disappointment had arisen not with the Division  as such, but at the lack of outside activity.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France)  reminded the meeting that, in the view of his  delegation, the failure to apply the programme in  practice was due not to the staff but to the or-  ganization of the Department.  Baron Van Der BRUGGEN (Belgium) approved  the New Zealand suggestion and supported the  British amendment in so far as it corresponded  to the spirit of the French proposal. He was not  very clear about the Ideas Bureau and the rôle  of the Press, Radio and Film sections. It was  proposed to utilize the services of distinguished  representatives of all three fields from outside the  Organization; in that case, what became of the  staff with its budget of $90,000? How could the  Ideas Bureau be justified if it was only a co-  ordinating body comprising a limited number of  experts?  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) thought the  question was principally one of terminology. The  functions of the body in question, whatever its  name, had been defined at the previous meeting  incidentally to the outlining of the projects pro-  posed for the coming year. There were no dif-  ficulties about implementing the views of the
303  "PUIS  French delegation, but it would be well not to  give the Division a rigid framework.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIÈRE (France)  replied that the question of terminology was a  matter of secondary importance only; what was  necessary was to know, firstly, who would be re-  sponsible if the programme were not implemented  and, secondly, whether the Ideas Bureau should  be attached to the Head of the Projects Division  (if it came under the Head of the Department of  Mass Communication, a single permanent adviser  would be enough). If, as seemed to be the case,  the Sub-Commission was unanimous on the func-  tions and independent existence of the three sec-  tions for the Press, Radio and Films, the French  delegation would be satisfied.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) suggested that the Sub-Commission  should refrain from going into details, in order to  give the Ideas Bureau a fair chance in the coming  vear. She herself would be against reducing the  Bureau to a single individual; such a person  would have to be equally well informed on the  techniques of all three sections and would have  to cover the whole of the programme laid down  in Mexico City.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France)  pointed out that it was customary for the General  Conference and the Programme and Budget Com-  mission to set limits to the initiation of new  activities by the Director-General.  The CHAIRMAN said that the British proposal  was supported by the delegation of the United  States of America; the French delegate agreed  that no separate vote need be taken on his own  suggestions, provided that the principle under-  lying them was embodied in the Sub-Commis-  sions Report and that it was expressly stated  therein that the meeting had been unanimously  in favour of that principle and the emphasis to be  given to the distinctive identity of the three sec-  tions for Press, Radio and Films.  On that basis. the United Kingdom amendment  was adopted.  Resolutions 2.2331 to 2.233 Radio (docu-  ment 8C/5, page 27).  Draft resolution submitted by the United  States delegation (document 3C/36, item 6).  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) supported  the draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of the United States of America.         At the request of Mr. NELSON (Australia), the  recommendation of the Mexico City Conference  regarding a possible Unesco World Radio Net-  work was given in detail; available resources had  not permitted the formation of such a network,  and it was not clear how it could operate for  twenty-four hours a day in 1949; that was the  reason for the limiting clause.  The draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of the United States of America was adopted.  After an exchange of views between Sir John  MAUD (United Kingdom) and Mrs. O'HARE  McCORMICK (United States of America),  M. SANDBO (Norway) supported the proposal of  the United States delegation that resolution 2.2332  should be struck out.  Adopted.  Resolution 2.23331 (document 3C/5, page 29).  M. MAHEU (Secretariat) said that the experts  on the Radio Programmes Committee had sug-  gested that the widest latitude should be left to  the Secretariat in the selection of specialists from  the countries best endowed in that respect. He  added that, in selection of new staff members, the  Secretariat would ensure suitable geographical  distribution.  Resolution 2.23331 was adopted.  Resolutions 2.23333 to 2.2337 (document
8C/5 page 29).  M. KHALIL (Egypt) expressed the hope that  special stress would be laid on school broadcasts,  as suggested in resolution 2.2337.  In reply to a request for an enquiry into the  state of world broadcasting, Mr. BESTERMAN  (Secretariat) explained that the adoption of any  such proposal would involve expenditure. How-  ever, as an enquiry in hand was almost completed,  a request could be made for such completion.  Resolutions 2.23333 to 2.2337 were adopted.  Resolutions 2.234 to 2.2343 : Films (docu-  ment 3C/5, pages 29 and 31).  Draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of the United States of America (document
3C/36, item 7).  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) pointed out that  the production of the two documentaries requested  would have important budgetary repercussions.  In reply, Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United  States of America) suggested that her text should  be amended as fellows :  To produce, if possible, as a pilot project two docu-  mentary films,...  Resolution 2.2341, as thus amended, was  seconded by Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom)  and adopted.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France)  asked that, in resolution 2.234, the words “Mass  Communication Projects Division” should be re-  placed by the words “Film Section”, if that body  had in fact an effective existence.  Mr. HUSAIN (India) asked what was the object  of resolution 2.2343.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) explained that  the views of the Radio Programmes Committee  had been of great value and it was desirable that  the Secretariat should have a chance of securing  similar opinions on films and the Press.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) asked what the  Secretariat understood by the term “producers”;  did it mean governments or private industry?  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) said that the  expression covered producers of educational, scien-  tific and cultural films, and not government film  units.  Resolutions 2.2342 and 2.2343 were adopted.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) enquired  whether the Secretariat did not think it desirable  to shorten the resolutions on radio and films by  omitting some of the detailed instructions.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) replied that.  provided there was no question of arbitrary selec-  tion, it would in fact be useful to do some con-  densing.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) accordingly  asked that resolutions 2.2331 to 2.343 should be  amalgamated, without, however, altering their  general sense; the Rapporteur could do what was  necessary in the Report to be submitted to the  Programme and Budget Commission.  Adopted.  Resolution 2.235 : Press (document 3C/5,  page 31).  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) asked that as much as possible should
304    be done to encourage the professional training of  journalists.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France)  moved that the phrase “Mass Communication Pro-  jects Division” should be replaced by the words  “Section responsible for the Press within the  Department of Mass Communication”.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) asked the Sub-Commission to avoid the  temptation constantly to reduce the scope of the  Projects Division. That Division should, on the  contrary, establish yet closer contact with the  three fields of the Press, Radio and Films.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France)  replied that, as the existence of the three sections  for the Press, Radio and Films could be gathered  from the proceedings but not from the Budget,  mention of them should at least be made in the  Programme.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested a  compromise : resolution 2.235 should be amen-  ded to read :  In the development of the Press work of the Or-  ganization, the Director-General is instructed to con-  sult with a Press and Publications Committee of  experts from organizations of publishers and jour-  nalists.  Adopted.  Resolution 2.236—Mass Media :  Themes (document 3C/5, page 31).  Major  Resolution 2.236 was adopted without amend-  ment.  Other Business.  Motions relating to resolution 2.21 : Tech-  nical Needs (documents 3C/36 and 3C/45).  M. GUEHENNO (France) asked for the adoption  of the French proposal embodied in document
3C/45.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) explained that her own delegation,  being well satisfied with the work performed by  the Commission on Technical Needs, thought it  desirable to continue the work and bring it up to  date with regard to further countries; that was  the object of their amendment (document 3C/36,  item 1).  Dr. TUDE-DE-SOUZA (Brazil) supported the  French proposal. He mentioned that the infor-  mation assembled had made it possible, in his  own country, to set up a Broadcasting College  and that the results of the world enquiry would  undoubtedly be an excellent groundwork for Mass  Communication.  Mme SAAB (Lebanon) and Professor VERONESI  (Italy) also supported the French proposal.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) sought the amendment of the French  proposal by the addition of a phrase requiring co-  ordination of the work of the survey teams with  that of the Projects Division.  Mr. HOLCROFT (New Zealand) moved that the  second part of the French amendment should be  altered; while it was possible that such a body  of information had never previously been pub-  lished on a world scale, the text as it stood ran  the risk of being misinterpreted.  Mr. HUSAIN (India) asked whether, with re-  ference to the American proposal, the Director-  General was in position to “implement the  findings of surveys which have been completed”.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Secretariat) replied that, if  what was meant was the despatch of technical  equipment to countries in need of it, the answer  was in the negative. Action could, however, be  taken on the intellectual side; to take an instance,  professional training should be improved by a  more extensive dissemination of knowledge in  certain countries, and the Director-General was  in a position to do it. It should further be noted  that despite the cautionary foreword, the pre-  paration of the list of equipment needed for war-  devastated countries had raised hopes which it  was not yet possible to satisfy.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed with  the French delegation on the value of the reports  so far published, but wanted the subsequent prac-  tical action to correspond. It was quite true that  Unesco lacked the necessary resources; that was,  however, an additional reason for the Sub-Com-  mission’s pausing to reflect before putting in hand  new surveys, which might not secure such good  results as might be obtainable by confining  activities to needs already known. Could not the  delegate of France agree to the simple inclusion  of his proposals in the Sub-Commission's Report,  instead of putting them forward as resolutions for  submission to the Conference?           M. GUEHENNO (France) could see no reason  why, with a permanent Secretariat, expenses  should be any higher if a more extensive survey  was carried out within the limits suggested by  the French delegation. Apart from that, he was  agreeable to the emphasis being laid on the means  of meeting technical needs, and to the incor-  poration in his text of the amendment proposed  by the United States of America. However, the  French delegation would still ask for a vote on  their proposal.  M. TECER (Turkey) seconded that request.  In reply, Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United  States of America) said that her delegation con-  sidered that the adoption of the French sug-  gestions would result in increased expenditure;  they would prefer to see the appropriations  available used to implement the findings of the  surveys already concluded.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) also fav-  oured that view. A proportion of the appro-  FOURTH  Chairman:  Consideration of a draft Agreement for  facilitating the international circulation of  visual and auditory materials of an edu-  cational, scientific and cultural character  (document 3C/9 and Addenda 1 and 2).  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) said that the text  prepared by the drafting committee (document
3C/9, Add. 2) differed only in minor particulars  from the original draft. He stressed the fact  that Article III, paragraph 1, made provision for  the waiving not only of all customs duties and  quota restrictions of any description, but also of  requirements for import licences in respect of the  permanent or temporary import of material  produced in the territory of any signatory State.  Article IV, paragraph 4 (certification), laid it  down that certificates should be given by exporting  countries and accepted by importing countries.  Article IV, paragraph 5, provided that the  priations might be used to implement the findings  of the surveys; but that did not prevent the exten-  sion of the surveys to countries where they had  not yet been made.  Accordingly, M. GUEHENNO (France) asked  that a vote should be taken on the first paragraph  of his proposal as amended by the United States  of America, namely :  The Director-General is instructed :  To take all practical steps to implement the findings  of surveys which have been completed;  To continue the enquiry initiated by the Commis-  sion on Technical Needs in Mass Communication by  surveys of other countries and to publish the reports  prepared by the Secretariat, after approval by the  Commission;  To co-ordinate the work of the Field Survey Teams  with the activities of the Projects Division.  Adopted.  The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.  MEETING  Friday, 8 December 1948, at 10.45 a.m.
306  Mrs. Kamala Devi CHATTOPADHYAYA (India)  authorities of the signatory State into which  material was to be imported could give their  approval on condition that the material was to  be exhibited or used solely for non-profit-making  purposes.  Mr. McKNIGHT (United States of America)  said his delegation wished to move four amend-  ments :
1. Paragraph (c) of Article II : to strike out  the words “exhibition displays”;
2. Paragraph 1 of Article III : after the words  “quantitative restrictions” the addition of the  words “made necessary by considerations of  national security and public morality”;
3. Paragraph 5 of Article IV : to be amended  in the following form : “In taking their decision  the authorities of a signatory State shall be entitled  to require from the purchasers of such material