SECOND MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, at 6.30 p.m.  Chairman:  How Unesco can best discharge its functions  as a world centre for the exchange of infor-  mation (documents 3C/3, 3C/5, 3C/6, 3C/71)  (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN submitted for discussion the  Secretariat’s re-drafting of pages 68-69 of the Bud-  get Estimates for 1949 (document 3C/6) :  (a) Amend heading to read : G. Exchange of  Information.  (b) Amend Programme Resolution to read :
5.8 Exchange of Information. The Director-  General is instructed to collect such information  about experts, institutions, activities, research re-  sources, and physical facilities in education, science  and culture as is pertinent to the programme  resolutions and necessary for the carrying on of the  Organization’s work.  (c) In the numbered paragraphs on page 69,  make the following changes :
2. For “documentation” read “documentary  research’.
3. Amend to read :  Collect and organize information for a central  register of institutions and activities in such fields of  education, science and culture as are needed for the  execution of the programme.
4. For “Unesco” read “authorized.
5. Amend to read :  Conduct the statistical activities of Unesco and co-  ordinate them with those of the United Nations and  the Specialized Agencies.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), referring  to paragraph (b), said that the draft there sug-  gested was quite different from the resolution  passed in Mexico City the previous year, and diffe-  rent in a very important respect from the reso-  lution submitted to the Executive Board, because  it omitted the words “and dissemination”. The  point he had made at the preceding meeting was  that it was most important to decide, first, what  the resolution should say, and then what was the  best organization inside the Secretariat to carry out  that resolution, instead of taking as a basis a work  plan for a part of the Organization, and then  deciding what resolution it could conveniently
429     Mrs. Louise WRIGHT (United States of America)  carry out. If the Committee approved the pro-  posed amendment to resolution 5.8, it would be  assuming that the organization inside the Secre-  tariat was necessary and fitting. At the previous  meeting it had been agreed that the organization  was not designed for dissemination outside  Unesco; it was an internal clearing-house; Sir  John did not himself feel, at the moment, that  there was any point in the General Conference's  passing a programme item in those terms.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought  there were two separate issues involved : firstly,  what the Committee wished Unesco to do about  the collection and dissemination of information,  and, secondly, whether it wished to give advice  to the Director-General on how he should organize  the work.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed with  the Deputy Director-General. He did not wish  the Committee to change the resolution in order  to fit the internal organization; the Committee  should decide what it thought the Conference  ought to adopt as a resolution, and then leave it  to the Director-General to carry out that reso-  lution with such guidance as it wished to give  him.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL was a little  concerned over the elimination of the words “and  dissemination”. He thought it essential to have  a general resolution authorizing the Director-  General to collect and disseminate information.  If that term were eliminated, the phrase became  vague.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) said that,  in the draft resolution under discussion, the Com-  mittee was considering something which should  be dissociated entirely from the question of inter-  nal organization : did the resolution go back to  the words of the Mexico City Conference, which  were very much more modest than the words of  the resolution proposed by the Executive Board  at the present Conference? Moreover, the heading  in the Mexico City resolution was not “World  Centre for Exchange of Information”, but “World  Register”. Even if the Committee went back to  the Mexico City resolution, other activities, such as                                     the library and the archives, would still be auth-  orized. If, therefore, the Committee substituted  that resolution for the one before them, the Dir-  ector-General would be perfectly free to give the  work on the World Register in 1949 to whatever  part of the Secretariat he thought fit, and to add  to it whatever other work he thought he con-  veniently could.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought  that if the Committee went back to the Mexico  City resolution, the Director-General would not be  authorized to take the action expected of him in  certain fields.  M. SEYDOUX (France) was not clear what the  Committee was discussing. It seemed to be con-  sidering two texts simultaneously—those on  pages 68 and 69 of the Budget Estimates (doc-  ument 3C/6), and a resolution of the United  Kingdom delegate.  The CHAIRMAN said that the first part of the  discussion bore on the question whether the Com-  mittee should recommend to the Programme and  Budget Commission the broad authorization in  the wording of resolution 5.8 as it stood on  page 68 of the Budget Estimates. The Committee  did not want to do that.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark), Professeur CHEN  Yuan (China), Mr. WILCOCKS (Union of South  Africa) and Mr. NELSON (Australia) suggested  amendments and deletions on page 69 of the Bud-  get Estimates, particularly in paragraphs (1), (2)  and (3).  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) asked for a  vote on his proposal to revert to the resolution  adopted at the Second Session of the General  Conference.  After some discussion, that resolution was  adopted by eight votes to one, with some modi-  fications, as follows :
50.8. World Register. The Director-General is  instructed to continue work leading to a World  Register of workers, institutes, activities, research  resources and physical facilities in selected fields of  education, science and culture.  The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to con-  sider the United Kingdom resolution which had  been proposed at the previous meeting.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) explained  that his resolution was entirely concerned with  that section of Unesco’s internal organization
430  entitled in the Budget Estimates (document 3C/6,  page 68). “G. World Centre for Exchange of  Information.”  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL was rather  puzzled by the United Kingdom resolution; it  withdrew the authorization to do things that were  being done, and yet suggested at the end that  there was duplication to be avoided; no dupli-  cation in fact existed. It also referred to “‘dupli-  cation with work necessarily coming within the  scope of Programme Departments’.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), replying  to the Deputy Director-General, suggested insert-  ing the words “the danger of” after “avoid”, in  the last clause of his resolution.  M. SEYDOUX (France) proposed that there  should be a full stop after the word “statistics”,  followed by a new sentence, beginning : “In order  to avoid the danger of duplication, certain of these  activities might, if necessary, be transferred to the  appropriate Departments”.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not  think the addition of that sentence either im-  proved the situation or made it more difficult. He  was very much concerned with the implication in  the resolution that there was duplication (he did  not recall a single piece of evidence in the discus-  sion that there had been duplication), and the  suggestion that certain functions necessarily  belonged in one place or other, irrespective of the  way in which the Director-General chose to or-  ganize the Secretariat. No economy was, in his  opinion, going to be effected by the proposal.  M. SEYDOUX (France) did not agree with the  Deputy Director-General, and thought that eco-  nomies were possible.  The CHAIRMAN put the United Kingdom reso-  lution to the vote, and it was finally adopted with  the amendment suggested by M. Seydoux. (42)  How Unesco should improve its publications  policy and carry out its publications pro-  gramme in 1949.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) enumerated the doc-  uments before the Committee : the Report of the  Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Publications.
(142) In final  Annex, 1, p. 86.     form : Volume II. Section XII.     |  ;     br   e n   pi   je n  b d   A   ee e]
1     se   a u   c s   L œ Û   —   — — — _ — — —   —   set up by the meeting of representatives of Natio-  nal Commissions (document XR/NC/Conf./4);  a four-page type-written document on the Publi-  cation Programme for 1949; a list of Unesco  agencies. Document 3C/ADM/12 also referred to  the matter to be discussed, as it contained a pro-  posal for the setting up of a Publications Fund;  that proposal had been passed by the Admini-  strative Commission. Document 3C/PRG/0.2 set  out the Publications Policy. A complete list of  publications was also available.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) pro-  posed the adjournment of the meeting, as the  THIRD  Chairman:  How Unesco should improve its publications  policy and carry out its publications pro-  gramme in 1949 (continuation).  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) reminded the meeting  that, though a sum of $246,315 had been provided  for publications for 1948, obligations had in fact  amounted in all to $219,600. The need to allocate  degrees of priority to publications had always been  obvious, but it had proved difficult, and during
1948 the Publications Committee had been forced  to deal with its problems from day to day.  In connexion with the question of priority, the  CHAIRMAN asked what was the exact situation  with regard to the publication of “Human Rights”  through commercial channels.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) explained that, in that  particular instance, it had been proposed to work  through a publishing house, as considerable sales  were assured in advance, but, so far, no publishing  house had been willing to undertake the task.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) expressed  the view that Unesco should do all its own  publishing and should approach suitable organi-  zations, similar to those existing in the United  Kingdom, to handle sales and distribution.  hour was late and the Committee should study  the papers before discussing the item.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested  that the Committee should ask the Chairman of  the Programme and Budget Commission for its  recommendations to be transmitted directly to  the Budget Sub-Commission, for reference back  to the Programme and Budget Commission after  consideration by that Sub-Commission ; that would  give the Committee time to do its work.  The suggestion was approved.  The meeting rose at 9 p.m.  MEETING  Tuesday, 30 November 1948, at 6 p.m.
431  Mrs. Louise WRIGHT (United States of America)  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) agreed that the sug-  gestion was a good one. He added, however,  that, where heavy sales were involved, Unesco  would experience great difficulty, in existing cir-  cumstances, in ensuring the distribution of a  large number of copies.  The CHAIRMAN took the view that Unesco  should publish its own pamphlets, as its repu-  tation depended on them, but should have them  sold through commercial distributing organi-  zations.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) stressed  that it was important for Unesco to produce all  its publications or at least to have them produced  under its auspices; the Organization would thus  be able to supply its pamphlets and documents to  all Member States. His own forecast was that  Unesco would be able to undertake both publi-  cation and distribution of its own productions  in 1950-51.  Mr. DAVIES (Australia) agreed with the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom and drew attention  to the difficulty experienced by the Australian  public in securing Unesco publications, despite  the existence in Australia of a United Nations  agent from whom they could be obtained. He  concluded that it was necessary for Unesco itself