SECOND  Dr. H. Chairman:  Grants-in-aid to the International Council of  Scientific Unions.  The CHAIRMAN had been notified of the ques-  tion of the reduction in the grant to be made by  Unesco to the International Council of Scientific  Unions. The amount proposed in the Budget  Estimates (document 3C/6, page 114) was  $192,010, whereas the sum of $243,000 had been  allocated in 1948. No reason was apparent for  the reduction and it was felt that the figure for
1948 should be maintained, in view of the excellent  and efficient manner in which the money had  been used by ICSU. The Chairman presented to  the meeting the following motion proposed by the  delegate of Belgium :  On page 114 of the Budget estimates, the line :  ‘Grants-in-aid (ICSU and associated unions) $192,010°  be amended to read  ‘Grants-in-aid (ICSU and associated unions) $243,000".  M. FLORKIN (Belgium) added that the amend-  ment was fully justified by the excellent work  for international co-operation accomplished by  [CSU in the field of natural sciences. It was felt  that the extra money could be found by a reduction  in administrative costs.  Sir Harold SPENCER JONES (United Kingdom)  supported the Belgian amendment, but wondered  if an increase in the grant to the 1948 level would  be sufficient. Many new scientific unions and  organizations were being set up, and if no pro-  portional increase were made in the grant, the  sums allotted to long-established Unions would  have to be reduced.  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) asked for an explan-  ation of the reasons underlying the Secretariat's  decision to propose that reduction of the grant to  ICSU.  M. AUGER (Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences) read from page 15 of the Budget Esti-  mates (document 3C/6) the paragraph entitled  “Better Balance of Resources”; he added that he  was not responsible for the decision.     MEETING  Tuesday, 23 November 1948. at 3.30 p.m.
331  R. KRUYT (Netherlands)  M. PERRIN (France) also supported the Belgian  amendment, as he considered that grants-in-aid  formed a most efficient method of furthering  international co-operation in the scientific field.  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) mentioned  that the United Kingdom delegation was greatly  in favour of a reduction in administrative costs  and would be making proposals to that end. He  also stated that several Programme Departments  (notably Mass Communication) had not yet spent  all the funds allocated to them for 1948. He  wondered if it might be possible to arrange a  transfer from that surplus.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) said that  his delegation believed that grants-in-aid were an  efficient method of furthering Unesco's purposes.  But for such grants, it might prove impossible  to hold international scientific meetings in the  United States of America because of the currency  difficulties of many countries. However, he  pointed out that, since the total budget might be  reduced, it might not be possible to obtain the  increase proposed in the motion.  The CHAIRMAN felt that grants-in-aid should  be a continuing policy and that the sum allocated  should vary with the number of Organizations and  Unions. The Unions served Unesco’s purposes in  a most efficient manner : (a) by establishing per-  sonal contacts between scientists; (b) by stimu-  lating scientific life in remote places; and (c) by  enabling scientists who could not attend inter-  national meetings to take part in their work  through appropriate publications. He proposed  the following resolution for adoption by the  meeting :  The Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences, conscious  of the great value of Unesco’s moral and material aid  to the international scientific unions in the further-  ance of international scientific co-operation, fully  endorses programme resolution 6.61 (and its asso-  ciated resolutions 6.62 and 6.621) with the corres-  ponding work plan; and considers that this type of  aid should be understood as constituting a permanent  and continuing activity of Unesco; but it believes that  the budgetary provisions (appropriation line III, 6,  D. 2) for 1949 are inadequate, and that a return  should be made to a figure substantially higher than       that of 1947 and 1948 ($240,000); the increase to be  obtained not from reduction of other programme  activities, but from savings which it is believed could  be made in the administrative expenses of the Organi-  zation.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) proposed  the following two amendments to the programme  resolutions in document 3C/5, page 85 :  (a) Resolution 6.62 :  should be retained :  only the following words  To assist in the international organization of scien-  tists engaged in the applied field of engineering.  (b) Resolution 6.621 : the wording of the  resolution should be changed to read as follows :  To render such assistance to the World Health  Organization in the establishment of a Permanent  Bureau for the Co-ordination of International Con-  gresses of Medical Sciences as the World Health  Organization may request.  After discussion, the first amendment was  rejected by seven votes to four, as it was felt that  no distinction or separation could be made be-  tween pure science and the applied sciences of  engineering, agriculture, and medicine.  During discussion on the second amendment,  M. AUGER (Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that much progress had  already been made in that connexion and that a  Bureau for the Co-ordination of International  Congresses of Medical Sciences had already been  established by Unesco, jointly with the World  Health Organization. The Bureau was, in fact,  operating most successfully at Unesco, and M. Au-  ger felt that it would be unwise and even dan-  gerous to alter the system. A permanent Council  was being set up and its Constitution had already  been drafted. The World Health Organization  and Unesco had accepted joint responsibility and  M. Auger felt that that was an excellent example  of co-operation between the two Specialized  Agencies.  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) and Dr.  NIELSEN (Denmark) supported M. Auger’s re-  marks.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) said  that his intention was not to change anything that  was already in existence and working well. His  purpose was merely to shift the responsibility  slightly, as he believed the responsibility for the  project should eventually belong to the World  Health Organization. However, as it did not seem  feasible to do so at the moment, he withdrew his  amendment.  The resolution proposed by the Chairman was  then adopted unanimously.  Establishment of an International Institute of  the Arid Zone.  The CHAIRMAN submitted the draft resolution,  proposed by the Indian delegation, for the estab-  lishment of an International Institute of the Arid  Zone (document 3C/20).  Dr. BAHL (India) read the explanatory intro-  duction to the document.  M. JAWAD (Iraq) seconded the resolution.  Professor RIVET (France) remarked that, whilst  he entirely agreed that the work should be under-  taken, he did not agree with the method proposed.  He felt that both time and money would be saved  by co-operating with bodies, such as the Inter-  national Union for the Protection of Nature,  already in existence, instead of attempting to estab-  lish an entirely new Institute. The aims and pur-  poses of the IUPN included the protection of the  soil, and thence were closely allied to those set  forth in the Indian proposal.  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) felt that  there was some confusion between the terms  ‘Union’ and ‘Institute’. A Union was a scattered  organization with representatives all over the  world, whereas an international Institute carried  out research in one place. He felt that an Insti-  tute of the Arid Zone—comparable to the Inter-  national Institute for the Hylean Amazon—would  have to be established to carry out the project.  Dr. MONGE (Peru) warmly supported the Indian  resolution; he pointed out, in particular, that the  problem of the Arid Zone was not so much one  of the protection of nature as of the protection  of man, since the question at issue was the adap-  tation of desert conditions for human life.  M. Jamal FARRA (Syria) agreed with the dele-  gate of France that Unesco should attempt to take  advantage, to a greater extent, of the work of  existing scientific organization. He felt that direct  action could be achieved much more quickly in  that way. He had also noticed a growing feeling  amongst his colleagues that Unesco’s work was  being stifled in its early stages by too much doc-  umentation and research.  Dr. ARGUELLES (Philippines) regarded the  Indian proposal as a great contribution to the  succour of starving humanity.
11  —        M. FLORKIN (Belgium) also supported the pro-  posal but asked how it was proposed to finance  the Institute.  M. AUGER (Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that the proposal of the Indian  delegation was to follow the system adopted for  the establishment of the International Institute of  the Hylean Amazon. The Institute itself would  work in close co-operation with Unesco, but would  be an entirely independent unit.  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) remarked  that there seemed only to be a small difficulty  over the wording of the resolution. He proposed  the following text, with which the Indian dele-  gation was in agreement :  The Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences, taking  note of the success recently achieved by Unesco in its  initialive to arrange for the setting up of an Interna-  tional Institute of the Hylean Amazon; and  having in mind the special problems of the region  in which the present General Conference is meeting;  recommends that the Conference instruct the  Director-General to investigate during the coming year  proposals for an International Institute of the Arid  Zone, such as that which has been forwarded to the  Economic and Social Council by the International  Union of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics; and  THIRD  Chairman:  Adoption of the Agenda.  The provisional Agenda for the meeting (doc-  ument 3C/PRG/5.6) was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN informed the meeting that, in  the absence of Dr. Joseph Needham, the United  Kingdom delegation had appointed Sir Harold  Spencer Jones as Rapporteur.  Accepted.  International Computation Centre (document
3C/19).  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the  resolution of the United States delegation with  recommends that a budgetary provision of $8,000  be found for a committee of experts and delegates of  other Specialized Agencies to report in 1949 on the  utility, programme and structure of an International  Institute of the Arid Zone, with a view to an interna-  tional conference in 1950.  Professor RIVET (France) supported the reso-  lution, but was not happy about the reference to  the success of the Hylean Amazon activities of  Unesco during 1948. From personal observance,  he felt that a great deal of time and money had  been wasted.  M. AUGER (Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that a large amount of money  had indeed been spent in an effort to compress  the gradual stages of the Institute's development  into one year and to begin research work. at the  same time. He pointed out that the Indian dele-  gation proposed that Unesco should proceed more  slowly in establishing the new Institute, but he  felt that the Organization could well profit from  the experience gained with the Institute of the  Hylean Amazon. |  The resolution presented by the United King-  dom delegate was adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  MEETING  Friday, 3 December 1948, at 10.30 a.m.
333  Dr. H. KR. KRUYT (Netherlands)  regard to the establishment of an international  computation centre had already been discussed by  the Programme and Budget Commission, which  had agreed to ask the Director-General to look  into the proposals.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) pointed  out that, while for budgetary reasons it had been  deemed impossible for the Secretariat to arrange  for a Conference of experts, as proposed in the  resolution, out of Unesco’s funds, it might be  possible to obtain funds from elsewhere. He sug-  gested that the Head of the Department of Natural  Sciences should write to the National Research  Council in the United States of America (which  had instigated the resolution) asking for further  clarification of the proposal, and for information