close collaboration between the Director-General  and the Executive Board which is essential for the  success of our Organization.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 see, gentle-  men, by your applause that you approve the pro-  posal which has been made by the head of the  United States delegation and seconded by the  Chairman of the Executive Board. I therefore ask  the Secretariat to send a telegram to His Excel-  lency Dr. Jaime Torres Bodet to inform him of his  election, proffer the congratulations and best  wishes of the General Conference, and request him  to come and join us as soon as possible.  The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.  ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 30 November 1948 at 11 a.m.  CONTENTS
90. Third Report of the Credentials Committee . © +257 HEN, 134  President : Count Stefano JACINI (Italy)
20. Third Report of the Credentials Com-  mittee.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): On the Agenda  we have the consideration of the Third Report of  the Credentials Committee. I call upon the  Chairman of that Committee.  M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Chairman  of the Credentials Committee) (Translation) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the follow-  ing is the third Report of the Credentials Com-  mittee :  The Committee has considered the telegram in  which the permanent delegate of Czechoslovakia to  Unesco communicated the composition of the delega-  tion nominated by the Czechoslovak Government for  the Third Session of the General Conference.  In accordance with its previous decisions, the Com-  mittee recommends to the General Conference that the  telegram in question be regarded as furnishing the  Czechoslovak delegation with provisional credentials,  subject to the subsequent presentation of credentials  in due form.  The Committee has noted that the delegations of  Australia, China, France and Iran, which had already  been authorized to take part in the Third Session of  the General Conference subject to the subsequent  presentation of credentials in due form, have since  been duly accredited in accordance with Rule 22 of     the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Third Session  of the General Conference.  The Committee has also taken note of the docu-  ments stating that Transjordan and the Supreme Com-  mander for the Allied Powers in Japan are being  represented by observers. It suggests that these  observers be authorized to take part in the Third Ses-  sion of the General Conference, without the right to  vote.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I should like  to thank the Chairman of the Credentials Com-  mittee for this Report.  The telegram alluded to is contained in docu-  ment 3C/55.  At its meeting on Monday the General Com-  mittee decided to postpone consideration of the  Report until this morning, but at the same time  it decided to communicate the text of the telegram  to the plenary meeting. In transmitting it, the  General Committee drew the attention of the  Conference to the practical drawbacks which  might result from the solution recommended by  the Credentials Committee.  Are there any comments? Does anybody wish  to speak?  The report is adopted.  The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m.