THIRTEENTH  Saturday, 4 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  hey (lo FE “—"; Tr     MEETING  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Progress made and programme of work to be  done before the closing of the Conference.  The SECRETARY indicated that satisfactory  progress had been made by all the Commissions  and Sub-Commissions with the exception of the  Budget Sub-Commission; the latter had met  twice, and its final meetings were scheduled for  Monday, 6 December. On the afternoon of Mon-  day, 6 December, there would be a plenary meeting  to discuss the Reports of Member States and the  places for the Fourth and Fifth Sessions of the  General Conference. On Tuesday, 7 December,  the Reports of the Official and External Relations  and Administrative Commissions would be taken  in plenary meeting. On Wednesday, 8 December,  the Programme and Budget Commission would  consider the Report of the Budget Sub-Com-  mission. On Thursday, 9 December, there would  be a meeting of National Commissions both morn-  ing and afternoon. Lastly, on Thursday 9 De-  cember, and Friday 10 December, there would be  plenary meetings and the formal closure of the  Conference.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the  date of the closure depended on the progress made  by the Budget Sub-Commission, and might well  be Saturday, 11 December, at noon.  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) drew attention to the  necessity for completing the report of the Pro-  cedure Committee before the plenary meeting.  The SECRETARY said that the Report was  expected to be ready on Thursday, 9 December.  Telegram to the Presidént of the Conference  from M. Louis Saillant, Secretary-General  of the World Federation of Trade Unions.  The CHAIRMAN read a telegram from the  Secretary-General of the World Federation of Trade  Unions, protesting against the arrest of his  Organization’s observer.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) suggested  that an acknowledgement only should be sent, and  added that it would be improper to discuss a  matter which was still sub judice.
239  Le- The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed; the  banese Government had already given him an  assurance that M. El-Ariss would be brought to  trial in the very near future.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) also  agreed, provided that the organization represented  bv M. El-Ariss was informed of the circumstances  of his arrest.  In reply, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that  the organization had already been so informed.  M. SEYDOUX (France) suggested that a formal  acknowledgment should be telegraphed to the  WFTU, with an indication that a more detailed  communication would follow in course of post.  Telegram to the President of the Conference  from M. Mohamed Hassan El-Sayad,  Chairman of the Sudanese-Egyptian Com-  mittee.  The CHAIRMAN read a telegram protesting  against the persecution of the native population  of the Sudan by the British authorities.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) re-  marked that the matter raised was a political  one; he therefore suggested that the reply should  be that the matter was outside Unesco’s com-  petence.  The Director-General was accordingly instructed  to answer the telegram on those lines.  Telegram to the President of the Conference  from a group of Arab students in London.  The CHAIRMAN read a telegram from thirty  Palestinian Arab students in grave difficulties in  London, urgently requesting financial assistance.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) felt  some sympathy for the unfortunate position of the  students, but thought that the telegram should  be handled in the same way as the preceding one.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) suggested  that he should approach his own Ministry for          fuller details. He was surprised that the Arab  students had not appealed to the National Union  of Students.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the  matter should be put in the hands of the  Head of the Department of Reconstruction,  Dr. Drzewieski, with instructions to submit a  report; he added that the term ‘’refugee” could,  if necessary, be stretched to include the students  in question.  Dr. PARRA-PEREZ (Acting Chairman of the  Executive Board) supported the Director-General’s  suggestion.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) stressed  the danger of creating a precedent which might  have considerable repercussions. The twenty  thousand foreign students in the United States of  America and the fifty thousand refugee students  in France, of Polish and Czech nationality, should  not be forgotten. However, he had no objection  to the procedure suggested by the Director-  General.  Professor KABIR (India) reminded the meeting  that the General Committee would conclude its  meetings In six days time at most, and would  have no time to receive the report requested from  the Department of Reconstruction. He accord-  ingly suggested that the General Committee  should authorize the Director-General to take such  steps as might prove necessary.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) sug-  cested that the General Committee should waste  no time on the question, if 1t was a matter for  the British Ministry of Education.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed  that the report should be submitted to whichever  committee was best qualified to discuss it.  The Director-General’s  mously adopted.  proposal was unani-  Letter to the Director-General from the  Provisional Government of Israel.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) asked for details  of the telegram sent by the Provisional Govern-  ment of Israel.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL informed the  meeting that he had received a letter from the  Provisional Government of Israel, which he had  passed to the Executive Board; as he had learnt  A 36  of certain rumours in connexion with the matter,  he had thought it best to issue a press com-  muniqué (No. 50), summarizing the situation as  follows :  The Provisional Government of Israel has with-  drawn its application to join the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, it  was announced today.  The withdrawal was announced by Dr. Julian Hux-  ley, Unesco’s Director-General, in a statement issued  in Beirut, where the Organization is now holding the  Third Session of its General Conference. Dr. Huxley,  who is soon to hand over executive leadership of the  United Nations Agency to Dr. Jaime Torres Bodet of  Mexico, stated that he had received an official com-  munication from the representative in Paris of the  Provisional Government of Israel, informing him that  the latter Government had decided to withdraw the  application it had previously submitted, as a Non-  Member of the United Nations, to join Unesco.  The representative of the Provisional Government  of Israel pointed out that, by decision of Unesco’s  Executive Board, his Government had been invited  to attend the present session of the General Confer-  ence in an unofficial capacity. The Lebanese Govern-  ment, however, had been unwilling to grant necessary  facilities to the Provisional Government of Israel. In  view of this fact, the Israeli statement said, the Pro-  visional Government of Israel had notified the Director-  General that it was formally withdrawing its appli-  cation for membership.  Dr. Huxley added that the matter was being  considered by the Executive Board.  Dr. PARRA-PEREZ (Acting Chairman of the  Executive Board) recalled that the Deputy  Director-General had made a verbal statement to  the Executive Board on the letter received by the  Director-General; the Board had decided to deal  with the matter at an early meeting. He gave a  brief outline of the circumstances in which the  Provisional Government of Israel had applied for  membership, and said that the Executive Board  had transmitted the request, without comment,  to the Economic and Social Council.  The CHAIRMAN considered that the Committee  should await the decision of the Executive Board.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized that the  Executive Board would report to the General Con-  ference.  Dr. PARRA-PEREZ (Acting Chairman of the  Iixecutive Board) stated that the report in question  would also be submitted to the General Committee.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) indi-  cated his full agreement with the procedure  adopted and with the Director-General’s decision  to issue a communiqué, in view of the need to  stop undesirable rumours.         The procedure suggested by the Director-  General and the Acting Chairman of the Executive  Board was unanimously adopted.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAI informed the mem-  bers of the Committee that Dr. Torres Bodet  hoped to reach Beirut during the afternoon of
8 December.  The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.  FOURTEENTH MEETING  Tuesday, 7 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Programme of work for the Conference.  M. MONTAGNIER (Head of the Bureau of  Conference Planning) read the programme for the  day, and said that the work of the plenary  meetings was going so fast that it was hoped to  end the Conference at midday on Friday, 10 De-  cember. The plenary Conference still had to  examine the Report of the Programme and Budget  Commission, and that of the Procedure Com-  mittee; a discussion was to be held on the cere-  mony which was to take place when the new  Director-General took office; a resolution of the  New Zealand delegation concerning the despatch  of Conference documents to Member States had  to be examined, as had also the question of the  admission of Monaco. Item 17 of the Agenda  provided for a general discussion on the rôle of  education, science and culture, but no speakers  had yet written down their names under that  item. The last meeting of the Procedure Com-  mittee would take place on the afternoon of
8 December, and three plenary meetings would  be held on Thursday, morning and afternoon, and  on Friday morning. The report of the Joint  Committee of Fifteen would be examined on  Thursday morning and, under item 18 of the  Agenda, there would be a discussion of the  Agreement for facilitating the circulation of visual  and auditory material.  The SECRETARY added that the suggestion had  been made that the delegate of Pakistan, who was  attending the session as an observer, should be  allowed to speak when item 17 of the Agenda was  discussed.  Publication of a letter from the delegation  of Pakistan.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) observed that a  letter from the Pakistan delegation to the General
237  Conference had been published the previous day;  he was astonished that it should have been  published before it had been passed to the General  Committee.  The CHAIRMAN explained that he had received  the letter in his dual capacity as President of the  Conference and Lebanese Minister of Foreign  Affairs. The letter concerned the alleged publi-  cation, by the Indian delegation, of certain  pamphlets which made unfavourable references  to Pakistan and Kashmir. Upon receipt of the  letter, he had communicated with the Indian dele-  gation and had received a signed statement that  the latter had not published any material that  mentioned Pakistan or Kashmir; the pamphlets  to which the Pakistan delegation had referred had  been published by the Indian Legation, and did  not therefore concern the General Conference.  For that reason, the Chairman had not com-  municated the letter to the General Committee.  Draft resolution proposed by the New  Zealand delegation (document 3C/PRO/13).  M. MONTAGNIER (Head of the Bureau of  Conference Planning) announced that the New  Zealand delegation had agreed to reduce the time  specified in the third line of the draft resolution  from thirty-five to twenty-five days. It would  mean a very great effort on the part of the Secre-  tariat to prepare the documents in time for the  session in September 1949, but it undertook to  do so.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) observed  that his country was in the same position as New  Zealand; he had left for the Conference without  having seen some of the documents. He wondered  whether the Secretariat could not send documents  out in such a form that they could be reproduced