SECOND MEETING  Friday, 19 November 1948, at 1.30 p.m.  Chairman: Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  Officers of the Sub-Commissions of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission.  The CHAIRMAN submitted to the meeting, for  approval prior to presentation to the General  Conference in conformity with paragraph (2) of  Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure, a list of sug-  gestions for the officers of the Sub-Commissions  of the Programme and Budget Commission. He  stressed that the list had been drawn up by the  Secretariat from the names submitted by dele-  cations, with a view to ensuring adequate tech-  nical competence as well as fair geographical  distribution. The list, given below, was adopted  without amendment :  Sub-Commission on Reconstruction: Chairman,  United Kingdom; Vice-Chairman, Turkey; Rappor-  teur, India.  Sub-Commission on Communication: Chairman,  India: Vice-Chairman, Brazil; Rapporteur, Canada.  Sub-Commission on Education : Chairman,  China: Vice-Chairman, Philippines; Rapporteur,  Union of South Africa.  Sub-Commission on Cultural Questions : Chair-  man, France: Vice-Chairman, Afghanistan; Rappor-  teur, United States of America.  Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences : Chair-  man, Netherlands; Vice-Chairman, Peru; Rappor-  teur, United Kingdom.  Sub-Commission on Social Sciences : Chairman,  United States of America; Vice-Chairman, New  Zealand; Rapporteur, France.  Sub-Commission on Exchange of Persons :  Chairman, Egypt; Vice-Chairman, Canada; Rap-  porteur, Denmark.  M. SEYDOUX (France) pointed out that no  European country was represented among the  officers proposed for the Sub-Commissions on  Communication and Education, a fact which he  deplored, especially with regard to the Education  Sub-Commission.  Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) proposed that the  number of Vice-Chairmen for each Sub-Commis-  sion should be increased to two.  It was decided that Sub-Commissions should be  left free to choose a second Vice-Chairman if they  found it necessary; that procedure should be  followed for the current session of the General  Conference only, and should not be taken as a  precedent for future sessions.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that, as the delegate  of the Netherlands was unable to serve as Rap-  porteur of the Administrative Commission, M. Ver-  niers (Belgium) should be asked to serve in his  place.  Approved.  The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.