—   c m m —   Ny  c — —    v —  —   SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE  PROCEDURE COMMITTEE  FIRST  Chairman  Election of the Chairman.  The SECRETARY opened the meeting and asked  for nominations for the office of Chairman of the  Committee.  The delegate of Denmark was proposed by  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), and seconded by  M. ALLIX (France).  As Dr. Jakob Nielsen was absent, the Chair was  taken by Mme Edel Saunte.  Adoption of the Provisional Rules of Pro-  cedure.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the draft Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference (doc-  ument 3C/PRO/1) should be provisionally adop-  ted, without amendment, pending further study  by the Committee.  Mrs. BRUNAUER (United States of America)  and Mr. DESROCHERS (Canada) supported the  proposal.  Adopted.  Business of the Committee.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) asked for a defi-  nition of the work ahead of the Committee. He  had learnt, from experience as a member of the  same committee at Mexico City, that it was diffi-  cult to obtain a quorum if the work of the com-  mittee was put in the background. He suggested  that the best representation would be obtained if  meetings were held at the close of plenary  meetings of the General Conference. He asked if  it was intended that the Committee should discuss  MEETING  Wednesday, 17 November 1948, at 4.15 p.m.
447  - Mme Edel SAUNTE (Denmark)  the draft Rules of Procedure, Rule by Rule, and  then consider amendments afterwards; he also  wished to have an idea of the number of meetings  that were expected to take place.  The SECRETARY said that the Secretariat was  in process of preparing an Agenda for the Com-  mittee. Item I would be the examination of the  draft Rules of Procedure of the General Confer-  ence, contained in document 3C/PRO/1. The  Secretary gave a brief summary of the introduc-  tory paragraphs of that document, summarizing  the events leading to its compilation. It was  hoped that fewer meetings would be necessary  than in 1947, but, if necessary, a sub-committee  would be created to deal with any technical  questions which arose. Three further items on  the Agenda would be the study of documents
3C/PRO/2, 3 and 4, which contained proposed  amendments to the Constitution of Unesco, sub-  mitted by the Governments of Ecuador and New  Zealand, and the Director-General of Unesco, re-  spectively. The last item would be consideration  of the question of the inclusion of Spanish as a  working language of Unesco. That question,  which had been raised at the Mexico Conference.  had been sent for study to the United Nations  Committee on Co-ordination, which had reported  back to the Executive Board of Unesco. At the  moment, a document was being prepared pending  the decisions of the Fifth Committee of the United  Nations General Assembly. That document,
3C/PRO/5, would be distributed as soon as it was  available. The Secretary thought that it would  be necessary to hold seven or eight meetings of  the Committee, spread over the whole session of  the Conference, if all the items on the proposed  Agenda were to be dealt with.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) accepted the       RG i a NES     proposal for seven or eight meetings as a necessary  evil.  Mrs. BRUNAUER (United States of America),  who had also been a member of the Procedure  Committee at Mexico City, said that the United  States delegation had been much impressed by the  new draft Rules. She did not anticipative that  they would have comments to make except on the  SECOND  Chairman:  Election of Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the  Nominations Committee had proposed to confer  the Vice-Chairmanship of the Procedure Com-  mittee upon the delegate of the Philippines, and  the office of Rapporteur upon the delegate of  Egypt.  Dr. Gabriel R. Mañalac (Philippines) was elected  Vice-Chairman, and Dr. Wadie Farag (Egypt) was  appointed Rapporteur.  Election, and eligibility for a second term,  of members of the Executive Board.  The CHAIRMAN read a letter sent to him on
26 November by the Secretary of the General Com-  mittee of the Conference asking for the following  question to be put to the Procedure Committee :  “May an outgoing member of the Executive  Board be re-elected even though he is not a mem-  ber of his country’s delegation to the session of  the Conference at which the election takes place,  and if he is not nominated by his delegation?”  The question was urgent, for the nominations  for the vacant seats on the Executive Board were  to be discussed by the General Committee of the  Conference on the morning of 30 November and  by the Nominations Committee the same after-  noon.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) thought that  the Committee should deal with the point of prin-  ciple involved in the question and should set aside  any political considerations, even if that should  displease certain governments. Above all, they  had to bear in mind the history of Unesco’s Consti-  entirely new matters which were to be embodied  in the Rules of Procedure.  Mr. DESROCHERS (Canada) supported the  views expressed by the delegate of the United  States of America.  The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, at 3.46 p.m.
448  Dr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark)  tution, and Professor Sommerfelt, who had taken  part in the preparation of the Final Act, pointed  out that it had been agreed in London that, in  order to have a measure of authority, Unesco  should be an inter-governmental organization, but  that, to ensure continuity of work between the  sessions of the General Conference, the Executive  Board should be independent of the different  governments; that was only possible if its members  were private individuals, not receiving any in-  structions from the States of which they were  nationals. It followed that, if a government were  hostile to a decision taken by the General Confer-  ence, it was the duty of a member of the Executive  Board to oppose the government to which he  belonged, even at the risk of being dropped from  that government’s delegation at the next Session  of the General Conference.  To admit that a member of the Executive Board  whose term of office had ended could not be re-  elected, unless he were a member of his country’s  delegation at the session of the Conference at  which the election took place, would weaken the  position of the whole Executive Board. The  Constitution specified that members of the Board  “shall be immediately eligible for a second term”  (Article V.3.) and that was all; that meant that,  to be re-elected, members of the Executive Board  did not need to give proof of the qualifications  laid down for their election (Article V.1.). If the  Committee were to give any other than an affir-  mative answer to the question asked by the Gen-  eral Committee, it would be running counter to  the very spirit of the Constitution.  The CHAIRMAN ordered the provisions govern-  ing the election and re-election of members of  the Executive Board to be read (Constitution,        -  _  "  ;  _   -