for a definition of the major cultural regions of  the world.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) corrected  a misapprehension that had arisen; he had never  said anything against the establishment of  Regional Centres, but only that his delegation did  not think the time was yet ripe to create them.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, replying to various  points raised, stated that the resolutions of the  Mexico Conference had been carefully studied by  the Executive Board and himself, with the results  set forth in document 3C/OXR/2 - PRG. The  Board had considered the establishment of an  office in Havana in 1948, and had decided that the  time was not ripe. The information from the  United Nations Committee on Co-ordination was  submitted at once to the Board, of which the  delegate of Brazil was a member. With regard to  the remarks of the delegate of France,  concerning staff for National Commissions, there  would be a resolution from the meeting of  representatives of National Commissions which  would come before the Conference during the  current week; the Secretariat and the Executive  Board had consistently believed in supporting  and strengthening National Commissions. When  the Board and the Director-General had come to  the conclusion that the time was not ripe for the  general decentralization of Unesco, they had  decided to suggest the appointment of two regional  representatives, on an experimental basis, to serve  in areas to be determined by the Conference;  that question would come up for separate  discussion later.  Speaking not as Director-General, but from his  FOURTH  own personal point of view, he recalled that,  when he had first assumed office, he had written  a memorandum on the question of Regional  Centres, which interested him deeply. He felt  that, as Unesco had failed to obtain a firm ruling  from the United Nations, the best plan might be  to adopt the United States resolution, but to  include an instruction to the Director-General to  examine the possibility of setting up an experi-  mental Centre in Latin America, if possible jointly  with as many other Specialized Agencies as  possible.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) saw  nothing in the Director-General’s suggestion to  conflict with the United States resolution but, as  it was a suggestion for another kind of centre, he  wished it to be treated as a separate proposal and  not as an amendment to the United States  resolution.  The CHAIRMAN proposed to put the United  States and the Cuban resolutions to the vote.  As many delegations from countries vitally inter-  ested in the question were absent, Dr. De MEN-  DOZA (Cuba) asked for the vote to be deferred  until the following day.  A vote was taken and, as the majority in favour  of voting on the resolutions immediately was  only one, with twelve delegations absent and one  abstention, the CHAIRMAN ruled that the vote  should be taken the following day.  The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.  MEETING  Friday, 26 November 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Cultural liaison in the Middle East (document
3C/OXR/2-PRG) (continuation).  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  proposed that paragraph 1 on page 9 of document
3C/OXR/2-PRG should be replaced by a joint  resolution drafted by Egypt, Turkey, Lebanon,  Saudi Arabia and the United States of America.
420  Dr. SADIGHI (Iran) seconded the proposal.  M. ABOUKHATER (Lebanon) pointed out that  the delegate of the United States of America had  inadvertently omitted (for he was in full agree-  ment on the point) to state, in the text of the  resolution proposed, that it involved “the Middle-  Eastern countries of similar culture”.                     The joint resolution was unanimously adopted,  in the following terms :  The General Conference resolves,  That, as a means of carrying out resolution 4.3.3. of  the Programme approved at the Second Session of the  General Conference, the Director-General is instructed  to create a service of cultural liaison to promote, in  co-operation with National Commissions or Co-  operating Bodies, the exchange of ideas, information,  materials and persons in the fields of arts, letters,  philosophy and humanistic studies, among the Middle-  Eastern countries of similar culture, and between  those countries and other parts of the world. (140)  Regianal Centre in Havana (document 3C/84).  Dr. De MENDOZA (Cuba) proposed that the  words “To establish a Regional Centre of Unesco  in America, with its headquarters in Havana” in  the text submitted by the delegations of Cuba and  Brazil (document 3C/84) should be replaced by :  “To establish a regional centre of Unesco in the  Western Hemisphere”.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested that  the text proposed by the delegate of Cuba should  be amended, on the grounds that, firstly, the  expenses involved in the establishment of such a  Centre should be taken into account, and,  secondly, full agreement should be reached with  the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that it would  cost between $70,000 and $80,000 to establish a  Centre in Havana. He agreed with the delegate of  the United Kingdom, and thought it essential to  proceed in full agreement with the United Nations  and the Specialized Agencies.  M. SEYDOUX (France) said that his delegation  had studied at length the question of regional or-  ganization. If Unesco embarked on that course,  the Organization would become involved in tire-  some contradictions, since its Constitution made  no provision for regional organization. He em-  phasized that the establishment of a Centre in the  Middle East would lead inevitably to the creation  of a host of other Centres scattered over the world.  There would then be a danger of there being not  one, but several Unescos.  In reply to the arguments of the delegates of the  United Kingdom and France, Dr. De MENDOZA  (Cuba) stated that the Executive Board had al-  ready adopted the proposal for the establishment  of a Regional Centre. With regard to the funds
(140) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex II, (a), p. 60.  required for establishing the Centre, he stated that  the sum of $50,000 previously fixed should be  maintained, and added that his Government was  prepared to contribute $10,000, as well as the  premises for the Centre. As for the need for con-  sulting the Specialized Agencies, he said that such  consultation had already taken place. He con-  cluded by saying that, since the matter had been  studied at length, the time for action had arrived.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) reiterated that  the proposal should be amended. He counselled  prudence, and suggested that the following words  should be inserted in the Cuban delegate’s pro-  posal :  In consultation with the Committee on Co-ordina-  tion of the United Nations and with the assistance of  similar centres already established and of the  Specialized Agencies...  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) seconded the amend-  ment proposed by the delegate of the United King-  dom; it was essential to have prior consultation,  in view of the lack of detailed information on  what the Centre was to achieve in the future, the  danger of establishing a host of other centres, and  the considerable sums requested.  M. SEYDOUX (France) pointed out that it was  stated, on page 86 of the Director-General's Report,  that the question of the representation of Unesco  in the various cultural regions of the world had  been “raised by Unesco before the Administrative  Committee on Co-ordination”. He stated that prior  consultation was essential, and supported the  amendment proposed by the delegate of the United  Kingdom, subject to the substitution of the  words : “In agreement...” for “In consultation...”.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) accepted that  alteration.  Dr. De MENDOZA (Cuba) stood by his pro-  posal.  The amendment proposed by the delegations of  the United Kingdom and France, and seconded by  the delegate of Australia, was adopted by sixteen  votes to fourteen (with three abstentions, and  eleven members absent).  The resolution presented by the delegate of  Cuba, as amended, was then adopted unanimously,  in the following terms :  The General Conference  Considering the resolution on the establishment of  Regional Centres of Unesco passed by the Second Ses-  sion of the General Conference,  Considering the facilities which are available in  Havana for the establishment of a Regional Centre,    Instructs the Director-General, in consultation with  the Executive Board and in agreement with the  Organization of American States and with the Admi-  nistrative Committee on Co-ordination of the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies, to establish, as  soon as possible, a Regional Office in the Western  Hemisphere. This action should, if possible, be taken  jointly with any similar centres already established,  or yet to be established, by other oganizations and  other agencies in the region. (141)  Regional Representatives (document 3C/0XR/
2-PRG) (continuation).  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  thought that paragraph 2 on page 9 of document
3C/OXR/2-PRG had been rendered unnecessary by  the adoption of the new wording for paragraph 1;  he therefore proposed, seconded by Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia), that it should be deleted.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not entirely  share that view; he thought it was necessary to  retain one of the Regional Representatives con-  templated.  The proposal to delete paragraph 2 was adopted  by fifteen votes to eleven (with five abstentions.  and thirteen members absent).  The decisions taken on the first two paragraphs  involved an alteration to paragraph 3 on page 9  of document 3C/OXR/2-PRG, which the DIREC-  TOR-GENERAL accordingly proposed should be  drafted as follows :  To recommend that, in the budget of the Organi-  zation for 1949, 545,000 be provided for the Cultural  Liaison Office for the Middle East, together with the  sum required for preparing the establishment of a  tegional Centre in the Western Hemisphere.  The latter sum could not be fixed definitely for  the moment.  In reply to a question from Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained  that the sum contemplated for the Cultural Liai-  son Service in the Middle East was $41 178.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  expressed the view that it was not for the Joint  Commission to discuss that paragraph, since a  purely budgetary question was involved.  It was accordingly decided that paragraph 3  should be referred to the General Conference. after  consideration by the Programme  Commission.  and Budget
(141) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex II, (b), I, p. 61.  Draft Resolution, submitted by the delegation  of India, for the establishment of an Insti-  tute of Cultural Co-operation for South and  East Asian countries (document 3C/62).  Professor KABIR (India) explained that the  draft presented to the Joint Commission provided  not for the establishment of the Institute, but  merely for the preparation of a project for the  Institute, to be submitted for discussion at the  Fourth Session of the General Conference.  Dr. CHU (China) seconded the Indian dele-  gate’s proposal.  \t the request of M. SEYDOUX (France), the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained his own views on  the proposal and suggested certain alterations to  [he draft presented by the delegation of India.  The wording suggested by the Direcior-General  was accepted by Professor KABIR (India) and  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America).  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) asked for the reso-  lution to be drafted so as to show more clearly  the type of Institute it was proposed to establish.  It seemed to him that it would be a body similar  in structure to the International Institute of the  Hylean Amazon, though with a different object.  Professor KABIR (India) confirmed that view.  M. SEYDOUX (France) said that what was  involved was in fact the setting up of a new  regional organization; he expressed apprehension  lest Unesco should embark on a policy of decen-  tralization which might not be in accordance  with the United Nations’ views. He thought the  position should be re-examined generally, and  therefore proposed that consideration of the matter  should be postponed until it had been possible for  the Official and External Relations Commission to  discuss it.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded that  proposal. While he agreed with the project in  principle, he thought it should be re-drafted so as  to define more clearly the Institute's field of  activities and ensure that the new body should  work for Unesco’s specific purposes.  The proposal for postponing the discussion was  adopted by fifteen votes to nine. The matter  would therefore be taken up again in the Official  and External Relations Commission and then  referred to the Programme and Budget Com-  mission.
422                                 Report of the Executive Board on criteria  adopted for the granting of contracts and  grants-in-aid (document 3C/OXR/13-PRG).  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  agreed with the principles set out in the doc-  ument, but criticized : (1) the way in which the  bodies receiving grants-in-aid had been selected;
(2) the way in which the grants-in-aid were to be  used. He thought that, in view of the large  number of bodies qualifying for a grant-in-aid and  the complexity of the whole problem, a special  committee should be set up by the Executive Board  to maintain permanent supervision over the two  matters to which he had drawn attention; he read  out a draft resolution submitted by his delegation  for that purpose.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the  document under discussion had been presented to  the Joint Commission for information only. That  Commission should not, therefore, take a decision  on the draft resolution, which would be discussed  later in the Official and External Relations Com-  mission.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed with the  Chairman on the point of procedure, and men-  tioned that the establishment of a special com-  mittee would increase the calls for administrative
4 ~/  expenditure on the budget for that item of the  programme.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  maintained his point and said that, in the long  run, the committee would save more money than  it cost.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) agreed with the dele-  gate of the United States of America.  Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) said that the grants-  in-aid made to scientific unions through the Inter-  national Council of Scientific Unions had rendered  the greatest service to the natural sciences. He  thought that, if grants-in-aid in the field of arts  and letters could be made through similar bodies,  they would be sure to be distributed in the best  possible way.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  the delegate of the Netherlands on that point, but  emphasized that : firstly, the status (vis-a-vis  Unesco) of the organizations selected should be  clearly defined; and secondly, in his view, the  system Unesco had so far adopted (which provided  for a decision by the Executive Board in each  separate case) was complicated but produced  excellent results.  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.