p r e s   A  THIRTEENTH  Wednesday, 1 December 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  MEETING  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 5 of the Agenda : Staff Questions (con-  tinuation).  Item 5 (d) : Amendments to Provisional  Staff Regulations (document 3C/ADM/11B.)  Amendment to Regulation 8.  The proposed Regulation 8 was adop-  led. (129)  new  Amendment to Regulation 10.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa)  pointed out that, while the first paragraph of Regu-  lation 10 divided appointments into two types  (indeterminate and temporary), the second para-  graph referred also to permanent appointments—  indeterminate appointments which had been con-  firmed after a probationary period. To clarify the  meaning of the resolution, Dr. Wilcocks therefore  suggested that the beginning of the first para-  graph should be worded as follows :  Staff members shall, in the first instance, be granted  either indeterminate or temporary appointments...  Mr. SELSKY (Acting Head of the Bureau of Per-  sonnel) remarked that the adoption of such a  phrase would be out of line with United Nations  Regulations, but said that the Secretariat would  be willing to accept it.  The amendment proposed by the delegate of the  Union of South Africa was adopted.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) and  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada) questioned whether  it was advisable to omit from the third paragraph  of the proposed Regulation any mention of a time-  limit for temporary appointments. They consi-  dered that some time-limit should be specified.  in order to distinguish temporary appointments  from indeterminate ones.     Mr. SELSKY (Acting Head of the Bureau of  Personnel) explained that Regulations 10 and
(329) In final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 4, p. 54.
15 had been re-worded without any mention of  time-limits in order to allow the Director-General  greater latitude in granting the kind of appoint-  ments which he considered programme require-  ments necessitated.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) spoke  in favour of the adoption of Regulation 10 as sub-  mitted in document 3C/ADM/11B.  Dr. RUSTOM (Saudi Arabia) proposed that the  third paragraph should be worded as follows :  such  the  Temporary appointments are granted for  limited periods and under such conditions as  Director-General may determine.  That amendment was adopted.  Regulation 10, as amended, was adopted. (13°)  Amendment to Regulations 15 and 17.  The proposed new Regulations 15 and 17 were  adopted without discussion. (131)  Amendment to Regulation 30.  M. HAIDAR (Lebanon) proposed the addition  of the words “and with the approval of the Exe-  cutive Board” at the end of the first paragraph  of Regulation 30, as he thought that the need for  approval by the Executive Board should be  retained.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) considered  that it would be preferable to provide for approval  of the termination of indeterminate appointments  by the Selection Committee mentioned in Regu-  lation 10 rather than to burden the Executive  Board with that additional task.  M. VERNIERS (Belgium) supported Sir John's  proposal.
(130) In final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 4, p. 54.
(181) In" final form Volume II, Section X,  Annex III, 4, p. 54,        Although he preferred the proposal of the  United Kingdom delegate to that of the delegate  of Lebanon, Mr. SELSKY (Acting Head of the  Bureau of Personnel) maintained that the addition  of any such provision would only complicate  further the machinery for termination of contracts.  In answer to a question from Mr. PILE (United  Kingdom), Mr. SELSKY stated that the compo-  sition of the Selection Committee was similar to  that of the corresponding Committee of the  United Nations, consisting of an Assistant Secre-  tary-General, various staff members and indivi-  duals not connected with the Secretariat.  The amendment proposed by the delegate of  Lebanon was rejected and Sir John MAUD (United  Kingdom) withdrew his proposal.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) pro-  posed the addition of the words “or those consi-  dered permanent” after the words “indeterminate  appointments’ in the first paragraph of the Regu-  lation, in order to ensure that it was interpreted  to cover indeterminate appointments which had  become permanent as well as those strictly  speaking indeterminate.  At Mr. SELSKY's suggestion, Dr. WILCOCKS  agreed to amend his proposal so that the Regu-  lation should read . staff members holding  confirmed indeterminate appointments...”  The amendment was adopted.  On the proposal of M. VERNIERS (Belgium) it  was agreed to substitute “par ailleurs” for “en  outre’ at the beginning of the second paragraph  in the French text.  In order to meet the criticism of Dr. WIL-  COCKS (Union of South Africa) that two diffe-  rent phrases were used in Regulations 30 and 31  to mean the same thing (“temporary appoint-  ments” and “temporary contracts”), it was agreed  to substitute the word “contract” for “appoint-  ment” in Regulation 30 and in similar contexts.  The new amended. was  adopted. (132)  Regulation 30, as  Amendment to Regulation 31.  The proposed new Regulation 31 was adopted  without discussion. (132)
(132) In final form  Annex Ill, 4, p. 54.  Volume I. Section X.
408  Amendment to Regulation 37.  Regulation 37 was adopted without discus-  sion. (182)  Amendment to Regulation 38.  In reply to questions from Mr. CRAWFORD  (Canada) and M. HAIDAR (Lebanon), Mr. SEL-  SKY (Acting Head of the Bureau of Personnel)  confirmed that staff members who had not been  eligible for the Pensions Scheme would receive  back their contribution to the Provident Fund.  together with that of the Organization, on the  expiration or termination of their contract. Such  a provision was included in the Regulations of the  United Nations Joint Staff Pensions Scheme. Staff  members became eligible for the Pensions Scheme  once they had received a contract of at least one  vear, or had served the Organization for one year.  The proposed new Regulation 38 was adop-  ted. (132)  Amendment to Regulation 40.  In answer to a question from Mr. PILE (United  Kingdom), Mr. SELSKY (Acting Head of the  Bureau of Personnel) stated that the Staff Rules  contained a definition of the status of a consul-  tant. Such a person, who was paid a lump sum  for each working day, was not eligible to enjoy  the rights, privileges and immunities of regular  staff members. At the moment there were about  six consultants attached to Unesco's staff.  The proposed new Regulation 40 was adopted  without amendment. (133)  Item 6 of the Agenda : Other Questions.  Item 6 (c) Report on the Status and  Responsibilities of the Executive Board  (document 3C/10 (rev.)) (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the  Commission was merely required to comment on  the Report submitted by the Temporary Com-  mittee of the Executive Board, not to vote upon it.  It was agreed that the Report should be consi-  dered paragraph by paragraph.  The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the inclu-  sion of the word “exclusive” in the first sentence
(133) In final form  Annex III, 4, p. 55.  Volume I. Section X.                  of paragraph 5 (page 3) might preclude the possi-  bility of an Extraordinary Session of the Confer-  ence being called by a General Conference itself  in plenary meeting, which he considered consti-  tutionally possible.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa),  seconded by M. SANDBO (Norway), formally  moved the deletion of the word “exclusive”.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) and M. HAIDAR  (Lebanon) opposed the suggested deletion.  It was agreed that, in presenting their com-  ments on the Report, the Commission should  recommend the deletion of the word “exclusive”  from paragraph 5.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the objections  which he had wished to raise with regard to Staff  Regulation 8, appearing in paragraph 14 of the  Report (page 6), had been met by the amended  Regulation 8 which the Commission had just  adopted.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) moved the  adoption of the proposed amendment to Financial  Regulation 5, mentioned in paragraph 32 of the  teport (page 12), and contained in Appendix II.  The draft amendment was adopted.  In connexion with paragraph 42 of the Report  (page 15), the CHAIRMAN informed the Com-  mission that, at the meeting of the General Com-  mittee that morning, it had been agreed that it  was not within the competence of the General  Conference to adopt a rule enabling the Board to  declare vacant the seat of any member who failed  to attend a reasonable number of Board meetings  and failed to provide a properly qualified deputy.  unless the Constitution was amended to grant  such powers to the General Conference. |  It was agreed that the General Committee’s  decision would constitute the Commission’s com-  ment on paragraph 42 of the Report.  Resolution submitted by the Joint Committee  of Fifteen.  The CHAIRMAN read to the meeting a reso-  lution submitted to the Administrative Commis-  sion by the Joint Committee of Fifteen  The General Conference invites the Director-General  to reconsider as soon as possible the organization and  title of the Department of Exchange of Information  and the work plan suggested for 1949, with a view to  possible reduction in the scope of its activities.  especially those concerned with the provision of
409  information services to the Programme Departments  by specialists and those concerned with statistics. In  order to avoid the danger of duplication, certain of  these activities might, if necessary, be transferred to  the appropriate Departments.  The CHAIRMAN doubted whether the Com-  mission was competent to vote upon a resolution  passed by an ad hoc committee set up by the  General Committee. All the Commission could  do, was to consider the administrative aspects of  the resolution.  Mr. BESTERMAN (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Information) gave a brief summary  of the work of the Joint Committee of Fifteen;  it had been established by the General Committee  to consider the programme operations dealt with  on pages 68 and 69 of document 3C/6 (Budget  Estimates) under the heading : “World Centre for  Exchange of Information”, with special reference  to Unesco’s functions in the field of exchange of  information, publications and public information.  As a result of its deliberations, the Joint Com-  mittee of Fifteen had passed two resolutions : one  to change the form of the programme resolu-  tion 5.8, and the second the resolution before the  meeting. The Programme and Budget Commis-  sion had rejected the first resolution of the Joint  Committee, and had introduced their own amend-  ments to programme resolution 5.8.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) outlined the  deliberations of the Joint Committee in order to  bring out the motives behind their decisions. In  studying Section G of Part Ill of the Budget Esti-  mates, the Joint Committee of Fifteen had found  that the title of the programme project for a  “World Register”, adopted by the Second Session  of the General Conference, had been misleadinglv  changed to “World Centre for Exchange of Infor-  mation’, and that at the same time there had  been included under that heading, for budgetary  purposes, a number of activities of the Depart-  ment of Exchange of Information, such as the  maintenance of a library, archives, statistical  records, and a documentation service, which were  essential for the functioning of programme units  throughout the Organization but had no connexion  with the project in question. The first resolution  of the Joint Committee, which was confined to a  re-wording of the programme project for a World  Register (5.8), had been submitted to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission for consider-  ation. The second resolution of the Joint Com-  mittee—which the meeting was in process of con-  sidering—expressed the Committee's views with  regard to the services already mentioned. Firstly,  the Committee did not consider that those ser-  vices should be incorporated under that budget     i i ,   =     item; and, secondly, they felt that the Director-  General should investigate the possibility of  reducing the number of staff required to maintain  those specialized services, by redistributing them  to the separate Programme Departments. Sir John  regretted the summary way in which the first  resolution of the Joint Committee had been rejec-  ted by the Programme and Budget Commission.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) moved  that the resolution before the meeting should end  at the word “1949”.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) opposed  any amendment of the resolution of the Joint  Committee, because, as it stood, it gave specific  indication of the way in which the Committee  hoped the Director-General would examine the  situation.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) also opposed  any amendment to the resolution, which had been  unanimously approved by a committee of experts.  While opposed in principle to the General Confer-  ence’'s commenting upon the detailed set-up of the  Organization, he thought that the case under con-  sideration was exceptional and called for the  exceptional step of inviting the Director-General  to consider the re-organization of a Department  in accordance with specific directions from the  General Conference.  M. SEYDOUX (France) warmly supported the  views expressed by the delegate of the United  Kingdom, especially with regard to the summary  way in which the Programme and Budget Com-  mission had quashed the resolution of the Joint  Committee, without notifying the members of  that Committee that the question was about to be  discussed, and before they had even seen the Rap-  porteur’s Report of the meetings of their Com-  mittee.  Mrs. WRIGHT (Chairman of the Joint Com-  mittee of Fifteen) pointed out that the first reso-  lution of the Committee had been referred to the  Programme and Budget Commission simply  because it was concerned with a programme pro-  ject. In the same way, the resolution under dis-  cussion had been submitted to the Administrative  Commission because of its administrative aspects.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) withdrew  his amendment to the Joint Committee s reso-  lution. It was agreed to refer the resolution to  the General Conference without comment.  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.  FOURTEENTH MEETING  Friday, 3 December 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 6 (d) of the Agenda : Allowance during
1948 for the out-going Director-General.  As a representative of the Executive Board,  M. VERNIERS (Belgium), read the following  text  On 15 October 1948 the Executive Board took the  following decision (document 11EX /Decisions, page 5):  ‘Remuneration of senior officials.  The Board decided to extend to the Deputy Director-  General and the Assistant Directors-General the system  of cost-of-living adjustments approved for classified  members of the Secretariat, granting a 4 per cent  increase in their total remuneration for each 10 per  cent rise in the cost of living index, retroactively since  February 1948.  The Board also agreed that, on the precedent of
410  last year’s decision, the total remuneration of the  Director-General should be increased in the same  proportion as the increases approved for the Deputy  and Assistant Directors-General, subject to con-  firmation by the General Conference.’  The Commission has recently approved a contract  for the new Director-General which provides  for cost-of-living adjustments in accordance with such  adjustments as may be made for the staff. There-  fore the Executive Board suggests that the Commis-  sion recommend the following resolution to the  General Conference :  ‘The General Conference resolves to confirm the  decision of the Executive Board to provide for the  Director-General during 1948 an allowance, calculated  on the same basis as the cost-of-living allowance  authorized by the Executive Board for the Deputy  Director-General and the Assistant Directors-General.’  The draft resolution was adopted.     Ir  I  ti  W  h