THIRD MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of Reports of Sub-Commis-  sions (continuation).  (c) Education (document 3C/PRG/3.6.).  Mr. INSKIP (Union of South Africa) (Rappor-  teur of the Sub-Commission on Education) pre-  sented the Sub-Commission’s Report.  As there were no comments on the Report as a  whole, the Chairman suggested that the meeting  should discuss it paragraph by paragraph.
1. Clearing-House activities.  Item 3.227 : Educational seminars (page 1)  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  proposed that the text produced by the Sub-Com-  mission on Education should be replaced by the  following :  That a sum not to exceed $10,000 be granted in  partial support of the Colombian proposal for a  Seminar in Brazil on an attack on mass illiteracy  in 1949 and an additional Seminar in 1950 devoted to  the improvement of textbooks.  The proposal was seconded by Mr. GOULD  (United Kingdom), Professor KABIR (India) and  Mr. RIDLING (New Zealand), and was adopted  by 18 votes to 3.  Item 3.222 : (page 1)  On the proposal of Mr. WEEDEN (Australia)  resolution 3.222 was adopted in the following  form :  To publish and distribute selected materials from  the seminars sponsored by Unesco and assist in  follow-up activities in Member States.
2. Fundamental Education (pages 2 and 3).  Resolutions 3.41, 3.4212, 3.4217, 3.424, 3.425  and 3.427 were adopted as proposed by the Sub-  Commission.  On the motion of Mr. EISENHOWER (United  States of America), seconded by Mr. GOULD  (United Kingdom), the Sub-Commission’s amend-  ae   ment to resolution 3.4215 was further amended as  follows :  The value and possibilities of the development of  rural small-scale industries as a technological element  in Fundamental Education.
3. Adult Education (page 3).  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, as the French  translation did not give the exact sense of the  original English text of the proposed addition to  resolution 3.621, the latter should be taken as  authoritative.  The text in question was adopted.  The Chairman said that the Programme and  Budget Commission endorsed the Sub-Commis-  sions recommendation that the invitation from  the Danish authorities to hold the proposed  conference in that country should be accepted.
4. New programme resolutions (pages 3 and 4).  The new resolution 3.54 was approved.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  suggested that the two words “in schools” should  be deleted from the new resolution 3.55, since in  certain countries, particularly the United States  of America, the introduction of new material in  the schools required to be done through the  education authorities; he also suggested that the  words “he shall invite” should be replaced by  “to invite”.  The text in its amended form was approved.  It was decided that item (c) of the paragraph  in question should be discussed at the end of the  consideration of the report.
5. Grants-in-Aid (page 4).  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) hoped that the Com-  mission would recommend paragraphs (5)  (Grants-in-aid) and (6) (Grant to the World  Federation of United Nations Associations) to the  Budget Sub-Commission together, and forward
02                   with them, if possible, fuller details of the acti-  vities of WFUNA and a suggestion that the sum  of $10,000 should be allocated to that body by  way of grant-in-aid.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) though that  paragraph (5) involved a question of principle;  he thought, nevertheless, that it should be sub-  mitted to the Budget Sub-Commission without  any recommendation regarding an amount. Para-  graph (6) should be taken separately, as it was  concerned with a specific body. Moreover, as  the scheme for a grant-in-aid had apparently been  submitted to the Budget Sub-Commission by the  Executive Board, the Budget Sub-Commission's  decision should be final.  With reference to the question of principle, the  CHAIRMAN read the proposed resolution 3.8  (General Instructions) on page 61 of docu-  ment 3C/5.  Finally, paragraph (5) (Grants-in-aid) amended  by the substitution of the words “to be deter-  mined by the Budget Sub-Commission” for the  words “of $2,000”, was approved.
6. Grant to the World Federation of United  Nations Associations.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  reminded the meeting that a sum of $12,000, had  been put at the disposal of the World Federation  of United Nations Associations a few months pre-  viously and that the suggested additional grant  of $10,000 for 1949 without documentary justifi-  cation did not conform to the existing very strict  budgetary rules.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) and Mr. GOULD  (United Kingdom) suggested that the matter  should be referred to the Budget Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN explained that the meeting  could either reject the proposal after discussion  or refer it back to the Budget Sub-Commission.  Mr. ENNALS (Observer for the World Fede-  ration of United Nations Associations) said he  would not press for the suggestion contained in  paragraph (6), as the principle embodied in para-  graph (5) had been approved.  Replying to a criticism from Professor KABIR  (India), Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) made it  clear that he was in no way opposed to a grant-  in-aid, but was opposed to discussing such a bud-  getary question without the fullest information.  The proposal in question could be referred by the  Programme and Budget Commission to the
203  Director-General, to be re-transmitted by him to  the ,Commission, with the necessary data, if he  thought desirable.  The CHAIRMAN ruled that the Commission  should follow that procedure.
4. (c) Draft resolutions not adopted by the  Sub-Commission (page 4).  Document 3C/39  Professor KABIR (India) reminded the meeting  that, in view of the two resolutions passed by the  Sub-Commissions on Reconstruction and the Ex-  change of Persons, he was withdrawing the draît  resolution contained in document 3C/39.  Document 3C/22  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, in principle,  the draft resolution submitted by the South Afri-  can delegation in document 3C/22 should come  under the same heading as resolution 3.51 etc.  in document 3C/5.  At the suggestion of Mr. LITTLE (Australia),  the proposal in document 3C/22 was submitted  to the Commission as a general recommendation  outside the framework of the programme, and  was approved.  Document 3C/58  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) mentioned that, as the  draft resolution in document 3C/58 was covered  by previous resolutions, it had been withdrawn.  Document 3C/61  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) emphasized that  his draft resolution would be one way for Unesco  to make an appeal to the whole world and prove  the interest which it took in the problems con-  fronting creative artists. What he had in mind  was not fat cheques, but modest rewards to be  given as a result of widespread Unesco compe-  titions. He was thinking, not of Olympic Games  or international musical contests, but of what  might be called the humanitarian side of the  work.  The main purpose of the project was to pro-  claim that creative artists were, by their very  nature, not merely citizens of their own country,  but world citizens, whose work was important to  everyone at all times, without distinction of cul-  ture, and that a scheme of rewards for them  would be proposed in 1949.  Moreover, the United Kingdom delegation  thought that Unesco should use all the means in  its power to make itself understood by the man         in the street; the scheme proposed was a method  of informing the general public, and wag In  no way to be compared with the Nobel prizes  or with the Pulitzer prizes in the United States  of America.  Mr. HOLLAND (United States of America)  (Rapporteur) pointed out that the project could  more suitably be included in Chapter 4 of the  programme (Cultural Questions).  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  took the view that national susceptibilities made  it unadvisable to incorporate the resolution in the  programme.  Dr. ROBBINS (Canada) suggested that the  Commission should postpone consideration of the  resolution, pending the submission of a report  by the Sub-Commission on Cultural Questions.  Agreed.  Suggestions for implementing the pro-  gramme in clearing-house activities and  adult education (page 5).  It was decided that the suggestions made by  the Sub-Commission on Education, on which no  special comment had been made, should be for-  warded to the Director-General.  Dr. AKRAWI (Iraq) brought up the question  of auxiliary languages which had been discussed  in the Sub-Commission on Education. (8?)  FOURTH     Supported by Amin Moursi Bey KANDIL  (Egypt), he explained that, in the name of funda-  mental education, foreign languages had often  been imposed on the natives of certain countries  to the detriment of the local tongue.  In reply, the CHAIRMAN said that the sug-  gestions would be noted and forwarded to the  Director-General.  Teaching of the history and literature of  Eastern peoples.  In a letter to the Chairman of the Programme  and Budget Commission the delegate of Afghan-  istan had asked that the Director-General should  be instructed to recommend to Members States  the inclusion in secondary school textbooks of  special chapters on the history and literature of  the peoples of the East.  The proposal was supported by Mr. RIDLING  (New Zealand).  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Director-  General should be recommended to refer the  question to the Division responsible for the  revision of school textbooks.  The suggestion was approved.  With the foregoing amendments, the whole of  the Education programme (document 3C/5,  Chapter 3) was adopted.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of reports of Sub-Com-  missions (continuation).  (d) Natural Sciences (documents 83C/PRG/5.4  and 3C/PRG[5.5). ‘  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) (Rapporteur  of the Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences)
(32) See summary record of the third meeting of  the Sub-Commission on Education, pp. 317 and 318.     presented the reports of the Sub-Commission’s two  meetings.  As there were no comments on the reports as a  whole, the CHAIRMAN suggested a detailed  consideration of them, item by item.  Resolutions contained in document 3C/PRG/5.4.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the  resolution proposed by the delegation of the United  Kingdom (document 3C/PRG/5.4, page 2),