SECOND MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Item 4 of the Agenda : Financial Questions  (continuation).  Item 4 (d): Currency of contributions to the  budget (document 3C/ADM/5 and Addendum)  (continuation).  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) presented  the following resolution, paragraph (b) of which  contained two alternatives :  (a) that Financial Regulation 11 governing the  currency of contributions to the Budget and Revolving  Fund shall continue in operation during 1949 : and  (b) that any contribution to the Budget and  Revolving Fund paid in French francs shall be  calculated :
(1st alternative) at a rate of dollar-franc exchange  equal to the average between the official and the  free-market exchange rates, provided that the  Director-General, with the agreement of the Executive  Board, may vary this arrangement to meet exceptional  changes in the present exchange rates;
(2nd alternative) at the free-market rate of the  dollar-franc exchange, it being understood that the  result of this arrangement would permit of only two  currencies of contribution, dollars and French francs.  M. FLORES (Venezuela) asked how the 1949  budget would be affected by the acceptance of  either of the proposals submitted.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied  that, if Unesco received contributions either in  francs at the free-market rate or in dollars, the  following reductions in the amended budget figure  of $8,200,000 for 1949 might be expected : the  allowance figure could be cut by approximately  $250,000; printing costs by $35,000; common ser-  vices by $100,000; grants and contracts by  $160,000 and permanent equipment by $20,000.  In effect, the budget could by reduced by $500,000  or the Organization would have $500,000 more  for expenditure on the programme.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) wished  to make the position of his delegation quite clear.  The Member States wished to make the dollar the  fiscal unit of their Organization and sought to  establish a common denominator which would  provide financial regularity. The Conference had  decided that it would create intolerable burdens
3  dd  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  for Member States to require the annual contri-  bution in dollars. The United States delegation  could not agree that Members must either contract  to pay in dollars, or, as an alternative, decide to  continue the existing inequitable scheme.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that  the first alternative in the resolution involved  maintaining the existing system; the second was  one which would permit the Organization to save  a minimum of $500,000 or permit it to put an  additional $500,000 into the programme. If the  budget were reduced by $500,000, it would mean  a corresponding percentage reduction in the total  contributions required from Member States.  Dr.  the second alternative were adopted,  encourage black-market operations  countries.  RUSTOM (Saudi Arabia) thought that if  it would  in certain  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway)  the adoption of the first alternative.  proposed  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed  out that the Commission would later discuss the  question of contributions to the Revolving Fund.  He suggested, therefore, that the words “and  Revolving Fund” should be omitted.  The resolution was adopted with the first  alternative. and the omission of the words “and  Revolving Fund”.  The CHAIRMAN raised the question of the date  at which the calculation should be made.  M. FLORES (Venezuela) suggested that, to  offset the difficulties encountered because of  fluctuation in the market, payments might be  made quarterly instead of yearly.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) did not think that  the proposal of the delegate of Venezuela was  workable, as far as the United Kingdom was  concerned. In fact, the British delegation would  have to insist on an annual payment. He sug-  gested that the rate adopted should be that  prevailing at 31 December 1948, and that that rate  FRE URL act a        should remain in force until the Director-General  thought that exceptional changes in the exchange  rate had taken place, when he would go to the  Board and negotiate a new rate.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed  with the observations of the delegate of the United  Kingdom regarding quarterly instead of annual  payments. But he thought the Organization  would be put in a difficult situation if the rate  of payments were set at the end of 1948. He  thought a better solution might be to fix the rate  when the payment was made. It should be re-  membered that Member States’ assessments were  made in dollars; the only thing remaining for  them to do was to ascertain the dollar-franc rate.  He added that in the light of the decision just  taken, a list of countries and the currencies in  which they would make their contributions would  be prepared for submission to the Commission,  and later for a vote in plenary Conference.  Item 4 (g): Administration of the Revolving  Fund (document 3C/ADM/6).  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that  document 3C/ADM/6 was a composite document  dealing with : (1) the amount of the Revolving  Fund for 1949; (2) the currency in which the  Revolving Fund should be kept, and currencies  of deposits to it; (3) the administration of the  so-called Sub-Fund of the Revolving Fund;
(4) the special Fund for self-liquidating activities,  arising from the resolutions adopted at the Mexico  Conference. It was desirable to take up the doc-  ument at that point, because the second half was  closely related to the subject which had just been  disposed of.
1. Amount of the Revolving Fund.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL then out-  lined the proposals contained in the first part of  the document.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America), seconded  by M. HAIDAR (Lebanon), proposed the adoption  of resolutions (1), (2) and (3), submitted by the  Director-General on page 6 of the document.  Adopted.
2. Currency of the Revolving Fund.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL summar-
1zed the second part of document 3C/ADM/6; he  wished to make the Director-General’s position
378  clear, because the latter did not feel that he  should make recommendations himself regarding  the currency in which the Revolving Fund should  be kept and the currencies of deposits to the  Fund. The reasons were given in the last para-  graph on page 6.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) said that  the United States delegation’s view was that, in  the light of the decision already taken that morn-  ing regarding the currency of contributions to  the programme budget, they did not urge, and  would not support, a recommendation that de-  posits to the Revolving Fund should be made in  dollars. On the other hand the delegation felt  that the Commission should evaluate carefully the  necessity for the Revolving Fund to be held in  dollars, whatever the currency of deposit. It  was his impression that once the Fund was con-  stituted in dollars, it could always be maintained  in dollars by reconverting at the time of repay-  ment, so that there need be no further drawing  upon dollar resources for that purpose after the  current financial year. The object was to keep the  Revolving Fund completely stable.  Mr. FYZEE (India) asked whether it would not  be possible to hold the Fund in two or three dif-  ferent currencies : one-third in dollars, one-third  in sterling and one-third in some other currency,  such as Swiss francs or Norwegian crowns.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed  with the United States delegate that a drain on the  dollar funds of the Organization should be avoided.  In reply to the delegate of India, there was, of  course, no doubt that the Conference could specify  in what currency the Revolving Fund should be  held. The Director-General had so far consi-  dered it desirable to keep the Fund in dollars.  The Deputy Director-General wondered whether,  in existing circumstances, it would be practicable  to keep any of the funds in sterling, on account  of the restrictions imposed by the United King-  dom Government.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) did not think that  the Commission was called upon to state in what  currencies the Revolving Fund should be held;  that was a matter for the Director-General to  decide. He therefore suggested that the Director-  General should consider himself free to take all  necessary steps with regard to the currency in  which the Revolving Fund was held, to ensure  the maximum stability of the Fund.  M. HAIDAR (Lebanon) thought it would be a  heavy responsibility to impose upon the Director-  General. He supported the proposal that the       Revolving Fund should be maintained in dollars,  and that the Director-General should have the  possibility of transferring the whole or a part of  it into another currency.  M. YALCIN (Turkey) also supported that pro-  posal.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that  it was the view of the Director-General that the  Conference should indicate in what currency it  would prefer to have the Fund held. The Leban-  ese delegate’s proposal seemed to him desirable,  because it permitted the Director-General to make  such shifts as he considered judicious, in the event  of his feeling it undesirable to keep the Fund in  dollars. As to the proposal for three currencies,  he was advised by the Comptroller that it would  not be desirable to hold the Fund in sterling.  Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) agreed with the  Lebanese delegate, but asked wether the Director-  General had to consult the Executive Board  before transferring into another currency. He  suggested an amendment to the Lebanese dele-  gate’s resolution to the effect that the Director-  General should consult the Board.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) agreed  with that view.  The CHAIRMAN thought it was clear that the  majority was against an unfettered discretion.  The Commission concurred.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought that if  the Director-General had to refer to the Board. it
2e M. a FETE TE wi = — ®  ’ Pi wy 74 yl] = = I a ‘nr "27 = ht =  i Le = gl les iL  might mean delay in a decision which needed to  be taken rapidly.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied  that an Extraordinary Session of the Board could  always be called at short notice; it should be  remembered that the Board had given authority  on matters of this kind to the Finance Committee,  which could be called very quickly.  It was agreed that a drafting committee should  draw up a resolution embodying the suggestions  of the United Kingdom delegate, with the modi-  fications mentioned in the course of the discus-  sion; the Committee would report to the after-  noon meeting.
3. Purposes of the Revolving Fund—Admini-  stration of its Sub-Funds.
4. Special Fund for Self-Liquidating Activities.  M. PEISSEL (Comptroller) gave an explanation  of the matters included in sections (3) and (4) of  document 3C/ADM/6. On the suggestion of  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), the draft resolution
(4) on page 6 of the document was adopted,  with the addition to paragraph (11) of a sentence,  specifying that all loans already granted should be  reimbursed by 1 January 1950, and all loans  granted during 1949 should be reimbursed by  : 1 January 1951, except in the case of persons  leaving the staff, who should repay their loans by  the date on which their separation became  effective.  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.  THIRD MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1948, at 4.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Changes in the Agenda.  The CHAIRMAN drew attention to certain  changes in the Agenda of the Commission (doc-  ument 3C/ADM/1 (rev.)):
1. item 4 (Financial Questions) was to include  a sub-division (g) : Re-appropriation of certain
3C/ADM/12);
2. item 5 (Staff Questions) was to include  a sub-division (f) : Organization of the Secre-  tariat :
3. item 6 (Other Questions) was to include  the consideration of problems arising out of the