À  |  |  |  should appear in the Journal after the Conference  had closed.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) was  strongly in favour of open, free and frank action  by Unesco, and proposed that the full text of the  letters should be communicated to the Press.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that a  press release on the subject had already been  issued.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought that  the compromise solution suggested by the dele-  gate of France would, after all, be the wisest solu-  tion; he therefore withdrew his support of the  proposal that the Committee should merely take  note of the letters.  The CHAIRMAN closed the discussion and took  a vote on the French proposal.  The proposal was adopted.  Ratification of the Constitution of Unesco by  Switzerland.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was sure that the  General Committee would be glad to learn that  the Swiss Federal Chamber had ratified the Con-  stitution, so that Switzerland had become a  member of Unesco. As the instruments of rati-  fication had not yet reached the Foreign Office  in London, Switzerland would unfortunately be  unable to vote during the rest of the Conference.  He proposed that Professor Piaget, the head of  the Swiss delegation, should be asked to communi-  cate the news to the plenary meeting in the after-  noon.  The General Committee received the Director-  General's announcement with applause and agreed  to ask Professor Piaget to make the announcement.  The meeting rose at 10.46 a.m.  SEVENTEENTH MEETING  Friday, 10 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Resolution proposed by the Egyptian dele-  gation (document 3C/101).  M. SEYDOUX (France) approved of the form  in which the Egyptian delegation’s draft resolution  was presented, and also of the substance, as he  considered that Unesco had not so far given suffi-  cient attention to the question of “Law in the ser-  vice of peace”. He proposed that the resolution  should be transmitted to the plenary Conference.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) seconded the  French delegate’s proposal.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) understood  that a similar resolution from the Egyptian dele-  gation had already been passed by the plenary  meeting. At future sessions of the Conference,  there should be a closing date for the submission  of resolutions.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America)  explained that a similar Egyptian resolution had  been submitted, among other resolutions, to the  Sub-Commission on Social Sciences, which had  recommended that no special body should be set  up to deal with the question, as the words  “including law” had been added to the general  instructions given to the Director-General in  connexion with the social sciences, in a resolution  adopted by the Programme and Budget Com-  mission. (51)  M. SEYDOUX (France) was surprised at  Unesco’s attitude towards jurisprudence; every  resolution on the subject was submerged in other  matter, as the Egyptian resolution had been in  the programme resolution. He asked the General  Committee to take the responsibility of reopening  the question.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Secretariat  should inform the Egyptian delegation that it  could present the resolution in document 3C/101  in the form of an amendment, when the plenary
(81) See resolution 4.11, Volume II, Section IX. I.  Chapter 4, p. 23.  pe
4  w  Le  .      meeting discussed the relevant programme reso-  lution.  The Chairman’s proposal was adopted.  Solemn declaration by the new Director-  General.  On behalf of the Director-General, the DEPUTY  DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the new  Director-General, after making his maiden speech,  should be asked to make the following solemn  declaration :  “I solemnly undertake to exercise in all loyalty,  discretion and conscience the functions entrusted  to me as Director-General of Unesco, to discharge  these functions and regulate my conduct with the  interests of Unesco only in view, and not to seek  or accept instructions in regard to the perfor-  mance of my duties from any Government or other  authority external to the Organization.”  The pledge was identical with that taken by  EIGHTEENTH  staff members upon their appointment, except  that the words “as Director-General” were sub-  stituted for “as a member of the Secretariat”.  Dr. Huxley had not made such a declaration when  he took office, as Unesco was not sufficiently  organized at that time, but he thought it would  be a good procedure for future Directors-General  to follow.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought it  was an admirable proposal. He hoped the decla-  ration would be made with due solemnity and  dignity.  The proposal, which was also supported by  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy), M. HUYSMANS  (Belgium), Mr. ALLEN (United States of Amer-  ica), M. SEYDOUX (France) and Dr. PARRA-  PEREZ, on behalf of the Executive Board, was  adopted.  The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 17 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  later: M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium)  Resolutions on the closure of the Session.  (Draft resolution expressing the thanks of the  General Conference to the Lebanese Government  and Press, and draft resolution establishing three  Unesco Conference Fellowships for citizens of  Lebanon, in gratitude for Lebanon's contribution  to the Third Session of the General Conference of  Unesco.)  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the two reso-  lutions should be referred to the plenary meeting  of the Conference.  Agreed.  Draft resolution of thanks to Dr. Huxley.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the resolution  should be submitted by the Brazilian delegation.  Agreed.
0  Po  Agenda of the eighteenth and nineteenth  plenary meetings.  The Agenda was adopted.  Publication of speeches made at the General  Conference.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) said that the Belgian  Government intended publishing a pamphlet con-  taining certain speeches made at the Third Ses-  sion—those made by the President of the Republic  of Lebanon, the Lebanese Minister of Education,  Dr. Huxley and Dr. Torres Bodet.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, in reply to a ques-  tion from M. SEYDOUX (France), said that there  was no question of permission to publish such  documents; the Secretariat was always very glad  to see them appear.