THIRD MEETING  Thursday, 25 November 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. D. h. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Report of the Executive Board on the  representation of Unesco in the main  cultural areas of the world (document
3C/OXR/2—PRG)  The CHAIRMAN announced that, before consi-  dering the resolution on pages 8 and 9 of doc-  ument 3C/OXR/2-PRG, he would call on Dr.  McKeon, Rapporteur of the Sub-Commission on  Cultural Questions, to report on the action taken  by that Sub-Commission.  (a) Cultural liaison in the Middle East.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) (Rap-  porteur of the Sub-Commission on Cultural Ques-  tions) stated that the Sub-Commission had reached  the conclusion that the problem of promoting the  exchange of ideas and co-operation in the pro-  gramme of cultural interchange should be separ-  ated from the problem of regional centres. It  had, therefore, unanimously approved the follow-  ing motion for the promotion of cultural relations  with the Middle East, which was to replace para-  graph 1 of the resolution on page 9 of document
3C/OXR/2-PRG :  The Director-General is instructed to promote the  exchange of ideas, information, materials and persons  in the fields of arts, letters, philosophy and  humanistic studies among the countries of the Middle  Fast and between those countries and the other  countries of the world.  The Sub-Commission expressed the opinion that  the provision of $41,178 for such services in the  Middle East, recommended in the Supplementary  Budget Estimates, should be adequate for the pro-  gramme. A clause to that effect should therefore  be substituted for the first half of paragraph 3  of the Executive Board’s resolution. The Sub-  Commission felt that paragraph 2 and the second  part of paragraph 3 of the resolution were out-  side its competence, and therefore moved that  those questions should be referred to the Joint  Commission. Dr. McKeon submitted the reso-  lution passed by the Sub-Commission on Cultural  Questions, together with the expression of opinion  that the budget provision was adequate, to the  Joint Commission.    Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) expressed  his delegation’s hearty approval of the resolution,  and formally seconded it.  M. ABOUKHATER (Lebanon), speaking for all  the Arab delegations, said that the resolution of  the Sub-Commission on Cultural Questions went  back on the decision, taken at the Mexico City  Conference, to establish a cultural centre in the  Middle East. On behalf of the Arab delegations,  therefore, he wished to move a resolution (doc-  ument 3C/85) which would substitute for para-  graphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Executive Board’s reso-  lution the following :
(1) to approve the establishment, at the earliest  possible date, of a Cultural Liaison Office for the  countries of the Middle East:  ’
(2) to approve the appointment, early in 1949, of  two Regional Representatives of Unesco to serve in the  Middle East and Latin America respectively;
(3) to instruct the Director-General to arrange for  the members of the Secretariat mentioned in para-  graphs (1) and (2) above to carry out the following  work in 1949 : |  (a) to undertake detailed studies of the nature and  extent of activities and cultural exchanges, in the  fields of education. science and culture, in the  countries of the Middle East and neighbouring areas  of similar culture, on the one hand, and between  those countries and other cultural regions of the  world, on the other:  (b) to undertake the above-mentioned studies in  co-operation with the Governments and cultural  organizations of the Middle East, and to consider  their views and wishes;  (c) to submit a detailed report on the results of  those studies, with recommendations, to the Fourth  Session of the General Conference;
(4) to recommend that in the Budget of the  Organization for 1949, $45,000 be provided for the  Cultural Liaison Office for the Middle East, and  $25,000 for the Regional Representatives mentioned  under paragraph (2) above.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the current  discussion concerned amendments to paragraph 1  and the first part of paragraph 3 of the Executive  Board's resolution, and that only one paragraph  of the resolution of the Arab delegations concerned  such amendments (viz. (1) “to approve the estab-  lishment, at the earliest possible date, of a Cultural  Liaison Office for the Middle East”).    Dr. AWAD (Egypt) opposed the amendment  suggested by the Sub-Commission on Cultural  Questions. He pointed out that a great deal of  cultural co-operation already existed in the Middle  East and between the Middle East and other coun-  tries; Egypt, for instance, had intimate cultural  relations with countries spreading from Morocco  to India, Ceylon and Malaya, from Iran to Aden  and the East coast of Africa. It was important  that the Director-General should ascertain what  already existed. The Executive Board’s resolution  provided for the establishment of a Cultural Liai-  son Office in the Middle East, and Dr. Awad was  surprised that the step had not already been taken.  Unesco had an adviser for Far-Eastern affairs, and  it would therefore be reasonable for it to have  one for the Middle East. He regretted that the  budget allowed for the Middle East was so modest,  and hoped that, if an adviser was appointed, he  would have as high a grade as the adviser for the  Far East. He ended by seconding the proposal  of the Lebanese delegation.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that the  Mexico City resolution had instructed the Director-  General to consider, in 1948, the possibility of  setting up an experimental cultural liaison centre  in the Middle Fast. During his spring tour of  the Middle East, he had thoroughly investigated  the question and had come to the conclusion that  it would be preferable to keep to the pattern of  Field Science Co-operation Offices and call it an  office, rather than a centre, which implied  something more static. The amendment presen-  ted by the Sub-Commission on Cultural Questions  was not a regression on the Mexico resolution,  but merely made it more elastic, leaving the form  of the centre, or office, to the Director-General;  the sum of money would remain in the budget,  and the Director-General would be as free to use  it as if he had been specifically directed to use it  for a centre. He therefore very much hoped that  the amendment would be carried.  The CHAIRMAN put the  amendment to the vote.  The vote was equally divided, fifteen in favour  and fifteen against, with fourteen delegations  absent.  In accordance with Rule 89 of the Rules of  Procedure, the CHAIRMAN ruled that the vote  would be taken again the following day.  Sub-Commission's  (b) Regional Offices.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America)  proposed the following resolution (document
3C/66) as an amendment to paragraph 2 and the  second half of paragraph 3 of the resolution on  page 9 of document 3C/OXR/2 :  The General Conference decides :
(1) to instruct the Director-General, as a measure  prior to taking further steps toward the establishment  of regional offices, as proposed in document 3C/OXR/
2-PRG, to assist in the establishment of National Com-  missions or National Co-operating Bodies in all coun-  tries where such agencies have not been established,  by assigning members of the Secretariat for short  periods to such countries upon the request of the  appropriate authorities.
(2) to instruct the Director-General to continue  consultation with the United Nations, through the  Administrative Committee on Co-ordination and In  accordance with the recommendations, if any, of the  Economic and Social Council, and to report to a  subsequent session of the General Conference the con-  clusions of the Administrative Committee and the  recommendations, if any, of the Economic and Social  Council on the problem of establishing regional offices,  together with his recommendations and those of the  Executive Board.  The United States delegation was of the opinion  that it was not possible to decentralize effectively  until efficiency and a commonly accepted philo-  sophy had been achieved at headquarters. For  that, it was essential to have a firm relationship  between National Commissions and Unesco, and  strong National Commissions in all Member States  should be developed before any regional offices  were set up. The Secretariat had been much  criticized for the high cost of administration, but  the setting up of regional offices would increase  those administrative costs, and the United States  delegation thought it would be preferable to  increase the budget for work with National Com-  missions, many of which needed Unesco’s help;  they required staff, more publications and quicker  responses to their requests. Mr. Allen pointed  out that under the Mexico City resolutions,  regional meetings of National Commissions could  be held; that method might be tried.  Dr. De MENDOZA (Cuba) stressed the fact that  the question at issue was not the expediency of  establishing Regional Centres, as that had already  been agreed upon by the Mexico City Conference.  He recalled that the Mexico Conference had  instructed the Executive Board to consider urgently  the establishment of one Regional Centre in  Havana in 1948: the Director-General had sub-  mitted the question to the United Nations’ Admini-  strative Committee on Co-ordination, which had  not been in favour of the suggestion, owing to  Unesco’s limited resources in money and per-  sonnel. Unesco, however, was an autonomous  body and the opinion of the Committee on Co-  ordination should not over-rule a decision taken,                                IST TE  by an overwhelming majority, by Unesco’s Gen-  eral Conference. Dr. De Mendoza begged the  Conference to take the decision to create the  Regional Centre in Havana as soon as possible,  in accordance with the resolution of the Mexico  (City Conference; he pointed out that it would  constitute a magnificent means of liaison between  Unesco and all the American countries.  Mr. HUSAIN (India) observed that the United  States’ amendment was a direct negation of the  Mexico City resolution. If Unesco reversed its  policy from one General Conference to another,  the world would not take the Organization  seriously. He submitted that the creation of  Regional Centres would strengthen existing  National Commissions and stimulate their estab-  lishment in countries where they did not yet  exist. He admitted the unity of all human  culture, but unity did not mean uniformity;  Unesco should recognise local, racial, religious  and national divergencies and should help to  harmonize them: it could not fulfil that function  adequately unless it had Regional Centres. The  Indian delegation therefore proposed a resolution  (document 3C/62) concerning an Institute of  Cultural Co-operation for South and East Asian  countries.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that the  Commission was discussing regional centres and  not cultural centres or centres for a limited.  defined purpose, such as the Institute proposed  by the Indian delegation. The proposed Institute  was analogous to the Hylean Amazon Institute  which was set up by the governments of the  region. The Indian proposal would therefore  come up as a separate item, but the Director-  General pointed out that the United States amend-  ment would not interfere with the carrying out  of the Indian resolution.  Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) pointed out that  the question whether Unesco’s policy should  tend to regionalization or whether it should be  concentrated at headquarters, acting as a liaison  centre for National Commissions, had been settled  by the Mexico Conference in the following terms :  The General Conference resolves :  To establish as soon as possible, after consultation  with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies,  regional offices or centres of Unesco, in order to  further the aims of the Organization and to co-  ordinate the activities of National Commissions in the  major geographical regions of the world.  Acting on the advice of the Administrative  Committee on Co-ordination of the United Nations,  the Executive Board had decided to postpone the
419  question; it had been raised again and the Confer  ence was free to take a decision at once. A year  had passed, during which the countries concerned  had waited for a reply from the Co-ordination  Committee and, if the latter had decided to do  nothing, Unesco should take positive action.  Professor Carneiro was very much in favour of  a Regional Centre for Latin America; the only  reason such a centre had not been set up before  was that it was desired to establish it in close  liaison with Unesco. The Latin American  countries had counted on the Mexico City re-  solution, and he begged delegates to take that  psychological factor into consideration. The  growth of National Commissions would be  accelerated by the creation of such a Centre,  which would be very beneficial to Unesco. He  therefore seconded the proposal of the delegate  of Cuba.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) agreed with the  United States delegation that the question should  be adjourned, to give National Commissions time  to strengthen themselves, and to give the new  Director-General time to examine the situation  thoroughly.  M. SEYDOUX (France), speaking on the United  States’ proposal, recalled that Unesco had some-  times been compared to a temple supported by  columns; those columns were its Member States,  some of which were missing and some weak.  The United States delegation proposed that Unesco  should assist National Commissions by sending  members of the Secretariat to them upon request,  but it could be costly for Unesco to send people  to all National Commissions which were not  functioning properly; each Member State should  help itself. The reason for the poor functioning  of National Commissions was generally that they  lacked permanent staff; the French delegation,  therefore, thought that there should be another  resolution, besides the United States resolution,  requesting Member States to give National Com-  missions sufficient funds to employ an adequate  permanent staff; for example, a certain percentage  of the contributions of Member States to Unesco  might be used for that purpose.  NADJIB-ULLAH Khan (Afghanistan) supported  the establishment of a Regional Centre in the  Middle East. He understood the United States  point of view, and also attached great importance  to the activity of National Commissions, but he  did not think that such activity would be hindered  by the creation of Regional Centres. He proposed  that a decision should be taken immediately. He  would be happy to see a Centre created as soon  as possible in the Middle East; he also wished      for a definition of the major cultural regions of  the world.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) corrected  a misapprehension that had arisen; he had never  said anything against the establishment of  Regional Centres, but only that his delegation did  not think the time was yet ripe to create them.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, replying to various  points raised, stated that the resolutions of the  Mexico Conference had been carefully studied by  the Executive Board and himself, with the results  set forth in document 3C/OXR/2 - PRG. The  Board had considered the establishment of an  office in Havana in 1948, and had decided that the  time was not ripe. The information from the  United Nations Committee on Co-ordination was  submitted at once to the Board, of which the  delegate of Brazil was a member. With regard to  the remarks of the delegate of France,  concerning staff for National Commissions, there  would be a resolution from the meeting of  representatives of National Commissions which  would come before the Conference during the  current week; the Secretariat and the Executive  Board had consistently believed in supporting  and strengthening National Commissions. When  the Board and the Director-General had come to  the conclusion that the time was not ripe for the  general decentralization of Unesco, they had  decided to suggest the appointment of two regional  representatives, on an experimental basis, to serve  in areas to be determined by the Conference;  that question would come up for separate  discussion later.  Speaking not as Director-General, but from his  FOURTH  own personal point of view, he recalled that,  when he had first assumed office, he had written  a memorandum on the question of Regional  Centres, which interested him deeply. He felt  that, as Unesco had failed to obtain a firm ruling  from the United Nations, the best plan might be  to adopt the United States resolution, but to  include an instruction to the Director-General to  examine the possibility of setting up an experi-  mental Centre in Latin America, if possible jointly  with as many other Specialized Agencies as  possible.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) saw  nothing in the Director-General’s suggestion to  conflict with the United States resolution but, as  it was a suggestion for another kind of centre, he  wished it to be treated as a separate proposal and  not as an amendment to the United States  resolution.  The CHAIRMAN proposed to put the United  States and the Cuban resolutions to the vote.  As many delegations from countries vitally inter-  ested in the question were absent, Dr. De MEN-  DOZA (Cuba) asked for the vote to be deferred  until the following day.  A vote was taken and, as the majority in favour  of voting on the resolutions immediately was  only one, with twelve delegations absent and one  abstention, the CHAIRMAN ruled that the vote  should be taken the following day.  The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.  MEETING  Friday, 26 November 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Cultural liaison in the Middle East (document
3C/OXR/2-PRG) (continuation).  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  proposed that paragraph 1 on page 9 of document
3C/OXR/2-PRG should be replaced by a joint  resolution drafted by Egypt, Turkey, Lebanon,  Saudi Arabia and the United States of America.
420  Dr. SADIGHI (Iran) seconded the proposal.  M. ABOUKHATER (Lebanon) pointed out that  the delegate of the United States of America had  inadvertently omitted (for he was in full agree-  ment on the point) to state, in the text of the  resolution proposed, that it involved “the Middle-  Eastern countries of similar culture”.