EIGHTH MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  The CHAIRMAN announced that Sir Sarvepalli  Radhakrishnan had been obliged to leave the  Conference and hoped that Professor Kabir would  be allowed to replace him.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed, on  behalf of his delegation, that Professor Kabir  should replace Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, with  full voting powers.  Agreed.  Interpretation of Rule 68 of the Draft Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference  (document 3C/PRO/1).  I'he SECRETARY, introducing the document  submitted by the Secretariat, explained that, at  previous sessions of the General Conference, the  work of the various Commissions had been  seriously impeded by the frequent lack of a quo-  rum, defined on the assumption that the quorum  should be a majority of Member States attending  any particular session of the General Conference.  The Secretariat suggested that the phrase “Member  States which constitute that body” in Rule 68,  could properly be interpreted to mean the number  of Member States which had indicated in writing  the name of the delegate whom they had designa-  ted to attend regular meetings of the Commission  concerned. The Secretariat therefore proposed  the following resolution :  The General Committee recommends to the Chair-  men of Commissions and Sub-Commissions that they  adopt the following interpretation of Rule 68 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference :  The number of Member States which shall constitute  a Commission or a Sub-Commission shall be deemed  to be the number of Member States which have  submitted on form 3C/INF/5 the names of the  delegate or delegates who will regularly attend  meetings of the Commission or Sub-Commission.  M. SEYDOUX (France) had no objection to the  Secretariat's interpretation, but wondered whether  some provision should not be laid down for a  minimum representation at Commissions and  Sub-Commissions; for example, it might be stipu-  lated that at least half, or one third, of Member  States should have indicated in writing that they  wished their delegate or delegates to work on a  given Commission.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) thought the matter needed further consi-  deration; small delegations would not wish to  renounce their right to attend every Commission  and Sub-Commission, so that, on paper, Com-  missions would include representatives of all  delegations, while in actual fact small delegations  would send a delegate only to the meetings they  considered most important.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) hoped  that the Secretariat's proposal would be accepted.  Although he firmly believed that the Conference  should adhere to important rules of principle,  regulations should be tools and not manacles.  With regard to Dr. Walker's point, Mr. Roberts  saw no harm in small delegations putting down  their names for each Commission, as they would  attend as soon as any important point was raised,  which was the only time when the quorum  mattered. As a general rule, it should be left  to the discretion of the Chairman to proceed if  there was a reasonable attendance.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) pointed out that a  Chairman was not entitled to take a decision on  such a matter, and that there should be some  fixed rule, giving a figure. He proposed that the  minimum representation should be set at one  third of the Member States present at the current  session of the Conference.  The CHAIRMAN observed that the question  under discussion was the interpretation of Rule 68,  and not its modification, as proposed by the dele-  gate of Belgium. He proposed that the Secre-  tariat’s interpretation should be adopted provi-  sionally, and that the proposal of the Belgian  delegate should be referred to the Procedure Com-  mittee, which should be asked to review the sub-  stance of the question.  Agreed.  r u   D   |  E s t a ]   |  a   r e n   E r   =   t S      Commission to which the report of the  Temporary Committee on the status and  responsibilities of the Executive Board  should be referred. (Item placed on the  Agenda at the request of the delegation of the  United States of America.)  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) explained that, as the Temporary Com-  mittee had been created by the Board itself, it  submitted its report to the Board; the report did  not have to be approved by the Conference, but  was submitted to it for information. There were  certain suggestions in the report, however, which  might call for action by the Conference. The  report would be circulated to delegations during  the day.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) proposed  that the report should be referred to the Admi-  nistrative Commission, which would examine the  suggestions made in it.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) moved the  following resolution :  The General Committee decides to invite the Admi-  nistrative Commission to take note of the report of  the Temporary Committee on the status and respon-  sibilities of the Executive Board, circulated to the  Conference for information, and to make any recom-  mendations to the Conference which the Commission  may think fit, regarding particular points raised in  the report.  M. SEYDOUX (France) considered it desirable  for certain members of the Executive Board to be  present when the report came up before the  Administrative Commission, and moved that a  clause to that effect should be added to the reso-  lution proposed by Mr. Hardman.  Mr. HAHDMAN (United Kingdom)  the addition of the words :  proposed  't proposes, in this connexion, that members of the  Executive Board should be invited to attend the  meeting of the Commission in a consultative capacity.  M. SEYDOUX (France) supported the proposed  wording.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) pointed out that the invitation merely  underlined Rule 63 of the Rules of Procedure.  The United Kingdom resolution, as amended  by the French delegation, was adopted.  Educational Missions to Member States.  (proposal of the delegation of Syria).  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the  Committee should authorize him to transmit the  proposal to the Chairman of the Programme and  Budget Commission, as the question of educa-  tional missions was already on the agenda of the  Commission for its afternoon meeting.  Agreed.  Other Business.  In the name of the Spanish-speaking delegations,  Dr. MOLINARI (Argentina) asked the Director-  General whether the Secretariat could provide  simultaneous interpreters for Spanish, 1f the  countries concerned were willing to pay for them.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL hoped it would be  possible to supply such interpreters for the  plenary meetings, but feared that, for Com-  missions, the existing rule would have to be  adhered to, that was to say, that delegations wish-  ing to speak a language other than English or  French should provide their own interpreters.  At the request of Mr. HARDMAN (United King-  dom), the Committee agreed to the postponement  of the meeting of the Natural Sciences Sub-Com-  mission to deal with non-budgetary matters from
2 December to the morning of Friday, 3 December.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that the  Chairman of the Joint Committee of Fifteen,  Mrs. Wright (United States of America), had  requested that the meeting of the Joint Com-  mittee scheduled for that evening at 6.30 p.m.  should be postponed until Monday, 29 November  at 6.30 p.m.  Agreed.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that it had  been decided that the Joint Committee should  consider, among other things, the preparations  for the next Session of the General Conference.  As such preparations were, however, really the  responsibility of the Executive Board, he wondered  whether it would not be better to ask the Board  to take the matter up immediately and prepare  a report for Monday morning, 29 November,  when a new Committee to deal with the question  could be appointed.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) proposed that a      decision on the matter should be postponed until  the next meeting of the General Committee on  Monday, 29 November.  Agreed.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  NINTH  Board) asked all delegations to submit their  suggestions on the subject of the preparations to  him by Monday morning; it was agreed that a  roneographed notice should be circulated during  the day.  The meeting rose at 11 a.m.  MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Decision of the Credentials Committee on the  Credentials of the Czechoslovak delegation.  The SECRETARY observed that the Credentials  Committee had studied the question and that its  report was before the meeting; the matter would  also be dealt with in the afternoon by the Pro-  cedure Committee. It was essential that a deci-  sion should be taken on the reports of both Com-  mittees by the plenary meeting, before the  meeting of the Nominations Committee on the  afternoon of 30 November.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) asked  if the report was considered to accept in principle  the fact that the credentials of a delegation were  valid, even if it was stated, in transmitting them,  that the delegation had no intention of attending  the Conference.  The SECRETARY replied that the question was  determined by Article IV. A. of the Constitution.  He pointed out, however, that a proposal from an  absent delegation was not valid.  M. SEYDOUX (France) observed that that pro-  vision of the Constitution might lead to the curious  result that all delegations had been legally appoin-  ted by their governments, but none of them  attended the Conference. He therefore suggested  adding to the report of the Credentials Committee  the following words :  The Committee draws the attention of the General  Conference to the consequences which might result,  in practice, from the provision of Article IV. A.  Adopted.  The General Committee agreed that the report  of the Credentials Committee should be referred
229  to the Procedure Committee, and that both reports  should be submitted to the Conference for approval  the following morning.  Amendments to the Constitution of Unesco  (proposal of the delegation of India).  The SECRETARY drew attention to Article XIII  of the Constitution, stipulating that :  The draft texts of proposed amendments shall be  communicated by the Director-General to the Member  States at least six months in advance of their consider-  ation by the General Conference.  Professor KABIR (India) stated that the Indian  delegation was aware of that rule; that was why  the head of the delegation had requested the  Director-General to have the proposed amendments  circulated to Member States. It had, however,  been felt that a preliminary, informal discussion  of the matter by the Conference would be useful;  otherwise, each Member State would have to take  a decision without knowing the views of the  others.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) asked  the delegate of India what would happen 1f the
1948 Conference signed a six-year contract with  the new Director-General, and the Fourth Session  of the General Conference then adopted the second  amendment proposed by the Indian delegation  to Article VI, paragraph 2, of the Constitution,  substituting the words “not less than three, but  not more than four, years” for “six years”, and  the words “shall not be eligible” for “shall be  eligible”.  Professor KABIR (India) replied that his dele-