trying to secure regulations regarding the currency  of contributions, which would place the actual  contribution at what it should be. After long  discussions, Mr. Zook had been requested by his  delegation to tell the Commission that the United  States were not prepared to pay more than approxi-  mately 39 per cent of the total, representing a  reduction of one third of the difference between  the percentage suggested in Annex III to doc-  ument 3C/ADM/3, and the ceiling of thirty-three  and a third per cent which had been approved in  principle.  Mr. Zook therefore asked that the matter should  be given careful consideration and that action  should be taken upon the proposal he had placed  before the Commission. While his delegation  believed that the principle was a proper and correct  one, they certainly did not intend to apply it  immediately.  The CHAIRMAN said that, as the Commission  SEVENTH  had already indicated when it passed the resolution  laying down that the contribution of the United  States of America ought not to exceed thirty-three  and a third per cent, it was greatly indebted to  the United States for their generous attitude in  proposing to continue to shoulder some of the  additional burden.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked how  the proposal would affect the percentages paid by  other countries.  The CHAIRMAN replied that the modified scale  would be submitted to the Commission at its next  meeting, and asked the Commission to accept the  proposal of the United States delegation.  The proposal was adopted.  The meeting rose at noon.  MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 5 of the Agenda  (continuation).  Staff Questions  Item 5 (e) Distribution by nationality of  members of the Secretariat (document
3C/ADM/13).  M. FL-HASSANI (Syria) and M. SUR (Turkey)  both pointed out that their respective countries  were seriously under-represented on the Secre-  tariat. The delegate of Turkey added that Unesco  did not appear to encourage sufficiently appli-  cations from all Member States and suggested  that the Conference should instruct the Director-  General to ensure that recruitment was more  evenly distributed.  Mr. SELSKY (Acting Head of the Bureau of  Personnel) replied that the Secretariat had indeed  given every Member State an equal opportunity  to submit candidates. In April 1948, a complete  statement of the positions for which recruitment  was desired was circulated to all Member States.  As a result, a large number of applications had  been received, and were being carefully considered.
389  M. PADOUX (France) appreciated the difficul-  ties of the Secretariat, but felt that the position  was still not satisfactory and suggested that it  would be useful for the General Conference to pass  a resolution to apprise the Director-General of its  views on the matter.  Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand) also appreciated  the difficulties of the Secretariat but asked that  National Commissions should be kept more closely  informed of the action taken on applications  screened and forwarded by them.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) proposed  that, in 1949, a statement of the positions for  which candidates were desired should be circu-  lated at regular intervals.  Mr. SELSKY (Secretariat) replied that the  Secretariat had worked out a scheme for distri-  buting a complete list of vacant posts to all Mem-  ber Governments; the list would be kept up  to date month by month. All Governments and  National Commissions would thus be fully aware   of the position, and would be able to inform can-  didates. It was quite impossible for the Bureau  of Personnel, with its existing staff, to keep in  touch directly with all the candidates, totalling
35,000.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) asked if the Secre-  tariat could, when writing to Member Govern-  ments, give a deadline for filling a post. In Aus-  tralia, it was particulary difficult, once a candi-  date had been found and approved, to ensure that  the application reached Paris before the post was  filled.  Mr. FYZEE (India) asked for further details  from the Secretariat about how, and by whom,  the final selection of candidates was made. He  suggested that it would be both possible and desi-  rable to establish an International Civil Service  Commission to consider and appoint candidates  to vacant posts in the United Nations and its Spe-  cialized Agencies.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained  that the problem entailed great difficulties for the  Secretariat. He did not believe a really good geo-  graphical balance, with the first-class type of pro-  fessional people required by Unesco, could be  achieved in less than three years, and meanwhile  the programme must continue. It had frequently  been found that Member Governments were  unable to spare their really good professional  people for service on the Secretariat. The pro-  gramme itself was still somewhat fluid and, each  time a change was made, the qualifications of the  staff members concerned had to be reviewed. He  agreed with the delegates of Australia and New  Zealand that the time factor was one of the great-  est difficulties. In 1948, for instance, the changes  made in the Budget and Programme in Mexico  City had had to be considered and it was not until  February that active recruitment could begin.  A few weeks later, the Director-General had been  forced to “freeze” recruitment, owing to the  rapidly rising cost of living in Paris, which had  unexpectedly increased personnel costs. In the  spring also, the Director-General had had to decide  to issue only monthly or sixty-day contracts to all  professional staff from France, the United King-  dom or the United States of America in spite of  the excellence of their service in many cases, and  to inform such people that steps were being taken  to recruit candidates for their posts. All such  posts had been advertised throughout the world  and it was beginning to be possible to issue a few  slightly longer-term contracts. In reply to the  delegate of India, the Deputy Director-General  explained that the Director-General was the only  person authorized to make appointments above  the Secretary level (about Grade 7). Appoint-  ments were made by the Director-General, who  went over the application, in consultation with  both the Bureau of Personnel and the Department  concerned. With regard to the proposal for an  International Civil Service Commission, the Deputy  Director-General felt strongly that the appointment  of staff could be the responsibility of the Director-  General only. The appointment of a Director-  General as the “chief administrative officer of the  Organization” indicated confidence in his ability  to carry out the programme and aims of the Or-  ganization—including the selection of staff. The  only reservation should be that the highest  appointments should be made by the Director-  General only after consultation with the Executive  Board. He pointed out that an International Civil  Service Advisory Board was already functioning;  that was the only kind of organization desirable.  In reply to a question from Mr. ZOOK (United  States of America), the DEPUTY DIRECTOR-  GENERAL stated that the Director-General endeav-  oured to keep in very close touch with National  Commissions and gave every consideration to thei  recommendations, but that, in any case of doubt  or disagreement, the final decision could only  rest with him. He wished to point out to dele-  gates that, although a good geographical balance  was eminently desirable, the main objective of the  Organization must be the implementation of the  ’  programme.  M. JAWAD (Iraq) entirely agreed that the qua-  lity and competence of members of the Secretarial  was actually more important than their nationa-  lity, and asked for information from the Secre-  tariat about the method of selection.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that  the Director-General’s authorization for the  appointment of staff members was contained in  paragraph 4 of Article VI of the Constitution.  The Secretariat invited Member States to recom-  mend candidates, who were then considered by  the Director-General and his advisers from the  point of view both of qualifications and of per-  sonal ability to work within an international  organization.  The CHAIRMAN summed up the discussion,  stating that it was clear that the Secretariat had  been making every endeavour to secure a good  geographical distribution, although the desired  result had not yet been entirely accomplished.  The first consideration was, of course, efficiency  and, unless Member States had really first-class  people available for service on the Secretariat, he  did not see how any concrete resolution could be       passed. The Secretariat would obviously continue  to do its best in the matter.  Item 4 of the Agenda :  (continuation).  Financial Questions  Item 4 (b) : Scale of contributions of Member  States for 1949 (document 3C/ADM/3 and  Supplements).  The CHAIRMAN remarked that the scale of con-  tributions, amended in accordance with the deci-  sion previously taken by the Commission, had  been circulated, and asked for its adoption.  The scale was unanimously accepted (122) after  M. ALESSANDRINI (Italy) and M. PADOUX  (France) had pointed out that final approval of  the scale of contributions for 1949 should come  from their respective governments.  The CHAIRMAN then asked the meeting to con-  sider the amendments necessary to the draft reso-  lution proposed on pages 3 and 4 of document
3C/ADM/3.  It was agreed that, in paragraph (1), “Hungary”  should be deleted.  A long discussion ensued with regard to para-  graph (2): the basis on which the contributions of  new members depositing their instruments of rati-  fication after 1 January 1949 should be assessed for
1949. It had been agreed that Unesco should take  as a basis the quotas under the United Nations scale  of contributions; but the question arose whether  the special adjustment in the Unesco scale should  be made in the year a new member joined, or in  the following year.  After various amendments had been rejected,  the Commission agreed to adopt the principle that  the special Unesco adjustment to the United  Nations scale should be made for the year in  which a new Member State joined the Organi-  zation; the Comptroller was requested to formu-  late an amendment for submission to the next  meeting of the Commission.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) asked if it was     true that the accounts of the Preparatory  Commission were closed, and the DEPUTY
(122) The scale of contributions appears in  Volume II, Section X, Annex II, 2 (ii), p. 48.
391  DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that they were.  Any outstanding charges against the Preparatory  Commission could be liquidated only by a special  apprcpriation from the 1949 budget.  Item 5 of the Agenda  (continuation).  Staff Questions  Item 5 (d) : Report of the Director-General  on Staff Regulations (document SC/ADM/11).  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that  document 3C/ADM/11 had been prepared in Paris,  on the assumption that the United Nations would  adopt a similar document at the General Assembly  in Paris. The Advisory Committee on Admini-  strative Matters, however, had recommended that  the question of United Nations and Specialized  Agency Staff Regulations should be made the sub-  ject of a comprehensive study by the Committee  on Co-ordination (on which Unesco was repre-  sented). Unesco would, therefore, prefer to delay  a decision on the question of Staff Regulations for  the time being and the Secretariat was preparing  a shorter document for consideration by the Com-  mission, incorporating only those changes in the  Staff Regulations which were considered imme-  diately essential. The Deputy Director-General  therefore requested permission to withdraw doc-  ument 3C/ADM/11, on the understanding that  a briefer substitute document would be circulated  for consideration by the Commission as soon as  possible.  The Commission agreed.  Changes in the Agenda.  The CHAIRMAN announced that the following  items had been submitted for consideration by  the Commission :  (a) Item 4 (h) of the Agenda Preliminary  examination of the Budget Estimates by an Expert  Panel (proposal by the United States delegation,  document 3C/18);  (b) Item 5 (f) of the Agenda : Organization  of the Secretariat (proposal submitted by the  United Kingdom delegation) ;  (c) Item 6 (a) of the Agenda : Work plans for  implementation of programme projects (proposal  submitted by the United States delegation).  The meeting rose at 4.50 p.m.