Members of the Executive Board may not, during  their term of office, be nominated for the post of  Director-General.  Is this amendment seconded?  The amendment is not seconded,  therefore put it to the vote.  Gentlemen, I put to the vote the draft Rules of  Procedure as a whole, as adopted by the Procedure  Committee. Will those in favour, please raise  their hands.  and I cannot  On a vote being taken by a show of hands, the  draft Rules of Procedure were adopted by 15 votes  in favour, with none against. (°°)  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We have still to  deal with two questions of procedure, mentioned  in document 3C/PRO/16, pages 4 and 5. The  first question is the eligibility for re-election of  members of the Executive Board who are not  members of any delegation. The Committee  recommends to the General Conference that this  question be resolved by the procedure laid down  in paragraph 2 of Rule 33 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure, that is by having the Constitution inter-  preted by an arbitral tribunal.  Will those in agreement with this proposal  please raise their hands.  On a vote being taken by a show of hands, the  proposal was adopted by 10 votes in favour, with  none against. (“*)  The PRESIDENT (Translation): A second  recommendation by the Procedure Committee :  The Procedure Committee recommends that at its  next ordinary session the General Conference take  all necessary steps to amend the provisions of the  Constitution with a view to securing concurrence  between the terms of the members of the  Executive Board and the Director-General, on the  one hand, and the ordinary sessions of the General  Conference, on the other.  Does anyone wish to speak?  Will those who agree with this recommendation  please raise their hands?  On a vote being taken by a show of hands, the  proposal was adopted by 14 votes in favour. (°°)  The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m.  EIGHTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 17 December 1948, at 11 a.m.  CONTENTS
36. Resolution concerning the translation, distribution and sale of Unesco  documents and publications in languages other than the working lan-  guages . 187
37. Resolution concerning the despatch of General Conference documents to  Member States
38. Discussion of selected items of general importance, e.g.
189  the rôle and  problems of education, science and culture in the modern world :  Speeches by delegates of France, Italy, Brazil, Lebanon, the United King  dom, Australia and Egypt .  President :
36. Resolution concerning the translation,  distribution and sale of Unesco docu-  ments and publications in languages  other than the working languages.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We shall now  discuss the draft resolution concerning the trans-     Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  (See also Volume II, Section XIII,
(63) In final form :  lution 3, p. 112.  Annex, p. 92.)
189  Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  lation, printing, distribution and sale in languages  other than the working languages of important  selected documents, publications and books issued  by Unesco. The relevant document is 3C/93,  Amendment 2. I call upon the Chairman of the  Drafting Committee.  M. Johannes NOVRUP (Denmark) (Chairman
(64) See volume II, Section XIII, III, 1, p. 90.
(65) See Volume II, Section XIII, III, 2, p. 91.    of the Drafting Committee) : Mr. President, fel-  low-delegates, at the plenary meeting on Thurs-  day afternoon, a small Committee was set up to  prepare a new resolution in connexion with docu-  ments 3C/93 and 3C/93 Amendment. This Com-  mittee, consisting of delegates of Cuba, Denmark,  Egypt, France, Lebanon, Syria, the Union of  South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United  States of America, met immediately after the ple-  nary meeting. After a thorough discussion of the  matter, full agreement was reached on the fram-  ing of a new draft resolution.  This resolution has already been distributed to  all members. As you will see, it has been divided  into three parts. First, a purely general one,  authorizing the Director-General to translate  publications into languages other than the two  working languages; secondly a more specific one  dealing with Member States willing to contribute  to the cost of translation; and, thirdly, a para-  graph regarding the sum of $20,000 approved in  the budget for 1949. This resolution reads as  follows :
(1) That, as part of the general publications  policy of Unesco, the Director-General shall be em-  powered to use such sums as may from year to  year be provided in the budget, to arrange for the  translation, printing, distribution and sale in lan-  guages other than the working languages of Unesco  of important selected documents, publications and  books issued by Unesco.
(2) Should a Member State or group of Member  States desire to participate in such an arrangement for  translation into their language, and to contribute to  the expense of the operation, the selection of the books  and other materials to be translated shall be made  jointly by the Director-General and such State or  States.
(3) That for the year 1949 the sum of $20,000  approved in the budget shall be used to make avail-  able publications in the Arabic language, it being  understood that the Arab States, Members of Unesco,  will pay the cost of translation in accordance with (2)  above.  In view of the full agreement reached in the  Drafting Committee, I take much pleasure in pre-  senting this resolution, hoping that the General  Conference also will be able to agree to the pro-  posed wording.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  support this proposal? Does anybody wish to  speak? 1 call upon the head of the delegation of  Saudi Arabia.  Does anybody  Fuad Bey HAMZI (Saudi Arabia): Mr. Presi-  dent, gentlemen, I would like to ask the per-  mission of the Conference to clarify certain  points. When this matter was raised, it was in  the form of a resolution to make Arabic a working  language together with Spanish. Unfortunately  when the question was ripe for the Conference,  there were rumours that there was some sort of  cabal forming in the Conference, and we were  asked to separate the question of Arabic from  that of Spanish, in order to dispel any misappre-  hension and to facilitate the Conference’s task in  dealing with the matter of the Spanish language.  We agreed to postpone discussion of the accep-  tance of Arabic as a working language of the Con-  ference, or at least as a language into which  important Unesco documents should be trans-  lated.  The present discussion does not centre on the  merits of Arabic becoming a working language  but on the possible use of certain sums of money  in 1949 to pay for the translation of certain docu-  ments into Arabic during that year. This was  not the original object of the Arab delegates.  Faithful to the principles of Unesco, we wanted  to give the widest possible publicity to its docu-  ments and principles. Millions of Arabic-speaking  people know no other language, so that in order  to reach them, we have to talk to them, or have  to make things known to them in their own lan-  guage. It is not from national pride, nor because  we are impractical that we ask that Arabic should  be used for that purpose; it is to reach the great-  est possible number of Arabs, to let them know  something about Unesco and its activities, and  share in the hope for a better future for huma-  nity. The allocation of the paltry sum of $20,000  just to make a few translations in one year was  not what we asked for, and the delegation of  Saudi Arabia must therefore withdraw its support  of this resolution. I realize certainly that there  are difficulties in the way of accepting Arabic  as a working language, but we were hoping that  important documents at least would be made  accessible to Arabic-speaking peoples. It has now  been decided that this can be done for this year  only. We do not know what the next Conference  will decide It may decide on another language,  but we Arabs insist that translation into Arabic  at least should be a permanent policy. I there-  fore cannot vote for the resolution as it stands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  wish to speak?  vote.  Does anyone  I shall put the proposal to the  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  is adopted by fourteen votes. (6)  The proposal
(86) In final form :  lution 7, p. 117.  Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-
37. Resolution concerning the despatch of  General Conference documents to Mem-  ber States.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We now come  to the discussion of the resolution, submitted by  the New Zealand delegation, concerning the des-  patch of Conference documents to Member States  (document 3C/95). I call upon the New Zealand  delegate.  Mr. R. G. RIDLING (New Zealand): Mr. Pre-  sident, fellow-delegates, the resolution which vou  have before you, set out in the pamphlet that has  been given to you, is merely a matter of admi-  nistration. New Zealand is a remote country,  probably the most remote of all the Member  States, and we have difficulty in obtaining docu-  ments from headquarters in time for them to  be circulated satisfactorily among contributing  organizations and National Commissions, and to  the government departments concerned. We  have discussed this suggestion of ours with mem-  bers of the Secretariat, and we feel that there  must be a deadline by which documents to be  considered at Conferences should reach Member  States. It is a plain, straightforward request to  the Secretariat to let us have the documents in  time to submit them to our organizations and  government departments, before we come to the  Conference. It is interesting to note that many  of the documents we have to consider at this  Conference arrived in New Zealand just two days  before I left there on my journey here, so that it  was impossible for me to submit them either to the  organizations or to the relevant departments of  our Government. If you would agree to pass this  resolution of ours, it would enable matters to  proceed much more smoothly at future Confer-  ences. I therefore move this resolution :  The full documentation for the discussion of items  on the provisional agenda shall be received by Mem-  ber States not later than twenty-five days prior to  the opening of a General Conference. Documentation  for the discussion of items on the supplementary  agenda shall be received by Member States not later  than ten days prior to the opening of the General  Conference.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone  wish to speak? Is this resolution seconded? I put  the resolution to the vote.  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The resolution  is adopted. (°7)
(7) In final form : Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  lution 6, p. 117.  APE TIES TSS
38. Discussion of selected items of general  importance, e.g. the rôle and problems  of education, science and culture in the  modern world.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We now come  to item 17 of the Conference Agenda : Dis-  cussion of selected items of general importance,  e.g. the rôle and problems of education, science  and culture in the modern world. 1 call upon  the delegate of France.  M. Lucien FEBVRE (France) (Translation) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as, at the  end of this Conference, the agenda calls for a dis-  cussion on a few important questions of a general  nature, I should like, on behalf of the French  delegation, to do what it considers to be some  necessary stock-taking. 1 will be as brief as pos-  sible, and shall strive to come to practical con-  clusions.  All of us, while moving about these buildings  or attending some of the informal meetings which  have been such a pleasant feature of the Confer-  ence, must have heard from other delegates, or,  worse still, from outside visitors to our meetings,  suggestions that our discussions produced a cer-  tain sensation of monotony. Furthermore they  were often a disappointment to those that came  to hear. Unesco—that great light that we looked  to with hope when it dawned upon the world  three years ago, that trinity of high ideals, science,  culture and education, embodied in its very name,  that apostle of peace to the world—Unesco is  this assembly, which is hard-working indeed, but  rather dreary, rather slow, with no surge of gen-  erous feeling ever seeming to pass over it; it never  casts light on the great problems whose solution  all people are anxiously awaiting from it alone.  Is Unesco, these disillusioned people ask us, just  a place for juggling with words, for procedural  tricks, for interpreting Rules of Procedure, for  discussions about the budget and nothing else?  We know, we who have worked at Unesco for  years, we know that behind all this there are  realities, great and living realities. We know that  vital issues are being fought out the whole time  behind these rather dull debates. But one must  have been one of the family, as it were, for three  or four years, one must have been living not only  the history, but the pre-history of Unesco, to  appreciate that. Those who come to listen to  us know nothing of our history. Our discussions  are public. Even children, and we are glad to see  them, come to hear our debates. Do you think  that our discussions here since the beginning of  the General Conference could really tickle their  curiosity or satisfy their enthusiam? They are  intrigued at the equipment for simultaneous inter-
139               pretation, but that is all. And the journalists,  the poor journalists on their bench, who every  evening have to fill a column with the highlights  of the day, what do they find that is really alive  or interesting to give their readers? 1 speak in  no spirit of destructive criticism. 1 know how  much work is being done here, and we of the  French delegation know that we are playing our  part whole-heartedly and with complete faith in  Unesco.  But Unesco was not created primarily for the  delegates or for the Secretariat; Unesco was made  for the people, and Unesco must think of the  people. How can it do so? No one would be  foolish enough to dispute the need for going into  questions of budget, administration and proce-  dure. We know that the budget, which is very  small for all the projects it has to cover, must  not be wasted. And I think that we French, the  heirs of a long tradition of peasant thrift and  caution, could scarcely be accused of wanting to  waste money. Discussions on procedure, quibbling  over words, is monotonous, slow labour, like  all thorough work, but we know that it has its  value. Regulations are a safeguard, the safeguard  of everyone’s liberty. I realize this but, I repeat,  let us think of the people who are watching us,  and of how we are to create Unesco.  Creating Unesco does not mean employing the  latest techniques for dealing with problems whose  data and terms we accept without finding solu-  tions for them. Creating Unesco means constant  self-examination, accompanied by that questing  anxiety we research-workers know so well in our  daily work. It means that we must keep asking our-  selves about our attitude towards science, culture  and education, keep exploring means of attaining  peace through them. It might be objected that  these words cover ideas which have been defined  once and for all and do not need continual redefi-  nition, that they are notions which are unchanging.  so that it would be useless to discuss their funda-  mentals again. Far from it. We have seen the  conception of science change in the last thirty  years, with astounding rapidity. The notion of  culture itself changes from day to day. Take  peace : it is easy to talk of peace, but it is diffi-  cult to define its conditions and, before defining  them, to understand war, that great and deep-  lying fact in human life, that reality which its  human victims have for centuries, for thousands  of years, been powerless to destroy, though they  have freed themselves of so many other evils. To  my mind, what we must avoid at all costs is  laziness of the mind, a certain inability to see  problems in their true light. I remember a saying  of our peasants at home : “When you go fishing,  you must first know where the fish lie.” And I  wonder if Unesco, when it goes fishing, always  knows where the fish will be lying. 1 also  remember the remark of a great mathematician,  Abel, of which I was told by another great mathe-  matician, Adhemar : “You must always put your  problems in such a way that they can be solved.”  Thus, as we see, the wisdom of the great scholar  squares with the instinctive wisdom of the people,  and so it should. I am rather afraid that Unesco  does not think out sufficiently the problems which  it has to solve. To take an example : does the  progress of civilization follow, automatically  almost, from the advance of technique? A vast  problem, but it has nothing new for the historian.  Twenty vears ago we used to discuss whether 1  was really the invention, at the beginning of the  Middle Ages, of a new method of harnessing ani-  mals which opened up new possibilities of work  for man, and thus automatically, as it were,  brought about the disappearance of slavery. Simi-  larly, is it enough to assume that modern inven-  tions will, without any further effort on our part,  lead to results that are entirely in keeping with  the good of humanity?  Here is another problem : should we favour  the reduction of the world to uniformity? Should  we light-heartedly sound the knell of individual  cultures? Should we work without discrimination  for the standardization throughout the world of  tools, food, clothes and household goods and con-  sequently try to bring about uniformity of cus-  toms, ideas, feelings and manners? Must all this  conformity, crude and puerile yet not without  its subtlety, coming to us through the cinema,  be regarded as a good thing, a step forward?  Take, for example, this new era, this age of  industry, which needs a large labour force, and  which introduces an uprooted proletariat to the  sublimities of crooner’s melodies plugged by the  radio all over the world, and initiates them in the  sophistications of life through worthless films,  inflicting upon these people, who yesterday in  their natural surroundings had their own tradi-  tional arts which had grown up on the spot, their  folk-songs and ritual dances reflecting the genius  of their race, those sorry amusements to which  I have just referred. We are not replacing the  worse by the better. We are robbing these people  of their legitimate pride as the transmitters, the  heirs of an art permeated with meaning, signi-  ficance and racial substance. We are diminishing  their dignity as men. We are mutilating them.  The proletariat is becoming dangerously inert,  and the danger is to peace itself. Peace is not  merely an absence of war, it is a positive state  of humanity, favourable to co-operation amongst  all men, without reserve, in order to secure a  certain minimum of happiness, pride and joy.  Let us take the programme of Unesco itself,  as it emerges from our discussion, as we have
190           now fixed it. Is there a single item in it which  implies a previous answer to these tormenting  questions? Have we thought long about? Have  we discussed it, have we studied it? Or are our  decisions ill-considered, instinctive, ready-made?  It reflects the ideas of the average man applied  without thought or discrimination.  Experience has told me that the common people  do not invent ideas and are not even critical of  them. Yet those ideas, unless they take firm hold  of the public mind, perish.  I have been developing two main topics and  might have developed many others, all of which,  believe me, underlie the projects and work of  Unesco. But these appear to me to have been  treated by a Unesco which does not deal with  them correctly or scientifically. So what I now  propose, on behalf of the French delegation, 1s  that every year the Executive Board, in agreement  with the Directorate of Unesco, should consult  a few outstanding figures in the scientific world,  eminent persons whom you could count, as it  were, on the fingers of both hands, and that the  Board should arrange for a public discussion of  one of these big topics at Unesco. If such a Com-  mission of distinguished scientists, responsible as  I said just now for presenting the problem in  such terms that it can be solved, were then to  proceed beforehand to all the necessary studies  and consultations, bringing into service all the  universities and high schools of the world, that,  I say, would help to state the problem in such  a way as to present opposing views. If Unesco  were then to appoint one, or better two, rap-  porteurs and if their reports were to be discussed  by the General Conference at due length, each  Member State arranging for its best representa-  tives to take part in the debate, what a lot of good  it would do to Unesco and how it would bring  Unesco into contact with the enormous public  which awaits its message! Of course, there would  be difficulties. There is first of all the budget  difficulty : we shall want a lot of money. Well,  speaking for myself, I would say that we still  represent the few people in the world of learning  who are not working for money and who, when  we have to, can devote ourselves to important  tasks without other considerations. But if that  view should seem old-fashioned and if, for the  accomplishment of this task, we should require  to be given certain travelling or living expenses,  some sort of payment for services rendered, surely  that small sum of money would be quickly re-  covered by Unesco a hundredfold. For these  important discussions would awaken the interest of  the press and of the radio. The newspapermen that  night would have something to give their readers.  The second objection is more serious : Unesco,  we shall be told, is not made for a discussion  between savants and intellectuals. Unesco 1s not  an academy and the peoples do not want an aca-  demy. What they want is peace.  So the magic word, or rather the slogan of  peace is dinned into their ears. And there, again,  is a topic we might well discuss one day : 1s  Unesco for or against slogans? In any case, |  think that no action can be taken without a lot  of previous thought. 1 continue to think that,  in all enquiries conducted by the tried methods  of scientific care and forethought, there 1s a virtue  of intellectual probity, the virtue among all others  which we of Unesco should inculcate. 1 think  that the exposition of such virtues is part of the  education of peoples; without it, education 1s a  vague word. It means working for the safe-  guarding of culture; otherwise culture is just  another lie. It means working above all for peace.  That echo, of which I spoke just now, will resound  and awake the people from slumber. It will stir  the National Commissions and give them, if not  more enthusiasm, yet a clearer understanding and  better means of persuasion, greater power of con-  viction. Above all, it will save Unesco from that  great danger of monotony, of mechanization,  which to me seems a deadly threat to it. Loss  of speed was the great fear of the early aviators,  and loss of speed threatens not aviators alone;  it threatens Unesco just as it threatens all human  effort. Let us who care for Unesco and wish it  to live and flourish, preserve it from this deadly  peril.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon  the delegate of Italy.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) (Translation):  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the Italian dele-  gation wishes to take a very definite stand about  this important discussion, which, if 1 may say so,  has rebounded to us after being thrashed out in  the competent Commissions. Here we have a  question of principle and a question of practical  application, to which 1 would draw your attention.  The question of principle is this : it seems to  be obvious that, if the discussions of Unesco con-  tinue to develop according to the plan which has  been followed up to now, they cannot awake in  world opinion the sort of echo which would  arouse universal sympathy for Unesco, so that it  might become a powerful instrument for the re-  building of world peace. It is obvious that the  public which comes to our meetings 1s offered  only administrative discussions, very important to  us, in so far as the organization of our services  and work is concerned, but not interesting  enough to catch the world’s ear and show that  Unesco goes to the root of its problems. Our  discussions so far have been purely formal. Dur.  NA   i  E T   E E E   a   e R   RN   d i a   AN   UE   co   S A S   A E            ing the General Conferences, which always have  a direct value as manifestations of Unesco’s spirit,  it 1s important to deal with general questions and  to publicize them throughout the world.  In this matter, we are entirely in agreement  with the view adopted by the French delegation  and we would like to give whole-hearted support  to any motion presented with the aim of ensuring  that Unesco’s Conferences awaken world-wide  interest by dealing with general themes to be  debated by persons who are not members of  Unesco but who are held in high esteem in the  cultural world.  And now we should see how this system can  be put into practice. To take an example, the  next Conference in Paris is intended to be a  Conference to deal with questions of plain admi-  nistration. If a general theme could be discussed  there, it should be viewed in its practical aspects,  with emphasis on the possibility of its application  in organization, but it should not be treated as a  question of principle to be discussed from all  viewpoints. Otherwise, we should have two  conferences, within a few months of each other,  claiming public attention and thus detracting  from the solemnity which these occasions should  have. Therefore the Italian delegation feels that  a very clear distinction should be made between  meetings of an administrative character and meet-  ings where there is to be discussion of the great  problems which trouble minds throughout the  world at the moment, the great problems affect-  ing culture, in which Unesco could be assisted  by highly qualified persons, even if they do not  belong to the delegations to the Conference. This  is the spirit in which we can collaborate. Two  methods may be adopted : the first would be to  convene a conference dealing with “plain admi-  nistration”; the second would be to launch a world-  wide appeal to public opinion. These two things  should be kept quite separate and should be dealt  with in two entirely different ways. I do not  want to repeat myself, but | want to sum up :  Unesco in its plenary meetings should, in my  opinion, appeal not only to the governments  interested for the solution of certain administra-  tive problems, but also, before the whole world,  should take up some of the great problems which  are troubling the universal mind and try to find  solutions capable of seizing and holding world  attention. That is the great function of Unesco.  Its secondary function is the internal organ-  ization of its services and the development of its  work, and that can be dealt with in another sim-  pler way, as it concerns only the interested States  and their delegations.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  delegate of Brazil.  I call on the         Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Bra-  zil) (Translation): Mr. President, fellow-delegates,  it seems a pity that the main subject of Unesco, its  raison d'être, its very essence and the aim of its  work, should be discussed in this General Confer-  ence only on the last day. The rôle and the  problems of education, science and culture in the  present world are Unesco itself, Mr. President.  They are the sole aim of our work, the very reason  for this Organization's existence.  It would be impossible for so vast a subject and  one so decisive for the future, not of this inter-  national organization alone but of humanity itself,  to be broached during the last quarter of an hour  of our work. 1 shall therefore not go into the  substance of this question; it is too late. I shall  only recall that it is imperative to keep the dis-  cussion permanently open, so that every session  of the General Conference may be entirely devoted  to one particular aspect of this problem and that  the variations on this important theme, as they  increase in number, may harmonize and blend as  though they were the parts of a symphony. We  are but the agents of educators, scientists and  leaders of culture and in these debates, therefore,  the latter must have an increasingly important  part. The present world, Mr. President—I shall  not repeat it, as there 1s no point in drawing too  dark a picture—is dying for lack of education,  science and culture, in the universal sense of  Unesco. We have just gone through a first crisis  of collective suicide, in which educators had a  great share of responsibility, in which the scien-  tist played a very active part, where conflicts of  culture were at the roots of economic and poli-  tical clashes. We are still suffering the physical  and economic effects of this crisis and moreover,  Mr. President, let us not forget the submarine  mines mentioned by Dr. Torres Bodet, in his  stirring plea for the future of Unesco; these mines  are everywhere and the children’s boats are in  danger of being wrecked at every turn. We are  faced with the problem of war-handicapped youth,  bearing the marks of the moral, physical and  intellectual agonies suffered by their countries.  In the case of one of the largest countries of this  world we do not know what use is made of the  techniques of education, nor the spirit in which  it 1s guided. That country has no contact with  us at all and its influence, in some ways, I trust,  beneficial, is withheld from us. Living in a  world of isolated units, divided by differences of  culture and language, by particularist features and  isolation in scientific research, we risk the loss  of all the benefits of contemporary civilization,  unless we re-awaken in one and all the sense of  international, of human oneness.  Gentlemen, we are the modest craftsmen of the  world of tomorrow. It is the symphony of
192               mankind which we are trying to compose, by using  all instruments, science and artists of all origins,  the finest traditions of all peoples : and it 1s  this total symphony that Unesco must serve. How  can we do that, unless we attract the attention  of the National Commissions, of our governments,  of our universities and above all, Mr. President,  of those anonymous masses which know nothing  of us because the cogs of our international machi-  nery are too complicated? We must come out of  the blind alley, where, instead of making clear  Unesco’s ends, we seem to lose ourselves in the  complicated means of achieving those ends. To be  able to rise to the challenge of our task, we must,  at every Conference of Unesco, take up some  important cultural, scientific or educational theme  and study it from the very outset of our work  with the attention it deserves. And the voices  then heard must wake an echo among those  masses which sometimes regard us with suspi-  cion. We must inspire hope in those who follow  us from afar with enthusiasm and faith, and the  voices heard must co-ordinate efforts which often  cet lost in the diversity of those every-day pro-  blems which hamper an international and, by iis  nature, complex organization.  [ hope, Mr. President, that the problem and the  role of education, science and culture will never  cease to be on the agenda of Unesco Conferences  in one form or other. It is here and nowhere  else that the people most look for instruction and  enlichtenment, confident that we are the agents  of that mission above all others. In the present  world where man feels lost, Unesco must remind  him of the reasons for living and for hoping.  M. Selim HAIDAR (Lebanon) (Translation):  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, education, science,  culture : are there in the dictionary of the mind.  any other conceptions which have such beautiful  names? Are there, in the dictionary of names,  any others which express such high concepts?  Are there, finally, for Lebanon, which invented  the alphabet, any letters which better express its  ideal? Education, science, culture, they are  three words, three programmes but with one  aim—human happiness.  This sea-washed mountain coast, whose little  bays and capes embrace the sea even as they  thrust it back, expressing thereby alike attach-  ment and independence, its grassy slopes catching  the soft light of the blue sea, repeats through its  bells and its muezzins one eternal prayer. Leba-  non it was which first tamed the sea and bent  it to its will for conquest and civilization; from  here went forth the pioneers of commerce and  the mind; Lebanon was created by the hand of  man beneath the eye of God. Lebanon, which  welcomes, today, with indescribable pride and  joy, the representatives of education, science and  culture, would like in all modesty to say its word.  It is not for us, gentlemen, to expound the part  of education, science and culture in the present  world nor to solve its problems. We have no  laboratories, no ultra-modern equipment for  weighing the sun’s light, for calculating the  speed of ideas or measuring the immeasurable.  The human mind has worked for centuries on  the unknown. Each day brings some fresh con-  quest; the wildest dreams of our ancient poets  have become workaday realities. Time and  space no longer raise problems, apart from meta-  physical discussion. Only God has not been cap-  tured, He and His secret, the Soul.  Education is the material for the latest methods  in research, and the study of children, with its  learned and technical words, would rank with  literature proper but for these recondite terms  which only the chosen few can understand.  History, sociology, ethnology, archaeology and  geology and their sub-divisions have shown us  the ancient world, the worlds of the past. We  know how two thousand years ago the African  negro got married, how an Arab warrior fought,  how men carved in Babylon and how they hunted  in Kamchatka. The museums are full of the  relics of the past and if the specialists, always  seeking new things, declare there is still much  to be found, we ordinary mortals with our gene-  ral ideas are content with what we possess, with  what now exists, on which to base a general judg-  ment of the past.  Thus far, in the field of education, science and  culture, past and present are largely known al-  ready; and we see a rising curve from pre-historic  times to our day, leading, if not to true progress,  at any rate to material advancement. The hidden  forces of nature have all been harnessed and con-  trolled one after the other. Man is lord and  master of his environment. What is left for  him to do? Unfortunately the most important  remains, without which there can be no progress  in the true sense of the word. It remains for  man, lord and master of nature, to become the  lord and master of himself. And that is why,  in the field of education, science and culture,  Lebanon clings to a hope. It is not their part,  nor their problems in the world of to-day which  interest her, still less in the world of history.  We have nothing to teach the world about those  serious scientific problems. Lebanon comes to  vou with a universally human heart and wishes  to contribute with you, peoples of the United  Nations, to the study of the place of education,  science and culture in the world of tomorrow.  It is not so much a study as a directive, a line  of conduct, a policy, which we should like to see
193      traced by science and culture, but especially by  education.  Some of us have spoken with hesitation of the  science of morals, and even of “the morals of  science”. At this international gathering of  minds in a small country whose spiritual beauty  is not second to its natural beauty, we need not  fear to speak of the Morality of Science and even  more of the Education of Science. I have seen the  Science Exhibition of Unesco which we inaugu-  rated a few days ago. It is neat, it is carefully  arranged, it is impressive and it is very illumi-  nating. Two pictures caught my eye, to the  exclusion of all the others. The first shows how  an atomic bomb would make the town of Beirut  a desert. The second picture shows how atomic  energy would make the desert a paradise. A Be-  douin on his camel rides through the stony desert  and, shading his eyes with his hand, looks at a  beautiful town which atomic energy has built in  the heart of the desert, as he would look today  at an alluring mirage. 1 wish that the education  of science which I am preaching here, could blot  out the first picture for ever. 1 would like to see  the mirage of the second picture become a  reality, like to have this ill-bound Prometheus of  science bound properly.  When the peoples, their leaders and the scien-  tists are properly educated—an education which  must be carried out by Unesco—and science  works only for the happiness of mankind, when  through atomic energy the deserts of the world  become paradises, and when by the energy of edu-  cation, the heart of man discovers human brother-  hood, then and then only will man be truly  free and the whole world, living in peace, will be  in itself one vast Unesco.        Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom): Mr. Pre-  sident, fellow-delegates, I will try to be very brief.  I want to say three things.  First, I think it would be a great mistake if, as  a result of anything said in this discussion, we  gave the world the impression that we were  depressed and thought that this Conference had  been, as we might say in my country, a flop. My  own conviction is that this Conference has been  the best Conference that Unesco has yet held and  that we have no reason for depression, though  one of the many true things which Dr. Torres  Bodet said yesterday was that this was a time  for mature reflection and self-criticism. This  morning I think we have been indulging both in  reflection and self-criticism and therefore we have  not been wasting our time; the business which any  great institution such as Unesco has to do must  include a lot of hard administrative thinking. In  this case, I believe, it has thought successfully,  so that at future conferences we shall not need
194  to do so much administrative work, After this  Third Session of the Conference we have com-  pleted sound administrative foundations, so far  as a General Conference can apply itself to admai-  nistrative details. We leave this Conference with  good financial regulations, a sound budget and  sensible rules of procedure and we should not be  depressed by the fact that most of our time here  has been spent in rather unluminous, rather  undistinguished and therefore to the general public  rather uninteresting hard work.  Secondly, we should set ourselves to make the  next Conference a better Conference even than  this and a Conference which does not run the  risk, which the delegate of Italy so rightly pointed  out, of falling between two stools. We should  try, at our next Conference in Paris, to have a  strictly business meeting, but one which finds  place for a discussion with great men taking part,  and I hope great women too. One theme, 1 sug-  gest, might be the theme of freedom : the free-  dom of the artist, academic freedom, the freedom  of the press. Let us seek to have one rather than  two or three questions as the subject of general  public debate at our next conference, and let us  follow the wise advice of the French delegate and  have the question clearly defined before we start  that discussion, because, fellow-delegates, we  expose ourselves to criticism more palpably and  more seriously in the eyes of the world when we  debate great themes ineffectively. Let us by all  means debate fundamental issues, but let us do  it in way which is business-like and does not  seem to the public to be mere words and mere  waste of time, which, if we are honest, we must  admit in the opening days of this Conference we  did to some extent indulge in.  Let us be brave and seek at our next Confer-  ence to experiment with fixed business, which  must be transacted by an organization such as  this in the fixing of the budget and so on, and  combine it with a really valuable and illuminating  debate, with as many great men and women en-  gaged in it as possible, on such a theme as  freedom.  The third and last thing I want to say is this.  Do not let us deceive ourselves, do not let us  deceive those who are interested in these public  debates at our General Conference. The General  Conference is simply one part of the programme  of Unesco and it is not the General Conference  which is the criterion of whether Unesco is or  is not a valuable institution. We have had, in  my opinion, a very good Conference, but what  really matters, the real test of the goodness of  the Conference, is not found in the impression  we have made here in Beirut; it is found  in the work which will go on during the next  twelve months. I agree with my friend from      France when he said that, before we went fishing,  we must decide on our fish. Now, fellow-dele-  gates, we have not perhaps discussed very much,  at this Conference, what is the fish Unesco has  to catch, but I do suggest that we shall have  ample opportunity for that in the months that lie  ahead. Let us go home to our own countries and  let us there learn fishing, so that, when we come  to the next Unesco Conference, the General Con-  ference can make a better hand at discovering the  Unesco fish. In all our countries there are  many kinds of that desirable delicacy. In my  country there are what we call red herrings, and  it 1s essential that we should learn to distinguish  the red herring, which distracts us from our real  purpose, the fish which Unesco is not designed  to catch, from those other delicious fishes such  as the red mullet, which we have enjoyed so  much on this coast of the Mediterranean or those  good, rich pink salmon which are perhaps so  characteristic of my country at this time, a coun-  try in which, let me add, there are also delicious  blue trout. There are these great varieties of  fishes in our own countries, there are so many  ways in which, in our own work at home, in the  National Commissions and elsewhere, we can  seek to engage the interest of leaders in education,  science and culture, whom we need to have  within the fold of Unesco, and not only brought  In as experts on special occasions at General  Conferences.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call on the  delegate of Australia.  Mr. Murray Giles LITTLE (Australia): Mr. Pre-  sident, fellow-delegates, I am in sympathy with  what has been said by the previous speakers, said  more eloquently than I could do. I can quite  understand the complaint of the delegate of  France that we seem to be concerned with the  routine, rather than the ideal of Unesco. But 1  would remind him that this routine and slow  development are inherent in the development of  all new movements, and it must be so. Our duty  is to see that that process of development, the  development of the routine and technique of our  Organization, shall proceed as fast as possible, so  that we can get on to the real work. I do not  think the real work need wait for the develop-  ment of the routine. But there is a danger that  we may not be able to see the cathedral for the  scatlolding, and the sooner we get the scaffolding  away, and the sooner we can see the glorious cathe-  dral emerge to the view of everybody, the better.  Everyone—no matter how idealistic he may be—  needs constant re-inspiration, and it is necessary  for us to come to Unesco to get that inspiration.  We have already drawn inspiration from the  speech by the newly elected Director-General.  That was a very bright promise, and I hope that  it will be fulfilled. I have faith in that. But, as  | have spent all my life as an educationalist,  I have learnt that education, in whatever form  you engage in it, is an act of faith, an act of  conviction; and we, being mortals, sometimes lose  that faith and that conviction. If it can be  aroused at the annual meeting of Unesco, can  send us back to our countries inspired anew with  the great ideal, then the Conference will be doing  a great job. With Sir John Maud I do not believe  that the work of Unesco is in this Conference.  [ do not think that the delivering of eloquent  speeches will achieve Unesco’s objects. We need  talk to inspire, but to build Unesco’s cathedral  we shall have to work. And I would lay emphasis  on the fact that the work is to be done in the  various countries, among the people, and not  necessarily among the academic folk, or in acade-  mic debate. We have to get down to the com-  mon man, and condition his mind by mutual  international understanding towards peace. Time  is a factor, and it is natural that we should be  impatient, but nothing spiritual grows fast; in  fact, I am tempted to think that, if you have rapid  growth it 1s impermanent. For permanent growth,  we want a slow evolution, the seeping down  of this information to the people, so that all  people tend to think much the same way and  be tolerant of one another. 1 therefore think that  we should go back to our National Commissions,  and re-vitalize them to do the work of Unesco.  [ do not really think that the Secretariat in Paris  can do it all; they can inspire, they can keep  the machine nicely oiled, but they cannot do  everything; in fact, I! think they can do only a  small fraction and, unless the work is done in  the many parts of the world, Unesco will fail.  Therefore, the Conference should be an inspi-  ration. If it can be arranged that our annual  meeting be so sub-divided that the routine work  is done at one time and the inspirational work  done at another, it would be a very happy solu-  tion. 1 think we all need re-emphasis; I do not  care how often in the course of a Conference  there is a re-statement of our aims, for it is  always easy, when dealing with details, to forget  the main end. [I believe that we need constant  inspiration, a constant re-statement of our great  ideal. But we also need patience, for that ideal  is going to be a very, very slow growth. We  must be satisfied with small but permanent gains,  and, if we remember that, and remember that  it is work and not necessarily oratory that will  count in this great achievement, the time we have  spent on this debate in the closing hours of this  Conference is well spent.
195       The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call on the  delegate of Egypt.  Dr. Wadie FARAG (Egypt) (Translation)  Mr. President, I will not delay you too much,  but I would like to say one word. Whenever an  institution feels the urge to perfect itself, it 1s a  sign of health. We must not be pessimistic when  voices are raised to demand perfection of Unesco.  I would, however, like to draw your attention  to what seems to me a serious shortcoming.  There are certain glands in an organism which  must function well if the organism is to flourish  and grow. Hitherto, 1 regret to say, you have  neglected the most effective way to achieve the  aims of mankind, i.e., legislation. How, for  instance, can an educationist, a scientist, a man  of letters achieve his aim most quickly? Of  course there is public opinion—he can appeal to  men—>but there is a more effective way, the most  effective way which has been invented by man :  the laws. If Unesco wishes to achieve its  aims—and the greatest of them is to civilize the  world—Unesco must concern itself with legis-  lation. I have heard it said that the lawyer is a  big, bad wolf, and must not be allowed to enter  this learned assembly. But how are you to achieve  your aims, if not through laws? To appeal to the  people is a slow business. There are the legis-  lators, and legislators make laws. 1 see no room  provided for law in this assembly. Is that not  a very serious omission in the means used by  Unesco? We come here, we discuss things be-  tween scientists, writers, artists, but how are you  going to realize your aspirations without appeal-  ing to the legislators of the various countries?  I have seen the draft of the programme for the  next session. May I refer you, on page 23 of  document 3C/98 to the modest and very general  mention of law and legislation. It says there that  the Director-General is instructed to continue an  enquiry for the three following purposes : to  analyse and define the main connotations of  liberty, democracy, law and equality which have  emerged in the history of political and legal phil-  osophy. But law is not merely a philosophy;  it is not merely social science; it is a very power-  ful tool for achieving the aims of men. So we  must seek frankly, openly, this most effective  means. You must bring to your activities the  assistance of the lawyers, of legislators. They are  not as bad as all that. They have not invented  anything that can destroy mankind. If they can  help us remove from the path of humanity bad  laws, laws of economic discrimination, laws  of discrimination in education, racial laws, laws  which may be called anti-social, then you must  summon them also to study these obstacles to  progress, and draw up the laws best suited to
196  aid Unesco in its work. That is why I fully agree  with the French delegation which, without an  excess of zeal, showed a laudable intention to see  Unesco evolve practical methods of accomplishing  concrete tasks. I would merely draw your  attention to this powerful weapon at your service.  The PRESIDENT  else wish to speak?  (Translation): Does anyone  I call on the delegate of  France.  M. Lucien FEBVRE (France) (Translation) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude  this debate, which has perhaps only one fault and  that is to have come at the end of the session,  instead of at its opening, I would like to submit  a text to explain the intentions of the French  delegation :  Whereas it is essential to arouse in world opinion a  powerful current of interest in the Organization and  its aims;  Whereas it is impossible to achieve this object by  merely holding, even in different countries, a General  Conference whose activities are confined to normal  consideration of the programme and to administrative  and budgetary matters;  Whereas it is necessary, as document 3C/88 empha-  sizes, to secure a greater participation in Unesco’s  deliberations by personalities of international reputa-  tion, able to make an effective contribution to discus-  sions on education, science and culture;  And whereas it is vitally necessary that Unesco  should be firmly founded and that means of establish-  ing the Organization in world opinion should be  sought.  The General Conference decides to request the  Executive Board to arrange, for the next Session of  the General Conference, a discussion on one or more  general subjects, calculated to arouse deep interest in  intellectual circles, and still more, among the general  public, and suitable for wide dissemination over the  wireless and in the press.  I need not comment on this draft, I will simply  draw attention to the fact that it refers to a  discussion of one or more general subjects. With  regard to the near future, the Paris meeting is by  agreement to be above all a business session, but  that is no reason for delaying the implementation  of this new resolution. We will not suggest the  discussion of a single theme, it being understood  that the new procedure might come into full  effect with the Conference to which the Italian  Government has invited Unesco, and which will  take place only six months after the Paris Confer-  ence. On the other hand, it is not impracticable  to begin at once preparing themes for discussion  and examination, not only at the Paris Confer-  ence, but also at the Conference in Florence.  However, I think that it is perhaps premature to  choose ourselves a theme, as has been sug-  gested by the honourable delegate of the United       Kingdom. I think this calls for careful study.  [ thought during the discussion that several dele-  gates were a little uneasy lest this idea lead to  oratorical debate. We do not rule out elo-  quence—which can alone give life to words—but  we want these debates, above all, really to deal  with questions of vital interest for Unesco and to  be not merely questions of a moral order, or  questions of ideals, such as the problem of free-  dom, to which the delegate of the United King-  dom referred. It is not for Frenchmen to deny  the importance of a big debate on freedom, but  we feel that as a start and to remove any fear of  idle oratory and to start things along sensible and  practical lines, we should perhaps think first  before choosing the subject of this debate.  The PRESIDENT We (Translation) : have  before us a resolution submitted by the French  delegation. Is it seconded? It is.  I shall put it to the vote.  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The resolution  is unanimously adopted. (°°)  On the agenda for the next plenary meeting are  the Report of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission and the various motions submitted by dele-  gations for the closing ceremony. These motions  will be taken at the end of the meeting. We  cannot take the resolution on the Universal Decla-  ration of Human Rights, because this question  has been withdrawn at the request of the observer  of the United Nations.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  NINETEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 11 December 1948, at 4 p.m.  CONTENTS
39. Report of the Programme and Budget Commission .  Resolution on nutritional standards .  Resolutions relating to the Budget .  Resolution concerning the establishment of a regional office in the  western hemisphere . . . .  Resolution concerning the draft Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
40. Vote of thanks to the Lebanese Government and Press .
41. Establishment of three Unesco Conference Fellowships for citizens of  Lebanon, in gratitude for Lebanon’s contribution to the Third Session  of the General Conference .
42. Tribute to Dr. Julian Huxley
43. Closing speech of the Third Session of the General Conference .
39. Report of the Programme and Budget  Commission.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : We will begin  With consideration of the Report of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission. I call on the  Rapporteur.  Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame-  rica) (Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget  Commission) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I  think most you have on your desks this document
3C/103, which is the Rapporteur’s Report, and  you know, of course, that Dr. Paulo de Berredo  Carneiro was our distinguished and efficient  Chairman, and M. Marcel Florkin of Belgium our  Vice-Chairman, and that I served as Rapporteur.  I wish, on behalf of the Programme and Budget  Commission, to express our appreciation to the  Sub-Commissions of the Programme and Budget     Volume II, Section VITI, C, (68) In final form :  p. 11.  RG