The PRESIDENT (Translation) : As there are  still several members to speak, I must at this point  adjourn the meeting to enable the guests invited to  the lunch at Chtaura to be back in time for the  Conference at 3.45 p.m. this afternoon.  The election of a member of the Executive Board  will take place at this afternoon’s meeting about
6 o'clock.  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.  SEVENTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 10 December 1948 at 5.30 p.m.  CONTENTS
33. Consideration of the draft agreement for facilitating the international  circulation of visual and auditory materials of an educational, scientific  and cultural character . 174
34. Election of a member of the Executive Board to replace Dr. Benjamin Car-  rion, resigned . 180
35. Report of the Procedure Committee (continuation) . . . . + + + . . 181  President :
33. Consideration of the draît Agreement  for facilitating the international cir-  culation of visual and auditory mate-  rials of an educational, scientific and  cultural character.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The meeting  is open. We are dealing with the report on the  agreement for facilitating the international cir-  culation of visual and auditory materials of an  educational, scientific and cultural character (doc-  uments 3C/9, Addendum 3, 3C/97 and 3C/99).  I call upon the Secretary.  Mr. W. FARR (Secretariat): Mr. President, in  the absence of the Rapporteur of the Sub-Com-  mission on Communication, I have to present to  the Conference the Sub-Commission's report on  the work which has been done in connexion with  this draft Agreement. The report of the Sub-  Commission is contained in document 3C/97.  In that document it is explained that the Sub-  Commission has drawn up a revised text of this  Agreement. Reference is also made to a number  of amendments to document 3C/9 Addendum 2.  The amendments mentioned in the Rapporteur’s  report are now incorporated in document 3C/9  Addendum 3. Therefore document 3C/9 Adden-  dum 3 is the final revised version proposed for  this Agreement.  M. Tevfik SAGLAM (Turkey)  In addition, there are references in the Rap-  porteur’s report to certain action to be taken by  the Secretariat. You will find this in the penul-  timate paragraph of the Rapporteur’s report. I  should add that the Rapporteur has consulted  with the French delegation on drafting points  which needed to be discussed, and also that the  [Legal Adviser has examined the text. The final  paragraph of the Rapporteur’s report reads as  follows :  The Sub-Commission resolved that the new text  (document 3C/9 Addendum 2) as amended by the  amendments set out above, should be placed before  the General Conference with a recommendation that  it should decide on the action which could be taken  in order that the Agreement could be opened for  signature at the earliest possible date.  It is that action which the Conference 1s now  asked to consider.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone  wish to speak on the document as a whole?  [ call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom.  Mr. F. KR. COWELL (United Kingdom) :  Mr. President and fellow-delegates, the United  Kingdom delegation has an amendment before  the Conference which was prepared in the hope  that it would facilitate agreement upon this
174               proposed text which you have before you. Our re-  solution was designed to overcome the difficulties  arising from the fact that this text of the agree-  ment, although it has been fairly well con-  sidered here, has unfortunately not been examined  by the many authorities and associations at home  in the United Kingdom who would be responsible  for operating it if it were to be signed, as we  certainly hoped it would be signed, under  Unesco’s auspices. These difficulties may not be  very serious, but we think that they should at  least be considered. If they are not studied by  the people who will have to operate the Agreement,  then we may have a text which will not do what  everybody here in the Conference, I feel, hopes  will be done. In other words, there may be some  flaw in the language, there may be some clause  which does not sufficiently help forward the  general purpose and aims of the Convention; and  we feel we must not take the risk of getting Unesco  committed to a draft in which there are flaws or  imperfections which may prevent the Convention  from achieving its full purpose. I think that that  is a sufficiently serious consideration to make us  hesitate before we proceed with the full approval  of this text here and now.  Unfortunately, after presenting our resolution,  we have been advised that it is not possible to  proceed as we had hoped in the second and third  paragraphs of our resolution in document 3C/99,  since these do not agree with the constitutional  provision already in force, under which Unesco  has to present Conventions to Member States for  signature. I therefore, Mr. President, with regret  withdraw the United Kingdom resolution 3C/99.  This means, as far as the United Kingdom is  concerned, that we must have time to examine  the new text, which contains amendments—not  only amendments supplied by the United King-  dom but also amendments contributed by other  Member States, which His Majesty's Government  in the United Kingdom undoubtedly would wish  to consider very carefully. Now those may be  wholly acceptable amendments, though they may  need some slight change in drafting. In order,  therefore, to gain time for reconsideration, we feel  that we cannot, at present, commit His Majesty's  Government to the Convention in its present form.  That does not mean that we would wish to put  difficulties in the way of any Member State which  feels that the Convention in the present form has  been sufficiently considered by its various autho-  rities to enable them here and now to declare  that they are prepared to accept it for their  Government. We shall not, therefore, vote against  any positive resolution that looks like achieving  the purpose we desire to see accomplished here in  Beirut; on the other hand, we shall not, unfor-  tunately, be able to vote positively in favour of  any such draft Convention at the present time.  We shall, in short, have to abstain.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Belgium.  M. Henri LAVACHERY (Belgium) (Transla-  tion): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as  the British delegation has withdrawn its reso-  lution, I would like to propose, in agreement  with certain other delegations, the following  resolution :  Considering that the Constitution states as one of  the functions of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization that it will  ‘collaborate in the work of advancing the mutual  knowledge and understanding of peoples through all  means of mass communication and, to that end,  recommend such international agreements as may be  necessary to promote the free flow of ideas by word  and image’, and.  Considering that proposals for an agreement among  the Member States of this Organization to facilitate the  international circulation of visual and auditory  materials of an educational, scientific and cultural  character as a means of promoting the free flow of  ideas, have been studied and discussed by the General  Conference, the Secretariat, and the Governments of  the Member States since Unesco was established, and  that the Sub-Commission on Communication at the  Third Session of the General Conference has prepared  and submitted the draft of such an agreement, re-  commending that the Conference take action to open  the Agreement for signature at the earliest possible  date,  The General Conference resolves :
1. to approve the Draft Agreement for facilitating  the international circulation of visual and auditory  materials of an educational, scientific and cultural  character (document 3C/9, Addendum 3) and re-  commend it to the Member States of Unesco for their  signature;
2. to instruct the Director-General within thirty  days to communicate to the Member States of Unesco  the text of this resolution together with a copy of  the Agreement, informing them that under the pro-  visions of Article IV, paragraph 4, of the Constitution,  each Member State is required to submit this Agree-  ment to its competent authority for appropriate  action within a period of one year from the close  of the present Session of the General Conference; and
3. to instruct the Director-General to deposit this  Agreement with the Secretary-General of the United  Nations, requesting him to notify all the Members of  the United Nations, and the Member States of Unesco  which are not Members of the United Nations, that  the Agreement is open for signature in the archives  of the United Nations, and to call their attention to the  provisions of Articles X, XI and XII of the Agreement  concerning the procedure of acceptance and the con-  ditions under which it will come into force.  We venture to submit this text for the opinion  of the Conference.  Dr. F. TUDE-DE-SOUZA (Brazil) : Mr. Pre-  sident, fellow-delegates, on behalf of the Brazilian
1  t i r s     delegation, | wish to support this proposal.  For Brazil, with its large area and small popu-  lation, audio-visual aids offer a solution to many  problems in education. We are doing good work  for the principles of Unesco in an undeveloped  area, and we think that this Agreement will  advance the ideals and principles of Unesco. We  therefore support this proposal, and we do so with  enthusiasm, for we believe that education is  something that must go on. We can wait one or  two years for material things, but for education  we must act immediately.  Mr. George F. ZOOK (United States of America) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the United  States 1s very much interested in this proposed  international Agreement, a copy of which is  before you. In the summer of 1946 there was  called, in Washington, a national conference of  representatives of organizations which were inter-  ested in facilitating the international exchange  of educational films and auditory materials. That  conference was attended by at least a hundred  and fifty persons, who evidenced thereby their  very great interest in this work. Our National  Commission at its annual meetings in the past  three years has passed resolutions requesting that  something of this kind be undertaken under the  auspices of Unesco, and, in June of this year, the  Department of State communicated with the  Director-General’s office stating that, with certain  modifications, it was in favour of the adoption of  the Convention which had been circulated some  time before. 1 mention this merely to indicate  the very deep interest we have in the United  States in this matter.  An allusion has been made to the steps taken  by Unesco to consider this very important ques-  tion. As a matter of fact, this was one of the  topics considered at the Preparatory Conference  in London which set up Unesco, and in the sum-  mer of 1946, a few months thereafter, a group of  individuals representing a number of countries  met in London and drew up the basis of the  draft Agreement which is now in your hands.  That document was considered at the Paris Ses-  sion of the General Conference in November 1946,  and the General Conference at that time passed a  resolution requesting the Director-General to cir-  culate this convention for signature among the  Member States of Unesco. Owing to a number  of unforeseen circumstances, this was not done,  and in December 1947, one year ago, at Mexico  City, the Director-General was instructed to cir-  culate the draft Agreement to Member States for  their comments. That was done in April 1948.  About seventeen of the Member States of Unesco  replied to the invitation to comment upon the  draft Agreement. This, I understand, is about the  number of members who normally reply to spe-  cific requests of this kind. I mention this merely  to bring out the fact that there has been about as  widespread an interest in this matter as in any-  thing that Unesco has so far undertaken. These  suggestions, which came in from Member coun-  tries, were considered in the Sub-Commission on  Communication in two fairly lengthy sessions.  Practically all of them were accepted in some  kind of modified form and therefore this draft  Agreement comes before you directly from the  Sub-Commission on Communication, for there  was no opportunity to submit it in its present  form to the Commission itself.  I have recounted these facts here in order to  show that this matter has been before Unesco  since the very beginning of its existence and that  there has been ample time for every nation to  consider what modifications it wished to present  to the Director-General and Unesco. I am sure  you are aware that the purpose of this document
1s to facilitate the importation of film and auditory  material into each of the Member countries which  sign this document, free of import duty. The  definition of educational films and auditory ma-  terial appears in Article I of this document. By  referring to it you will see that the standards set  out there are fairly general; they could not be  made more precise without difficulties of inter-  pretation. Nevertheless, they are thoroughly prac-  ticable, because, at least in the United States, we  have for the past three or four years engaged in  the certification of films of an educational nature  for export to other countries, and our sister nation  of the north, Canada, has regularly been receiving  these films, certified by the State Department as  being educational, without requiring any con-  siderable duties on them. I want now to mention  that the document contains certain safeguards for  the Member States which see fit to sign it. In  the first place, it refers only to those States which  are willing to sign it and it puts no penalty what-  ever upon any State which does not see fit to do  so. Furthermore, any signatory country can  reject these audio-visual materials as not, in their  opinion, meeting the standards set out in Article 1.  You will find that reference in Article IV, Sec-  tion 4. Furthermore, any country may specify,  tf it wishes, that these materials will be used only  for non-profit-making purposes. That you will  find in Article IV, Section 5. There are, in other  words, a number of safeguards in this document  which may be applied if a country chooses to  invoke them.  There is a very widespread interest in this docu-  ment. The United Nations themselves have in-  dicated that interest in no uncertain way, by  making proposals concerning the phraseology to  be used in the document. You will find several           passages which have been included in it at the  suggestion of the United Nations, including  Article IV, Section 3. The Pan-American Union  in Washington has also indicated its deep interest  and has, I believe, communicated with all the  States belonging to the Pan-American Union.  Mr. President and fellow-delegates, 1 trust that  we may all appreciate the great significance of the  opportunity we have at this Conference. We are  considering much more than merely an inter-  national agreement on audio-visual material; it  is a definite and positive step for the fulfilment of  a promise we made to each other and to the world,  which is found in the preamble of the Constitution  of Unesco as follows :  The States parties to this Constitution, are agreed  and determined to develop and to increase the means  of communication between their peoples and to  employ these means for the purposes of mutual  understanding and a truer and more perfect know-  ledge of each others’ lives.  A few paragraphs further on in the Constitution  you will find that paragraph which is quoted at  the beginning of this resolution; where the  Organization will, so it says, collaborate in the  work of advancing the mutual knowledge and  understanding of peoples, through all means of  mass communication, and to that end recommend  such international agreements as may be neces-  sary to promote the free flow of ideas by word and  image. We have, therefore, now before us, the  first of what, I hope, may be many international  agreements aiming at the implementation of  Unesco’s noble objectives. This draft Agreement  has been given most careful consideration and it  has widespread support. The United States dele-  gation therefore feels that the time has come to  approve this resolution. By doing so, we believe  that a step will be taken towards international  understanding and towards the promotion of the  peace for which we are all earnestly striving.  The PRESIDENT  else wish to speak?  (Translation): Does anyone  M. Guy LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France)  (Translation): Mr. President, fellow-delegates,  the free international circulation of visual and  auditory material of an educational, scientific  and cultural character is certainly a result which  the French delegation would like to see attained.  The French delegation ventures to hope, however,  that the problem of facilitating the free circulation  of this material will be treated absolutely apart  from any other points extraneous to the principle  set forth. The French delegation is anxious in  particular that no commercial interest should  find a place in this cultural and educational acti-
177  vity. Our National Commission for Unesco has  laid great stress on this point. In the discussions  of the Sub-Commission which considered this  question, therefore, the French delegation  tried to introduce a stricter definition of the  material which would be covered by this  Agreement. The French delegation wished to  have included in that definition an expression  which would clearly show that this material  should not be utilized for any commercial ends  whatsoever. It seemed to our delegation that just  as Unesco should try to facilitate the free move-  ment of this material, it should also do so for  purely cultural reasons; it was not within the  competence of Unesco, at least for the time being,  to make the Agreement cover any commercial  problems, and, in this particular case, to request  Member States to waive certain import duties on  a type of material which could be utilized for  commercial ends. This question, raised by the  French delegation, was the subject of lively dis-  cussions, and the present plenary meeting could  not come to a decision in full knowledge of the  facts if mention were not made of the discussions  which took place in the Sub-Commission on this  particular problem. The question which was  raised by the French delegation met with rather  strong opposition; in particular the French dele-  gation could not obtain the Sub-Commission’s  agreement to the insertion, in Article I, of a few  words which would forbid the utilization of the  material for pecuniary gain. The amendment  which we would have proposed would have been  the addition, after the words “of an educational.  scientific and cultural character” in Article I, of  the words ‘it being understood that this ma-  terial would not be used for profit-making pur-  poses”. We were only able to obtain the addition  to Article IV of a paragraph 5 in the following  terms :  The governmental agency of the contracting State  into which entry is sought, shall be entitled to impose  regulations upon the importer of the material to  ensure that it shall only be exhibited or used for  non-profit-making purposes.  This has aroused the following criticism. The  insertion of this paragraph would fulfil the wishes  of the French delegation, since the French Govern-  ment and the French delegation could, if they  deemed it advisable, impose certain regulations in  order to ensure that the material would be used  only for non-profit-making purposes. However,  though the French authorities could and probably  would do so, the clause does no more than provide  a possibility open to every State. That is to say,  certain States may perhaps not conform to this  particular clause. And those which do not con-  form to the clause, refrain, presumably, because         they deem this course opportune. It seems to us,  however, that in that case, under cover of an  amendment concluded under the auspices of  Unesco, thanks to which the material would be  brought in tax-free in virtue of a very special  arrangement, this material could be used for  profit-making purposes. We repeat once more  that Unesco, though it has the duty of facilitating  the free flow of such material, has also the duty  of doing so only for educational, scientific and  cultural purposes; it must in no way facilitate  the circulation of material used for profit-making  purposes. For these reasons, the French dele-  cation, whilst of opinion that paragraph 1 of  Article IV should remain as it stands at present,  as it allows of certain practical steps being taken,  presses for the examination of its proposal to the  Sub-Commission regarding the addition to Ar-  ticle I, paragraph 1, of the words : “it being  understood that this material would not be used  for profit-making purposes”. If the clause which 1  have just read cannot be added to the first para-  graph of Article I, the French delegation will be  obliged to abstain from voting.  Dr. Wadie FARAG (Egypt) (Translation) :  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I am completely  in agreement with what has just been said by the  French delegate, the more so since the text of  Article V might favour certain countries which  produce films of this kind at the expense of other  countries, thus giving rise to what has often been  called most-favoured-nation treatment. It must be  clear that Unesco’s purpose is purely educative. 1  therefore see no objection to the inclusion of the  above-mentioned clause, which would assure all  who read the text that the Agreement aims only  at the education of the masses. What objection  can there be to the addition to this Agreement of  a clause stating that the films or records are not  used for profit-making purposes?  Mr. George F. ZOOK (United States of America):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the point of  view which has been set forth by the delegate of  France was considered extensively at the meeting  of the Sub-Commission and, after careful con-  sideration, was voted down. Now, the position  of the Sub-Commission is very clear. Under the  section which has been read to you—Section 5 of  Article IV—you will find the plain opportunity  given to any nation which signs this international  Agreement to have films and auditory materials  used only in a non-commercial way; but the op-  portunity is also given to any country which  wishes to do so, to allow them to be used in a  commercial way. 1 will mention merely the  illustration which was used in our discussion in  the Sub-Commission. If France desires to exer-        cise the option which she has under this section,  she can do so and show films of an educational,  scientific and cultural nature only for non-  commercial purposes. If, on the other hand, the  United States wish to import films and auditory  materials free of duty and show them through  commercial channels, they should be free to do  so. In other words, it 1s our belief that, if a film  is truly educational in character, any opportunity  to show it, whether for a commercial or non-  commercial purpose, advances the interests of  Unesco. Furthermore, I should like to say that, in  our country, and I think probably in many other  countries of the world, it is the habit of organ-  izations, including schools and colleges, to charge  admission for activities of a cultural nature. It  seems to us very clear that we should continue to  have the opportunity to do that kind of thing.  We feel therefore that this section in the draft  gives all the protection to any country that it  could possibly wish for. At the same time, it  enables countries that do not desire to use that  option to show films and auditory materials in a  commercial way. We believe that that is in the  interest of Unesco.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I would like  to ask the delegate of France whether he main-  tains his proposal.  M. Guy LADREIT de LACHARRIÈRE (France)  (Translation): Mr. President, fellow-delegates,  the purpose of a plenary meeting is not passively  to accept the decisions taken in a Sub-Commission.  I believe that in the Sub-Commission with which  we are concerned there were nine members pre-  sent at the moment when the decision was taken:  I also believe that the decision was taken by five  votes to four. It is therefore clear that the deci-  sion of five members of the Sub-Commission  should not be imposed a priori on this plenary  meeting which has ten times as many members.  On the other hand, Article IV, paragraph 5, was  mentioned by the delegate of the United States of  America. It is clear, and I thought 1 had said so,  that this paragraph gives an option. It is also  clear that France, for her part, will use this option  to forbid the duty-free entry of auditory and visual  material which could be used for profit-making or  commercial purposes. But France did not mean  to speak on her own behalf only. It is quite pos-  sible that certain States will have some hesitation,  and a very understandable hesitation, in utilizing  this clause. In that case, there will certainly be  differences of treatment. The single convention  signed by us will in fact be divided into two dis-  tinct conventions to be applied throughout the  world or by the signatory States. There will be  one convention relating to educational material
178          which is not to be used for profit-making purposes;  and another convention allowing commercial use.  It is quite clear that there will be two different  conventions, between which it will be difficult to  distinguish, particularly when the question of  most-favoured-nation arises. But this is not the  objection which chiefly struck the French dele-  gation; the French delegation considers that  Unesco does not exist to facilitate commercial  conventions, at least for the time being, even  when such conventions relate to educational, scien-  tific and cultural material. The aims of Unesco  are different; and this convention, which includes  commercial considerations, is therefore not ac-  ceptable in its present form to the French dele-  gation.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  delegate of Iraq.  Dr. Matta AKRAWI (Iraq): The Government  of Iraq, ever since its foundation in 1921, has  authorized the duty-free circulation of all material  to be used for educational purposes, whether  printed material, laboratory equipment, visual  aids, or the like. All that is required is a certi-  ficate from the Ministry of Education that this  material is destined for non-profit-making edu-  cational use. Once that certificate 1s produced,  the material is allowed to enter without customs  duty. For that reason, I find myself in full  agreement with this draft. I have only one slight  reservation to make, concerning the question of  import licences, which are so often tied up with  currency problems. Personally we do not feel  competent to judge on this point; but in all other  respects we support the draft.  M. Bernardo FLORES (Venezuela): Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow-delegates, like Iraq, Venezuela has  followed a policy of exempting from customs duty  educational material imported into the country.  This is done in two ways : firstly, the tariff list  itself establishes what materials are automatically  exempted because of their nature from the pay-  ment of any import duties; and secondly, the  competent Ministry, which is that of Education,  may, on request, grant exemption to any edu-  cational or cultural organization applying for it.  We need education in my country. It is a very  large country, sparsely populated and the Govern-  ment of Venezuela feels that, in aiding education  in any way, such as by granting exemption from  customs duty, it is working for the education of  the people as a whole. It is sometimes impossible,  within the boundaries of a country, to stipulate  the uses to which certain materials are placed. It  may sometimes be impossible to exhibit a film or  give a recital of records without making a charge
179  for admittance. Many cultural and educational  organizations have not sufficient funds to show  everything entirely free. A small fee must be  charged; the show might then be classified as  commercial, although in fact it is not. This mat-  ter, as the delegate of France has said, was con-  sidered in a Sub-Commission. That Sub-Com-  mission may have had only a small number of  members present, but it expressed the opinion of  the majority. So I believe that it is inadvisable  to raise the whole question again at a plenary  meeting. We are here in plenary session to dis-  cuss the draft Agreement, to approve it, or, if we  are not satisfied, to reject it. It has been in our  hands, to be read, studied and objected to, a suf-  ficiently long time for written objections to be  presented. France does not agree in principle to  the acceptance of this proposal of the United States  without an amendment. But this amendment can  be made by the Member State itself through its  own legislation. Each State has its own regu-  lations. Each Member State can speak for itself  after accepting the essence of this proposal. 1  therefore support the United States proposal as it  stands, adding that many countries may be in  the position of Iraq and Venezuela.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  Director-General.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL : 1 feel | must in-  tervene on the point raised by the delegate of  France. It appears to the Secretariat that an edu-  cational film remains educational by its very  nature, under whatever auspices it is shown. If  commercial firms in a country are so enlightened  as to want to show in their programmes films  which have been certified as educational under  the auspices of an international educational organ-  ization like Unesco, I should have thought we  would want to help them to do so. Similarly, if  educational organizations feel that they must  charge some small fee so as to be able to show  educational films, then we should put nothing in  their way.  I must say I cannot agree with the contention  of the delegate of France that the clause he refer-  red to could in any way be regarded as being  similar to a commercial convention. To my mind  it is designed simply to facilitate the wider dis-  semination of truly educational films. Further,  as already indicated by the delegate of Venezuela,  there is no possibility of a country being flooded  with commercial films which are designed largely  for commercial purposes under the guise of edu-  cation, because each country is at liberty, as the  delegate of the United States pointed out, to intro-  duce regulations saying that such films shall not  be shown for profit. It would appear to me,             therefore, that the clause as it stands is much  better designed to promote the aims we all have  in mind than the amendment proposed by the  delegate of France.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  else wish to speak on this point?  Does anyone  I will put to the vote first of all the amendment  of the French delegation, supported by the dele-  cate of Egypt, that is to add the words “it being  understood that this material will be used solely  for non-profit-making purposes”, at the end of  Article I. Will those who are in favour please  raise their hands.  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The French  delegation’s amendment is rejected by 11 votes  to 8.  M. de BLONAY (Secretariat) (Translation) :  Mr. President, before the Conference proceeds to  the vote on this Agreement, it is important that  we should specify exactly its nature and the result-  ing commitments. The stipulations concerning  conventions are contained in Article IV B of the  Constitution. This article states that the General  Conference shall distinguish between recommen-  dations to Member States and international con-  ventions, and that in the latter case, a two-thirds  majority is required. The fact that the convention  was adopted here would prevent any future amend-  ment. On the other hand, there would be no  commitment for the Member States before they  had signed it. Moreover, the Constitution provides  in Article VIII that the Member States in their  annual report to the Organization shall state what  action they have taken upon the recommendations  and conventions adopted by the Conference and  ratified by the Member States.  As far as procedure is concerned, the General  Conference at its Second Session instructed the  Secretariat to prepare very detailed directives  designed to ensure that conventions should be  sufficiently prepared, so that once adopted by the  General Conference, they could obtain the maxi-  mum number of ratifications.  In accordance with these instructions, the Se-  cretariat prepared draft directives concerning the  adoption of conventions, based partly on the prac-  tice of the International Labour Organization,  which, as you know, has great experience in these  matters. The draft was submitted to the Official  and External Relations Commission and the latter  thought it advisable to postpone its adoption until  the Member States had had time to study it in  detail. For the time being, therefore, Unesco has     no procedure for the application of the Articles of  the Constitution which I have just read out.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): According to  Article IV, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of  Unesco, and Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure,  the adoption of a draft international convention  proposed for the ratification of Member States  requires a two-thirds majority.  Considering the importance of the question and  this constitutional requirement of a two-thirds  majority, 1 believe that we should proceed to a  vote by roll-call. 1 will ask the Secretary to read  Article IV, paragraph 4, of the Constitution and  Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure.  The Secretary read the relevant Article and  Rule.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I will now ask  the Secretary to proceed to the roll-call of the  Member States :  The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour : Australia, Belgium, Brazil,  China, Denmark, Iran, Iraq, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Norway, Turkey, Union of South Africa,  United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela.  Voted against : Colombia, Egypt, France,  Greece, Luxembourg.  Abstained : Argentina, Austria, Ecuador, El  Salvador, Italy, Lebanon, Mexico, Peru, United  Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Syria.  Absent : Afghanistan, Bolivia, Canada, Cuba,  Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Hon-  duras, Hungary, India, Liberia, Philippines,  Poland.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : For the  motion: 15; against: 5; abstentions: 11; absent: 13.  Rule 82 of the Rules of Procedure says :  For the purpose of these rules, the phrase ‘Members  present and voting” means Members casting an  affirmative or negative vote. Members who abstain  from voting are considered ‘non-voters’.  So we now have twenty voting members—  fifteen in favour and five against. The two-thirds  majority has therefore been obtained.  Adopted. (°°)
34. Election of a member of the Executive  Board to replace Dr. Benjamin Carrion,  resigned.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We shall now  proceed to the election of a member of the     (°°) In final form : Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  lution 5, p. 113.
180            Executive Board to replace Dr. Benjamin Carrion,  who has resigned. I will ask the Secretary to  read you Article V, paragraph 4, of the Constitu-  tion, and Rules 30 (3), 87 (1), 88 and 98 of the  Rules of Procedure.  The  Rules.  Secretary read the relevant Article and  The PRESIDENT (Translation): In accordance  with the Rules which have just been read, we  will proceed as follows. We will hear the Report  of the Nominations Committee and then the  comments of the delegates on this Report. We  will then take a vote. I call upon the Vice-Chair-  man of the Nominations Committee.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) (Vice-Chair-  man of the Nominations Committee): Mr. Pre-  sident, fellow-delegates, I have the honour to sub-  mit the Report of the Nominations Committee,  which held its fourth meeting on 9 December
1948 to consider nominations for the vacancy on  the Executive Board resulting from the resignation  of Dr. Benjamin Carrion of Ecuador.  The Committee submits to the General Con-  ference the following nomination :  To replace Dr. Benjamin Carrion for the re-  mainder of his term of office, namely, until the  end of 1950, Dr. Guillermo Nannetti of Colombia.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : I ask  Mr. Compton of the United States delegation and  M. Padoux of the French delegation to act as  tellers.  You have just heard the proposal of the Nomi-  nations Committee. Are there any others?  We shall now proceed to the election of a  member of the Executive Board to replace Dr. Ben-  jamin Carrion.  The vote was taken by secret ballot.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The ballot is  closed. Thirty-two Members have voted.  Dr. Guillermo Nannetti, head of the Colombian  delegation, is elected a member of the Executive  Board by twenty-seven votes. (°°?)
35. Report of the Procedure Committee  (continuation).  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We will now  continue the discussion of the Report of the Pro-  cedure Committee and of the amendment pro-  posed by the delegation of Ecuador.  I call upon the delegate of Venezuela.
(89) Volume II, Section VI, p. 10.
181  M. Bernardo FLORES (Venezuela) : Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow-delegates, the proposal by the dele-  gate of Ecuador 1s warmly supported by the  Venezuelan delegation. The proposal made by my  colleague does not present the problem of two  types of Member States, as has been said—one  that has voting powers and the other with limited  scope. It claims to protect the Member States  from the danger of following the lead of its parent  Organization, the political organization of the  United Nations. That course may, for national or  international political reasons, result in the re-  fusal to a country of the right to be heard in an  Organization which was created for the exclusive  purpose of furthering world union between the  peoples of the world without distinction of race,  creed or political beliefs. The very Constitution  of Unesco differentiates it from its parent Organ-  ization. Unesco was established because a very  real, urgent and vital need was felt for a non-  political organ that could rise above political rival-  ries in a world not yet recovered from a terrible  and devastating war, and at present girding its  loins for another war, which in political circles  is deemed a foregone conclusion. We are all  members of the human race and, as such, have  all the frailties of human beings, from extreme  love to extreme hate. It is for the furtherance of  our more humane sentiments that Unesco has  been created and these should not be given as a  reason for the introduction of misunderstanding  in the sole body established exclusively for crea-  ting a better atmosphere of friendship and under-  standing amongst the peoples of the world. Its  parent Organization has rules made solely for the  pursuit of political aims. Unesco in its sphere is  first and unique; it should not follow a precedent  but should rather establish one. For this reason,  on behalf of the Venezuelan delegation, I support  the motion of Ecuador, which after all is a con-  ciliatory proposal, mid-way between that put for-  ward by the representative of the Union of South  Africa, with which 1 heartily agree, and the  extreme attitude of those who advocate exclusion  for political considerations, whether national or  international.  Dr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark) (Chairman of  the Procedure Committee): Mr. President, fellow-  delegates, I do not want, for the moment, to speak  on the substance of the case before us. I want  to give some information about the way in which  the question has been raised, particularly because,  if I understood him correctly, our esteemed col-  league from South Africa this morning expressed  some astonishment at this question's coming up,  since it has no connexion with the Rules of Pro-  cedure. The proposal was submitted to Member  States in a letter dated 23 March 1948. It was put           on the Agenda, as the Committee on Procedure  has just affirmed, with two other proposals which  aim at amending the Constitution. They appear  on the Agenda of the Procedure Committee, this  one as item 4. When we reached that item in  the deliberations of the Procedure Committee, 1  asked the delegate of Ecuador to present the  amendment and, as he was not able to do so, either  at the beginning or at the end of that particular  meeting, the Committee postponed the question  until the next meeting. The question was then  brought up again and the delegate of Ecuador  made his speech on the matter. As you know,  the Procedure Committee is a Committee on which  all delegations of the General Conference are re-  presented, and none of these delegations supported  the proposal. I give this information, Mr. Pre-  sident, because I want to make it perfectly clear  that there have been no rush decisions on this  matter. There has been ample opportunity from  March of this year until now for every Member  State to make its observations, and to make its  voice heard in the deliberations, the result of  which (incorporated in the Report of the Pro-  cedure Committee) is that this motion has not  been seconded.  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa):  Mr. President, I do not wish to speak on this  motion again; I have already said what I wanted  to say. But the document dealing with the  motion which was not seconded reached my  hands for the first time this afternoon, so there  was certainly no opportunity of raising the matter  before. When I asked my question this morning,  as far as I was concerned the report had not yet  been circulated, and I could not understand how,  arising out of a document containing detailed  amendments of Rules of Procedure, 1 suddenly  found myself in the midst of a discussion involv-  ing the alteration of the Constitution in a matter  of vital importance. 1 think the Chairman also  overlooks the fact that the object of circularizing  nations is not to have their comments with a view  to settling the matter before it comes to the  plenary meeting, but to give notice of it. We did  not receive notice, and I have been waiting for the  opportunity to speak about it. We know that it 1s  impossible for small delegations to be represented  on all Commissions, so that this is the appropriate  time to discuss it, and, in the light of that  explanation, I hope, Mr. President, that our  silence will not be regarded as opposing the  motion : it was not raised before.  M. José Aiub MANZOR (Uruguay) (Transla-  tion): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  delegation of Uruguay has supported the proposal
182  of Ecuador and its action is in harmony with  legal traditions and democratic principles. The  delegate of Egypt said that a country which leaves  through the main door of the United Nations,  should not come in through the back door of  Unesco. I believe, Mr. President, that this argu-  ment is only of comparative value. To begin  with, if Unesco’s aims were merely a repetition of  the United Nations’ aims, its existence would  obviously be unnecessary. But we know that  there is a fundamental difference between them;  one is a political organization, the other is a cul-  tural organization. We also know that Unesco 1s  an institution to educate, to prepare the mind;  and I believe it desirable that, before admission  to the United Nations, each country should have  graduated, so to speak, in Unesco. 1 firmly be-  lieve that, to achieve Unesco’s peaceful purposes,  it would be extremely useful to require that a  country wishing to belong to the United Nations  should have followed a preparatory course in  Unesco. Moreover, Mr. President, 1 believe that,  when a country commits a fault which results in  its exclusion from the United Nations, it becomes  all the more necessary for it to come under  Unesco’s influence. Unesco is a school, a labo-  ratory, the cradle of peace. It is for this reason,  then, that the Uruguayan delegation believes it  extremely important always to leave open the back  door of our Organization, the more so because it  is always through the back door that the peoples  really enter.  Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Bra-  zil) (Translation): Mr. President, on behalf of the  delegation of Brazil, I make all reservations re-  carding the amendment to the Constitution of  Unesco presented by the delegation of Ecuador, as  regards the particular subject under discussion.  The Charter of the United Nations was the source  and the inspiration of the Constitution of Unesco.  An expulsion from the United Nations presup-  poses a violation of its Charter. It is not a ques-  tion of a vague political compromise. It is a  question of the basic principles established in  full agreement by the nations as a whole for the  creation of a new order. To consolidate this  new order and to rally intellectual and spiritual  forces to the aid of political agreements, the Con-  stitution of Unesco was drawn up. It seems to me  difficult to set one organization against the other  and to permit a violator of the Charter of the  United Nations, the key-stone of the entire system,  to be approved by the Constitution of Unesco. It  is not a question of conflict, of pure politics, or,  if I may say so, of petty politics. No country is  expelled from the United Nations unless it has  positively violated the principles of the latter, and  it was for the defence of these principles that                Unesco was established. 1 will therefore vote  against the amendment.  Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) :  Mr. President, I have three short points to make.  The honourable delegate of Brazil has in fact  covered most of the ground which I intended to  cover, but I would like to emphasize some of the  points which he has made. The first point is, on  consideration of Article II, paragraphs 3 and 4, of  the Constitution, we find that the proposal made  by the honourable delegate of Ecuador would con-  flict with these paragraphs. Paragraph 3 of  Article IÏ says :  Members of the Organization who are suspended  from the exercise of the rights and privileges of mem-  bership of the United Nations Organization shall,  upon the request of the latter, be suspended from the  rights and privileges of this Organization.  And paragraph 4 reads :  Members of the Organization which are expelled  from the United Nations Organization shall automati-  cally cease to be members of this Organization.  When we look at paragraph 1 of Article Il, we  see that membership of the United Nations Organ-  ization carries with it the right to membership of  Unesco. Membership of the United Nations  Organization will carry with it the right to  membership of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization. This is clear  enough. In the circumstances then, it seems to  the United Kingdom delegation that expulsion  and suspension would take place automatically.  As has been pointed out, membership of this  Organization is tied to that of the United Nations  Organization, and therefore we should follow the  Constitution, as laid down in Article II. The sug-  gestion made by the honourable delegate of  Ecuador is that we add a new paragraph 5. This  means, in fact, that we should add a paragraph,  which, if adopted, would be in contradiction to  Article II. I think that delegates will be grateful  to the honourable delegate of Ecuador for the  discussion that has taken place upon this. It has  been a useful discussion—the whole matter has  been aired in debate. But, in view of the points  that I have made, the United Kingdom delegation  —if the matter is taken to a vote—will vote against  the proposal made by the delegate of Ecuador.  Having had the debate, may I suggest that the  honourable delegate withdraw, so that we do not  have a vote upon this matter? It has been aired  and it has been a valuable discussion, but I would  appeal to him now to withdraw. Otherwise I am  afraid that the delegation of the United Kingdom  will have to vote against.  M. Roger SEYDOUX (France) (Translation):  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, having had the  honour, as head of the Unesco delegation, of  signing the agreement between Unesco and the  United Nations, I would like to draw your atten-  tion to the following points. The agreement be-  tween Unesco and the United Nations was estab-  lished on the basis of the Constitution of  Unesco, as it existed after the London agreement  and as it still exists today. If we were to modify  an important article of the Constitution, an article  which reproduces one of the essential provisions  of the Charter of the United Nations, it could be  held that there was no longer harmony between  the main points of the United Nations Charter  and the main points of the Constitution of Unesco.  We might then perhaps be obliged to reconsider  certain points of the agreement which was signed  in New York two years ago. In these circum-  stances, and for other reasons which were stated  by previous speakers, if this amendment were  maintained, the French delegation would have,  regretfully, to vote against it.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  delegate of the United States of America.  Mr. F. D. G. RIBBLE (United States of Ame-  rica): Mr. President, fellow-delegates, 1 have to  say that the delegation of the United States will  not be able to support the amendment proposed  by the honourable delegate of Ecuador. We feel  that our Government would think that it was not  consistent with its obligations, not only to the  United Nations, but also to Unesco, to vote for an  amendment of this sort. The amendment, in fact,  tends to negative to a certain extent the pro-  visions in the Charter of the United Nations for  dealing with countries which persistently violate  the principles contained in that Charter. This is  the reason given in the Charter of the United  Nations for the expulsion of a country, of a  Member State : “A Member of the United Nations  which has persistently violated the principles  contained in the present Charter may be ex-  pelled.” Those principles are stressed in the  following lines :  All Members, in order to ensure to all of them the  rights and benefits resulting from membership, shall  fulfil in good faith the obligations assumed by them  in accordance with the present Charter.  All Members shall settle their international disputes  by peaceful means in such a manner that international  peace and security and justice are not endangered.  All Members shall refrain in their international rela-  tions from the threat or use of force against the ter-  ritorial integrity or political independence of any  State or in other manner inconsistent with the purpose  of the United Nations.
183       And furthermore, our own Constitution declares  in its preamble :  In consequence whereof they (that is the signatory  States) do hereby create the United Nations Educ-  ational, Scientific and Cultural Organization for the  purpose of advancing, through the educational and  scientific and cultural relations of the peoples of the  world, the objectives of international peace and of  the common welfare of mankind for which the United  Nations Organization was established and which its  Charter proclaims.  We prepared ourselves from the beginning to  be in a position of solidarity with the United  Nations purposes and principles. Consequently,  to deviate from that position, it seems to me,  would be quite inconsistent. Therefore the United  States delegation will not be able to vote for the  amendment proposed by the honourable delegate  of Ecuador.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I will put the  amendment proposed by the delegate of Ecuador  to the vote, unless the delegate of Ecuador is  prepared to withdraw his amendment.  I now put the amendment of the delegation of  Ecuador to the vote. I would remind the Con-  ference that it is an amendment to the Con-  stitution. The majority required is therefore two-  thirds, and in view of the importance of the ques-  tion, I will ask the Secretary to take the vote by  roll-call.  The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour : Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador,  El Salvador, Syria, Union of South Africa, Uru-  guay, Venezuela.  Voted against : Afghanistan, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, China, Denmark, Egypt, France,  Greece, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Lebanon, Norway, Saudi  Arabia, United Kingdom, United States of  America.  Abstained : Argentina.  Absent : Bolivia, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Do-  minican Republic, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,  India, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands,  New Zealand, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Turkey.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The amend-  ment proposed by the delegation of Ecuador is  rejected by 18 votes to 8.  We now come to consideration of the amend-  ment proposed by the delegation of New Zealand.  It is document 3C/PRO/3. This amendment has  been adopted unanimously by the Procedure Com-  mittee. It aims at amending paragraph 9 of  Article IV of the Constitution to read as follows :
134     The General Conference shall meet annually in  ordinary session. It may meet in extraordinary ses-  sion on the call of the Executive Board. At each ses-  sion the location of its next session shall be designated  by the General Conference.  Does anyone desire to speak on this? Is the  amendment supported? I will put this amend-  ment to the vote by roll-call.  The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour : Argentina, Australia, Bel-  gium, Brazil, China, Cuba, Denmark, Ecuador,  Egypt, France, Greece, Iraq, Italy, Lebanon, Nor-  way, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom, United States of America, Uru-  guay, Venezuela.  Abstained : Austria.  Absent : Afghanistan, Bolivia, Canada, Colom-  bia, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, El Sal-  vador, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Iran,  Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Turkey.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The amend-  ment is adopted by 22 votes. (**)  We will now consider the third amendment.  This amendment was proposed by the Director-  General. It concerns Article IV.E of Unesco ‘s  Constitution and is to be found in document
3C/PRO/4.  This amendment was itself amended by the  Australian delegation. The text is as follows :  When consultative arrangements have been approved  by the Executive Board for such international non-  governmental or semi-governmental organizations in  the manner provided in Article XI, paragraph 4, those  organizations shall be invited to send observers to  sessions of the General Conference and its Commis-  sions.  The amendment is supported by the delegations  of Egypt and Denmark. Does anyone wish to  speak? I will put the amendment to the vote.  The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour : Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, China, Colombia, Cuba, Den-  mark, Egypt, France, Greece, Iraq, Italy, Lebanon,  Norway, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Union of South  Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America.  Absent : Afghanistan, Bolivia, Canada, Czecho-  slovakia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Sal-  vador, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Iran,
(61) In final form : Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  lution 4, A, p. 113.          Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Turkey, Uru-  guay, Venezuela.  The PRESIDENT (Translation):  ment is adopted by 21 votes. (%2)  Do delegates wish to continue consideration of  the Rules of Procedure, or would they rather  adjourn the meeting considering the rather late  hour?  I call upon the delegate of the Union of South  Africa.  The amend-  Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa):  Mr. President, I move that we continue. It is a  most unfortunate thing that we have wasted so  many hours today, and, as a result of the  assurances given, there will be nobody left in my  delegation tomorrow. 1 therefore move that we  continue until we finish our business this evening.  As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned,  I move that they be adopted as they stand  without discussion. We have all had an oppor-  tunity of looking at them.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Gentlemen,  we have a proposal to adopt the Rules of Pro-  cedure as they stand in the Report of the Pro-  cedure Committee. Is there any objection to this?  [ call upon the delegate of Belgium.  M. André MAST (Belgium) (Translation) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like  to submit to the Conference some remarks on  Rules 94 and 98 of the Rules of Procedure and to  defend the amendments that we proposed at the  meeting of the Procedure Committee. 1 believe  that the two amendments which I had the honour  of presenting to the Procedure Committee should  be submitted to the Conference. They were  rejected by only a small majority. The first  amendment is to add to Rule 94 a statement that  the functions of a member of the Executive Board  are incompatible with those of a head of dele-  gation. This amendment appears to the Belgian  delegation to follow logically from Article V,  paragraph 11, of the Constitution, according to  which :  The Members of the Executive Board shall exercise  the powers delegated to them by the General Confer-  ence on behalf of the Conference as a whole and not  as representatives of their respective Governments.  In the view of the Belgian delegation, these  powers cannot be reconciled with those of a head  of a delegation, since the latter is by the very
(2) In final form : Volume II, Section XIV, Resolu-  tion 4, B, p. 113.
185     nature of his functions subject to the instructions  of his own government. We do not think that  the above amendment conforms only to reasons  of formal logic. On the contrary, it is in agree-  ment, we think, with the opinion of those who  created Unesco as regards the mission of the  Executive Board.  At the meeting of the Committee on 2 December
1948, the delegate of Norway who participated in  the Preparatory Commission in London and whose  opinion thus had even more weight, stressed that,  in order to ensure continuity of work between the  sessions of the General Conference, the Executive  Board must be an organ independent of any  government. ‘This is only possible”, he added,  “if the members of the Board are persons who do  not receive instructions from their respective  States”. The temporary Committee of the Exe-  cutive Board which dealt with the question of the  status of its members noted on page 13 of its  Report (document 3C/10 (rev.)) that the Con-  stitution could only be observed if Member States  refrained from issuing instructions to, or bring-  ing pressure to bear on, any member of the Board  who is one of their nationals. But “the end jus-  tifies the means”. Governments are of course  tempted to exert pressure on members of the  Executive Board when the latter are also heads of  delegations, particularly as heads of delegations  are on principle subject to the instructions of  their governments.  It was objected against the Belgian proposal that  it placed small countries, whose delegations could  not be numerous, at a disadvantage. 1 believe  that this objection cannot stand careful scrutiny,  firstly, because the amendment is not designed to  make membership of the Executive Board in-  compatible with membership of a delegation; and  secondly, as the travelling expenses of members of  the Executive Board are borne by Unesco, 1 confess  | am not much influenced by the argument of  countries which agree to send delegations con-  sisting of one single member only when this  member’s expenses are paid by Unesco. Such are  the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for which we  wish to introduce this first amendment.  The second amendment is to Rule 98 of the  Rules of Procedure. It is to add to this Rule, after  the words ‘Director-General of the Organization”,  the words :  Members of the Executive Board may not, during  their term of office, be nominated for the post of  Director-General.  I will comment briefly on this amendment. It  seems to us hardly proper that a body responsible  for nominations for a certain office should pro-  pose for this office a member of that body itself,  and I believe that this consideration applies       a   =   N C   i     even more forcibly to smaller bodies, such as  the Executive Board which has only eighteen  members. In an organization like Unesco,  all forms of endogamy, should, in my opinion,  be avoided. The phrase ‘term of office” in-  cluded in the amendment limits the interdiction  to the members belonging to the Executive Board  at the moment when the Executive Board makes  its nomination. Therefore nothing will prevent  the Executive Board from proposing for the post  of Director-General a member of the recruitment  reserve, as it were, constituted by all those—and  their number will grow in course of time—who  have already held office on the Executive Board.  The experience they may have had would thus be  useful to the Board without giving rise to the  disadvantages inherent in the present system.  These are the two amendments, supported, |  repeat, by a large minority in the Procedure Com-  mittee. We ask you to adopt them, because we  believe that they are based on the spirit in which  the Constitution was drawn up and are also  necessary for the effective working of the Executive  Board.     Dr. Wadie FARAG (Egypt) (Rapporteur of the  Procedure Committee) (Translation): Mr. Pre-  sident, fellow-delegates, I do not want to waste  your time, for we have still quite a lot of work  to do. The two Belgian amendments were dis-  cussed by the Committee and it was clear that  they were inadequate to allay the justifiable  anxieties of the Belgian delegate.  As the delegate of France said when these two  amendments were discussed, for members of the  Executive Board to be immune from the influence  of their governments, it is not enough to prevent  these members from being appointed heads of  delegations; they must also be prevented from  being appointed members of delegations. They  must be guaranteed travelling and cost of living  expenses; they must not even be officials of their  respective governments; they must not receive  decorations or honours from their governments;  they must be surrounded with safeguards which,  unfortunately, in our world are only assured to  monks or hermits living in the mountains. In  these circumstances, what would be the use of  stipulating that a member of the Executive Board  may not be the head of a delegation? We must  have confidence in these gentlemen, in their  integrity and sense of duty. It is quite useless to  try to keep a man in the right path if he does not  wish to stay there. This has already been tried as  regards duties other than those of a member of  the Executive Board.  As for not choosing the Director-General from  among the members of the Executive Board  during their term of office, the same argument  applies. The members of the Executive Board  cannot be influenced by a colleague; they are  the elite of the representatives of Unesco; they  are chosen by colleagues who are familiar with  their character, with their sense of duty, and who  know that they are worthy of our confidence. If  the Director-General of Unesco cannot be chosen  from among the members of the Executive Board,  where can he be chosen from—from just any-  where, from among people who have never known  anything about the work of Unesco? It was for  these reasons that the Committee rejected the  Belgian delegation's two amendments.  Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Transla-  tion): Mr. President, gentlemen, the proposal of  the honourable member of the Belgian delegation  seems to me quite unacceptable. It seems odd  and absurd, indeed, that the head of a delegation,  once he is elected to the Executive Board should  no longer be the head of that delegation. In the  second place, doubt has been cast upon the inte-  ority of members of the Executive Board, whom  I consider to be above suspicion. Moreover, I  wonder what would be the situation of those who  were precluded from being heads of delegations  simply because they were members of the  Executive Board.  As for the other amendment that the Belgian  delegation proposes, 1 consider it entirely inappro-  priate, seeing that we have just elected a Director-  General for a six-year term of office.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : Gentlemen, |  will put to the vote the two Belgian amendments.  After which, unless anyone wishes to speak on  any of the separate Rules, 1 will put to the vote  the draft as a whole, as it has been adopted by the  Procedure Committee.  The first amendment is the following :  To add to Rule 94, which has now become  Rule 95, after the words “for a term of three  years” the words :  The office of a member of the Executive Board and  that of the head of a delegation cannot be held  concurrently.  Is this amendment by the Belgian delegation  seconded? It is seconded by the Austrian dele-  gation.  On a vote being taken by a show of hands, the  amendment was rejected by 10 votes to 4.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The second Bel-  gian amendment is the addition to Rule 98, which  has now become Rule 99, after the words “Dir-  ector-General of the Organization” of the words :      Members of the Executive Board may not, during  their term of office, be nominated for the post of  Director-General.  Is this amendment seconded?  The amendment is not seconded,  therefore put it to the vote.  Gentlemen, I put to the vote the draft Rules of  Procedure as a whole, as adopted by the Procedure  Committee. Will those in favour, please raise  their hands.  and I cannot  On a vote being taken by a show of hands, the  draft Rules of Procedure were adopted by 15 votes  in favour, with none against. (°°)  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We have still to  deal with two questions of procedure, mentioned  in document 3C/PRO/16, pages 4 and 5. The  first question is the eligibility for re-election of  members of the Executive Board who are not  members of any delegation. The Committee  recommends to the General Conference that this  question be resolved by the procedure laid down  in paragraph 2 of Rule 33 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure, that is by having the Constitution inter-  preted by an arbitral tribunal.  Will those in agreement with this proposal  please raise their hands.  On a vote being taken by a show of hands, the  proposal was adopted by 10 votes in favour, with  none against. (“*)  The PRESIDENT (Translation): A second  recommendation by the Procedure Committee :  The Procedure Committee recommends that at its  next ordinary session the General Conference take  all necessary steps to amend the provisions of the  Constitution with a view to securing concurrence  between the terms of the members of the  Executive Board and the Director-General, on the  one hand, and the ordinary sessions of the General  Conference, on the other.  Does anyone wish to speak?  Will those who agree with this recommendation  please raise their hands?  On a vote being taken by a show of hands, the  proposal was adopted by 14 votes in favour. (°°)  The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m.  EIGHTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 17 December 1948, at 11 a.m.  CONTENTS
36. Resolution concerning the translation, distribution and sale of Unesco  documents and publications in languages other than the working lan-  guages . 187
37. Resolution concerning the despatch of General Conference documents to  Member States
38. Discussion of selected items of general importance, e.g.
189  the rôle and  problems of education, science and culture in the modern world :  Speeches by delegates of France, Italy, Brazil, Lebanon, the United King  dom, Australia and Egypt .  President :
36. Resolution concerning the translation,  distribution and sale of Unesco docu-  ments and publications in languages  other than the working languages.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): We shall now  discuss the draft resolution concerning the trans-     Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  (See also Volume II, Section XIII,
(63) In final form :  lution 3, p. 112.  Annex, p. 92.)
189  Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  lation, printing, distribution and sale in languages  other than the working languages of important  selected documents, publications and books issued  by Unesco. The relevant document is 3C/93,  Amendment 2. I call upon the Chairman of the  Drafting Committee.  M. Johannes NOVRUP (Denmark) (Chairman
(64) See volume II, Section XIII, III, 1, p. 90.
(65) See Volume II, Section XIII, III, 2, p. 91.