should involve no danger to the unity and cohe-  sion of Unesco, which was still a young body;
(3) human culture was a whole and not divisible  into parts.  M. RABATH (Lebanon) again emphasized the  Lebanese Government's point of view. He  favoured the notion of a small-scale experiment,  but was against its being conducted elsewhere  than in the Middle East. He accordingly pro-  posed that paragraph 1 of the resolution should  be amended as follows :
1. to approve the establishment, at the earliest  possible date, at a place to be decided later, on an  experimental basis, of a cultural liaison office for  the Middle East.  He asked for the discussion to be postponed  to a later meeting.  After a discussion between Dr. SALIBA (Syria),  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) and M. THOMAS (Assis-  tant Director-General), the Lebanese motion for  the adjournment was rejected.  The CHAIRMAN indicated that the Sub-Com-  mission had before it two proposals the first,  SECOND  Chairman:  Resolution for the establishment of an Insti-  tute of Cultural Co-operation for South and  East Asian Countries (document 3C/62).  Professor KABIR  lowing resolution :  (India) presented the fol-  The General Conference resolves that it is desirable  to establish an Institute of Cultural Co-operation for  South and East Asian Countries as soon as possible :
1. to facilitate co-operation and interchange in  education, science and culture both among such  countries and between the East and the West,
3. to act as a centre for Unesco projects and  stimulate interest in Unesco.  to study regional tensions, and  and instructs the Director-General to prepare in 1949  a project for the implementation of the above proposal  and to report to the next session of the General Confer-  ence.  submitted by the delegate of Turkey asking for  “the opening of a provisional liaison office in  Paris, as a first step towards the attainment of a  cultural co-operation centre in the Middle East”;  the second, submitted by the Rapporteur and  quoted above.  The latter motion was put to the vote and  adopted by seventeen votes in favour, with one  abstention.  The CHAIRMAN ruled that paragraph 2 and  the last part of paragraph 3 of the resolution sub-  mitted to the Sub-Commission were not within  that body's terms of reference, and put to the  vote the first part of paragraph 3, amended as  follows, on the motion of the Rapporteur:  To recommend the inclusion in the Organization's  Budget for 1949 of an appropriation of $41,178 for  these activities.  That paragraph was also adopted by seventeen  votes, with one abstention.  The two paragraphs approved by the Sub-Com-  mission were then adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 3.45 p.m.
323  Professor Paul RIVET (France)  Professor Kabir emphasized the moderate  nature of that resolution, which amounted simply  to a recommendation, the action proposed being  deferred until 1949. The recommendation was  in line with Unesco’s purposes, which had to take  into account the differences between cultures and  stimulate exchanges between them. It would  appear comparatively simple to finance the pro-  ject; it could be done out of the $45,000 shown  in the Budget, since the Sub-Commission had not  set up the Cultural Liaison Office for the Middle  Fast in the form which had been contemplated.  FARES Dr. CHU (China) and Dr.  seconded the resolution.  (Egypt)  Mr. PARTON (New Zealand) and Mr. DESRO-  CHERS (Canada) could not subscribe to it, since  the question had been settled at that morning’s    meeting by the decision to establish, in Paris, a  Cultural Liaison Office for the Middle East.  While he appreciated the new factor introduced  by the resolution (the establishment of contact  between the different countries of South and East  Asia), Dr. McKEON (United States of America)  (Rapporteur) thought it contained features diffe-  rent from those with which the Sub-Commission  was concerned at the moment and which (like  the study of tensions, for instance) were primarily  cultural. Dr. McKeon thought it would, there-  fore, be better to refer the resolution to the Joint  Programme and Official and External Relations  Commission.  M. MARCEL (France) agreed.  The Rapporteur’s proposal was adopted by  twenty-one votes to nil, with one abstention.  Reproductions in visual arts and music (docu-  ment 3C/PRG/}.3).  Sir Leigh ASHTON (United Kingdom) pointed  out that what was involved was a long-term pro-  gramme which had already, since the Mexico City  Conference, been put in hand. He proposed its  adoption, as recommended on page 4 of docu-  ment 3C/PRG/4.3.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) would prefer to stop  after paragraphs (a) and (b) on page 4.  Professor KABIR (India) hoped that, when lists  of reproductions of Renaissance paintings were  prepared, Indian and Chinese paintings would not  be forgotten.  The CHAIRMAN replied that they would not  be forgotten, but that Unesco had to proceed by  successive stages.  Dr. FARES (Egypt) showed that, in accordance  with historical facts, Arab and Persian art should  be presented side by side, as they were closely asso-  ciated and largely derived, in both cases, from  Islam. He hoped that orientalists from both East  and West would be asked to prepare the lists.  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) re-  assured him on that matter. He pointed out to  the delegates of the United Kingdom and Australia  that not only the general programme as defined  in documents 3C/PRG/4.3 and 3C/5, but also the  budgetary provisions for it, should be adopted.  If the Sub-Commission merely adopted resolution
4.146 (document 3C/5, page 63), as the Austra-  lian delegate had suggested, it would be leaving  the budgetary side out of account and discharging  only half its task.  The Assistant Director-General observed that  there was an addendum to resolution 4.143 which  he thought it would be useful to adopt, and which  ran as follows :
4.1431. To distribute among Member States, and  especially among those which possess only a limited  number of original paintings for exhibition to the  public, several selected series of fine colour reproduc-  tions.  The whole of document 3C/PRG/4.3 (with  resolutions 4.141 to 4.146, including the adden-  dum to resolution 4.143) was unanimously  adopted.  The Arts in General Education (document 3C/  PRG/4,2).  Dr. SASSEN (Netherlands) was anxious to  know whether Unesco was in touch with the  International Council of Museums, and whether  it was concerning itself with the relations that  ought to be established between museums and  schools, and with the creation of children’s  museums.  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) re-  assured him on that score. He also reassured Pro-  fessor GABRIELI (Italy), who had drawn the Sub-  Commission’s attention to the need for unifying  the various methods of preparing catalogues—a  somewhat more technical question which depen-  ded on the International Council of Museums.  Mr. DESROCHERS (Canada) explained that his  country was ready to co-operate in introducing  the arts in education, in accordance with the pro-  gramme before the Sub-Commission, but that in  the case of Canada such co-operation would take  quite a special form. In Canada, education was  controlled not by the central authorities but by  each separate province. Mr. Desrochers would  be glad to transmit Unesco’s recommendations to  each of those provinces, for he fully subscribed  to them.  Mr. INSKIP (Union of South Africa) and Sir  Leigh ASHTON (United Kingdom) expressed  some doubts about the possibility of securing any  real results by organizing a Conference early in
1949, if Committees had not been set up in each  country. The United Kingdom delegate thought  it would be better to take practical steps, such as  the issue of a bulletin, and to defer organizing  the Conference to a later date.
324            Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) was very definitely  in favour of resolution 4.161, for he thought it  was essentially Unesco’s business to be a clearing  house. He was much more sceptical of the value  of resolutions 4.162 and 4.163. He asked the  Secretariat what the replies had been to the ques-  tionnaire sent out by Unesco.  Mr. BELLEW (Secretariat) replied that the  result had been disappointing, as only three coun-  tries had answered.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) observed that, if it  was so difficult to obtain information on the arts  from Member States, the reason was evidently  that they took no interest in the matter; he there-  fore proposed that resolutions 4.162 and 4.163  should be deleted.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) would  be very sorry if the resolutions were deleted, as  that would mean the collapse of the whole project.  He thought there was clearly a misunderstanding,  due to a wrong interpretation of the structure of  the Committees in question. Their actual organi-  zation might vary from country to country, and  from subject to subject; what, in music, was suit-  able for the United States of America might take  another form in another country; and what was  applicable to the theatre might not be applicable  to literature. There might, too, be considerable  differences of method; some countries would  have governmental Committees, in others the  Committees would be semi-governmental or even  private. The important thing was to bring to-  gether people who were interested in the question  of the arts in education, in order to effect an  exchange of views between educators in individual  countries. The Committees could then co-oper-  ate with Unesco on the international plane.  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out, in the first place, that the project  was the result of a recommendation by the Com-  mittee of Experts which had met at Unesco in
1948. As the next step it was necessary to be  clear on the exact nature of the proposed Com-  mittees. They were not so much liaison Com-  mittees as, essentially, action Committees. They  would be composed of dynamic personalities  (teachers or artists), convinced of the importance  of the arts in education, and would take all the  measures necessary, establishing contacts and  forming an action centre on which the government  of the country, and Unesco, could subsequently  rely. Writing to Member States for information  on a particular subject was a slow and disap-  pointing business, but contact with such centres  would undoubtedly be effective.  ne  The proposed conference, which might take  place, if not early in 1949, at any rate as soon as  possible, would be designed to help launch such  national Committees.  The Assistant Director-General added that he  would consider closely Sir Leigh Ashton’s sug-  gestion regarding the issue of a bulletin devoted  to the importance of the arts in education. If  could not be issued immediately because it was  not provided for in the budget, and also because  it pre-supposed the existence of national Com-  mittees. But once the latter had been set up, the  bulletin would enable very valuable exchanges of  information to take place between them, and  would very soon become a live institution.  The CHAIRMAN asked the Australian delegate  whether he was still in favour of deleting resolu-  tions 4.162 and 4.163.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) stated that, after  consulting the Rapporteur, he had realized that a  Committee of the type proposed already existed  in his own country. He merely asked for an alter-  ation in the text, so as to provide for greater  freedom of initiative in the setting up of the  National Committees. Resolution 4.162 should,  he suggested, be drafted as follows :  The General Conference recommends Member States  to take, through the National Commissions, all the  necessary steps to set up a Committee on the arts in  general education, with a view to encouraging the  best methods of teaching and stimulating experiment  and research by local institutions and individuals.  With regard to resolution 4.1632, Mr. Weeden  recommended, instead of the formation of an  international council (which would be difficult to  achieve in ten months), that the Director-General  should :  report to the Fourth Session of the General Confer-  ence on the advisability of setting up an international  committee or council.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) entire-  ly agreed with Mr. Weeden and accepted the  alterations he had suggested to resolution 4.162.  In his view, it was a matter of form rather than  of substance. Differences in the character of the  Committees, due to their various national back-  grounds, would be no less justified than their  eventual elasticity within each country.  With regard to resolution 4.1632, Dr. McKeon  emphasized that the attitude to be adopted would  largely depend on what had been accomplished  at the national level. If the Secretariat’s work  was sufficiently advanced to permit of the creation  of an international institute, it should be allowed  to take shape; otherwise, it would be necessary              to wait until another session of the General Con-  ference. He would welcome the establishment  of a preparatory committee, which, while organi-  zing the essential initial work, and subject to a  report to be drawn up by the Secretariat, might  be the nucleus of the essential but suitably flexible  international body which would ultimately con-  nect up the National Committees.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Australian  amendment to resolution 4.162.  The amendment was adopted with no adverse  votes but one abstention.  The CHAIRMAN then asked that the text of  resolution 4.1632 should be settled.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) pro-  posed the following change :  To investigate ... the advisability and practicability  of an international committee or council comprising  representatives of the National Bodies, to co-operate  with Unesco...  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) proposed adding to  the final sentence the words “... and practicable’.  The two amendments were adopted by fourteen  voles in favour, with one abstention.  Document 3C/PRG/4.2 as a whole was unani-  mously adopted.  The contribution of the arts to Unesco’s  purposes (document 3C/PRG/4.1).  Dr. FARES (Egypt) agreed with the form and  substance of document 3C/PRG/4.1 and empha-  sized that, as far as music was concerned, the  Government of his country had long ago entrusted  the study of Arab music to a committee of experts;  that experiment might be of interest to Unesco.  Mr. INSKIP (Union of South Africa) thought  that the document, which contained ideas rather  than practical suggestions, was a continuation of  the work begun at Mexico City and should be  adopted.  Dr. CHU (China) said he would like para-  graph (3) on page 3 of the document made  clearer, and submitted the following draft :  The General Conference resolves that the Director-  General be instructed to communicate with Member  States, in consultation with the respective National  Commissions or National Co-operating Bodies, to draw  up a list of ten or more representative literary works  best suited for the understanding of different peoples  and cultures, and that this list be compiled and  printed for circulation.  di 6  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) drew  attention to a point that had so far not been  brought out by Unesco. While the Organization  was concerned to enhance the value of the artist's  work and to use it for educational purposes, it had  not yet thought of seeking the artists own co-  operation for that purpose, or of paying enough  attention to his working conditions. Dr. McKeon  would like Unesco to consider in what ways those  two new aspects of the question could be followed  up, and he presented the following resolution  (document 3C/70) :
1. that Unesco put into effect during 1949 the  measures required for the execution of the resolution  passed unanimously at the First Session of the General  Conference of Unesco at Paris in 1946 in the following  terms :—
(1) that the freedom of the creative artist to  accomplish his proper purpose as an artist in any  nation is a matter of concern to the people of all  nations, and
(2) that Unesco, acting for and on behalf of the  people of all nations, will take such measures as are  open to it under its Constitution to protect and  defend the freedom of the artist whenever it is put in  danger.
9 The Director-General is instructed : to institute  an examination, with the active participation of artists  throughout the world, concerning what contributions  artists, in all the arts, because of their special gifts in  creative fields, can make towards furthering the pur-  poses of Unesco; to ascertain what pressures, social,  economic and political, now interfere with the per-  formance of the artist’s function; what measures have  been taken or can be taken to remove Or ameliorate  these pressures; and by what affirmative means the  working conditions of the artist can be improved and  his working freedom assured.  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  thanked the Chinese delegate for his proposal.  which seemed to him excellent; he thought the  Sub-Commission could adopt it, since it involved  no additional expenditure and the international  Committee for translations would certainly help  in carrying it out.  He thought also that the United States delegate s  suggestion was very useful. It seemed to him  ncontrovertible that artists could work only if they  were materially and morally independent. But,  in order to carry out such a programme, financial  appropriations would have to be made available.  Document 3C/PRG/4.1, as a whole, was unani-  mously adopted.  The Chinese resolution was unanimously  adopted.  The United States proposal was adopted by five  votes to two, with three abstentions.  The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m.     cl l!   ca y  U