SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Friday, 19 November 7948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 1 of the Agenda : Opening of the  Session.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL opened  the session at 3.45 p.m.  Item 2 of the Agenda : Election of Chairman,  Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur.  The following were elected :  Chairman :  Africa) ;  Vice-Chairman :  Rapporteur : M.  Mr. P. N. Banerjee (India);  Louis Verniers (Belgium).  Item 3 of the Agenda :  Agenda. (''7)  Adoption of the  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) asked that there  should be added to the agenda an Item 5 (f) :  “Organization of the Secretariat”.  Adopted.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) also asked  that an additional item should be included,  dealing with the better implementation of the  resolutions adopted at the Second Session of the  General Conference.  The Agenda was adopted with those alterations.  Item 4 of the Agenda : Financial Questions.  Item 4 (a) : Presentation by the Executive  Board of the Auditors’ Report for the  financial year 1947 (document 3C/ADM/2).
(117) The Agenda of the Administrative Commission  appears as Annex I to the Commission’s Report, to be  found in Volume II, p. 46.
374  Professor PHOTIADES presented the Report of  the Executive Board contained in document
3C/ADM/2.  Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) said that there had  recently been some criticism in the Netherlands  Press about the administration of Unesco’s funds.  In the circumstances, he would like to have some  more details about the statement, in paragraph I  of the Executive Board's Report, that the Board  was satisfied with the improvement which had  been brought about in the financial admini-  stration of the Organization.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed  out that the criticism in fact referred to the  report presented the previous year at Mexico City.  Since that time :
1. the new reports by the auditors had stated  that the financial administration was in order,
9. the Finance Committee of the Executive  Board had considered those reports and the  Executive Board had stated that the existing  position was satisfactory.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) asked that the  Secretariat should supply the record of the  Finance Committee’s meeting at which the matter  had been considered.  Dr. BENDER stated he was  satisfied.  (Netherlands)  In reply to a question from Mr. PILE (United  Kingdom), the CHAIRMAN explained that doc-  ument 3C/ADM/2, which was being discussed,  covered only the second half of 1947; the first  half of 1948 was dealt with in document
3C/ADM/2, Supplement.  In the circumstances, Mr. PILE thought it e d   N O   -   P o d   op ed   e n d   j s   —— —+ …4     would be out of place to approve the first doc-  ument without having considered the second.  It was decided, after discussion, to defer consi-  deration of the item to the next meeting.  Item 4 (b) : Scale of contributions of  Member States for 1949 (document 3C/  ADM /3 and supplements).  Mr. BANERJEE (India) asked on what basis  the Secretariat had calculated the percentage  assessed on India, as Pakistan was not  Member of Unesco.  yet a  M. PEISSEL (Comptroller), referring to doc-  ument 3C/ADM/3, Annex II, said that the Secre-  tariat had taken as the basis for its calculations  the proportion adopted by the Committee on  Contributions of the United Nations, viz., 3.25 per  cent for India and 0.70 per cent for Pakistan.  That proportion had been approved by the  representatives of the two countries at the current  session of the General Assembly of the United  Nations.  Mr. BANERJEE was satisfied with M. Peissel’s  explanation.  Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) thought  that the scale should be seriously discussed, and  asked that the discussion should be deferred to  a later meeeting.  The proposal was adopted.  Item 4 (c) : Payment of contributions of  Member States (document 3C/ADM/} and  Supplement) .  On the  (Greece),  unchanged.  PHOTIADES  was adopted  of Professor
3C/ADM/4  proposal  document  Item 4 (d) : Currency of Contributions to  the budget (document 3C/ADM/5 and Adden-  dum).  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained  the difficulties in which the Organization was  involved by reason of the fact that a considerable  portion of the contributions was paid in cur-  rencies other than United States dollars. Having  Investigated what currencies for contributions  were used by the other international organi-  zations and, in the light of the changed situation  brought about by the recent realignment of the  French franc, the Director-General submitted to  the General Conference the four following possible  solutions, in order of preference (see document
3C/ADM/5, Addendum, p. 2) :  |. payment in dollars by all Member States;
2. payment in French francs, by certain  Member States, at the free rate of exchange,  subject to later adjustments in the event of  devaluation during any particular year;  J. payment in French francs, by certain  Member States, at the free rate of exchange,  without the condition regarding later adjustment;
4. payment in French francs, by certain  Member States, at the average dollar-franc  exchange rate fixed by the French Government  and in force at the date of settlement.  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada), seconded by  Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt), suggested that the  second method of payment should be adopted.  Mr. FYZEE (India) could not agree to that  proposal, since he had received very clear  instructions from his Government, who wished  to pay their contribution in pounds sterling, as  in the past.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) thought  that the suggested method of payment, which  would involve two payments a year, would not  only lead to technical complications, but might  give rise to other difficulties.  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) was also concerned about  the supplementary payment, as countries such  as his, with limited budgets, found it impossible  to provide for items which were not strictly  determined at the beginning of the year.  Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) and M. FLORES  (Venezuela) ware unable to accept either the  solution suggested in paragraph (2), or that  suggested in paragraph (1).  M. HAIDAR (Lebanon), while acknowledging  the difficulties entailed by the method suggested  in paragraph (2), was prepared to accept it, if  the Organization would thereby be safeguarded  against losses on the exchange.  M. ABRAHAM (France), struck by the number  of objections raised against the first two solutions,  suggested waiving them and adopting the solution  contained in paragraph (4) : payment by certain  Governments in French francs on the existing  basis of the average rate between the official and  the free market exchange rates.        NADJIB-ULLAH Khan (Afghanistan), M. HAI-  DAR (Lebanon) and Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt)  seconded that proposal.  M. FLORES (Venezuela) and Mr. CRAWFORD  (Canada) were of the opinion that the first page  of document 3C/ADM/5 provided a very suitable  solution of the problem; some countries would  pay in dollars, others in francs, and others again  in pounds, etc.  Mr. FYZEE (India) thought that, as many  countries were unable to pay in dollars, the  question would be greatly simplified by doing  away with the first two solutions, which had  received nothing but criticism.  The Commission agreed with that proposal.  Discussion then turned to solutions (3)  and (4).  Mr. HULTEN (United States of America)  observed that the Commission should not forget  that the main question was the quota of con-  tributions by Member States and that it would  be dangeroux to alter the quotas by too drastic  an overhaul of the existing system. While the  expenses of the Organization depended on the  free market exchange rate, the income derived  from contributions by Member States depended  upon the official exchange rate, so that there was a  discrepancy which might jeopardize the Organi-  zation’s finances. Mr. Hulten therefore considered  it advisable to study proposal (3).  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought that,  while document 3C/ADM/5 was clear and faithful  to decisions previously taken, the Addendum only  complicated the question. Whereas paragraph (1)  related to the currencies in which the different  countries should pay their contributions, para-  graphs (2), (3) and (4) were concerned with  the exchange rate, and it was that rate which  would affect the total amount of contributions to  be paid. Solution (1) had been rejected, although  it was very simple in that it provided for payment  in dollars, pounds or francs. The only new  feature of the Addendum was that it fixed the  rate at which dollars should be converted into  French francs.  According to the principles laid down the  previous year, the contributions by each State  should be assessed in dollars, pounds or any other  currency which did not prejudice the interests  of the Organization. If that principle was adhered  to, proposal (4) was not very clear, as 1t men-
376     tioned only French francs and gave no details  about the methods of payment of other countries.  M. ABRAHAM (France) thought it best to  preserve the status quo, each country paying in  the currency most convenient to it : dollars,  pounds sterling, or French francs, the latter being  quoted at the current average rate, which was  between the official and the free market rate.  Dr. WALKER (Australia) shared that  which he thought the logical one.  the Agenda of the Conference  delegates to settle the question of currencies.  It would therefore be well to specify the  exchange rate of each currency. The Conference  seemed to be in agreement on the main principle  and, while fresh complications regarding exchange  questions might arise during 1949, it was certainly  advisable to draft the proposal in question very  carefully and also sufficiently elastically.  View,  Item 9B of  asked the  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked  the delegate of Australia for his clear suggestion.  The Secretariat had simply raised the problem,  which it was the Commission’s responsibility to  solve. He suggested that a Sub-Committee should  be appointed which, at that stage of the discussion,  would be able to form a helpful opinion.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) observed that  questions of fluctuations in exchange rates had  already been carefully studied by the Finance  Committee of the Executive Board. It had been  decided that all contributions of Member States  should be assessed in dollars, the rate of the  dollar being then determined by the average  exchange rate for the three main currencies  (pound sterling, Swiss franc and French franc).  The CHAIRMAN, following the Deputy Director-  General's proposal, suggested that the Commission  should appoint a Sub-Committee to draft a pro-  posal on the basis of the foregoing discussions.  The suggestion was adopted.  Mr. Pile (United Kingdom), Mr. Zook (United  States of America), Dr. Walker (Australia),  M. Flores (Venezuela), Mr. Banerjee (India),  Professor Sommerfelt (Norway), and M. Abraham  (France) were appointed members of the Sub-  Committee.  The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.