his appeal to the donor countries for information  about the contributions already made. The first  Book of Needs was the result of surveys made by  field workers who had been sent to various coun-  tries. A second Book on Asia would be published  soon. Eight recipient countries had made re-  quests for $6,150,000 worth of equipment, and  seven others had asked for materials estimated  at $620,000 for their universities. Although the  United States of America had sent enormous sums,  Unesco did not know to whom they had been sent  and had itself received only $13,000. United  States teachers had contributed $265,000. Much  help had been supplied by Canada but, again,  Unesco had no knowledge of the recipients. So  far, the best method devised was that of the Lord  Mayor of London’s Fund; Unesco had received  £67,000 sterling, to be spent under the control  of a Committee for the Fund.  The delegate of FRANCE agreed with the  remarks made by the United States delegate. He  was grateful to all donors for the help his country  had received, particularly for the University of  Caen.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in view of the  SECOND  Chairman:  Unesco’s contribution to Reconstruction in
1949 through the stimulation of gifts by  Member States and individuals (document
8C/PRG/1.2) (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of the United  States of America to make a statement on behalf  of the small committee set up at the end of the  morning meeting.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES of AMF-  RICA said that the Committee had agreed in prin-  ciple to the document as it stood, with the  recommendation that a few minor changes should  be made. A draft incorporating those changes  was being prepared for the next meeting of the  Sub-Commission and the United States delegate  late hour, the Sub-Commission should approve  document 3C/PRG/1.2, subject to the same reser-  vations as for document 3C/PRG/1.1. He pro-  posed to recommend that resolutions 1.1, 1.2,
1.3, 1.4 and 1.6 should be approved, and that  document 3C/PRG/1.2 should be forwarded to  the Programme and Budget Commission to make  the necessary budgetary allocations.  The delegate of the UNITED STATES of AMER-  ICA stated that his National Commission had  studied the proposals contained in document
3C/PRG/1.2 and wished to make some additions  to them. He asked the Sub-Commission to post-  pone its decision until the proposed additions had  been examined.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that, to gain time,  a small committee should be set up to discuss  with the delegate of the United States of America  and later submit a final draft resolution for the  Sub-Commission’s approval.  The French and Australian delegates  designated to form that Committee.  were  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1948, at 4.30 p.m.
236  Mr. B. B. THOMAS (United Kingdom)  proposed that the document should be adopted,  subject to the acceptance of those modifications.  That proposal, seconded by the delegate of the  UNITED KINGDOM, was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN remarked that the meeting  could proceed to the discussion of the three spe-  cial items brought to its attention at the morning  meeting :
1. a resolution proposed by the Australian  delegation, referred to the Sub-Commission by the  plenary Conference (document 3C/12);
2. a resolution submitted by the United King-  dom delegation (document 3C/PRG/1.6);
3. a resolution submitted by the French dele-  gation.                   Resolution submitted by the Australian  delegation (document 3C/12).  The delegate of IRAQ expressed his thanks and  pleasure that the resolution should have been sub-  mitted. His latest information was that 100,000  Palestinian students had become refugees without  any means of support or continuing their edu-  cation. lt was a major problem, and the delegate  of Iraq appealed to the Sub-Commission to give  all possible assistance and to do all it could to  stimulate aid, financial and otherwise, from all  Member States.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA explained that his  delegation were asking the Sub-Commission to  submit as recommendations to the Programme  and Budget Commission :
1. A general resolution (document 3C/57)  slightly more detailed than that originally sub-  mitted;
2. additions to the programme resolutions  dealing with Reconstruction. The new reso-  lutions would be for projects of one year’s duration  and would not necessarily be continuing activities.  The delegate then moved, on behalf of the  Australian delegation, the general resolution :  The Sub-Commission resolves to recommend to the  Conference that immediate action should be taken by  Unesco to assist refugees who have been driven from  their homes by military operations in the Middle  last, and for this purpose that Unesco :
(1) co-operate actively with the United Nations and  the Specialized Agencies concerned with relief for war  refugees.
(11) make, in collaboration with the Member States  concerned, an immediate survey of the educational and  cultural needs of these refugees.
(111) stimulate donor organizations to contribute  towards meeting these needs and, to this end, provide  information and take such other action as is necessary.  (iv) extend the scope of Unesco’s emergency aid  programme to include educational and cultural assis-  tance to these refugees.  The resolution was seconded by the delegate of  IRAQ.  The delegate of DENMARK asked, for his infor-  mation, what Unesco had done in 1948, and what  provision was being made in 1949, for cultural  and educational assistance to refugees.  Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head of the Department of  Reconstruction) explained that the Mexico City  Conference resolutions had required Unesco to  encourage Member States and Organizations inter-  ested to contribute to the relief of refugees  throughout the world. Unesco had also been in
287  touch with the newly-formed International Re-  fugee Organization, which had promised to supply  Unesco with details of the priority needs of  refugees in different parts of the world. The  latest information from Paris indicated that the  Finance Committee of the United Nations had  approved a recommendation to allocate the sum  of $5,000,000 for the relief of Palestinian refugees.  A further allocation would probably be made later.  The delegate of INDIA had much pleasure in  supporting the Australian resolution, but felt that  the resolution originally submitted would be more  effective. Paragraph (ii) of the second resolution  required a survey to be made, and the Indian  delegate felt that the situation required a more  urgent solution. Immediate assistance should be  given to enable the refugee students to continue  their education.  The delegate of ITALY supported the resolution  and said that, although he had heard some dele-  gations express reservations because Unesco’s  resources were extremely limited, his delegation  sincerely hoped that any difficulties of that nature  would be overcome.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM said  that his delegation was sympathetic to the reso-  lution submitted, but did not feel sure that it  should be included as part of the Programme for
1949. Special importance had been laid by the  Executive Board on the fact that the Programme  for 1949 was designed on a long-term basis, and  he felt that it would be contrary to that policy  to introduce resolutions regarding short-term,  limited activities. Would it not be possible  simply to instruct the Secretariat that special atten-  tion should be given to the problem of refugees  in the Middle East in 1948 and 1949? As Unesco’s  resources were limited, almost all financial assis-  tance would necessarily have to come from various  voluntary organizations.  The CHAIRMAN asked if the Australian dele-  gation would be prepared to accept a modification  on the lines of the following :  The Director-General is instructed to take urgent  action during 1948 and 1949 to assist refugees who  have been driven from their homes by military  operations in the Middle East...  The delegate of AUSTRALIA felt, however, that  in view of the present form of the Unesco pro-  gramme, each item should be specifically men-  tioned in order that action might be taken. There  was no place in the Programme for general  instructions to the Secretariat.         rs     The delegates of TURKEY and of the UNITED  STATES of AMERICA both warmly supported the  resolution and urged the necessity for Unesco to  do immediately all it could within its limited  resources.  The resolution, as proposed by Australia and  seconded by Iraq, was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then asked the meeting to  decide, not on the actual amendments to the Pro-  gramme, which would have to be drafted and  circulated to delegates, but on the question  whether, as a matter of principle, any amendment  should in fact be made to the Programme.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA moved that doc-  ument 3C/5 should be amended to give effect to  the resolution just adopted by the Sub-Com-  mission.  The motion was seconded by the delegate of  INDIA.  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM re-  marked that a great point of principle was involved  in the decision. He referred again to the fact  that the programme for 1949 was basically “long-  term”; and pointed out that it had never been  the practice to refer to any individual country in  drawing up Unesco’s programme for recon-  struction and relief. He felt that the Secretariat  could and would implement the resolution under  discussion in the course of its normal work and  within the terms of the existing instructions  regarding aid to war-devastated countries.  The CHAIRMAN asked the Director-General for  his opinion on the question of inserting short-  term items in the programme.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed in principle  with both points made by the United Kingdom  delegate. He felt it would be unwise to mention  aid to any one specific country, as all other mem-  ber nations would then request that their own  reconstruction and relief problems should also be  specifically mentioned. It was for the Executive  Board and its Reconstruction Committee to decide  priorities, etc. The Director-General felt, in fact,  that the Australian resolution was not necessary,  since the Department of Reconstruction, under  directives already contained in the programme,  could carry out all the measures requested. No  further instructions were necessary.  The delegate of BRAZIL supported the resolution  and sympathized with the desire of the Australian  delegation to ensure that action would be taken  on it; but he also felt that the Executive Board,  which would be responsible for implementing the  resolution, would not require it to be made a  special item of the programme. The necessary  action would be taken by the Executive Board and  the Director-General as rapidly as possible without  any modification in the programme.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA pointed out that,  whereas Chapter II of the Budget was concerned  with long-term projects, Chapter I was not. The  principle involved was that the Organization spe-  cified in the programme every item upon which  it proposed to take action during the year. More-  over, in the reconstruction resolutions as they  stood there was no provision for assisting refugees  who were not actually in war-devastated countries.  Neither the Executive Board nor the Director-  General could, therefore, take action, under the  existing programme directives, to assist refugees  who were not in a war-devastated country.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that he  had assumed that the expression ‘“war-devastated”  countries did cover the Middle-East area at the  moment. He was afraid that the inclusion in the  programme of a resolution dealing with refugees  would lead to long delays while complicated dis-  cussions were held with the United Nations and  the International Refugee Organization. Also he  wished to avoid any confusion involving the  question of displaced persons in Germany.  It was agreed that a decision would be postponed  until the next meeting of the Sub-Commission, to  allow the Director-General to submit a full state-  ment of the position of the Organization and its  functions in areas other than those devastated by  war; it would then be possible to determine  whether any addition to the programme would be  necessary in order to implement the resolution  under discussion.  The CHAIRMAN indicated that the original reso-  lution might be transmitted to the plenary  meeting, with an indication that a more detailed  resolution might be submitted later.  Resolution submitted by the United Kingdom  delegation (document 3C/PRG/1.6).  The delegate of the UNITED KINGDOM presen-  ted the resolution submitted by his delegation,  which felt that the time was not very far distant  when the Organization should pass from recon-  struction to construction activities. The tran-  sition would undoubtedly take some time to  accomplish and it was therefore suggested that  consideration should be given in 1949 to the
288                       methods by which that transition could be made.  Whereas current reconstruction activities were  confined to war-devastated countries, the final aim  should be to carry out “constructive development  of education, science and culture, in areas in  which such development is appropriate.”  That resolution, seconded by the delegates of  the UNITED STATES of AMERICA and AUSTRA-  LIA, was adopted.  Resolution submitted by the French delega-  tion.  The delegate of FRANCE explained that, in his  resolution, the question was considered from a  point of view somewhat different from that of the  United Kingdom. The resolution read as follows :  The General Conference.  considering the destruction of so many schools and  universities by acts of war; the increase in the birth-  rate, already reflected in a substantially larger number  of schoolchildren,  considering the obligation to provide children and  young people with the education to which they are  entitled and the training for which they are suited;  and  considering that it is of vital interest to nations to  ensure this education and training,  recommends to the governments of countries con-  THIRD  Thursday. 25 November 1948. : /  Mr. B. Chairman:  Consideration of the report of the drafting  sub-committee on the revision of resolu-  tions 1.1 to 1.4 (document 3C/PRG/1.8).  On the proposal of the delegate of the UNITED  STATES of AMERICA, seconded by the delegate  of SYRIA, the report was adopted.  Action necessitated by the resolution sub-  mitted by the Australian delegation (docu-  ment 3C/12).  The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Secretary  of the Official and External Relations Commission  fronted with these problems, both because of the  accumulated destruction of the war and because of  the increase in the birth-rate and the urgency of  needs, that prior consideration be given to the build-  ing and equipment of schools and universities, kinder-  gartens, primary, secondary and technical schools,  institutions of higher educalion and “‘cités universi-  taires”.  I'he delegate of France pointed out that the  proposal was merely a recommendation to be made  to the governments of Member States, and would  require no financial aid from Unesco.  The resolution was seconded by the delegate  of BRAZIL, who pointed out that it was comple-  mentary to that of the United Kingdom delegation.  The CHAIRMAN felt that the resolution required  the addition of the words “‘‘and instructs the  Director-General to communicate this resolution  to all Member States”.  That addition was adopted.  After discussion, it was agreed to add to the  last phrase the words “to stimulate action in these  fields”.  The resolution, as amended, was adopted.  The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m.  MEETING
289  al 10.15 a.m.  B. THOMAS (United Kingdom)  regarding the Australian resolution adopted the  previous day by the Sub-Commission. In that  letter, the Official and External Relations Com-  mission agreed that the matter should be dis-  cussed at a subsequent meeting, when Unesco’s  relations with the United Nations would be consi-  dered. The Chairman therefore proposed to refer  the matter to the Official and External Relations  Commission.  The proposal was seconded by the delegates of  the UNION of SOUTH AFRICA and the UNITED  STATES of AMERICA.  The delegate of AUSTRALIA was against