JOINT SUB-COMMISSION ON CULTURAL QUESTIONS  AND NATURAL SCIENCES  FIRST MEETING  Friday, 26 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Election of the Chairman and Rapporteur.  Professor Paul Rivet (France) and Dr. Joseph  Needham (United Kingdom) were elected Chair-  man and Rapporteur respectively.  Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind  (document 3C/PRG/}.}).  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on docu-  ment 3C/PRG/4.4 and the draft resolution sub-  mitted by the United States delegation (document
3C/80) recommending that such a history should  include a volume on the history of the contri-  bution of labour to the advancement of civilization.  Dr. MANSOUR (Egypt) was prepared to support  the proposal in document 3C/PRG/4.4., but was  not sure that the project was of direct concern  to Unesco. Was it not rather a matter for  universities and publishers? Had the project  been compared with other projects? He was not  clear how far Unesco would accept responsibility  for the contents of the history. It was essential  that the final work should be reviewed by all the  countries concerned before publication.  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom), as the only  member present of the consultative Committee  on the subject called by the Director-General  in October 1948 (see page 1 of document
3C/PRG/4.4.), briefly explained the method of  work proposed. An international Foundation  with a Board of Directors would be established,  and one or two of its members would prepare  the main draft. The Board would be assisted by  three groups : (a) a “Comité d'Honneur” com-  posed of “elder statesmen” in the world of  science and culture : (b) a committee of younger  consultants; (c) a few research fellows.  To finance the Foundation it was hoped that  Unesco would be able to interest some of the  well-known private organizations and large
337  Professor Paul RIVET (France)  publishing firms. The actual financial contribution  of Unesco would be small—the sum of $5,000  was proposed in the Budget Estimates for 1949.  Dr. Needham, on behalf of the United Kingdom  delegation, supported the proposal. He, per-  sonally, also welcomed the resolution submitted  by the United States delegate.  Dr. PELLISSIER (Union of South Africa)  pointed out that comprehensive works generally  only reached Universities and libraries. He  considered that the work should be made available  in several languages so that ordinary people  throughout the world could profit by it.  Dr. HASAN (Observer for Pakistan) expressed  great interest in the proposal, but felt that if  would be extremely difficult for one author to  maintain an equilibrium between the many  cultures of the world, and was afraid that some  aspect might easily be either over-emphasized. or  ignored. He also wondered who would be  entrusted with the preparation of the popular  version. He felt that near-unanimity on the lines  to be followed should be reached by the committee  of scholars entrusted with the work and suggested  that the work should be confined to one large  volume.  Mr. NOYES (United States of America) sup-  ported the remarks of the delegates of Egypt,  South Africa and Pakistan. At a time when the  Organization’s budget was limited and the Secre-  tariat was already overburdened by a large pro-  gramme, the United States delegation could not  support the initiation of a large-scale project of  that type, and felt that Unesco was not the most  appropriate organization to undertake such work.  M. RABATH (Lebanon) considered the proposal  was of fundamental importance for Unesco’s  aims, but it should be completely comprehensive,  including every aspect of science and culture,  throughout the world, in the history of Man.  There were, for instance, many obscure and   almost unknown cultures in the Arabic and  Islamic areas, Africa and Latin America, which  would require careful research.  M. SANDBO (Norway) thought that the idea  was good, but asked if the first step should not  be to make a survey of what had been written  and was being written on the subject. In any  case, his delegation doubted whether such a  project should be undertaken by Unesco.  Professor FANTAPIE (Italy) was greatly inter-  ested by the proposal, but felt that, if a vague and  fragmentary work was to be avoided, some basic  principles should first be fixed. Once those fun-  damental principles had been established, 1t  would be relatively easy to add the details. The  rôle of spiritual values and of pure science should  be stressed. With reference to the remarks made  by the delegate of Norway, Professor Fantapie  pointed out that a research circle had already  held five hundred weekly meetings in Rome and  would be happy to put the information it had  collected at the disposal of Unesco.  Professor CHEN Chang (China) was fully  aware of the importance of the proposal but wished  to make the following observations :
1. he agreed with the delegates of the United  States of America and Egypt with regard to the  limitations of Unesco’s budget, and considered  that the money involved might be used more  directly to benefit Natural Sciences;
92. since the work contemplated was to be a  History of Mankind, the number of volumes would  have to be proportionate to the age of the civili-  zation of the different nations;
3. provision should be made for translation  of the completed work into all important  languages.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) felt that the project  itself was monumental. Although he did not  agree that it should be abandoned solely because  of the difficulties it entailed, it did not appear  to be the best and quickest means of pro-  moting Unesco’s aims—in particular, the ideal  of peace through international understanding.  Men would begin to understand each other only  when they knew each other, and he felt that  Unesco should undertake rather the diffusion of  knowledge of the different cultures of the world  in order to promote international understanding  among the ordinary people. He suggested that  National Commissions should be asked to supply  material concerning the aims and desires of their  respective peoples for diffusion in other countries,
338  and emphasized that the real danger lay in  ignorance below the University level.  In reply to the delegates of South Africa and  Australia, Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom)  pointed out that, in paragraph 1 (b) on page 2 of  document 3C/PRG/4.4, it was proposed to produce  popular versions of the work.  Dr. ESTABLIER (Observer for the International  Council of Scientific Unions) pointed out that the  existence of the International Union for the  History of Science, which was affiliated to the  International Council of Scientific Unions, should  be taken into account in any plans for carrying  out the project.  M. RABATH (Lebanon) suggested the following  order of procedure :
1. a comprehensive survey of past and present  activities in the field (as suggested by the Nor-  wegian delegate);
2. a clear definition of the ultimate aim of  the project (as suggested by the Italian delegate);
3. a request to all National Commissions to  undertake to provide material from their respective  countries;
4. the provision and choice of expert advisers,  consultants and research workers;
5. the preparation of the document and sub-  mission of the final text to National Commissions.  Mr. DESROCHERS (Canada) was of the opinion  that, in the opening stages, Unesco should limit  its activities to making a complete bibliography  of all existing volumes on the subject.  M. FLORKIN (Belgium) felt that the project  was one of the most important to be undertaken  bv Unesco. He felt that the five specialists who  had already held discussions and the experts who  would be entrusted with carrying out the work,  would already be familiar with all written  material on the subject; a bibliography was,  therefore, not necessary. The history could be  the point of departure of a new concept in the  teaching of science.  Mr. PARTON (New Zealand) felt there should  be a very critical examination of such long-term  projects by the Sub-Commission and the General  Conference before a decision was taken. He also  felt that is was quite possible that neither Unesco  nor the world was entirely ready for such a work.  He strongly endorsed the remarks of the delegate  of the United States of America.  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) felt that he          might be able to clear up several misunder-  standings which apparently existed. The proposals  made by the Norwegian and Canadian delegates  with regard to the establishment of bibliographies  were extremely interesting, but Dr. Needham felt  that bibliographies, considered realistically, were  not of very great value when addressed to the  public. Many of the famous works on the cultural  and scientific history of mankind which should  be included in such a bibliography were out of  print and unobtainable or inaccessible.  Dr. Needham felt that the New Zealand and  Lebanese delegates were under a misapprehension  with regard to the authority under which the  book was to be issued. The object of establishing  a separate and independent Foundation would be  to relieve Unesco of that responsibility. With  regard to the doubts expressed concerning the  budgetary provision to be made, Dr. Needham  thought that, if the large private foundations  could not be persuaded to grant funds, Unesco  would probably be unable to carry the work  through to its conclusion.  Dr. Needham, on behalf of the United King-  dom delegation, then proposed the following  resolution :  The joint meeting of the Sub-Commissions on  Cultural Questions and on Natural Sciences, while  conscious of the great difficulties of the task proposed,  gives its general approval to programme resolution 5.7  on the project for a Scientific and Cultural History of  Mankind, and to the work plan and budget related  thereto (i.e. such parts of appropriation line III, 5, E  as may be necessary for carrying out the activities  forecast in document 3C/PRG/4.4); adding however  the following recommendations :
1. that, in order to do justice to the spiritual and  technological contributions of Asian, Islamic, African  and Amerindian peoples, a small group of eminent  scholars, versed in the several great cultural traditions  of the world, should be associated extremely closely  with the author of the principal text;
2. that the text should include an account of the  contribution of labour to the advancement of civiliza-  tion.  M. SANDBO (Norway) then proposed the  following amendment to resolution 5.7 (document
3C/5, page 79) :
1. Replace in the first and second lines  ‘to continue preparations for the production of  books which will provide...” by : ‘to publish  bibliographical notes on selected books and series  of books which provide...".
2. Insert a full stop after “common heritage”,  and delete the remainder of the paragraph.  Husni Bey FAREEZ (Observer for Transjordan)  did not agree that the proposed work should be  presented on the university level. He felt that  the real need was for material to serve schools  and children. He thought that poetry could be  shown to have had an influence comparable to  that of science on the history of mankind.  Mr. LELAND (United States of America),  speaking also as an observer for the International  Committee on Historical Sciences, associated  himself with the remarks made earlier by the  observer for the International Council of Scientific  Unions. He felt also that, although Unesco did  not intend to assume the actual responsibility for  producing the work, moral responsibility for the  project would always rest with the Organization.  In 1946, the General Conference had decided that  one of the criteria for the adoption of projects  should be practicability. The United States  delegation did not feel that such an encyclopaedic  undertaking was practical at the moment, and  considered that it would be extremely difficult  to secure adequate funds for a project without any  visible end.  M. PERRIN (France) felt that it was of vital  importance for Unesco to contribute to original  collective works. He felt that it was quite  essential that the project should be adopted, but  suggested that only a small portion of the immense  work (which should eventually include religion,  arts, and letters) should be selected for initial  study; a beginning could be made with the  history of labour, technology, and science.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.           SECOND MEETING  Friday, 26 November 1948, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Professor Paul RIVET (France)  Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind  (document 8C/PRG/4.4) (continuation).  Dr. MANSOUR (Egypt) thought it was perhaps  too much to condemn the idea behind the project  which had been discussed at such length that  morning. In view of everything that had been  said, he submitted the following compromise  resolution, neither approving the programme  resolution, nor abandoning it altogether in favour  of bibliographies, as had been suggested by the  Norwegian delegation :  The Joint Meeting of the Sub-Commissions on Natural  Sciences and on Cultural Questions, after full discus-  sion of programme resolution 4.7, recommends that  it be amended to read :  ‘The Director-General is instructed to continue the  study of the project for the production of books which  will provide, for general and specialist readers, u  wide understanding of the scientific and cultural  aspects of the history of mankind, of the mutual  interdependence of peoples and cultures, and of their  contributions to the common heritage; and, after  consultation with the relevant existing international  non-governmental organizations and with institutes  in the different countries, to submit a report on the  project to the next Session of the General Conference.’  And further recommends that such parts of the  budget appropriation (line III, 5. E) as would have  been utilized for the original project, be utilized for  the present purpose.  The CHAIRMAN, speaking from a personal  point of view, considered the project for a  Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind to be  entirely in line with Unesco’s ideals, which  required the Organization to aim at training world  citizens whose mentality was based on a thorough  and objective knowledge of human civilization.  It was interesting to know that the origin of  the propeller was the boomerang, invented by  one of the oldest human tribes, the Australian  aborigines; or that the ancestor of all pistons  was the Malay blowpipe gun. In his last years,  Paul Valéry had been haunted by the realization  that all the history which had been written was  imperfect and incomplete; it had been written by  eminent historians, but they had been influenced  by their national outlook. What was needed was  a history of human civilization written by men  with the mentality of world citizens, who would  not disfigure history, nor colour it with national  prejudices. Many people thought of the Middle  Ages as dark, yet they had been particularly fruit-  ful in beneficial inventions : for example, the  magnetic compass by the Chinese, and the stern-  post rudder; those two inventions had enabled  men to conquer the seas and had led to the  discovery of America. The American Indian  peoples had given to mankind the potato, the  ground-nut, maize, rubber, quinine, cocoa and  tobacco; Unesco should make known how those  discoveries had been made.  The Chairman therefore asked delegates to  keep the original project, and not to fear the  greatness of the subject. He urged that no time  should be lost before starting work, and that no  money should be wasted on the preparation of  bibliographies, as that was a task which had  already been carried out. Unesco should find a  world team to collaborate in the project, which  would contribue greatly to human solidarity.  M. FEBVRE (France) supported the Chairman's  remarks, and disagreed with the delegate of the  United States of America that insufficient fun-  damental data existed to allow a start to be made.  In spite of unfavourable circumstances during the  past ten to fifteen years, enough progress had  been made to enable a general history of mankind  to be written, showing how all parts of the world,  all civilizations, all fractions of humanity had  made their contributions to the common heritage;  there had been perpetual exchanges and bor-  rowings, and it had been said that even cases of  the refusal of a contribution were instructive.  Migrations of ideas and tools were not confined  to any one period; the world had never ceased  to enrich itself. In Beirut, there could be seen  an infinite variety of plants which had existed  there for a comparatively short time only : for  example, the eucalyptus. Nothing belonged to  one people alone. Truth could not be expected  to emerge with a capital T; it was realized that  there were gaps, but those should be examined  and filled. Quite enough material existed to  demonstrate the unity of scientific and cultural  development.  With regard to the financial aspect of the  project, it would not be necessary to provide for  any very large sum; a number of members  present were ready to work on the project without  fee, and he could provide a list of fifteen to