THIRD MEETING  Tuesday, 30 November 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman : Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom)  Nominations for the members of the Budget  Sub-Commission.  The SECRETARY read the resolution author-  izing the Nominations Committee to nominate  members of the Budget Sub-Commission, which  had been adopted by the General Conference at  its third plenary meeting (document 3C/BUR/]  (rev.), page 4). (***)  After ascertaining members’ views, the CHAIR-  MAN suggested twelve candidates, who seemed to  him to ensure fair geographical distribution. Sir  Ronald Adam (United Kingdom) had already been  proposed by the Committee for the Chairmanship,  and his nomination had been approved by the  General Conference. For the Vice-Chairmanship,  Professor Luigi Fantapie (Italy) had likewise been  proposed by the Committee and approved by the  General Conference; the Committee might pro-  pose Dr. Matta Akrawi (Iraq) as second Vice-  Chairman. The Rapporteur, Mr. W. J. Weeden  (Australia), had already been put forward by the  Committee and appointed by the General Confer-  ence. The other members of the Budget Sub-  Commission would be Dr. King Chu (China),  Dr. Guillermo Nannetti (Colombia), Mr. Luther  H. Evans (United States of America), M. Roger  Seydoux (France), Mr. P. N. Kirpal (India),  Dr. Francisco del Rio y Canedo (Mexico), Dr. F.  Bender (Netherlands) and M. F. H. Sur (Turkey).  The Chairman’s proposal was adopted.  Nomination for the successor to Professor  Pierre Auger, resigned from the Executive  Board.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that  Professor Pierre Auger had resigned from the  Executive Board early in 1948, and that, in  accordance with Article V, paragraph 4, of the  Constitution, the Executive Board had appointed  a substitute, M. Roger Seydoux, to serve until the  current session of the General Conference. The  Nominations Committee had to propose a candi-
(143) See verbatim record of the third plenary  meeting, pp. 46 and 47.
441  date for the rest of Professor Auger s term of  office, which expired in 1949.  M. BIDAULT (France) suggested that the Com-  mittee should propose that M. Roger Seydoux  should be re-elected to the post, which he had  held with great distinction since Professor Augers  resignation.  After a number of tributes to M. Seydoux,  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) moved his  election by acclamation.  The proposal was supported by M. DORE (Ca-  nada), Fuad Bey HAMZI (Saudi Arabia) and  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), and adopted.  Nominations for the election of six members  of the Executive Board to replace those  whose terms of office expired in 1948.  The provisions of the Constitution and the Rules  of Procedure governing the election of members  of the Executive Board were read.  The CHAIRMAN then mentioned the names of  the members of the Board whose term of office  was to end in 1949; they were : Professor Car-  neiro (Brazil), M. Guntekin (Turkey), Dr. Parra-  Perez (Venezuela), Professor Sommerfelt (Nor-  way), Mr. Stoddard (United States of America)  and, if the General Conference confirmed the  choice just made by the Committee, M. Roger  Seydoux (France). The members of the Board  whose term of office would run out in 1950 were :  Dr. Arnold (Poland), Dr. Carrion (Ecuador),  Professor Chen Yuan (China), Dr. Martinez-Baez  (Mexico), Sir John Maud (United Kingdom) and  Dr. Walker (Australia).  The Chairman drew attention to the provisions  of Article V.A.2 of the Constitution and Rule 88  of the Rules of Procedure. To facilitate appli-  cation of that Rule, he suggested that only ballot  papers bearing six names should be considered  valid.  Adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then listed the six members of  the Executive Board whose term of office expired       in 1948; they were : M. Victor Doré (Canada),  Shafik Bey Ghorbal (Egypt), Dr. Jan Opocensky  (Czechoslovakia), Professor Alexandre Photiades  (Greece), Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan (India)  and Professor Louis Verniers (Belgium). He  added that, as Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mittee, he had received the following communi-  cations :
1. Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and the In-  dian delegation had proposed M. Victor Doré;
2. The delegation of India had proposed Sir  Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan;
3. Dr. Adolf Hoffmeister (Czechoslovakia)  had been proposed in a cable from the Czecho-  slovak delegate to Unesco and, since the General  Conference had decided, (***) that morning, to  accept the cable as furnishing provisional cre-  dentials for the Czechoslovak delegation at the  Third Session of the General Conference, the  Chairman suggested that the proposal should be  accepted, if it was seconded by one of the dele-  gations present at the Conference (an absent dele-  cation could neither submit a proposal nor vote);
4. M. Edmond Ferenczi, the Hungarian dele-  gate to Unesco, had requested, on behalf of his  Government, that M. Georges Alexits (Hungary)  should be considered as a candidate, in spite of  the fact that no member of the Hungarian dele-  gation was present at the current session of the  General Conference. The Chairman considered  that that proposal could not be accepted, as  Article V.A.1 of the Constitution specified that  members of the Executive Board had to be elected  “from among the delegates appointed by the  Member States”.  Dr. WALKER (Australia) reminded the meeting  that the Procedure Committee had confirmed, the  previous day, that nominations for election to the  Executive Board could be submitted by any dele-  gation. He therefore supported the nominations  of the Indian delegation (M. Victor Doré and Sir  Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan) and moved the re-  election of Shafik Bey Ghorbal, Professor Photiades  and Professor Verniers. In doing so, he had in  mind the continuity essential for the Organization  at a time when a new Director-General had been  appointed, as well as the fact that the term of the  members of the Board who were to be replaced  that day had not lasted the normal three years;  if they were re-elected, the five members just  mentioned would continue to render the Organi-  zation invaluable service. He added that his  reason for not proposing the re-election of the
(144) See verbatim record of the eleventh plenary  meeting, p. 134.
442  sixth retiring member was that Dr. Opocensky  had just sent him a letter explaining that, in order  to avoid any misunderstanding regarding his own  position, he would like it to be known that,  although he was happy to serve Unesco in any way  within his power, he did not desire to be consi-  dered a candidate for re-election to the Board on  that occasion.  Dr. SASSEN (Netherlands) seconded the nomi-  nation of Professor Verniers.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) consi-  dered that it was not in order for a nomination to  be made by letter, but he himself was only too  glad to move the re-election of M. Victor Doré  and Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. Though he  realized the necessity for a certain continuity,  Mr. Allen thought it desirable to make some  changes in the Executive Board. He was, there-  fore, in favour of the election of two new members  among the six members to be elected each year  and, for that year, he proposed Count Stefano  Jacini (Italy) and M. Charles Malek (Lebanon).  Dr. HOSSAIN (India) seconded M. Victor Doré  and Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan.  Professor VERNIERS (Belgium), considering  Unesco’s interests alone, suggested the appoint-  ment of Dr. Hoffmeister (Czechoslovakia).  Dr. del RIO y CANEDO (Mexico) favoured the  suggestion of the delegate of the United States of  America regarding the necessity of introducing  fresh blood into the Organization; he therefore  supported the nomination of Count Stefano Jacini  (Italy) and suggested Mr. A. A. Roberts (Union of  South Africa) and Dr. Ernesto Dihigo (Cuba) as  candidates.  M. ABOUKHATER (Lebanon) thanked the  United States delegate for having proposed  M. Charles Malek, but the latter would not be able  to accept the appointment. He proposed Shafik  Bey Ghorbal and Count Stefano Jacini as candi-  dates.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) with-  drew his proposal of M. Charles Malek.  M. BIDAULT (France) fully appreciated both  the necessity of ensuring a certain continuity and  the advisability of making changes. After paying  tribute to the outgoing members of the Executive  Board, he thanked the delegate of Belgium for  having so wisely ensured that the nomination of  Dr. Hoffmeister (Czechoslovakia) was presented  in due form. He further stressed the special     —  + — —   TT  — —   VP    —
5   —   €  —   a   A   E n   o m —   M c ;   it A 1  qualifications of Count Stefano Jacini (Italy), who  was a historian and essayist, as well as a cou-  rageous citizen in the difficult days through which  his country had passed.  Dr. HOSSAIN (India) supported the nomination  of Shafik Bey Ghorbal (Egypt).  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America), though  he thought it wise to have brought up the nomi-  nation of Dr. Hoffmeister again at the meeting,  wondered whether the nomination was constitu-  tional, seeing that the Czechoslovakia delegation  had so far submitted only provisional credentials  and that it had no intention of attending the Gen-  eral Conference that year.  The CHAIRMAN stated that, in his opinion, il  was best to adopt the procedure advocated by the  General Conference that morning and to assume  that the provisional credentials, accepted by the  General Conference, would later be confirmed. If  no such confirmation were received by the end of  the Conference, the question would then have to  be examined by both the Nominations Committee  and the Credentials Committee in conjunction  with the General Conference.  Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) observed that  Czechoslovakia was a Member of Unesco and that  it was of little importance whether its delegation  was present or not at the General Conference.  The CHAIRMAN moved that no further nomi-  nations should be admitted.  Adopted.  FOURTH     The CHAIRMAN that there ascertained  nothing to prevent the candidates proposed from  attending the meetings of the Executive Board.  was  Dr. MOLINARI (Argentina), supported by  Dr. del RIO y CANEDO (Mexico), asked for the  meeting to be adjourned for five minutes to enable  delegates to consult with their colleagues.  The meeting adjourned for five minutes.  On resumption, the CHAIRMAN drew attention  to the provisions of Article V.A.2 of the Con-  stitution and the necessity of voting for persons  instead of countries.  The delegates of Brazil and China were appointed  tellers.  The vote was taken by roll-call and secret ballot.  The results were as follows :  Shafik Bey Ghorbal : thirty votes;  Professor Verniers : thirty votes;  Count Stefano Jacini : twenty-six votes;  Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan : twenty-six votes;  M. Victor Doré : twenty-four votes;  Professor Photiades : twenty-four votes.  The above six persons would be submitted to  the General Conference as candidates for the six  vacancies on the Executive Board which were to  be filled that year.  The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.  MEETING  Thursday, 9 December 1948, at 3.15 p.m.  Chairman: Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom)  Nomination for the successor to Dr. Benja-  min Carrion, resigned from the Executive  Board.  The CHAIRMAN explained that a meeting of  the Nominations Committee had been made  necessary by the receipt of a cable from Dr. Ben-  jamin Carrion of Ecuador, who had been elected  to the Executive Board by the Mexico City Confer-  ence. The cable was received on 6 December 1948
443  and reported to the General Conference two days  later. It ran as follows :  “Being unable to attend meetings of the Exe-  cutive Board, I hand in to Conference my  resignation from the seat to which 1 was elected  at Mexico.”  The Chairman read the Article of the Consti-  tution (Article V, paragraph 4) governing elec-  tions to the Board in case of the death or resigna-  tion of one of its members, and added that, since