M. GUEHENNO (France) could see no reason  why, with a permanent Secretariat, expenses  should be any higher if a more extensive survey  was carried out within the limits suggested by  the French delegation. Apart from that, he was  agreeable to the emphasis being laid on the means  of meeting technical needs, and to the incor-  poration in his text of the amendment proposed  by the United States of America. However, the  French delegation would still ask for a vote on  their proposal.  M. TECER (Turkey) seconded that request.  In reply, Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United  States of America) said that her delegation con-  sidered that the adoption of the French sug-  gestions would result in increased expenditure;  they would prefer to see the appropriations  available used to implement the findings of the  surveys already concluded.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) also fav-  oured that view. A proportion of the appro-  FOURTH  Chairman:  Consideration of a draft Agreement for  facilitating the international circulation of  visual and auditory materials of an edu-  cational, scientific and cultural character  (document 3C/9 and Addenda 1 and 2).  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) said that the text  prepared by the drafting committee (document
3C/9, Add. 2) differed only in minor particulars  from the original draft. He stressed the fact  that Article III, paragraph 1, made provision for  the waiving not only of all customs duties and  quota restrictions of any description, but also of  requirements for import licences in respect of the  permanent or temporary import of material  produced in the territory of any signatory State.  Article IV, paragraph 4 (certification), laid it  down that certificates should be given by exporting  countries and accepted by importing countries.  Article IV, paragraph 5, provided that the  priations might be used to implement the findings  of the surveys; but that did not prevent the exten-  sion of the surveys to countries where they had  not yet been made.  Accordingly, M. GUEHENNO (France) asked  that a vote should be taken on the first paragraph  of his proposal as amended by the United States  of America, namely :  The Director-General is instructed :  To take all practical steps to implement the findings  of surveys which have been completed;  To continue the enquiry initiated by the Commis-  sion on Technical Needs in Mass Communication by  surveys of other countries and to publish the reports  prepared by the Secretariat, after approval by the  Commission;  To co-ordinate the work of the Field Survey Teams  with the activities of the Projects Division.  Adopted.  The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.  MEETING  Friday, 8 December 1948, at 10.45 a.m.
306  Mrs. Kamala Devi CHATTOPADHYAYA (India)  authorities of the signatory State into which  material was to be imported could give their  approval on condition that the material was to  be exhibited or used solely for non-profit-making  purposes.  Mr. McKNIGHT (United States of America)  said his delegation wished to move four amend-  ments :
1. Paragraph (c) of Article II : to strike out  the words “exhibition displays”;
2. Paragraph 1 of Article III : after the words  “quantitative restrictions” the addition of the  words “made necessary by considerations of  national security and public morality”;
3. Paragraph 5 of Article IV : to be amended  in the following form : “In taking their decision  the authorities of a signatory State shall be entitled  to require from the purchasers of such material       agreement to certain stipulations designed to  ensure that the said material shall only be  displayed or used for non-commercial ends”;
5. Paragraph 1 of Article XII : the number  of acceptances needed, originally fixed at five,  and increased to ten by the drafting committee,  to be reduced to seven, in accordance with a wish  already expressed by the United States delegation.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) said that he would  support the first three amendments recommended  by the American delegation, but would abstain  from voting on the fourth.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) took the view that the  addition of the words “made necessary by consi-  derations of national security and public morality”  was unnecessary in Article III, as such provision  was already included in Article V; secondly, the  term ‘‘purchasers” struck him as unsuitable, as  films were often hired or lent.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought that the  words proposed by the delegate of the United  States could properly be added to Article V and  the term ‘‘purchasers” could be altered to  J  “exhibitors of such films” or ‘film dealers”.  Mr. McKNIGHT (United States of America)  suggested that the word “importers” should be  substituted for “purchasers”.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) concurred.  Baron Van Der BRUGGEN (Belgium) proposed  that the words “of an educational, scientific or  cultural character” should be omitted from  paragraph 1 of Article III, and that in paragraph 2  of the same Article, the words “other than  customs duties”, should be added after ‘charges  or exactions”. Lastly, he pointed out that in the  French text there was no paragraph 6 in Article 1V  and he wondered whether such a paragraph  should not be added.  ~~ Mr. FARR (Secretariat) thought that no useful  purpose would be served by adding anything.  Baron Van Der BRUGGEN (Belgium) said he  would not insist on the last point; he would like  to know, however, whether the Secretariat would  agree to clarifying the text in accordance with  the first two amendments he had proposed.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) said that, as regarded  the first amendment, Article I defined what  should be understood by material of an edu-  cational, scientific or cultural nature, while  Article IV gave detailed directions for the method
307  of certification. In the circumstances, it seemed  pointless to repeat the words in several different  Articles. As regarded the second point, paragraph 2  of Article III had been copied word for word  from a similar document of the League of Nations  and thus, from the legal angle it was  irreproachable.  M. GUEHENNO (France) thought the textual  amendments suggested by the French delegation  should be made in the draft document, par-  ticularly in Articles I and IV, to stress that the  agreement was indeed for educational purposes  and that any idea of business or commerce was  excluded from it.  The first paragraph of Article I would be better  expressed as follows :  The present agreement shall apply to visual and  auditory materials of the types specified in Article Il  which are of an educational, scientific or cultural  character, provided they are to be used solely for  cultural and not for commercial purposes.  Paragraph (c) should be amended as follows :  When the technical quality is such that it cannot  interfere with the use made of such material.  Lastly, paragraph 5 of Article IV should be  redrafted as follows :  In authorizing imports, the authorities of the  importing State shall be entitled to specify that such  material shall not be exhibited or used save for non-  commercial ends.  Professor VERONESI (Italy) supported the  French proposal for the amendment of para-  graph 1 of Article I. He could not express an  opinion about the second amendment without the  prior approval of his Government.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) asked for the Sub-Com-  mission’s views on the first French proposal. He  could well understand that certain countries might  wish to confine the agreement to non-commercial  films. With regard to the amendment proposed  to paragraph 5 of Article IV, it might be read as  authorizing certain States to whittle away the  privileges granted and leaving them complete  liberty of action.  M. GUEHENNO (France) made the point that  all countries were not on an equal footing with  regard to exchanges of documentary films. Some  of the smaller countries could not be prevented  from fearing that they might be absorbed, if only  from the educational point of view, by some more  powerful nation. Thus, it would seen essential  to make it clear that the agreement was entirely          divorced from all considerations of commerce;  that was its only chance of succeeding. Once  that was clear, if later any Member States decided  to propose terms for a film admitted duty free,  to allow it to be shown commercially, that would  be a separate agreement. The proposed rule was  designed to remove all grounds for suspicion.  Mr. McKNIGHT (United States of America)  fully appreciated the reservations made by his  French colleague as regarded the application of  the agreement. However, he appealed for great  generosity from those in a position to help in  putting into circulation available educational  material. He reminded the meeting that the  members of the drafting committee had agreed  on the suggested text and, although the members  of his own delegation had hesitated to accept  it as it then stood, he had done his best to meet the  wishes of the other members of the Committee;  the suggested text for paragraph 4 of Article IV  had been submitted by the United Kingdom,  seconded by Belgium and adopted by the drafting  committee.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) supported the  remarks of the United States delegation.  M. GUEHENNO (France) wished to make it  clear that all he sought to do was to protect the  interests of poor countries. with nothing to give.  The French motion was put to the vote and  rejected.  The amendment submitted by the Belgian  delegation, to omit the words “of an educational,  scientific or cultural character” from paragraph 1  of Article III was seconded by the United States  delegation and adopted.  Mr. McKNIGHT (United States of America), on  behalf of his delegation and his country’s National  Commission, asked that the draft agreement  should be submitted for approval to the Third  Session of the General Conference. A draft agree-  ment, drawn up in 1946, had been signed by a  certain number of States; if the text of that  agreement were approved at the current Session  of the General Conference, other States might  ratify it.
308  M. PILE (United Kingdom) appreciated the  procedural difficulties involved in the submission  of the document to the General Conference. To  take one instance only, the British delegation had  not had adequate time to make contact with tech-  nical experts in the United Kingdom. As there  was no rule in force on that particular matter,  Mr. Pile suggested that the General Conference  then in session should be asked to draw up a text.  It would require approval by a majority of two-  thirds of the members present and voting. If  approved, it should be submitted to all Member  States to allow them to forward their comments  before 1 April 1949. If it were not ratified by  seven or ten States before 1 April, it would have  to be referred back to the Secretariat and the same  process would have to be gone through thereafter.  Mr. McKNIGHT (United States of America)  thought it would be more practicable for the Sub-  Commission to refer a draft agreement to the  General Conference, leaving that body to decide  whether or not the agreement could come into  force in the current year.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought the  question was too delicate to be dealt with at a  plenary meeting.  Mr. McKNIGHT (United States of America)  accordingly agreed that a suggestion should be  made to the General Conference regarding the  procedure to be followed in the submission of  agreements for adoption by Member States.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) remarked that the Sub-  Commission had adopted a draft agreement which  would be submitted to the General Conference;  that body would decide on the subsequent  procedure.  Mr. McKNIGHT (United States of America)  suggested that not only should the text be sub-  mitted to the General Conference, but that the  Conference should be asked to adopt a speedy  procedure for bringing the agreement into force.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.