ELEVENTH MEETING  Thursday, 9 December 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: M. Marcel FLORKIN (Belgium)  Report of the Drafting Committee of the  Programme and Budget Commission (con-  tinuation).  Chapter 2. Education.  Monseigneur MAROUN (Lebanon) considered  that the Programme showed a great improvement  over the 1948 Programme, both in form and in  substance. Certain gaps, however, remained,  which called for the following observations from  his delegation. Resolution 2.3 (Improvement of  Textbooks and Teaching Materials) had been  under consideration since the Paris Conference  and yet it appeared that nothing had so far been  done; it was to be hoped that the Director-General  would collect information on textbooks through-  out the world as soon as possible, with a view to  their improvement With regard to resolution
2.424 (Regional Study Conferences), he hoped  that Unesco would take the initiative and help  Member States to organize Regional Conferences,  as he feared that the various countries would not  do it by themselves. As far as resolution 2.52 was  concerned (Teachers’ Charter and Educational  Charter for Youth), Monseigneur Maroun thought  that Unesco should covene a meeting of experts  to study the question and prepare a draft Charter  for submission to the 1949 Conference. The dele-  cate of Lebanon explained that his remarks were  intended as observations only, and not as amend-  ments.  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) drew  the attention of the delegate of Lebanon to pages
80 and 81 of document 3C/6, which showed the  measures which the Director-General had taken,  or intended to take, to implement the Conference's  resolutions on education.  Monseigneur MAROUN (Lebanon) was satisfied  with that explanation.  As there were no other observations, Chapter 2  (Education) was adopted.  Chapter 3. Natural Sciences.  Adopted.  Chapter 4. Social Sciences (Resolutions 4.1 to
4.5).  Adopted.  Chapter 5. Philosophy and Humanistic Studies  (Resolutions 4.6 to 4.12).  Adopted.  Chapter 6. Cultural Activities.  The CHAIRMAN called upon the Rapporteur  who had an amendment to submit.  Mr. HOLLAND (United States of America)  (Rapporteur of the Commission) referring to doc-  ument 3C/98 Addendum (Text suggested as a  possible substitute for resolutions 5.22 to 5.2213)  moved that it should be amended as follows :
(1) resolution 5.221 should be deleted, adding  the words “To that end he shall” to the end  of resolution 5.22;
(2) resolution 5.2211 would therefore become
(3) resolution 5.2212 would become 5.222;
(4) a new resolution 5.223 should be inserted  to read :  Make arrangements with Member States of one or  several regions for the translation and publication  of selected classics and contemporary works.
(5) resolution 5.2213 would then become 5.224.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  seconded the Rapporteur’s motion.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) objected to the  words “in accordance with an improved plan” in  the resolution regarding the Index Translatio-  num. The resolution, which would be read by  the public in Member States, would not be ac-  companied by the plan in question and the words  would therefore only create confusion in the  public mind.
2176       Mr. HOLLAND (United States of America)  (Rapporteur) agreed to withdraw the words to  which the United Kingdom delegate had objected.  With the amendment proposed by the Rappor-  teur, Chapter 6 was adopted.  Chapter 7. Communication.  Adopted.  Chapter 8. Miscellaneous Resolutions.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  presented a resolution concerning the partici-  pation of young people in Unesco’s work (doc-  ument 3C/100).  The United States resolution was adopted. (3?)  The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  approve document 3C/98 as amended and im-  proved at the two meetings of the Programme and  Budget Commission held that day.  Adopted.  After thanking members of the Commission for  their part in its work, the CHAIRMAN closed the  meeting.  The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m.  REPORT OF THE BUDGET SUB-COMMISSION  TO THE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  The Budget Sub-Commission held fourteen  meetings, as shown in the Calendar of Meetings  on pages 20 and 21. With the exception of the  first and the last three, the meetings held were  private and therefore no summary records are  published.  At the conclusion of its work the Sub-Commis-  sion submitted the Report printed below to the  eighth meeting of the Programme and Budget  Commission.  The Annexes to this Report, being the Appro-  priation Resolution for 1949 and the Appropriation  Table, are given in their final form, as approved  at the nineteenth plenary meeting of the Confer-  ence, in Volume II (Resolutions), Section IX, II,  pages 39 to 43.     The Budget Sub-Commission held its first meet-  ing on the morning of 1 December. Sir Ronald  Adam (United Kingdom) was elected Chairman:  Dr. Akrawi (Iraq) and Professor Fantapie (Italy)  Vice-Chairmen, and Mr. Weeden (Australia) Rap-  porteur.  The Chairman stated the terms of reference  of the Sub-Commission as set forth in document
3C/BUR/1, paragraph I.2.A.3.(b) and in the reso-  lution of the eighth plenary meeting of the Gen-  eral Conference :  (a) that the Budget Sub-Commission be in-  structed to submit to the Conference a budget  for 1949 not in excess of 88,000 000.  (b) that the Budget Sub-Commission be re-  quested, in its review of the Budget for 1949, to  make every effort to make economies within that  total figure which would bring the final total  presented to the Conference to an even lower  figure than $8,000,000.
271  The Sub-Commission held fourteen meetings,  extending over more than forty-five hours. It  considered the Budget Estimates, the form of the  Budget, and the draft Appropriation Resolution  and Appropriation Table.
1. Budget Estimates.  The Sub-Commission had before it the Budget  Estimates submitted by the Director-General (doc-  ument 3C/6) with amendments presented by him  (document 3C/6 Amendments). These estimates  and amendments totalled $8,205,224. The Sub-  Commission also had before it some twenty reso-  lutions introduced by various delegations, referred
(39) In final form : Volume II, Section IX, Part I,  Chapter 8, resolution 8.2, p. 34.