The CHAIRMAN stated that that was certainly  the case.  At the request of M. VERA (Argentina), the  CHAIRMAN put to the vote the question of the  competence of the Procedure Committee.  With one abstention (Mexico), the Committee  decided that it was competent.  The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote an affir-  mative answer to the question :  “Can a member of the Executive Board, whose  term of office has come to an end, be re-elected.  even if he is not a member of the delegation of his  country attending the Conference where the  election takes place?”  The results of the vote were as follows : eight  THIRD  Chairman:  Consideration of the draft Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference.  The CHAIRMAN announced that a number of  amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference (document 3C/PRO/1)  had already been put forward by different dele-  gations; they were embodied in document
3C/PRO/7 and would be considered together  with the Rules to which they referred.  Section I. Sessions.  The CHAIRMAN moved that those amendments  whose effect would be to modify the Constitution,  should be considered separately. They were :  I. an amendment to Rule 1, paragraph 1,  suggested by the delegation of India. The matter  would be considered by the General Conference,  but the General Committee had stated that it  would like the Procedure Committee to have an  informal exchange of views on the question, at  least if there were enough time;
2. an amendment to Rule 2, paragraph 1,  put forward by the delegation of Canada;
3. the Director-General’s proposal regarding  Rule 6, paragraph 5.     twelve votes 1n favour; seven votes  abstentions; seventeen absent.  against;  In view of the importance of the question,  Dr. del RIO Y CANEDO (Mexico) hoped that a  new vote would be taken when fewer delegations  were absent.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the Rapporteur  would report to the General Committee on the  whole of the Committee's discussion and that,  in any case, the vote just taken was by no means  a decision regarding the possibility of re-electing  a member of the Executive Board who no longer  belonged to his country's delegation.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  MEETING  Tuesday, 30 November 1948, at 11.25 a.m.
4  w  J 3  Dr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark)  Amendments (2), (3), (4), (6), (7) and (8),  mostly drafting amendments, submitted by the  delegation of Canada and contained in document
3C/PRO/7, Annex II, were adopted without  discussion.  The Committee wished to know whether the  Secretariat considered that Amendment (5), relat-  ing to Rule 6, paragraph 1, and providing for  notification, ninety days in advance, of the place  and date of an ordinary session of the General  Conference, was applicable.  M. MONTAGNIER (Head of the Bureau of Con-  ference Planning) replied that that procedure had  so far been followed.  The whole section was adopted, subject to later  consideration of the three amendments mentioned  above.  Section II. Agenda.  Ordinary Sessions (Rules 9 to 14 inclusive).  In connexion with the Canadian delegation’s  amendment to paragraph (1) of Rule 9 (doc-  ument 3C/PRO/7, Annex Il (9)), Mr. PILE  (United Kingdom) considered that, in the light     of the experience of the first two Conferences, the  deadline suggested would be too remote to be  applicable by the Secretariat. He would prefer  the Committee to agree to a later deadline which  would be strictly observed.  Arising out of that, Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand)  and Mr. THERON (Union of South Africa) empha-  sized how difficult it was, owing to the distance  of their countries from Unesco headquarters, for  them to receive working papers in good time.  They would therefore like it to be agreed that the  time-limit for replies should be calculated from  the date of receipt and not of despatch of the  documents in question.  The CHAIRMAN agreed with that view, stres-  sing that his delegation had been faced with  similar difficulties. He therefore advised the dele-  gate of New Zealand to discuss the question with  the Secretariat and to submit a written proposal  to the Committee, if he thought fit.  Rules 9 to 13 were then adopted, on the under-  standing that Rule 9 would be amended in accor-  dance with the Canadian proposal and that the  delegation of New Zealand would be free to sub-  mit a detailed proposal regarding the despatch of  documents.  Rule 14 (Amendments, deletions and additional  items) was the subject of several amendments  suggested by the delegations of Denmark (doc-  ument 3C/PRO/7, Annex I), Canada (Annex II,
(10) and (11)), France (Annex III) and the  United States of America (Annex VI.1).  At the CHAIRMAN’S suggestion, a Sub-Com-  mittee, consisting of Mr. Ribble (United States of  America), Mr. Desrochers (Canada), M. Ladreit  de Lacharriére (France) and Mme Saunte (Den-  mark), was set up to combine the various pro-  posals in a single text to be submitted later to the  Procedure Committee.  Extraordinary Sessions (Rules 15 to 18 inclusive).  As the above Rules had not given rise to any  comment, the whole of Section II was adopted,  subject to the reservations set out above.  Section III. Delegations.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) wished consider-  ation to be given to the question of the powers  to be granted to a delegation which, though  nominated according to the regulations, was nol  actually present at a session of the General Confer-     ence. In his opinion, such a delegation should  be allowed certain rights, when its absence was  involuntary and it had shown an obvious intention  to attend the General Conference.  Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) agreed.  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France) did  not think that the matter could be discussed and  settled forthwith. In any case, he considered it  impossible to adopt, as a criterion, the intention  shown by the delegation; he would prefer a  clearer criterion, such as physical presence, to be  adopted; and would like to consult his delegation  on the matter.  The CHAIRMAN agreed to let the question  stand over until delegations could give their opi-  nion on the important matter of “active partici-  pation”.  With that reservation, the whole of section III  was adopted.  Section IV. Credentials.  The CHAIRMAN recalled that Rule 22, para-  graph 1, had been the subject of a letter from  the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to the  President of the General Conference (cf. doc-  ument 3C/PRG/7, Annex VII), and asked if the  proposals contained in the letter were seconded  by any of the delegations.  M. LANATA (Peru) was prepared to move the  proposal formally.  Dr. FARAG (Egypt) was prepared to second the  proposal, subject to the substitution of the words  “Head of a Diplomatic Mission” for “Minister Ple-  nipotentiary”.  The CHAIRMAN called upon Mr. Cowell of the  United Kingdom delegation, who was also a  member of the Credentials Committee, to explain  the Committee's intentions in the proposed  amendment.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that  various delegations, particularly that of the  United Kingdom, had experienced much difficulty  in submitting credentials in due form, that 1s,  bearing the signature of the Head of the State or  the Minister of Foreign affairs. Such being the  case, it had seemed desirable to be able to  increase the number of possible signatories.  The British delegation, in making its proposal              Se  re  re  de  th  m  Mi  of  of  re:  Ir  C1I  Lic  rej  wl  an  en  tal  an  ne  be  pr  en  an  the  en                           to the Credentials Committee, had in mind  only the Minister of Education who, in the  United Kingdom, was responsible for relations  with Unesco. However, the Department dealing  with Unesco varied with each Member State, and  the Credentials Committee had therefore decided  upon a more general form of words. Further-  more, the object of including the representative  (whatever his title might be) of the Government  of the Member State in the country where the  Conference was being held, was to allow certain  anomalies to be rectified on the spot, without  requiring delegations to refer irregular credentials  to their Governments.  After a technical discussion, during which  M. LADREIT de LACHARRIERE (France) and  Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) described  th methods used in their respective countries for  preparing credentials, the CHAIRMAN asked  Mr. Cowell to re-word the draft amendment for  further discussion at a subsequent meeting.  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  FOURTH MEETING  Wednesday, 1 December 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark)  Consideration of the draft Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference (document
3C/PRO/1) (continuation).  Section IV. Credentials (continuation).  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) submitted a  re-drafted amendment, embodying the conclusions  reached in the discussion of Rule 22, as follows :  I. The credentials of delegates and alternate  delegates must be authenticated in writing either by  the Head of the State, by the Head of the Govern-  ment, by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the  Minister of Education, or by one of their colleagues  of full Ministerial rank in charge of that Department  of the Government of the Member State chiefly  responsible for the relations between that Govern-  ment and Unesco.
2. The General Conference may, in exceptional  circumstances, accept provisionally credentials authen-  licated in writing by the Minister Plenipotentiary  representing the Member State in the country in  which the Conference is held. Member States  and others admitted to participate in the Confer-  ence by means of such provisional credentials shall  take steps immediately to provide proper credentials,  and the Director-General shall present a report at the  next Session recording the action taken by such Mem-  ber States in order to conform with this Rule.
3. Delegations present at the General Conference,  provided with properly authenticated credentials, shall  enjoy voting rights, rights of nomination for office  and other benefits enjoyed by Member States and  their representatives composing the General Confer-  ence,
4. These rights and benefits cannot be secured by  the mere presentation of credentials in the absence of  a delegation which refuses to attend the Conference,  notwithstanding the fact that those credentials would  have been recognized as valid, had the delegation been  present.  Paragraphs (5) and (6) were to read as para-  graphs (2) and (3) of Rule 22 in document
3C/PRO/1.  Paragraph (3) and (4) of the amendment were  based on the observations made in the Confer-  ence, following the report on the credentials of  the Czechoslovak delegation.  The amendment embodied in the first two para-  graphs made it clear that any member of the  Government could sign credentials, but did not  increase the number of issuing authorities.  M. SEYDOUX (France) was anxious that there  should be a written agreement on the subject of  credentials, so that they should commit the  signatory States. Credentials issued over the  signature of the Minister Plenipotentiary in the  country in which the Conference was held, for  instance, should be regarded as full credentials  only in exceptional cases and provisionally.  Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) pointed  out that Unesco might be compelled, in important  cases, to Investigate the administrative status of  the Minister Plenipotentiary concerned.  The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegate of the  United Kingdom for preparing the new Rule 22,