SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE OF THE  CONFERENCE  FIRST MEETING  Thursday, 18 November 1948 at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Organization of the work of the Session  (document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.)).  The CHAIRMAN asked the Secretariat to present  the plan for the organization of the work of the  Session (document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.)).  M. MONTAGNIER (Secretariat) drew the atten-  tion of the meeting to the Executive Board's  recommendation that three principal Commissions  should be established by the Conference : a Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission, an Admini-  strative Commission, and an Official and External  Relations Commission. He referred to the doc-  uments which would be studied by the Programme  and Budget Commission, and to the Sub-Com-  missions, including a Budget Sub-Commission,  which the Executive Board had recommended  should be set up. As the plenary meeting of the  Conference had completed its work on 17 No-  vember more quickly than had been expected, it  had proved possible to advance the first meeting  of the Programme and Budget Commission  from 19 November to 18 November. The Director-  General's Report to the Conference, and the  comments of the Executive Board upon it, would  be discussed in plenary meeting the following day.  Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) put  forward a proposal with regard to the plenary  meeting scheduled for the morning of 26 No-  vember, which was to take a decision upon item
14 of the Agenda—the appointment of the new  Director-General (see document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.)
1.1.). As the work of the Conference was likely  to suffer until that election had taken place, owing  to the preoccupation of delegates with the  question, he suggested that consideration of that  item of the Agenda should be put forward to
215  The CHAIRMAN stated that he had intended  to suggest that the General Committee should hold  a private meeting to consider the matter at the  close of the discussion on general questions.  The proposal was accepted by the meeting.  Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) read an amend-  ment to item III. B. (b) of document 3C/BUR/1  (rev.). Considering that delegations would find  it difficult to observe the deadline of 21 November  for submitting resolutions involving modification  of the programme and budget, he suggested a  change of date to 23 November. That would give  delegates an opportunity of submitting resolutions,  if they wished, after they had heard the Report  of the Director-General to the Conference and the  comments of the Executive Board upon it.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) agreed with the proposal.  In answer to a comment from Mr. ALLEN  (United States of America) that, if any such final  date were adopted, it would preclude the possi-  bility of including suggestions arising out of  discussions in the programme at a later stage, the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that it was  impossible to envisage complicating the machinery  of the Conference further by permitting later  addition to the programme of totally new projects.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) pointed out that the paragraph in question  referred only to ‘a substantial modification of  the programme or budget”, so that it did not  exclude the possibility of a certain amount of  adaptation in the broad sections of the programme.  It merely aimed at avoiding the adoption of  entirely new projects without allowing time to  consider their budgetary implications. It would     L l   k T   w   = "   “ g l   C F   a s   E T   i  T =   a   I N E   T e   FT   E N   L B   ym   ie  SS   Si   gm  NI   NES  d  :  L a   I E   -  mm
4   i  h  §       be for the Chairmen of the Programme and Budget  Commission and its Sub-Commissions, and, in the  last resort, the General Committee, to determine  whether a particular proposal constituted a “sub-  stantial modification” or not.  Professor Carneiro’s proposal to substitute  “23 November” for “21 November” in paragraph  III. B. (b) of document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.) was  adopted.  In answer to a question from Mr. HARDMAN  (United Kingdom), it was made clear that the  plenary meetings scheduled for 18, 19 and 20 No-  vember would consider the Director-General's Re-  port and the comments of the Executive Board  upon it.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) informed the meeting that the comments  of the Executive Board were to be submitted in  the form of a written document, which would  be distributed within twenty-four hours.  Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) drew the atten-  tion of the meeting to the last words of paragraph  III, B. (a) of document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.) which,  in his view, restricted even further the possibility  of submitting amendments and proposals, but the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL and Dr. WALKER (Chair-  man of the Executive Board) pointed out that  the paragraph referred only to answers from Go-  vernments to the request, circulated to them by  the Executive Board in September 1948, to submit  new proposals or amendments.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) sought  an assurance that meetings of the various Sub-  Commissions of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission would not overlap, as otherwise it would  be impossible for small delegations to cover the  necessary meetings.  The DIRECTOR GENERAL assured him that no  more than two meetings of Sub-Commissions  would be held concurrently.  Document 3C/BUR/1 (rev.) was approved, with  the substitution of “23 November” for “21 No-  vember” in paragraph III. B. (b).  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America), how-  ever, had certain further comments to make.  Firstly, there were three questions which he  thought could be adequately considered only by  the three main Commissions of the Conference in  joint meeting : the maintenance by Unesco of a  World Centre for the Exchange of Information;  the development of Unesco’s Publications Pro-  gramme for 1949; and the development of its  Public Information activities. Secondly, he wished  to make some observations on item 15 of the
216     Conference Agenda (date and place of the Fourth  and Fifth Sessions of the General Conference).  Thirdly, he wished to be sure that the Report,  as adopted, provided for adequate consideration  of the international Agreement for facilitating the  circulation of visual and auditory materials of an  educational, scientific and cultural character.  Lastly, he wished to propose an expansion of the  third paragraph of section 1.2. A. 5.2. in doc-  ument 3C/BUR/1 (rev.) by the addition of the  words :  to place such new projects as are approved and such  amendments of existing programme statements as are  made, in appropriate parts of the programme and to  revise the introduction to the programme.  At the suggestion of the DIRECTOR-GENERAL,  it was agreed that discussion of those points should  be deferred till a later meeting of the General  Committee, and that such changes should be made  in the organization of work of the Conference  as might appear desirable in the light of that  discussion.  Work of the Programme Sub-Commissions.  Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) read to the meet-  ing the text of a recommendation, submitted by  the Secretariat, concerning work in the Sub-Com-  missions of the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion. After discussion, the text was adopted with  one amendment (indicated in italics) to read as  follows :  Each Sub-Commission of the Programme and Bud-  get Commission (other than the Budget Sub-Com-  mission) shall give priority to the consideration of  such proposed resolutions of the programme (docu-  ment 3C/5) as are submitted to it by the General  Conference under document 3C/2 (rev.) or otherwise,  or by the Programme and Budget Commission or its  Chairman after consultation with the officers of that  Commission. It shall take into account the relevant  working paper, the relevant work plan and budget  submitted by the Director-General (document 3C/6),  and the discussions of the session.  It shall report back to the Programme and Budget  Commission its recommendations for the adoption,  modification or elimination of the proposed resolution.  Times of meetings of the Conference and the  General Committee.  On the proposal of the CHAIRMAN, it was  decided that plenary meetings of the Conference  should begin at 10.30 a.m. and 3.45 p.m.,  punctually, and meetings of the General Com-  mittee at 9.30 a.m.  The meeting continued in secret at 10.45 a.m.