general terms and thereafter deal with it item by  item.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  the Chairman and pointed out that delegates had  not had time, in the ten days it had been  available, to digest a document representing ten  months’ work by the Secretariat. He therefore  proposed that its discussion should be postponed.  Dr. FARAG (Egypt) asked the Chairman  whether the consideration of the question could  be entrusted to the Procedure Committee, of  which he was himself a member.  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the subject  was not included in the agenda of the Procedure  Committee and that, in any case, that Committee  was not in a position to discuss it. He proposed  that document 3C/OXR/4 should be submitted to  Member States with a request for their remarks  before 15 June 1949, so that the Executive Board  could consider the matter at its July session before  submitting it to the Fourth Session of the General  Conference.  Adopted.  SECOND  Item 4 (d) of the Agenda Reports to  Member States on Conferences and Meet-  ings held on education, science and culture,  whether sponsored by Unesco or not.  Mr. INSKIP (Union of South Africa) asserted  that his country felt strongly that a number of  conferences had been held unknown to it; it had  no information regarding their results. South  Africa would like to know the date, subject and  results of conferences, and the names of those  attending.  The CHAIRMAN referred the matter for consi-  deration to the special committee which was lo  examine clearing-house activities (exchange and  documentation).  Dr. KINANY (Syria) remarked that the question  was to some extent related to the recommen-  dations to, and undertakings by, Member States to  keep their fellow-members informed of the confer-  ences or meetings they convened on matters  affecting Unesco.  The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m. ) Ÿ  Chairman: Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) gave  notice that her delegation would be submitting a  motion on the problem of Unesco’s relations with  the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies  when items 8 and 9 of the Agenda (document
3C/OXR/1 (rev.)) were discussed. She raised a  number of points which her delegation did not  consider had been adequately covered by the doc-  umentation placed before the General Conference  by the Secretariat, and on which they sought  further information.  M. de BLONAY (Head of the Bureau of External  Relations) pointed out that much of the infor-  mation desired by the United States delegation  could be found scattered through the Director-  General’s Report, or, more concisely, in the  Report addressed by Unesco to the Economic and  Social Council; he promised to attempt to answer  co   C u   all the questions raised by the delegate of the  United States when items 8 and 9 of the Agenda  came under discussion.  Item 4 (b) of the Agenda Future policy  concerning Reports by Member States  (document 3C/OXR/3) (continuation).  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) submitted the  draft resolution drawn up by the drafting com-  mittee to take the place of that contained in doc-  ument 3C/OXR/3. He pointed out that the prin-  cipal difference between the new draft and the  original was that the Executive Board's approval  of proposals regarding the nature of the Reports  to be submitted by Member States was no longer  required. The drafting committee had considered  that the Conference itself should make final deci-  sions on that point.        M. de BLONAY (Head of the Bureau of External  Relations) proposed that it should be specified,  in paragraphs III and IV of the resolution, that  the Director-General should communicate with  Member States within two months after the ter-  mination of each session of the Conference, and  that Member States should submit their Reports  not later than three months before the opening  of each session.  Although she did not wish to make any formal  resolution, Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of  America) wished it to be recorded in the minutes  that it was desirable for the Director-General to  communicate with Member States within a period  shorter than two months if possible.  The draft resolution was adopted (°°).  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commission  should discuss item 10 of the Agenda, which had  been considered at the meeting of the Joint Pro-  gramme and Official and External Relations Com-  mission, held on the previous day.  Relations with non-governmental interna-  tional organizations.  Item 10 (b) (iii) Review of organizations  approved for consultative status, and  co-operation with Advisory Committees  during 1948 (document 3C/OXR/15, and  addendum).  I. Consultative Arrangements.  M. de BLONAY (Head of the Bureau of External  Relations) suggested that the proposal submitted  by the United States delegation on the previous  day regarding Unesco’s future relations with non-  governmental international organizations (doc-  ument 3C/79), should be considered under item
10 (b) (lii) and (iv).  He outlined the procedure followed by Unesco  in concluding consultative arrangements with  international non-governmental organizations or  in granting assistance, whether in the form of  grants-in-aid or contractual services. Under the  procedure laid down in directives approved by  the Second Session of the General Conference, any  request for the conclusion of consultative arrange-  ments was scrutinized first by the Secretariat it-  self, secondly by the Executive Board's Committee  on Relations with Non-Governmental Organi-  zations, thirdly by the full Board, fourthly by  Member States (to whom the request was sub-
(93) In final form Volume II, Section Xl,  Annex Ill (a), p. 61.
308  mitted for comment) and, finally, by the Board,  on receipt of Member States’ recommendations. It  was also laid down in directives, passed by the  Second Session of the General Conference, that  the Secretariat should submit, for comment, to  each session of the Conference a list—such as that  contained in document 3C/OXR/15—of the or-  ganizations with which consultative arrangements  had been concluded during the past year.     Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) expressed his  disapproval of the resolution, submitted by the  delegate of the United States of America on the  previous day, for the creation of a new expert  committee of five members, whose task it would  be to advise Unesco on any request for the con-  clusion of consultative arrangements with non-  governmental organizations. Mr. Cowell pre-  ferred that existing machinery should be streng-  thened to ensure that all organs concerned fulfilled  the tasks assigned to them satisfactorily. In his  view, the Secretariat had hitherto allowed  Member States insufficient time for the consi-  deration of proposals put before them.  M. SEYDOUX (France) also opposed the United  States resolution, pointing out that it was con-  trary to the general feeling of the current Confer-  ence in favour of a simplification, rather than a  further complication, of Unesco’s administrative  machinery. If Unesco had committed errors in  the past, it should be remembered that the Or-  ganization was still young, and had not yet per-  fected its methods. A strengthening of the present  methods of procedure was, however, desirable.  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) was pre-  pared to withdraw that part of the resolution which  referred to the setting up of a separate committee.  The general purpose of the resolution had been to  ensure that the character of the non-governmental  organizations admitted to consultative or contrac-  tual status with Unesco was thoroughly studied,  that the criteria adopted in the granting of con-  tracts and grants-in-aid were revised from time to  time in the light of experience, and that a critical,  objective examination was made of the uses to  which Unesco’s grants were put. While the  delegation was convinced of the dependability of  the International Council of Scientific Unions and  its affiliated Unions, they were not sure that all  other organizations, professing to be international  in scope, were of the type with which Unesco  could profitably enter into relations. In any case,  they would welcome a report on what ICSU had  achieved with the grants made by Unesco.  Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) informed the dele-  gate of the United States that a report om the                        activities of ICSU and its affiliated Unions had  been made to Unesco.  With regard to grants-in-aid, M. de BLONAY  (Head of the Bureau of External Relations) pointed  out that the total figure for allocation was fixed  by the General Conference, while the details of  each separate contract and grant-in-aid were sub-  mitted to the Executive Board for consideration.  Grants-in-aid were made only to organizations  which had entered into formal agreements with  Unesco. At the moment, only four organizations  had entered into such agreements : the Inter-  national Council of Scientific Unions, the Inter-  national Studies Conference, the International  Council of Museums and the World Federation of  United Nations Associations. Only a few of the  sixty-nine organizations listed in document
3C/OXR/15, Annex 1, had received direct finan-  cial help.  In reply to a question from Dr. KRUYT (Ne-  therlands), M. de BLONAY informed the meeting  that, while forty-four Member States had been  approached in connexion with consultative arrange-  ments to be made with non-governmental or-  ganizations in 1948, only twelve replies had been  received.  In answer to a query from Dr. FARAG (Egypt),  M. de BLONAY replied that details of all grants-  in-aid allocated to, and contracts made with non-  governmental organizations during 1948 could be  found in document 3C/OXR/13-PRG, Annexes Il  to IV.  Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) asked why certain inter-  national associations in Cuba, and the Inter-  national Bar Association, had not been included  in the list of international non-governmental and  semi-governmental organizations, contained in  document 3C/OXR/15, Annex 1.  M. de BLONAY stated that the Executive Board  had decided that the directives governing the con-  clusion of consultative arrangements with inter-  national non-governmental organizations should  not be applied automatically to organizations of a  regional character. However, the Board was pre-  pared, in certain conditions, to extend those di-  rectives to regional organizations, and if the draft  resolutions of the Board, contained in document  JC/OXR/16, were accepted by the General Confer-  ence, regional organizations might in future figure  on the list. The name of the International Bar  Association had not been included in the list, as  negotiations with that body were still in progress.  Dr. ESTABLIER (Observer for the International  Council of Scientific Unions) informed the  meeting that a report on the activities of ICSU  and its affiliated Unions could be found in doc-  ument Unesco/NS/64.  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) consi-  dered that the Conference should be provided with  yearly reports of the kind contained in document  Unesco/NS/64.  Mr. INSKIP (Union of South Africa) proposed  that, when consultative status with Unesco was  sought by an organization, that organization  should be asked to submit a report on the way in  which it considered that its work furthered the  aims of Unesco.  The CHAIRMAN welcomed that suggestion as a  possible way of stimulating the interest of inter-  national non-governmental organizations in  Unesco. He proposed the adoption of the draft  resolution, on page 2 of document 3C/OXR/15,  under item I (Consultative Arrangements).  Dr. FARAG (Egypt) objected to the inclusion  of the World Jewish Congress in the list of inter-  national non-governmental and semi-govern-  mental organizations approved for consultative  status by the Executive Board, on the ground that  the objects of that organization were purely  political.  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) stated  that, though the United States delegation was pre-  pared to withdraw its proposal for a separate  committee, it still wished its resolution to stand  in an amended form.  It was agreed that a drafting committee, con-  sisting of the delegates of Egypt, France, the  Union of South Africa, the United Kingdom and  the United States of America, should re-draft the  resolution contained in document 3C/OXR/15 to  incorporate the substance of the amended United  States resolution.  II. Advisory Committees.  The CHAIRMAN moved the adoption of the draft  resolution, on page 2 of document 3C/OXR/15  under item II (Advisory Committees).  The resolution was adopted without amend-  ment (°4).
(4) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VIII (b) (iv), p. 76.
359        Fi  iT   I  p e o   Lh   we   Ji ms  T OR   SD  =   =  .  i l   Eo   »  =  i  »  Pa  =   a   A   E a   RUN   m C   a  o S   Beas t  SC
3C/OXR/16).  Future Policy (document  M. de BLONAY outlined briefly the purposes  behind the proposed amendments contained in  Annex I to document 3C/OXR/16.  The CHAIRMAN moved the adoption of the draft  resolution on page 2 of document 3C/OXR/16.  While prepared to accept the proposed reso-  lution, Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America)  wanted it to be put on record that the regulations  embodied in the Directive should be subject to  change in the light of experience.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) also wished it  to be put on record that the phrase : “In excep-  tional circumstances” in paragraph 2 (Benefi-  ciaries) under “C. Criteria for the conclusion of  contracts”, on page 15 of Annex I to document
3C/OXR/16, should be given the fullest signi-  ficance.  Subject to those two provisos, the draft reso-  lution was adopted without amendment. (°°)  Item 10 (b) (ii) Review of the formal  agreements concluded with the Inter-  national Council of Museums (ICOM), the  International Council of Scientific Unions  (ICSU), the International Studies Conier-  ence (ISC) and the World Federation of  United Nations Associations (WFUNA)-  (document 38C/OXR/14 and Addendum).  The draft resolution relating to the International  Council of Scientific Unions (Section A of doc-  ument 3C/OXR/14, p. 2) was adopted without  amendment. (°°)  The CHAIRMAN moved the adoption of the  draft resolution concerning the International Stu-  dies Conference (Section B of document 3C/  OXR/14, p. 3).  M. de BLONAY pointed out that it had been  thought desirable to terminate the existing agree-  ment with the ISC (which had been concluded in  the winter of 1946-47), in order to conclude a
(95) In final form :  Annex VIII, (b) (v), p. 76.
(96) In final form : Volume II, Section Xl,  Annex VIII, (b) (ii) 2, p. 75.  Volume II, Section XI,
360     new agreement in line with the directives adopted  by the Conference since that date.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), M. SEYDOUX  (France), Mr. NELSON (Australia), Mrs. WRIGHT  (United States of America) and Dr. FARAG  (Egypt) feared that the second paragraph of the  resolution might be regarded as a slight upon the  International Studies Conference and sought to  re-word the resolution, omitting that paragraph,  and to ensure that Unesco would continue to act  in collaboration with the ISC.  It was agreed that the Secretariat should re-draft  the resolution for submission on the following  day.  The CHAIRMAN moved the adoption of the  draft resolution relating to the International  Council of Museums (Section C of document
3C/OXR/14, p. 4).  M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) stres-  sed the valuable work which Unesco had already  been able to accomplish through co-operation  with ICOM. In reply to a question from M. SEY-  DOUX (France), he confirmed that the Executive  Board had increased the original grant of $10,000  proposed for ICOM.  On the motion of Mr. INSKIP (Union of South  Africa), seconded by Dr. FARAG (Egypt), the  draft resolution was adopted without amend-  ment. (°7)  The CHAIRMAN moved the adoption of the  draft resolution concerning the World Federation  of United Nations Associations (Section D of doc-  ument 3C/OXR/14, p. 5).  In answer to a question from Mrs. WRIGHT  (United States of America), M. de BLONAY in-  formed the Commission that all that Unesco was  committed to providing for the World Federation  of United Nations Associations was a certain  amount of office space.  The draft resolution was adopted without  amendment. (°%)  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
(7) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VIII, (b) (ii) 1, p. 75.  (°5) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VIII, (b) (ii) 4, p. 75.