|  SECOND MEETING  Thursday, 25 November 1948, at 11 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Later: Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Relations with Germany (document 8C/OXR/
6-PRG and corrigendum).  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) submitted the Executive Board's report on  the methods employed during 1948 to promote  Unesco’s aims in Germany, together with a pro-  posed plan of action to allow the work undertaken  in that field to be continued in 1949. After  recalling that the Board had devoted much time  to the important and delicate question of the re-  education of ex-enemy countries, Dr. Walker drew  attention to the difficulties encountered in defining  the nature of the surveys and experiments which  Unesco should undertake in Germany. He then  submitted the draft resolutions contained in doc-  ument 3C/OXR/6-PRG (pages 14 to 19), and  expressed the hope that, in future, it would not  be necessary to refer to the Executive Board any  questions relating to Germany, as the aim of the  proposed resolutions was to make the Director-  General, assisted by a small committee of experts,  responsible for that work. He also referred to  the corrigendum to documents 3C/OXR/6-PRG  and 3C/OXR/7-PRG.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that, before consi-  dering the draft resolutions in question, the mem-  bers of the Joint Commission should comment on  the policy adopted in 1948 and the spirit in which  the Secretariat had carried out its work in that  field.  Dr. SASSEN (Netherlands) thought that the  results obtained in 1948 were rather disappointing  and was surprised that the Secretariat had em-  ployed a Netherlands national on the project, with-  out having consulted the Government or the  National Commission of the Netherlands. The  Netherlands delegation would not be able to vote  the appropriations requested unless the Secretariat  gave full assurances that it would contact Scandi-  navian, Swiss and Netherlands organizations,  which had acquired great experience in the field  of cultural aid to Germany.  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) added that his country  had also been concerned with cultural aid to Ger-  many, mostly in collaboration with the British
415  Occupation Authorities. He urged that, in both  Germany and Japan, Unesco should, as soon as  possible, establish personal contacts between the  ex-enemy countries and outside organizations  which were endeavouring to help the small group  of Germans and Japanese who had set themselves  the task of re-educating their compatriots.  M. SEYDOUX (France) stressed the vital im-  portance for Unesco, and for the world, of  deciding how Germany could be included in the  work of the Organization. He himself had partici-  pated in the work of the Executive Board on that  question, and wished to emphasize that its dis-  cussions had been marked by that impartiality  and sustained interest which were essential if any  positive results were to be obtained. The French  delegation, which, without forgetting the past,  viewed the future objectively and in a spirit of  co-operation, recommended the adoption of the  report and draft resolutions submitted by the  Executive Board.  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) said  that the United States delegation supported the  recommendation and hoped that the Director-Gen-  eral, assisted by the small committee of experts,  would be able to extend the proposed programme  and secure the collaboration of the Germans them-  selves, through personal contacts.  The CHAIRMAN explained that the Executive  Board’s report had been submitted to the Joint  Commission for consideration, but that it did not  need to be adopted by the Commission; only the  resolutions contained on pages 14 to 19 would be  put to the vote.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL made a few remarks  on the views that had just been put forward. He  wished to pay tribute to the work of the Executive  Board in formulating the question of relations  with Germany, in accordance with the resolution  adopted by the General Conference in Mexico City;  after completing its long and arduous task, the  Executive Board was, at that meeting, requesting  the Conference to authorize the Director-General  to organize and implement the proposed pro-  gramme of work.           In reply to the Netherlands delegate, the Direc-  tor-General stated that the Netherlands national  referred to had been employed by the Secretariat  without its having had time to consult the Govern-  ment of the Netherlands: in addition, the contract  of the person in question was a short-term one  and expired at the end of 1948.  The Secretariat also realized that it was 1m-  portant to secure the collaboration of Scandi-  navian, Swiss and Netherlands organizations con-  cerned with cultural aid to Germany, and the  Director-General assured the delegates of the  Netherlands and Denmark that the Secretariat  would bear in mind their very interesting sug-  gestion.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that a vote should be  taken on each item of the first draft resolution  (document 3C/OXR/6-PRG, pages 14 to 19).  The first paragraph was adopted, subject to the  addition to the French text of the words “et les  réalisations” after “faire connaitre les buts”.  The second, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs  were adopted.  The sixth paragraph was adopted, subject to a ld]  clearer French translation of the expression ““to  select experts from Germany”.  The whole of the first resolution was then  adopted. (13%)  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the second draft  resolution (document 3C/OXR/6-PRG, page 19).  That draft resolution was adopted. (*>7)  Mr. D. R. HARDMAN then took the Chair in  place of Professor Carneiro, who had to attend a  meeting of the Executive Board.  Relations with Japan (document 3C/OXR/7-  PRG and corrigendum).  Speaking on behalf of the Executive Board, Dr.  WALKER explained that the Organization's work  in Japan had been delayed by the lengthy nego-  tiations and consultations which had been neces-  sary. However, it seemed that there would be  fewer difficulties in Japan than in Germany and  that Unesco would soon be able to start on useful  and constructive work. He submitted document
3C/OXR/T7-PRG.  Mr. W. K. BUNCE (Observer for the Supreme
(136) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex V, (a), Resolution I, p. 63.
(137) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex V, (a), Resolution II, p. 66.
416  Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan)  reported that the Supreme Command of Allied  Powers (SCAP) in Japan was greatly interested in  the contribution which Unesco could make to  wards the re-education of Japan. After drawing  attention to the respective responsibilities of the  Far Eastern Commission, SCAP and the Japanese  authorities, Mr. Bunce gave a general outline of  the situation in Japan resulting from the revolu-  tionary steps taken during the past three years.  He then stressed the interest shown in Unesco’s  work by the Japanese people and Japanese aca-  demic circles. He concluded with the remark  that document 3C/OXR/7-PRG revealed a sound  understanding of the situation in Japan, and that  the proposed resolutions, though they seemed a  little ambitious in relation to the corresponding  budget estimates, would not give rise to objections  on the part of SCAP.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reiterated his grati-  tude to SCAP and its representative for their sup-  port and their approval of his proposals. He  explained that the reason why the proposed pro-  gramme of work seemed ambitious was that the  Executive Board had wished to put forward a  programme identical to that which it had inau-  gurated in Germany; that did not imply that  Unesco should implement the whole programme  straight away.  The CHAIRMAN proposed voting on each separ-  ate item of the first draft resolution (document
3C/OXR/7-PRG, pages 8-13).  The first paragraph was adopted, subject to the  same addition to the French text as in the reso-  lution relating to Germany.  The second, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs  were adopted.  The sixth paragraph was adopted, subject to a  clearer French translation of the expression ‘ to  select experts from Japan”.  The whole of the first resolution was then  adopted. (13%).  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the second  draft resolution (document 3C/OXR/7-PRG, page
14).  That draft resolution was adopted. (**°)  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.
(138) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex V, (b), Resolution I, p. 66.
(139) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex V, (b), Resolution IL, p. 69.           Fl )  s e d   —   ~ ~   r e e d   I A   l a s  À