SUB-COMMISSION ON EDUCATION  FIRST MEETING  Tuesday, 23 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. CHU Shih-Ying (China)  Election of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  On the proposal of the Nominations Committee,  the following were elected :  Chairman Dr. Chu Shih-Ying (China)  Vice-Chairman : Dr. Gabriel Mañalac (Phi-  lippines)  tapporteur : Mr. D. P. Inskip (Union of South  Africa).  Adoption of the provisional Agenda.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) read  out various questions on the provisional agenda  and reminded the meeting that priority should be  given to the questions dealt with in the working  documents, each of which referred to a particular  | point in the Unesco programme. The Sub-Com-  mission was, however, free to suggest any alter-  ations which it might consider desirable and  those would be examined in due course.  M. ABRAHAM (France) stated that his dele-  gation had submitted a draft resolution on the  subject of seminars.  It was decided that the resolution should be  considered during the discussion on item 4.  The provisional Agenda (document 3C/PRG/3.5)  was then adopted.  Consideration of clearing-house functions as  the central activity of Unesco in general  education (document 3C/PRG/3.1).  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that, although the problem of education  had been solved at least partially in all the coun:  tries of the world, progress in that domain varied  greatly from one country to another and even in  different regions of the same country. Exchanges  were slow between “strong” and “weak” regions.
309  Unesco should stimulate those exchanges by  playing an active part as “broker”, that is by  mobilizing the resources of the first category in  order to satisfy the needs of the second. Unesco's  role could not be confined to a passive accumu-  lation of documents and information.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that the document  under consideration should be discussed section  by section and paragraph by paragraph. In reply  to an enquiry from Mr. GOULD (United King-  dom), he explained that the document and the  proposals included in it were not binding on the  Director-General. Programme resolutions finally  adopted by the General Conference were the only  resolutions that could be binding.  The Chairman then called upon Dr. Hasan,  representative of Pakistan, who was attending the  meeting as an observer.  Dr. HASAN (Pakistan) enquired : (1) whether  the expression “method of instruction” was appli-  cable solely to educational practice or whether it  also covered the ideological aims of education;
(2) whether Unesco could collect information  concerning methods of financing the education  programme in each country and transmit it to  Member States that needed it, such as Pakistan.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  thought that the problem of limiting Unesco’s  activities in the domain of education might be  partially solved by encouraging the National Com-  missions and the organizations interested in the  various Member States to take as large a part as  possible in its work.  Mr. GOULD (United Kingdom) agreed with that  proposal and thought that it would certainly  heighten the interest taken by all the Member  States in Unesco's activities. He added that the  limitation of Unesco’s programme in the domain  of education would result in increased coherence.   Mr. HOLCROFT (New Zealand) regretted that  the Organization's activities in the domain of  education should be hindered by lack of staff.  He thought that a suggestion should be made to  the Programme and Budget Commission that the  funds allocated to education should be increased  at the expense of other less realistic undertakings.  Professor KABIR (India) did not agree; it  seemed to him difficult to establish degrees of  importance for the various sections of Unesco.  He wished to draw the Sub-Commission's atten-  tion to the two following matters : (1) Unesco's  programme should be sufficiently elastic to be  adaptable to the human and social problems  arising from education in each country; (2) the  financial and social position of teachers was  known to be inadequate and Unesco should launch  a campaign for its improvement.  The CHAIRMAN assured the representative of  India that the Sub-Commission and the Secretariat  would bear in mind his remarks on the first  point. The second point was closely connected  with the draft Teachers’ Charter which was  included on the agenda.  Mr. THERON (Union of South Africa) agreed  with Dr. Stoddard and Mr. Gould in thinking that  Unesco should work not only in close co-operation  with Member States and national organizations,  but should also suggest to the latter that they  should make experiments and organize research  having a bearing on their own needs, thus light-  ening the task of the Secretariat.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) was glad to note that  Unesco’s programme as regarded education was  limited to well-defined activities; he hoped,  however, that the programme would stress to a  greater extent the essential purposes of the Organi-  zation. It was necessary in each country to gain  the co-operation of the Administration, the teach-  ing profession and the public; in fact, however,  the effect of a multiplicity of projects was to  disquiet the Administration and public and to
310  alienate the teaching profession. It should not  be forgotten, moreover, that scientific discoveries  which concerned education could only be assimi-  lated slowly.  At the request of Dr. STODDARD (United States  of America) it was decided to delete from the  second paragraph on page 1 of document
3C/PRG/3.1, the phrase “and may never be much  bigger”.  With that reservation, the Sub-Commission  agreed to the text of sections I and II of the above-  mentioned document.  In Section III, Dr. STODDARD (United States  of America) proposed some amendments to para-  graphs 4 (a) and 4 (b). He thought that it  was not sufficient to ask “the opinion of respon-  sible officials” when missions were sent by Unesco  to various countries; enquiries should also be  made concerning the legislative and financial  conditions which influenced the existing situation,  and the opinion of educational organizations and  members of the teaching profession should also  be taken into account.  During the ensuing discussion, Dr. SALIBA  (Syria) suggested the addition to the activities  provided for in the document under consideration  of an enquiry concerning each country's con-  ception of the aims of education.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) proposed the deletion  of paragraph 4 (c), as it seemed to him that  requests from governments should be spontaneous  and not solicited.  There was no objection to Mr. Little's proposal.  Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that the Secretariat's intention had not  been to force requests for help but merely to  suggest such requests through exhibitions, the  sending of publications, etc.  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.