rate of 263.5 would result in a reduction of the  cost-of-living allowance, at least for the imme-  diate future. He believed there was substantial  agreement that some such cost-of-living allowance  was desirable. The proposed composite exchange-  price index seemed to be reasonable, although  it was disappointing to note that it had  to be based on a rather sketchy price index.  The United States delegation, however, was not  satisfied that the dislocation allowance was based  on wholly justifiable assumptions, or that the  terms on which it was payable were equitable.  He understood that the Fifth Committee of the  General Assembly of the United Nations had  considered the comparable allowance payable to  the United Nations Secretariat, and had expressed  certain doubts about it, recommending that it  should be continued provisionally for one year  pending further study. He proposed that the  Director-General should be instructed to continue  the allowance system on a provisional basis for  one more year, during which time he should  collaborate with the United Nations in its study  of salaries and allowances. He would also suggest  that, pending the outcome of that study, the  Commission should recommend that personnel  holding so-called ‘“‘permanent” contracts should  not be eligible for the dislocation allowance. He  FIFTH  Chairman: Mr. P.  Item 5 of the Agenda : Staff Questions  (continuation).  Item 5 (a) : Salary and allowance system  (document 8C/ADM/8 and supplement) (conti-  nuation).  Mr. FYZEE (India) asked for a clear definition  of the word “flexibility” employed in paragraph I
(3) of document 3C/ADM/8 (page 1) and wanted  to know who would be the judge of its extent.  He enquired whether it was intended that a mem-  ber of the Secretariat should be able to send his  entire salary home and live on his allowances  alone. With regard to the method of selecting  staff, he thought candidates should be recommen-  ded by their governments and appointed by an  suggested, finally, that if the allowance were to  be continued at all after the coming year, it  should be limited to two years and payable only  to persons who, at the time of engagement, resided  outside France. That would make the dislocation  allowance more comparable with its counterpart  in the United Nations. In any case, Mr. Zook  considered the dislocation allowance was too  high; one of the greatest criticisms made by the  United States in relation to the whole Unesco  programme was that the salary and allowances  system was altogether too liberal.  Mr. CRAWFORD (Canada), Mr. CAIRNS (New  Zealand), Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) and  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), agreed gen-  erally with the statement of the delegate of the  United States of America.  M. HAIDAR (Lebanon) suggested that, in  view of the criticisms which had been made, a  Sub-Committee should be formed to review the  allowance scheme with a view to decreasing the  allowances, and should report to the Commission  not later than Thursday, 25 November.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  MEETING  Tuesday, 23 November 19468, at 3 p.m.  N.
385  BANERJEE (India)  ad hoc international commission. He disagreed  that short term contracts with Unesco were an  element of insecurity, as, in his opinion, even  a short term with the Organization added to a  person's prestige in his own country. He held  that salaries based on United States standards were  necessarily excessive in Europe. He assured the  meeting that it was the Indian delegation’s anxiety  for the success of the Organization which prompted  his criticisms.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained  that the proposed salary and allowance system  was based on the resolutions of the Mexico Confer-  ence and in particular on the resolution :  That the Director-General is instructed to make a  study of the various grades of salaries for the staff,             bearing in mind the real emoluments of the officials  of the United Nations, of Specialized Agencies, and  of various governments, holding posts of corresponding  duties and responsibilities, particularly those living in  Paris. The results of this study shall be submitted  to the Executive Board and for consideration at the  next General Conference (document 2C/132, Vol. II,  Section IX, Annex IV, Resolution A (6), p. 51).  He did not think the Commission wanted to  change the principle of comparable treatment for  the United Nations and all Specialized Agencies,  and was not quite clear whether the grading of  certain members of the staff was being discussed.  If so, he wished to point out that there was a  difference between a salary scale and the salary  paid to a particular person for doing a particular  job. When discussing the plan which was before  the Commission, the Executive Board had been  very definite that the system should be flexible  and had therefore chosen as point of sensitivity  any variation of 10 per cent in the French Govern-  ment’s general Index of retail prices. It should  be noted that that Index was conservative and did  not fully reflect increases in the cost of living,  because it included only the limited number of  items listed on page 4 of document 3C/ADM/8.  With respect to staff selection, he pointed out  that the subject was covered by a later item on  the Agenda.  The CHAIRMAN agreed that staff selection  should come up for discussion at a later stage.  He asked the Commission’s views on the motion  tabled by the delegate of Lebanon at the end of  the previous meeting.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to  explain to the Commission the implications of that  motion : it requested a reduction of all allowances  and the construction, in two days, of a new salary  and allowance system. It was his duty to point  out that the salary system had been developed  after long discussions within the United Nations  organization and that, at Mexico City, the Confer-  ence had laid down that the salaries paid by  Unesco should be comparable with those of the  United Nations. A large majority of the Member  States had been of that opinion.  Miss HENDERSON (United Nations) declared  that Unesco’s allowances were quite closely  comparable with those of the United Nations.  The whole United Nations system had been exten-  sively discussed by a Committee of the General  Assembly. The Committee had recommended  that the entire scheme, as applied to all the  Specialized Agencies, should be examined by a  special expert Committee in the course of the next  six months. The United Nations attached great
386  importance to comparability and Miss Henderson  suggested that the Commission should instruct the  Director-General to collaborate closely with the  expert Committee she had just mentioned.  Dr. WILCOCKS (Union of South Africa) would  be sorry to see the Lebanese proposal carried.  He thought there was an impression at the back  of the members’ minds that the salary system  had not been properly worked out and that too  high a proportion of the budget was devoted to  salaries. He was not of that opinion; his view  was that those who had a special knowledge of  the question and existing circumstances should  be trusted to deal with it.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) asked whether  similar reservations had been made at the United  Nations General Assembly. He did not like the  idea that Unesco should appear a “poor relation”,  and the Commission should be very chary of  taking a decision which might be construed to  mean that education, science and culture were on  a lower plane than politics.  In the light of what the United Nations represen-  tative had said, Dr. RUSTOM (Saudi Arabia) urged  that a decision should be postponed until the  expert Committee’s findings were available.  Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought the Com-  mission was in danger of taking a fundamentally  unwise step. The Lebanese motion might have  very serious consequences. No alteration of the  salary and allowance system was possible without  challenging the principles on which it was based,  principles which had been adopted at Mexico City  and endorsed by the United Nations. It had been  assumed that high salaries would attract the kind  of people whose ability could command them.  To say that prestige was renumeration enough  was not a realistic argument; ample proof of that  statement was to be found in the existing recruit-  ment difficulties. If the salaries and allowances  were reduced, the staff would be less accomplished  and efficient. It should be remembered that the  plan was based on the United Nations’ scheme,  which was going to be subjected to a rigorous  examination. It was best, therefore, to defer a  decision until the United Nations’ expert Com-  mittee had done its work and, meanwhile, to  advise the Director-General on the principles to  which he should refer at Lake Success. Mr. Pile  appealed to the delegate of Lebanon to withdraw  his motion, and added that paragraph II, 1 on  page 2 of document 3C/ADM/8 had the approval  of the United Kingdom delegation.  Fe   p f
0          Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) called  attention to two resolutions which his delegation  wished to propose concerning : (1) an exami-  mination of the Budget Estimates by the Advisory  Panel of Experts on Finance and Administralion;  and (2) the better implementation of Unesco’s  SIXTH  Wednesday,  programme projects. He asked for the resolutions  to be discussed under item 6 of the Agenda (Other  Questions).  The meeting rose at 4 p.m.  MEETING
24 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. P. N. BANERJEE (India)  later: Mr. A. A. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa)  Item 5 of the Agenda  (continuation).  Staff Questions  Item 5 (a) : Salary and allowance system  (document 3C/ADM/8, Addendum and Corri-  gendum) (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN recalled that at the close of  the last meeting, the Commission was discussing  a draft resolution submitted by the delegate of  Lebanon, suggesting that a Sub-Committee should  be formed to consider the allowances scheme and  to report to the Commission.  M. SUR (Turkey) said the question was a com-  plex one and required careful study. It was diffi-  cult to make hasty comparisons between salaries  in different currencies. He thought the whole  question of salaries and allowances in Unesco  should be raised in connexion with the question  of relations between Specialized Agencies and the  United Nations.  Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) thought that  the broad principles put forward at the last  meeting of the Commission should underlie the  salary system and, until some very substantial  compensation for reducing salaries and allowances  could be provided, no considerable reduction in  rates was justified. The United Kingdom dele-  gation thought that one of the most substantial  compensations would be the granting of security  of tenure and long-term contracts. If such secu-  rity were granted, then the need for many of those  allowances, at the rate now paid, would be greatly  reduced. It was not, however, the moment to  labour any particular point of view and he would
387  submit a resolution which he thought should meet  the Lebanese delegation’s requirements :  The Administrative Commission resolves :  To establish a Committee of its members with the  following terms of reference :
(1) to review the principles laid down by the  Second Session of the General Conference, upon which  a salary and allowances system should be based;
(2) to consider how far the present provisional  system of salaries and allowances is accurately based  upon those principles;
(3) to consider what new criteria for salary and  allowances scales the representatives of the Organi-  zation should recommend to the Joint Committee of  Representatives of the United Nations and the Special-  ized Agencies who are to review this problem.  Mr. Thomas did not think a date could be fixed  for the submission of the Committee's report,  but, when it did report, the Commission would  have a clear idea of the principles on which it  wanted the system to be based. He hoped that,  by submitting those recommendations to the Joint  Committee of the United Nations, it would be  possible to get the whole system of the United  Nations modified.  M. VERNIERS (Belgium), Dr. BENDER (Ne-  therlands) and Mr. CAIRNS (New Zealand) sup-  ported the United Kingdom resolution.  Mr. FYZEE (India) also supported it, but wished  to know whether the Committee which had been  appointed to study the Medical Benefits Scheme  should form part of the Committee proposed by  the delegate of the United Kingdom.  The CHAIRMAN said that the two Committees  would work separately.