The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the  Chairmen of committees meeting in the after-  noons should be asked to arrange for a short break  of ten to fifteen minutes in the middle of the  meetings, as the simultaneous interpretation made  them very tiring.  Agreed.  As almost excessive hospitality had been offered  to the Conference the preceding year, the Director-  General submitted the following resolution for  approval :  The General Committee urges all delegations to  refrain from adding to the number of entertainments  already arranged during the period of the Conference.  The Lebanese Government and various institutions in  Beirut have provided an ample series of excellent  entertainments, and any substantial additions must  THIRD  necessarily interfere with the proper completion of  th: very heavy agenda of the Session.  Adopted.  It was agreed that the resolution should be  inserted in the Journal of the Conference.  Dr. MOLINARI (Argentina) said that Argentina  had not received the list of candidates for the post  of Director-General which had been circulated. to  all Member States.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman of the Executive  Board) explained that, at the time when the list  had been sent out, Argentina had not ratified the  Constitution and was, therefore, not a Member  State; he assured the delegate of Argentina that  the list would be transmitted to him forthwith.  The meeting rose at 11 a.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that he  had an item to raise in secret meeting.  As Mr. Roberts (Union of South Africa) had to  attend another meeting at 10.30 a.m., it was  agreed to hold the secret meeting forthwith.  Request for the inclusion of a new item in  the Agenda of the General Conference :  Aid to refugees in the Middle East.  At the end of the secret meeting, the CHAIRMAN  submitted for discussion the draft resolution pro-  posed by the Australian delegation in document
3C/12 :  That the Unesco General Conference, meeting in  Beirut, places on its Agenda the problem of edu-  cational relief for refugees who have been driven from  their homes by military operations in the Middle  Fast, and requests the Reconstruction Sub-Commis-  sion to take up the matter at the earliest opportunity,  with a view to facilitating the organization of effective  aid from Unesco and its Member States.  Dr. WALKER (Australia) added that, as the  Reconstruction Sub-Commission was to meet that  afternoon, he hoped that the General Committee  would agree to submit the resolution to the  plenary meeting that morning; otherwise, there  would be delay in considering the matter, as the  Sub-Commission was not to hold another meeting  for eight days.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) asked if  Dr. Walker would accept the insertion of the  words ‘of this nature” after “effective aid”, in  order to make it clear that the aid was to be edu-  cational.  Dr. WALKER: (Australia) accepted the amend-  ment.  The General Committee agreed to submit the  draft resolution to the plenary meeting that morn-  ing.  Times of afternoon meetings.  In order to permit delegates to take advantage  of the invitation to visit the American University  at 3 p.m., it was agreed that all afternoon meetings  on 20 November should commence at 4.30 p.m.,  on the understanding that work should continue  until 7 or 7.30 p.m.  The meeting rose at 11 a.m.