Kingdom. I think this calls for careful study.  [ thought during the discussion that several dele-  gates were a little uneasy lest this idea lead to  oratorical debate. We do not rule out elo-  quence—which can alone give life to words—but  we want these debates, above all, really to deal  with questions of vital interest for Unesco and to  be not merely questions of a moral order, or  questions of ideals, such as the problem of free-  dom, to which the delegate of the United King-  dom referred. It is not for Frenchmen to deny  the importance of a big debate on freedom, but  we feel that as a start and to remove any fear of  idle oratory and to start things along sensible and  practical lines, we should perhaps think first  before choosing the subject of this debate.  The PRESIDENT We (Translation) : have  before us a resolution submitted by the French  delegation. Is it seconded? It is.  I shall put it to the vote.  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The resolution  is unanimously adopted. (°°)  On the agenda for the next plenary meeting are  the Report of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission and the various motions submitted by dele-  gations for the closing ceremony. These motions  will be taken at the end of the meeting. We  cannot take the resolution on the Universal Decla-  ration of Human Rights, because this question  has been withdrawn at the request of the observer  of the United Nations.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  NINETEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 11 December 1948, at 4 p.m.  CONTENTS
39. Report of the Programme and Budget Commission .  Resolution on nutritional standards .  Resolutions relating to the Budget .  Resolution concerning the establishment of a regional office in the  western hemisphere . . . .  Resolution concerning the draft Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
40. Vote of thanks to the Lebanese Government and Press .
41. Establishment of three Unesco Conference Fellowships for citizens of  Lebanon, in gratitude for Lebanon’s contribution to the Third Session  of the General Conference .
42. Tribute to Dr. Julian Huxley
43. Closing speech of the Third Session of the General Conference .
39. Report of the Programme and Budget  Commission.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : We will begin  With consideration of the Report of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission. I call on the  Rapporteur.  Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame-  rica) (Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget  Commission) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I  think most you have on your desks this document
3C/103, which is the Rapporteur’s Report, and  you know, of course, that Dr. Paulo de Berredo  Carneiro was our distinguished and efficient  Chairman, and M. Marcel Florkin of Belgium our  Vice-Chairman, and that I served as Rapporteur.  I wish, on behalf of the Programme and Budget  Commission, to express our appreciation to the  Sub-Commissions of the Programme and Budget     Volume II, Section VITI, C, (68) In final form :  p. 11.  RG    F y   C E S   Commission, the Commission itself, the Drafting  Committee, and all those other bodies of this  Conference that have contributed to what we think  is a clear and better statement of the programme  and budget.  The stated purpose of Unesco is to contribute  to peace and security by promoting collaboration  among the nations through education, science and  culture. In the three years since these words  were written in London and adopted as part of  the Constitution, Unesco has contributed to peace  and security, but the forces of insecurity and war  have increased rather than decreased. Suspicion,  hate and discouragement have not been banished  from Europe. The conditions for positive peace  and mutual harmony in which human beings  reach the peak of their creative abilities, are still  lacking in many regions of the world. Men's  minds and bodies still suffer from the ravages of  war. Unesco has made progress in defining its  aims, in developing its plan of organization, in  staffing its departments and in clarifying its pro-  gramme, as I believe this Report has indicated.  Dr. Huxley, Dr. Laves, the Secretariat, the Exe-  cutive Board and the General Conference deserve  real credit for these achievements. It is not an  easy task to build a new international organization.  But Unesco’s progress has not fully satisfied its  friends, and certainly has not satisfied its critics.  The task of Unesco remains to be done, its  objectives are eternally valid. Since wars begin  in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men  that the defences of peace must be constructed.  We know that ideas and concepts are powerful  and profoundly affect the minds of men. In this  region of the world we should, more than else-  where, be conscious of this truth. The devotion  and faith of the son of the carpenter born in Beth-  lehem; Moses on Mount Sinai; and Mahomet, the  son of the custodian of the shrine of Kaava; all  have released forces which have affected the whole  of mankind—the forces of ideas.  Unesco’s financial means are limited, even in  this budget, but its possibilities are vast. A few  men and women devoted to the ideals of Unesco  can make them known throughout the world, and  those ideals would be a powerful force, or will be  a powerful force, for enduring peace. Close asso-  ciation with the organization of the work that we  have done in the Programme and Budget Com-  mission convinces us, I think, that during 1949,  the third year of its existence, Unesco is in a posi-  tion to do more to translate its objectives into  practical achievements than in any previous year.  But again the positive results of this programme  will still be difficult to measure and hard to  define; our critics will always be many. Never-  theless this international effort by fourty-four  Member States and their educators, scientists,
198  scholars and men of culture, as well as by  large groups of their peoples working to affect  men’s minds for constructive peace, deserves the  support of all who have benefited by the advance  of man’s civilization.  The programme authorized in the resolutions  presented to the Conference for consideration and  approval today contains the basis for the activities  of the Organization during 1949. I shall try to  indicate how the adoption of this Report of the  Programme and Budget Commission will modify  and expand the basic programme adopted at  Mexico City.  First of all, in the field of reconstruction, the  new phases of that programme contained in the  resolutions are, first : assistance to the refugees  in the Arab countries, and to refugee intellectuals  wherever they may be. In this latter case, Unesco  will urge its Members to provide them with suit-  able employment and opportunities to become pro-  ficient in the language of the country where they  are residing. The continuing programme of  Unesco in this field of reconstruction will be to  provide assistance to war-devastated countries.  The prospects for the work are good; the campaign  and programme of Unesco have increased the con-  tributions from a small trickle to a steady and  increasing flow, which in 1949 should exceed  $50,000,000. Here is a phase of Unesco’s pro-  gramme that assists the masses of the people and  gives people everywhere an opportunity to con-  tribute to peace and security. One important  principle contained in the resolutions about recon-  struction is the declaration that Unesco in future  years should effect a gradual transition from the  reconstruction of war-devastated countries to the  general constructive development of education,  science and culture. Thus, this Organization  begins to move from an emergency reconstruction  programme to a long-range constructive one.  In the field of education, Unesco will continue  during 1949 to develop international co-operation  and the improvement of education at all levels,  in order to increase international understanding.  New aspects of the programme during 1949 will  include assistance to a seminar in Latin America  on mass illiteracy, and the sponsorship of another  seminar in the Far East. In addition, the Director-  General is authorized during 1949 to develop plans  for two seminars to be conducted in 1950, pre-  ferably on the teaching of geography and on the  revision of textbooks. The Director-General 1s  also instructed to continue to maintain a clearing  house for the collection, analysis and distribution  of information, for expert counsel and the  exchange of materials and personnel. One special  phase of this programme which will develop in
1949 is the sending of educational missions to  countries, especially war-devastated countries, to       make surveys, advise and assist in educational  improvements. Already plans are being made to  send such missions to Hungary, Afghanistan and  the Philippines. As the result of the Utrecht Con-  ference of representatives of Universities, held in
1948, an international organization of universities  may well take shape during 1949 and bring into  closer relation with Unesco the powerful in-  fluences inherent in the higher educational insti-  tutions of the world. Authority is also given in  these resolutions for the calling of an international  conference of leaders and workers in adult edu-  cation, including leaders in industry and agri-  culture; Unesco is indebted to Denmark for an  invitation to hold the conference in that country.  In the field of natural sciences, the Director-  General 1s authorized to investigate plans for an  International Institute of the Arid Zone. This,  it is hoped, will become self-supporting, or nearly  so, like the International Institute of the Hylean  Amazon. Such an institute, if established, would  study the problems and possibilities of the ever-  expanding desert areas that now cover one-fourth  of the earth’s surface, in order to determine how  these areas could be better utilized for the benefit  of mankind. Authorization is also contained in  these resolutions for the study of the possibility  of establishing an International Computation  Centre. Of course, the Field Science Co-operation  Offices programme will be carried on under these  resolutions. We may also expect important deve-  lopments in the field of the conservation of natural  resources and the preservation of nature.  In the field of the social sciences, during 1949,  new emphasis will be placed on the promotion of  international co-operation in the social sciences  by aiding in the establishment of an international  organization in this field. The Director-General
1s also authorized to assist and promote education  in statistics, by giving financial aid to a competent  organization. The main emphasis next year will  still be placed on the study of tensions affecting  international understanding, while the study of  international collaboration and of the social im-  plications of science will continue.  In the field of the humanities, the projects which  in the programme of 1948 were divided between  the former chapters on communication, cultural  interchange and human and social relations have  been brought together. Work will continue on  the discussion of the philosophic concepts which  are especially pertinent to the objectives of Unesco.  The philosophic analysis of such fundamental  concepts as liberty, democracy and law, which  have special importance in current ideological  conflicts, and the comparative study of the  humanistic aspects of culture will be carried on,  and consideration will be given to plans for the  study of African native cultures.
199  We next come to the field of cultural activity.  A new phase of the programme in this field during
1949 will be the inauguration of a study of the  contributions which creative artists can make  towards Unesco's purposes, and of what influences  now interfere with the performance of the artist's  creative function. The Director-General is also  authorized to study the possibility of establishing  a series of annual awards for the best achievements  in music, literature, art, education and humani-  tarian activities. Authority is also contained in  these resolutions to create a service of cultural  liaison in the Middle East, to promote the exchange  of ideas, information, material and persons in the  fields of arts and letters, philosophy and hu-  manistic studies. The resolutions in this chapter  were formerly divided between the chapters on  communication and cultural interchange. These  are now brought together with projects relative  to arts and letters, libraries and museums, bibli-  ographical work, the representation of artistic  works and musical compositions, translations,  publications, book exchanges and copyright.  The activities in the field of communication  will during 1949 be essentially the same as during
1948. The exchange of persons programme will  be continued, as will the general mass commu-  nication activities designed to utilize the radio,  the film and the press to promote the purposes of  Unesco. Unesco will lay stress on the provision  of material, equipment and professional training  for the reconstruction of the means of mass com-  munication in war-devastated countries, sub-terri-  tories and under-developed areas. Unesco will  also continue and intensify its efforts to remove  the obstacles to the free flow of ideas by word  and image. A small compact Projects Division  will initiate and influence the production of ma-  terial on Unesco subjects for the radio, films and  press, with the emphasis on subjects of a topical  nature.  This is a very brief resumé of the programme  proposed for 1949, for which, as the document  before you indicates, there is a sum of $7,780,000.  The resolutions cover forty-five pages in the  English, fifty-four in the French. Whether the  programme remains just forty-five or fifty-four  pages of resolutions, or a dynamic programme for  constructive peace, depends on all of us who are  here, on the new Director-General, in whom we  have great confidence, on the Secretariat, on the  Executive Board and, of course, on the delegates  and the thousands of persons who are represented  here or on the National Commissions and Co-  operating Bodies. From the eighth to the twelfth  centuries, the Arabic-speaking peoples were the  main bearers of the torch of civilization and cul-  ture to the then known world, and it was these  same people who placed above their college portals       {in far-away Spain the following inscription : “The  world is supported by four things only : the  learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the  prayers of the righteous and the valour of the  brave.” Perhaps from these same shores, where  we have been so cordially received by this Repub-  lic of Lebanon, individual delegates may go forth  from this Conference similarly inspired to help  create a human and social order between the  peoples of the world, in which the incentives to  war are neutralized by the human and spiritual  advances created and achieved.  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I! move the  adoption of this Programme and Budget for 1949.  It includes, as far as the programme is concerned,  document 3C/98, 3C/98 Addendum, and then  another 3C/98 Corrigendum and Addendum. As  far as the Budget is concerned, it includes 3C/103  and 3C/PRG/0.5 Annex A, which is the Budget  table. Mr. President, I have the honour to move  the adoption of these documents and this Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1949.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) Does anybody  wish to speak? I call on the delegate of the United  States of America.  Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Ame-  rica) : Mr. President, the United States delegation  accepts and supports the Report of the Programme  and Budget Commission. The Report has been  based on a careful study, first by the Executive  Board, then by the Sub-Commissions, and then  by the Programme and Budget Commission and  its Drafting Committee. No good purpose would  be served, we believe, by attempting at this stage  to make further substantial changes in the docu-  ment which has resulted from such careful study.  I would like, however, to comment briefly on  some general questions relating to the programme  and the activities of this Organization. I can then  introduce these remarks by reference to the way  in which the work of this Conference has been  organized and managed.  This session, I believe, might be described as  the occasion on which Unesco has established  itself as an efficient, business-like organization.  This fact seems to us to be the distinctive char-  acteristic of the Third Session of Unesco at Beirut.  Our agenda and documents have been well pre-  pared by the Executive Board and by the Secre-  tariat. Our work has been completed with the  minimum of delay and with smooth efficiency.  The delegations from many countries represented  in the Organization have learned the art of work-  ing together in the transaction of international  business. This state of things contrasts with that  at previous Conferences, where there was com-  plaint regarding the organization and administra-  tion of the Conference, and regarding the Orgau:-  ization itself. We have learned from the expe-  rience of this Conference that the sound admi-  nistration and the effective co-ordinated direction  of the work of Unesco are indispensable for the  execution of its operations and the achievement  of its purposes. The advantages which accrue  from good administration have been demonstrated  at this Conference. The United States delegation  sees much hope for the future in the evidence  provided at this Conference that good administra-  tion is facilitating the efficient working of the  Programme Divisions for the purpose of carrying  out Unesco’s work. We believe that Unesco can  make steady progress provided it avoids certain  dangers which are perhaps inherent in any inter-  national organization of this kind. Unesco would,  we believe, be endangered by the development of  competition and rivalry among the various Pro-  gramme Divisions. The Organization has made  progress by avoiding this danger. Unesco is not  six or seven organizations in different fields of  science, education and culture; it is a single organ-  ization in which all these interests must work  together for the carrying out of general policies  and for the common good. Personal and pro-  fessional jealousies between the Programme Divi-  sions could destroy this Organization. No less a  danger would arise if the General Conference were  to become a market-place in which bargains were  made for reasons of national or regional interest  or prestige. However, the United States delega-  tion is much encouraged by the evidence we have  heard that Unesco can rise above these dangers.  This Conference at Beirut has been disappoint-  ing, perhaps, in one respect; world leaders in  education and in the humanities and sciences have  been members of delegations at this Conference,  but they have not had adequate opportunity to  speak to the world out of the fullness of their  knowledge and wisdom. We have been diligent  here at Beirut in amending texts, drafting reso-  lutions and scrutinizing budgets, but we have not  really faced together the heavy responsibilities  which the present times lay upon us. Unesco  should be a bulwark of intellectual freedom, it  should give voice to the conscience of mankind.  It is the earnest hope of the United States dele-  gation that, at future sessions of the General Con-  ference, Unesco will offer the spiritual leadership  and guidance the world so sorely needs. With  this one qualification, I believe that this Con-  ference has done its work well.  The United States delegation is particularly grat-  ified that this year’s Conference has recognized,  more clearly than ever before, that widespread  popular participation is vital to the success of the  Unesco programme. We are happy that so much  attention has been paid to the rôle of the National         Commissions, as the indispensable agencies for  carrying out Unesco's work. Mr. President, we  are convinced that Unesco has a sound pro-  gramme. Unesco has also developed sound work-  ing procedures. It has a sound central admi-  nistration. For all this we are indebted in large  measure to the imaginative and courageous leader-  ship given to this Organization by the retiring  Director-General, Dr. Julian Huxley; by the Deputy  Director-General of the Organization, Dr. Walter  Laves; and by the devoted international public  servants who make up the entire Secretariat.  Theirs has been a difficult and often a thank-  less task. On behalf of the delegation of the  United States of America, I wish to take this  opportunity to congratulate them, to thank them  and to acknowledge our debt to them. 1 second  strongly, Mr. President, the Report of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : Does anybody  wish to speak? I am going to put the Programme  to the vote. Are there any amendments?  | call on the delegate of the United Kingdom.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) : Mr. Pre-  sident and fellow-delegates, the United Kingdom  delegation agrees with every word that has been  spoken by the delegate of the United States, but  my task is to deal with one detail in this great  work which is before us for consideration—an  important detail and one which I hope we shall  all agree should be and can be improved. It  relates to a resolution which appears on page 17  of the English text of document 3C/98—resolu-  tions which come under the general heading of  the conservation of natural resources and the pro-  tection of nature. Under that heading, you will  find at 3.11 and 3.12 two related resolutions,  which instruct the Director-General to inform the  Secretary-General of the United Nations that in  the opinion of the General Conference the raising  of nutritional standards is an essential condition  for the attainment of Unesco’s purposes in many  areas of the world, and continue with other more  detailed suggestions. We of the United Kingdom  delegation wish to suggest a slight amendment of  the wording of those two resolutions, 3.11 and
3.12, and I have a form of words which has been  circulated in English, I hope, to most of the dele-  gates here (I wish to apologise for its not having  been possible in the time available to circulate a  French translation of the English words).  I hope to be able to explain what is in our minds  quite briefly. Mr. President, this is a very 1m-  portant resolution. It is important because it 1s  based on the fundamental thought that Unesco’s  work can only be successful if the work of the  rest of the United Nations is also successful and,  in particular, if those parts of the United Nations  organization which are specially responsible for  food and agriculture and economic common sense  do their work successfully. We have had quoted  very often at this Conference—and they can never  be quoted too often—the words which refer to  the minds of men as the place where the defences  of peace must be constructed. But, fellow-dele-  gates, the minds of men abide and have their  being in the bodies of men and, unless the bodies  of men are whole and healthy and strong, there  is very little chance that we in Unesco can do the  work with the minds of men which it is our task  to try and perform. Although it is not our direct  business, we have an intimate concern with the  growth of economic and of political common  sense, so that there may be a growth of human  understanding, for unless the world achieves a  better organized state, economically and political-  ly, we in the United Kingdom delegation do not  believe that it is possible for any work done in  the field of education, science and culture to pro-  duce its full effect. That is why this resolution is of  great importance; in particular, it is Important  that we should go on record as believing that the  conservation of natural resources and the pro-  tection of nature are purposes which are not  merely of interest to those who wish the country-  side to be beautiful, to be a place where we can  enjoy ourselves. Fellow-delegates, at this time,  men and women in far too many places of the  world are starving, and they will continue to  starve, more men and women will die than need  die, unless this work of the conservation of natural  resources is done and the food that might be  grown is grown in all parts of the world. Now  that work, we, in this resolution, declare to be  an interest of Unesco, but equally we are well  aware that our rôle is a modest one and that the  main responsibility lies with the Food and Agri-  culture Organization, with the International  Labour Organization and with various other parts  of the United Nations organization and structure.  Therefore it is most important that, in the wording  of this resolution, we should not seek to presume  in a field in which we are less expert than our  colleagues in other Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations.  Now the wording as its stands, for which the  Drafting Committee take partial responsibility (al-  though we were only concerned with the words  of the resolution), must give the uninitiated, must  give our critics the chance of saying that we had  suddenly woken up to the fact of food and its  importance, that we were unaware that the Eco-  nomic and Social Council had this very year had  one of their most notable and successful debates  on this very subject. At all costs we must not  give the critics any chance of supposing that we           are unaware of our colleagues’ work, or that we  presume to think we can teach them their business,  or, as we say, teach our grandmothers in the  other Specialized Agencies to suck eggs. That is  why I wish to suggest that for the wording of 3.11  and 3.12 we substitute the following words :  The Director-General is instructed to inform the  Secretary-General of the United Nations that, in the  opinion of the General Conference, the raising of  nutritional standards by the conservation of natural  resources and other means is an essential condition  for the attainment of Unesco’s purposes in many areas  of the world; and to offer to the United Nations the  services and facilities of Unesco in education, mass  communication and the basic sciences in any joint  plan which the Economic and Social Council may  initiate for a world-wide attack on this problem by  the Specialized Agencies.  Mr. President and fellow-delegates, 1 suggest  that those words incorporate the whole purpose  of the resolution as it is printed before us, but  avoid any possible misunderstanding of what  Unesco’s interest in this matter is. 1 beg to move,  Mr. President, that those words be substituted for  the words which at present appear on pages 17  and 18 of the English text of document 3C/98  under the heading 3.11 and 3.12.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : Are there any  other amendments?  I will first of all ask you to vote upon the  amendment submitted by the delegate of the  United Kingdom. Is it seconded? It is seconded.  Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame-  rica) (Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget  Commission) : As Rapporteur of the Programme  and Budget Commission, it seems to me that this  wording of this resolution is satisfactory, and 1  recommend that it be accepted.  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The amend-  ment moved by the delegate of the United King-  dom is adopted. (°°)  Are there any other amendments?  As there are no amendments, I shall ask you  to vote upon the Programme for 1949 as it appears  in the Report of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission, document 3C/98, 3C/98 Addendum and
3C/98 Corrigendum and Addendum 2. Will those  in favour please raise their hands?  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The Pro-  gramme is adopted by 30 votes. (79)
(29) In final form : Volume II, Section IX, Chap-  ter 3, Resolutions 3.521 and 3.522, p. 22.
(79) In final form : Volume II, Section IX, I, p. 13.     I am now going to ask you to vote upon the  resolutions dealing with the budget, document
3C/103. The first resolution :  The General Conference has noted the recommen-  dation of the United Nations relating to the form of  the Budget. It resolves that the Director-General, in  consultation with the Executive Board, consider the  recommendations of the United Nations and take such  steps in preparing the Budget for 1950 as may be  deemed necessary to give effect to the purposes of that  recommendation, while retaining the essential pur-  poses which the present form of budget is designed  to serve.  The General Conference instructs the Director-  General to make such revisions in the appropriation  table for the financial year 1949, approved by the  General Conference, as are necessary to ensure its  conformity with the Programme for 1949 finally  approved by the General Conference. Such revision  shall not alter the amount voted for any project. The  Director-General shall circulate the revised appro-  priation table to Member States, together with the  approved programme for 1949.  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The resolution  is adopted. ("*)  Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame-  rica) (Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget  Commission) : Delegates will find on page 2 of  document 3C/103 this additional resolution, which  I, as Rapporteur would like to move at this time,  that 1s :  That the Director-General be authorized to make  such secondary changes in the text of the programme  resolutions as he may deem necessary.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : Resolution B  on page 2, document 3C/103, is put to the vote  as it has been presented by the Rapporteur of the  Programme and Budget Commission.  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : Adopted.  Now gentlemen, we will take the draft appro-  priation resolution and the draft appropriation  table, Annex A of document 3C/PRG/0.5.  The resolution and the recapitulative tables are  put to the vote. In view of the importance of  this subject, I shall take the vote by roll-call.  The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour : Afghanistan, Australia, Aus-  tria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia,  Cuba, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Greece, India,
(71) In final form : Volume II, Section IX, II.  Annexes B and C, p. 44.
202            Iran, Iraq, Italy, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mexico,  Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Saudi Arabia,  Syria, United Kingdom, United States of America,  Uruguay, Venezuela.  Absent : Argentina, Bolivia, Czechoslovakia,  Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Haiti,  Honduras, Hungary, Liberia, Peru, Philippines,  Union of South Africa.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The appro-  priation resolution is unanimously adopted. ("*)  Mr. Kenneth HOLLAND (United States of Ame-  rica) (Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget  Commission) There is a resolution which, as  Rapporteur, I should like to move at this time.  It is the resolution at the centre of page 3 of the  English text of document 3C/103, and reads as  follows :  The General Conference resolves that, in the exe-  cution of the resolution concerning the establishment  of a regional office in the western hemisphere (docu-  ment 3C/OXR/19, Annex II B), the Director-General is  instructed :  (a) to appoint a regional representative for the  Latin-American Region, to whom shall be entrusted  the necessary preliminary studies and consultation;  (b) as soon as an agreement is reached with the  Organization of American States and the appropriate  organ of the United Nations and other Specialized  Agencies, to submit a plan to the Executive Board for  the financing of the proposed office during the  remaining months of 1949.  Mr. President. T have the honour to move this  resolution.  The PRESIDENT (Translation)  lution to the vote.  | put the reso-  The vote was taken by a show of hands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The resolution  is adopted. (73)  We shall now, gentlemen, take into consider-  ation the resolution concerning the draft Universal  Declaration of Human Rights. I call on the  observer of the United Nations.  Mr. Gustavo DURAN (Observer of the United  Nations) : Delegates to the Third Session of the  General Conference, on behalf of the Secretary-  General of the United Nations, I wish to call the  attention of the General Conference to the Uni-  versal Declaration of Human Rights adopted only
(77) In final form :  Annex A, p. 39.
(79) In final form : Volume  Annex II, (b), Resolution II, p. 61.  Volume II, Section 1X, Il and  II, Section XI,
203  a few hours ago by the General Assembly of the  United Nations. The texts of Articles 1 to 28 of  the Declaration as approved by the Third Com-  mittee of the Assembly, have been distributed to  you today. The historic importance of the docu-  ment is, I am sure, recognized by you all. You  are also aware of its great significance and of its  relevance to the aims and purposes of your Organ-  ization. Many of the activities of Unesco come  directly under the provisions of the Declaration; in  fact, they have identical objectives. Simultaneous-  ly with the Declaration, a resolution was passed  that night by the General Assembly recommend-  ing that the Governments of Member States use  every means in their power solemnly to pro-  mulgate the text of the Declaration and to cause  it to be disseminated, displayed, read and ex-  pounded in schools and other educational insti-  tutions, without any distinction based on the poli-  tical status of countries or territories, and invit-  ing the Specialized Agencies to do their utmost  to bring this Declaration to the attention of their  Members. I have the honour to transmit this  invitation to you for whatever action you may  consider appropriate, and I should like to add that  this action will not have any budgetary impli-  cations.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) I call on the  delegate of the United States of America.  Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Ame-  rica) : Mr. President, I hope the General Con-  ference is aware of the tremendous significance  of the Report which has just been made to you.  The observer for the United Nations received word  only today, at 1 p.m., that this great document on  Human Rights, on which the nations of the world  have been consulting and working for two years  or more, has finally been passed by the General  Assembly of the United Nations in Paris. You  have a copy of the Declaration before you in  mimeographed form.  [ recall that at the San Francisco Conference,  when the Organization of the United Nations was  established and the Charter was drawn up, many  people who looked at that Charter found one fault  with it : it contained the political framework of  a great world organization, but they found nothing  in the body of the Charter which referred to the  rights of the human individual, with which the  great world organization was attempting to deal.  We have now before us finally the document sup-  plementing the Charter of the United Nations by  the Declaration of Human Rights. It is parti-  cularly fortunate, I think, that Unesco happens  by chance to be assembled in general conference  at the very moment when this Declaration 1s  passed. On the final day of our meeting, it 1s  Se PE TEE PET ET NN              the most fitting item that Unesco will be the first  of the independent agencies of the United Nations  to carry out within a very few hours the request  of the United Nations that this document be  brought to the attention of all its members, and  that each organization take action to carry out  the purposes of the Declaration.  It is sometimes difficult for us to appreciate the  extent to which history is being made before our  very eyes, but many people have undertaken to  say that the Declaration of Human Rights, passed  yesterday in Paris by the General Assembly of the  United Nations, may well rank, in the history of  the world, with the Magna Carta of Great Britain,  the French Declaration on the Rights of Man, and  the Bill of Rights and the Constitution of the  United States. We have an opportunity here to  do something which so far, I believe, this Con-  ference has not done satisfactorily. This Con-  ference has done much to improve the operations  of Unesco, an established international organ-  ization; we have developed a valuable long-range  programme in the field of education, science and  culture: but this Conference has not so far indi-  cated in any forceful fashion its awareness that  we are living through dangerous times, in which  every intellectual freedom we are pledged to  maintain is threatened with destruction over vast  areas of the world. It is imperative that Unesco  build for tomorrow, but it is equally imperative  that Unesco should recognize the fires which are  now eating at the very foundations on which we  build. We can show this recognition through  our action with regard to the Universal Declaration  of Human Rights.  Mr. Duran has called your attention to the  French resolution in the General Assembly, invit-  ing the Specialized Agencies to do their utmost  to bring this Declaration to the attention of their  Members. I wish to call your attention also to  Article 17 of the Declaration, to paragraph 3 of  Article 19, to Article 20, to Article 23 and to  Article 25, all of which bear directly on the area  of activity mapped out by Unesco's Programme  for 1949.  Article 17 has to do with freedom of opinion  and expression and with the right to receive and  impart information through any media and  regardless of frentiers. This bears directly on  Unesco’s programme activity aimed at the free  flow of information and ideas among the nations.  Unesco’s Constitution states that political arrange-  ments, if they are to bring peace, must rest upon  the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind.  The emphasis here is upon mankind and not upon  governments, for governments, in Unesco's con-  cept as in the concept of democracy everywhere,  derive their just powers only from the free consent  of the people who are governed. This concept  is re-affirmed in the Declaration in paragraph 3  of Article 19, which states that the will of the  people shall be the basis of the authority of govern-  ment.  Article 20 states that every member of society  has the cultural rights indispensable for his dig-  nity and the free development of his personality.  Article 23 states precisely the right to an education  which Unesco, through its educational pro-  gramme, is striving to bring about. This Article  says that everyone has the right to education and  that education shall be directed to the full deve-  lopment of the human personality and to the pro-  motion of understanding, tolerance and friendship  among all nations, racial or religious groups,  as well as of the activities of the United Nations  for the maintenance of peace. Article 25 says  that everyone has the right to participate in the  cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts  and to share in scientific advancement and its  benefits. This Article further declares that every-  one has the right to the protection of the moral  and material interests resulting from any scien-  lific, literary or artistic production of which he 1s  the author. This refers to the question of copy-  right, with which Unesco is so much concerned.  Here, then, is a United Nations document which  places upon Unesco and upon its Member States  a high responsibility. The Declaration of Human  Rights need never have been made, and would  never have been made, if those rights were certain  and secure for all the peoples of the earth. The  fact that it was made, and made with great diffi-  culty, proves how seriously the essential rights of  man are now threatened in a desperately divided  world. To secure these rights requires great  courage and great imagination—more courage and  imagination, I am afraid, than Unesco has yet  displayed. We cannot avoid the essential issues  of our time and we certainly dare not compromise  our principles in order to stay in safe and shallow  seas, when rather we must become, as Dr. Torres  Bodet said yesterday, a fearless and intelligent  spokesman for the conscience of mankind. As a  very modest start in this direction, the United  States delegation proposes the following resolu-  tion :  Whereas the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations  has clear implications in every field of Unesco's  activity; and  Whereas this Declaration has particular relevance to  projects for teaching about the United Nations and  about international understanding in schools, and for  the production of press, radio and film materials; and  In accordance with the resolution adopted by the  General Assembly, inviting Specialized Agencies to do  their utmost to bring this Declaration to the attention  of their members,  The General Conference instructs the Director-
204    General to stimulate the dissemination of information  about this Declaration, particularly through the Pro-  jects Division of the Mass Communication Department;  to encourage the incorporation of the Declaration as  subject-matter in the teaching about the United Na-  tions which is given in schools; and to direct his  Programme Sections to employ the Declaration wher-  ever possible in their programme activities.  The Conference further instructs the Direclor-  General to report to the Fifth Session of the General  Conference on his compliance with the above instruc-  tions.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : Are there any  other speakers? I call upon the delegate of Iraq.  Dr. Matta AKRAWI (Iraq) : Mr. President, 1  rise to support the resolution for the acceptance  and dissemination of this truly historic and human  achievement in the history and destiny of man.  In doing so, I am quite conscious of the weak-  nesses that manifest themselves in human life,  and in the present sordid phenomena of the exist-  ing world. In doing so, I am quite conscious  of the injustices that are being committed in many  parts of the globe, and even in some parts of my  own nation; the discredit for that goes to those  who are perpetrating them. But that should not  prevent me or prevent us from seeing that, after  vears of toil over this great document, we are  now progressing beyond what past generations  have striven for. Beginning with the Magna  Carta, with the American Declaration of Inde-  pendence and the Declaration of the French Revo-  lution. we have had declarations about the freedom  of thought, the liberty of man, the right to hold  property, and security of the person. But today  we see that we are going beyond that; we have  today the right, formally expressed, to nationality;  the right to marry and to found a family; the  right to take part in the government of a country  —““the will of the people shall be the basis for  the authority of governments”; the right to social  security; the right to work and to choose freely  one’s employment; the right to form and to join  trade unions; the right to a standard of living  adequate for the health and well-being of families,  including food, clothing, housing, medical care  and the necessary social services; the right to  motherhood; the right of motherhood and child-  hood to special care and assistance; and—which  especially pleases me as a man who has dedicated  his life to education—the right to education, and  even the right to rest and leisure. All these are  rather new. They may have been adopted in one  or another country, but for a large number of  Members of the United Nations to undertake to  approve all this and to state it as a universal prin-  ciple for themselves—that is what is new. I have  the honour therefore, Mr. President, to second the  resolution presented by the United States of Ame-  rica.
205  Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Mr. President, Sirs, I have the honour to support  the resolution proposed by the head of the dele-  cation of the United States of America.  As he rightly said, this is an historic moment,  not only at this Conference, but in the history of  Unesco. We are at this moment the first of the  Specialized Agencies of the United Nations to act  upon this Declaration, made but a few hours ago  by the United Nations in assembly, and I wish in  speaking now to do what the two previous  speakers have done, namely, to draw the attention  of my fellow-delegates to certain points in this  historic document.  It a declaration of human rights. We  remember the saying of the ancient Greek who  spoke to a council of Greek soldiers and said :  “Strike me, but hear me”: and here in this Decla-  ration of Human Rights are the vision and the  elementary freedom which the toiling masses in  every country in the world have been asking and  demanding for very many centuries. Article 1  sets the tone for the whole document : all human  beings are born free and equal in dignity and
1S  rights—a very old principle, which has been  reiterated again by generations of men and  reiterated at our own conferences. Political  leaders all over the world have made similar  declarations throughout the centuries, but when  we have attempted to apply this declaration in  Article 1, there has very often come from the  cynics a shrug of the shoulders. It is something  upon which we cannot act, it is an example of  cloudy idealism and of visionary purpose which  we can never hope to attain. A modern English  poet has said : “There is no fault of the sun if  we wreck our world.” It is not the fault of the  sun if we wreck our world. It is fact our fault,  if we do not translate Article 1 into action among  the peoples and communities of the earth.  Another English poet has reminded us : “The  fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in our-  selves”, and I think that we must pay very special  attention in this great Declaration to the principle  and the vision laid down in the first line of  Article 1. Fundamental freedoms, throughout  the whole of this Declaration, are emphasized  again and again.  In Article 10 : no one shall be subjected to  arbitrary interference with his privacy, family,  home and correspondence, nor to attacks upon his  honour and reputation.  In Article 11 : everyone has the right to freedom  of movement and residence within the borders of  each State. Further, everyone has the right to  leave any country, including his own, and to  return to his country.  In Article 16 : everyone has the right to free-  dom of thought, conscience and religion.     These things, we will be told, are already known;  but I ask every delegation here, the representatives  of every nation throughout the world, to look to  their own nations, their own houses and see what  needs doing in order to fulfil the tenets of Arti-  cle 16. We can find black spots in every one of  our nations. We are apt to deny freedom of  thought, freedom of conscience and freedom of  religion; and so, going back to our countries after  this Conference—having affirmed, I hope unanim-  ously, our devoted support of this declaration of  rights—going back to our own countries, I hope  we shall strengthen our National Commissions and  say, each one of us, that we must put our own  houses in order in this respect.  Then, under Article 17, everyone has the right  to freedom of opinion and expression—that has  never been stated so completely, at any time in  history in any nation in the world. We have, in  the history of all our nations, persecuted indi-  viduals, persecuted communities because of their  unorthodox views, because they have rebelled  against the normal conventions of the age in  which they have lived; yet, looking back upon  those communities and upon those individuals,  we have learned that they have in fact been living  ahead of their time. They have been stressing a  code of morality and a form of government which  did not exist then, but which has come into being  because of their courage and because of their un-  orthodoxy. In our own time we can think, in  each of our countries, of men and women who  have defied convention, who have believed sin-  cerely in the right to freedom to express their  own creative ability, their art, their science, their  educational methods, their own individual ideals;  they have lived, and are living even today, ahead  of their time.  And then, in Article 23, everyone has the right  to education, which shall be free, that each indi-  vidual may communicate to every other the  thoughts of the spirit, the thoughts of the mind  which he holds.  Mr. President, Sirs, this is, as I have said, an  historic moment in the history of this Conference.  We, being the first Specialized Agency to vote on  this resolution, support unanimously and with  determination this Declaration of Rights, so pay-  ing to our troubled world our contribution of  what is wanted today in moral sanity. It is the  reiteration of first principles; it is the determin-  ation to see that in each of our countries those  principles become a living reality.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) :  delegate of Brazil.  I call on the  Professor P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I  need not repeat what has already been said to  vou so well. This crowns a long series of acts  of heroism, a long series of historical martyr-  doms, a long series of revolutions, in which man  has successively broken his chains to reach the  heights of freedom. I would merely like, Mr. Pre-  sident, to suggest that, to mark this solemn event,  we should, through unanimous applause, set this  assembly’s seal of approval on the proposal which  has been made to it. Will you, Mr. President,  permit this audience, which has followed our work  so faithfully throughout these long weeks, for once  to share in our joy and applaud, with us, the pro-  posal before the meeting?  Dr. Roberto De MENDOZA (Cuba) (Transla-  tion) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the dele-  gation of Cuba experiences as deep satisfaction as  that felt by the delegation of the United States  that this great Declaration has been approved in  the United Nations. Like other delegations, we  support the proposal with whole-hearted enthu-  siasm and as strongly as did the delegate of Brazil.  It is indeed a happy coincidence that at the end  of our work today we should receive news of an  event which so closely concerns Unesco’s work.  From the point of view of our continent, and as  a delegate of South America, I recognize with  satisfaction that this Declaration constitutes the  most important international document of our  time since the Charter of the United Nations.  After publication of the Charter, the Americas,  as a group, collaborated in its implementation,  and many of my colleagues (especially the new  Director-General of Unesco) will remember that  during the Bogota Conference a few months ago,  the American point of view on this question was  emphatically stated. 1 remember, too, that at the  first meeting of the Havana Conference, in which  the President of the International Court of Justice  and other distinguished jurists took part, this  theme of Human Rights was studied in its legal  aspects. We debated whether to limit ourselves  to a mere Declaration, or whether to incorporate  the principle in an international agreement. The  Cuban delegation therefore supports whole-  heartedly the proposal of the United States dele-  gation, not only because this Declaration con-  secrates the principles for which Unesco was  founded, but also because it lifts them onto the  international plane whereas they have hitherto  been expressed only in individual constitutional  documents. It is therefore an historic document,  an international recognition of the right to culture.  [ venture, in conclusion, in view of the great  value of this Declaration, to suggest that such an  important document should be included in the  final act of our Conference.
206          Professor P. RIVET (France) (Translation) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we  have reached a particularly solemn moment, and  [ shall not make a speech; our present action  speaks, I think, for itself. 1 only want to associate  the French delegation with the noble words spoken  by the United States delegate and the subsequent  speakers. The Conference would never under-  stand it, were France and the United States, with  their own Declarations of Human Rights, not to  set their seals to a text agreed upon by so many  countries and supplementing, on the social and  international plane, the great statements to which  humanity has in the past attached its hopes. May  the new Declaration become the charter of all  the nations which have joined Unesco and may  it lead towards a peaceful and better world in  consonance with Unesco’s ideal.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) (Translation)  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, Italy, as you all  know, 1s not a member of the United Nations  Organization. It is perhaps for this reason that  I speak now, because I think that our endorsement  of this document at this moment is made more  significant by the very fact that we are not a  Member of the United Nations.  Our representative took part in the preparatory  work on this document, of which we had the text  only recently. We studied it and found that it  conformed with our new Republican Constitution.  There is no contradiction, there are even points  of complete and textual concordance. This makes  our task very much easier; but even had there  not been this complete conformity, we should have  subscribed to this document, because of its great  moral value.  We are not here, gentlemen, in order to vote  on a new Constitution or on an instrument bind-  ing in law. This document can be made to con-  form with other Constitutions, but it has, of  course, no coercive character. It represents only  one of those acts of world unification which in  recent years have followed one upon the other and  represent successive stages in the process through  which a humanity that is tired of war is moving  towards final unity. I may compare this docu-  ment with those of the recent Inter-Parliamentary  Conference in Rome, the Conference of Interlaken,  and all those gatherings which have recently  brought together the various States of Europe and  the world and made us feel that we need interna-  tional legislation and even a federation of peoples  bound together by justice and truth. In that  sense the document on which we have to vote is  much more important than its separate clauses.  We can subscribe to them, for none of them con-  tradicts our national beliefs, and, even if they did,  we should still vote for this text, because of its
207  moral value, its universal character, its catholicity;  we want to impose upon a humanity which has  so long wasted itself in futile strife and is still  threatened by fratricidal warfare, uniform rules  which will establish the fundamental liberties of  the individual, his social and human rights. This  is how we in Unesco want to contribute to the  union of all nations in the world.  In that spirit, and with the enthusiasm of an  act of faith, we subscribe whole-heartedly to what  is proposed.  Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon) (Translation) :  Fellow-delegates, it is with joy that Lebanon states  its adherence to this historic Declaration of Human  Rights, a declaration worked out by a Commission  on which we were actively represented by  Dr. Charles Malek. By virtue of its traditions, its  Constitution and its politics, Lebanon is a country  of freedom, a country where human rights have  always been respected. A beacon of liberty in the  Middle East, Lebanon could not but participate  whole-heartedly in this international Declaration  of Human Rights. We hope, gentlemen, that this  historic declaration will not remain in the realm  of theory, but that in international practice, in  the conduct of international affairs, it will be  consecrated by deeds. That is the aim to which  the Lebanese Government and people will devote  themselves with all their strength.  M. Rodolfo BARON CASTRO (El Salvador)  (Translation) : Mr. President, fellow-delegates,  the delegation of El Salvador is sincerely happy to  associate itself with this proposal which, presented  in this form, will constitute an historical event,  not only in the life of this Organization but in the  progress of mankind.  My country has always fought zealously for free-  dom, and its attitude has always been clearly and  decisively in favour of the triumph of these prin-  ciples in international life. We wish to express  our adherence to these principles with all the fer-  vour shown by this assembly.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : I shall put to  the vote the resolution moved by the United States  delegation and, although this is not provided for  in the Rules of Procedure, I shall adopt the sug-  gestion of the Brazilian delegate and propose to  you a vote by acclamation.  The proposal was adopted by acclamation. (74)  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : 1 call upon  His Excellency Dr. Torres Bodet.
(74) In final form : Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  lution 8, p. 118. (See also Section IX, I, Chapter 8,  Resolution 8.1, p. 34.)  p l e s   “ a h a   T E s   |  a e
21  =            Dr. TORRES BODET (Translation) : Mr. Presi-  dent, delegates, although it is an obligation upon  the Director-General to discharge the functions  which the Conference has assigned to him by a  resolution, I think that the resolution you have just  passed is so important from the human point of  view, from the point of view of the essential rights  which Unesco has to promote in the world through  education, science and culture, that at {his  moment 1 would like, on behalf of the Office of  the Director-General, to tell you how happy the  Secretariat will be to do everything in its power  to comply with the recommendations you have  adopted. I am convinced, as I told you yesterday,  that Unesco’s most urgent duty is to defend the  moral rights of man. Man, that “thinking reed”,  as Pascal called him, a frail and vulnerable reed  but a reed having the capacity to think, is the  object of all our work, of all our hopes; he is our  sole preoccupation.  [ do not want to take up any more of your time,  but I want to tell you that with all his heart, with  all his strength, the Director-General will try to  make the mission with which vou have entrusted  us, one of Unesco's first concerns.  I was asked a few days ago whether | thought  that the means granted to Unesco by the govern-  ments were sufficient. Perhaps these people had  in mind the material means, and I said that the  material means were not perhaps very great in  view of the many tasks in hand, but that what |  was chiefly worried about were the moral means,  the moral possibilities of support for Unesco. The  United Nations have now provided Unesco with  an excellent point from which to start. I wanted  to emphasize that in the name of the Director's  office, and to assure you that we shall devote  ourselves entirely to the task that is set before  us.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) Before the  General Conference closes, I have been asked to  submit to it a few motions. I shall ask the speakers  to present them, and I call first on the head of  the Belgian delegation.
40. Vote of thanks to the Lebanese Govern-  ment and Press.  M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Transla-  tion) : Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  General Committee has asked me to come to the  rostrum to propose to the assembly a vote of  thanks to the Lebanese Government and the Leba-  nese press. We want to thank the Government  of Lebanon for the way it has welcomed us, and  we want to thank the Lebanese press for its favour-  able attitude towards the Conference and its mem-
08  bers. 1 suspect that the organizers of this  demonstration of thanks chose me as their  spokesman because, although I happen to belong  to a Government, I have never given up my work  as a journalist.  I have been asked to request you more par-  ticularly to pay your tribute to the President of  the Lebanese Republic, who at the outset wel-  comed us in a noble speech which nobody will  forget, and which may serve as an eloquent intro-  duction to the best of Unesco’s publications.  We want also to thank the Minister of Education  and of Foreign Affairs, who has presided over our  deliberations with so much authority and good  humour—two contrasting qualities, which have  strongly impressed the political veterans among  us.  I thank, at the same time, all the members of  the Government, particularly for their courage and  generosity in the financial provisions they made  for preparing this Conference on a very large scale  and organizing it in so exemplary a way.  We should certainly be ungrateful if we did  not here thank Monseigneur Maroun, the Peter  the Hermit of our peace crusade. 1 still remember  what he told us in Mexico City, in agreement with  M. Aboukhater, the Lebanese Ambassador to that  country, and I want to pay tribute to the patience  he has shown in convincing us. Even the most  reluctant must recognize today that he was right  in persevering.  [ should fail in my duty if I did not add a tri-  bute of gratitude to Syria, whose splendid hospi-  tality we have twice appreciated.  [Ladies and gentlemen, you will easily under-  stand that my last word will be to the press. |  venture to pay it a personal compliment on the  excellent standard of its technique. Very few  delegates escaped its attentions and in their name  | can say that the Lebanese press never once be-  trayed the confidence of those whom it inter-  viewed. That is a record, and we should be ready  to admit that even its style is often better than our  own. If we stayed here longer, we should end  by speaking Arabic.  For all these reasons 1 have the honour to ask  this assembly to pass the resolution which I shall  now read to you :  At the conclusion of its Third Session, held al Beirut  from 17 November to 11 December 1948,  The General Conference of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,  Deeply touched by the generous hospitality of the  Lebanese authorities,  Keenly alive to the interest shown by the people of  Lebanon in Unesco and its aims and ideals, an interest  which is evidence of the close kinship between Unesco  and traditional Lebanese aspirations,  Adopts the following resolutions :      The General Conference  Expresses  To His Excellency Sheik Bechara El-Khoury, Presi-  dent of the Republic of Lebanon,  To the members of the Government,  Specially to His Excellency Hamid Bey Frangie,  Minister for Foreign Affairs and Education,  Its deep gratitude  l'or their cordial invitation to Unesco to hold the  Third Session of its Conference at Beirut, for the un-  surpassable facilities they have furnished to Unesco,  enabling it to hold its meetings in the splendid  building specially erected for its reception, and for the  unstinting ‘help they have given to Unesco in every  direction, for the purpose of ensuring the organization  and success of the Conference;  Expresses further its gratitude to Monseigneur Ma-  roun for all his efforts towards the preparation and  organization of the Conference.  I shall now ask the President to put this  resolution to the vote.  The resolution was adopted by acclamation. (7°)  M. Camille HUYSMANS (Belgium) (Transla-  tion) : The second resolution is as follows :  The General Conference,  Recognizing the devoted collaboration extended to  Unesco by the Lebanese Press, both in the preparatory  stages of the Conference and throughout its work,  Thanks the members of the Lebanese Press for the  notice they have given to Unesco, for their ready re-  sponse to its appeal and for their wide publicizing of  the results of the Conference. It is through their help  that the public opinion of Lebanon and, beyond the  national frontiers, world opinion have been kept  informed from day to day of the progress of the  Conference and have been able to realize Unesco’s  contribution to the development of trustful relations  between the peoples and to the maintenance of peace.  The resolution was adopted by acclamation. (79)  The PRESIDENT (Translation) :  the delegate of India.  I call upon  Dr. Syud HOSSAIN (India) : Mr. President, the  motion that has just been carried by acclamation  needs no support. The sentiments of all of us  were sufficiently demonstrated by the manner in  which it was accepted. However, I feel that on  behalf of the delegation of India I should asso-  ciate myself with all that was said by the delegate  of Belgium, who preceded me. I feel I am echoing  the sentiments of all my fellow-delegates here  when I say we shall carry back from Beirut to  our respective countries the most vivid and grate-  [ul memories of our sojourn here. I have been  privileged to stay in this city for only a few days,  but I can sincerely say that, although I have
(75) In final form :  lution 9, I, p. 119.
(76) In final form  lution 9, II, p. 119.  Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  Volume TH, Section XIV. Reso-  attended a great many international conferences,  | have seldom found so cheerful an atmosphere,  such gracious hospitality and such universal  kindness, as I have enjoyed in this beautiful city  of Beirut. Nature has made of Lebanon a beauty-  spot for the world, and her own people have made  this great little country and this beautiful city in  which we are today into a focal point of the life  and leadership of the Arab world. I would like  finally to say that India has a deep interest in  expressing these sentiments, because, ever since  the suggestion was originally made that Beirut  should be the venue of this particular Unesco Con-  ference, India has consistently supported it. So  both personally and on behalf of my delegation I  would like to second the motion and to associate  myself and my delegation with the sentiments  that have been expressed.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : 1 call upon the  delegate of Norway.
41. Establishment of three Unesco Confer-  ence Fellowships for citizens of Leba-  non, in gratitude for Lebanon's contri-  bution to the Third Session of the  General Conference of Unesco.  Professeur Alf SOMMERFELT (Norway)  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, it was felt in Lon-  don in 1945, during the discussions on the Consti-  tution of Unesco, that the Organization ought to  meet annually in different countries. The idea  was not only to make Unesco known to the nations  of the world. It was also to enable the members  of the delegations, of the Executive Board and of  the Secretariat to become acquainted with the  people of the country where the Conference takes  place. It was a very great privilege for many of  us, last year, to meet the people of Mexico, as it  has been this year to live for some weeks among  the Lebanese. We shall leave with much regret  for the shortness of our stay. I am sure that we  shall all feel enriched by our experiences in  Lebanon and, I may add, in Syria.  We have been struck by the characteristics of  the Lebanese people, by their just pride in their  ancient civilization and in their newly-won  national liberty. At the time when the fore-  fathers of many of us were mere hunters and fish-  ermen, with primitive stone implements, people  here had built up great civilizations, the remains  of which we have admired in Beirut and elsewhere.  The international spirit which the people deve-  loped in ancient times is today as live as ever. We  have been moved by the extraordinary interest  taken in Unesco by the people here; we have  observed this interest in private, and also in
209               ET RE IR TE i a TE A TS EC ER       public; and I may say that the full galleries of the  main meeting-hall have borne witness to the  genuineness of this interest. We are happy to  know that Unesco’s aims and ideals are cherished  by the Lebanese people, and we are also happy to  have learned how hospitable and courteous these  people are. It is a people which takes great pride  in peaceful work. In order to show our appre-  ciation by something more than mere words, 1  have the honour to move the following resolution :  At the conclusion of its Third Session, which  opened at Beirut, Lebanon, on 17 November 1948,  The General Conference of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,  in gratitude to the people of Lebanon for their  hospitality, collaboration and interest in Unesco, its  aims and ideals,  and to contribute, in a small measure, to the  encouragement of Unesco’s programme and purposes  in Lebanon, seat of the Third Session of the General  Conference,  Resolves  that three fellowships be established, to be known  as Unesco Conference Fellowships, to be awarded to  qualified citizens of Lebanon for the pursuit of six  months’ study abroad in subjects related to the  Unesco programme, and instructs the Director-General  to make necessary budgetary adjustments for the above.  pupose fom the 1948 appropriations.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : The proposal  is adopted. (77)
42. Tribute to Dr. Julian Huxley.  The PRESIDENT (Translation) : Dr. Huxley  will be leaving the Organization tomorrow and I  have here a motion of thanks to him. I think,  however, that we cannot vote on this motion  without including in our tribute Mrs. Huxley, who  is present in this hall.  [ call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom.  Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) :  Mr. President, fellow-delegates, ladies and gent-  lemen, many formal tributes have been paid to  Dr. Julian Huxley. This is not another such. It  has been thought that the Conference should end  with an informal tribute to Dr. Huxley and his  wife, Mrs. Huxley.  In one of Shakespeare’s less-known tragedies,  an old Greek statesman says to a young man,  Troilus : “All's done, my lord’, and it is a very  crim moment in the play. We do not feel grim  upon this occasion, because we are quite certain  that Dr. Huxley would never agree; he would  never say ‘“All’s done”; a man of his intellectual
(77) In final form : Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  lution 10, p. 119.     calibre, of his world-wide reputation, a man of  his high principles and integrity would never  give way to any such lethargic notion; and 1 am  sure that in ending this Conference, and in saying  an administrative farewell to Dr. Huxley, we  are in fact quite sure he will go on playing a great  part in the world of science and letters, as he has  played for many years past, and particularly as  our Director-General. To have laid the foun-  dations of this Organization, and to have seen and  experienced this Third Conference—deemed the  best of the three from the point of view, I think,  of work done—that surely must gladden his heart  at this moment. But I am sure, ladies and gent-  lemen, Dr. Huxley would be the first to say that  the heat and the burden of the many trials which  he must have experienced as Director-General,  have only been possible to bear because of the  help and devotion of his wife. We have enjoyed,  therefore, not only the services of a great inter-  national intellectual figure; we have enjoyed the  services of his gracious and, if 1 may say so, very  beautiful wife.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The delegate  of Brazil.  Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Bra-  zil) (Translation): Mr. President, fellow-delegates,  Unesco is an Order and, like the old Orders, it  has a right to its knights and its shield. Julian  Huxley is our first knight, and 1 hope that in his  genealogical tree the branch reserved for him will  carry the emblem of Unesco. In the name of  this assembly 1 want to propose a resolution  which will carry a tribute of our admiration and  our gratitude :  At the close of the Third Session of the General  Conference, and with it of the term of office of  Dr. Julian Huxley, first Director-General of Unesco,  The General Conference renders tribute to Dr. Hux-  ley’s brilliant contribution to Unesco’s development  during the Preparatory Commission period and in the  first two years of the Organization’s existence,  If today Unesco rests on firm foundations and 1s  beginning, through concrete achievements, to meet the  hopes founded on it throughout the world by men  desiring the good, this is due, to a large extent, to  the indefatigable pioneer activity of its first Director-  General.  In recording its affectionate gratitude to Dr. Julian  Huxley, the General Conference is convinced that so  great a figure in the realms of thought as he, will  continue, with Unesco itself, to serve the cause of  Peace by striving for progress in Education, Science  and Culture.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The proposal is  adopted. (**)
(78) In final form : Volume II, Section XIV, Reso-  lution 11, p. 120.
210  a rT, Le ER ce LL = ni  de    Il  li  h.  LI  ti  S|  Ol  I'(  th  ll  tl  dl  Il  CI       Dr. Julian HUXLEY : Mr. President, delegates,  this is a very moving occasion. 1 do not propose  to add anything to what I have already said  during this Conference, except that 1 am very  deeply touched and that I am very grateful for  your sincere and gratifying tribute to Mrs. Hux-  ley, without whom I could never have done what  [ have done. I! know that I have made mistakes,  | know that there have been plenty of short-  comings; on the other hand, I also know—and  that makes me happy—that Unesco has achieved  real progress and growth in these three years.  The experience of these three years has sometimes  been, I must confess, rather overwhelming. It is,  as my successor will find, a very hard task to have  to think about problems in all the higher acti-  vities of the human mind, about the applications  of science and culture, as well as about the admi-  nistrative day-to-day problems, and the personal  problems that are always cropping up. One has  to be ready to switch one’s mind not merely from  one problem to another, but from one type of  problem to another type, a dozen or twenty times  a day. But though it has, as I say, sometimes  been rather overwhelming, it has also been most  enriching. It is an experience for which I per-  sonally shall always be grateful.  I leave this post, I must confess, with a full  heart, but also in the very deepest assurance that  it is left in the competent and devoted hands of  Dr. Torres Bodet, who 1 am sure will carry on  the development of Unesco at even greater speed  than that which Il have been able to achieve in  these first three years. And I also leave in the  hope and confidence that I shall in the future be  able to be associated with Unesco in some of its  adventures. Thank vou, thank you all very much.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  delegate of the United States of America.  Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Ame-  rica): Mr. President, I have one brief final reso-  lution.  This Conference, during the past three weeks,  has had the privilege of hearing many great and  inspiring addresses. However, the high spot of  the meeting, I believe, was yesterday, in the  speeches made in connexion with the introduction  of the new Director-General and the subsequent  remarks of the retiring Director-General. I believe  that those two speeches should be memorialized  in a special pamphlet published by Unesco. I  therefore have the honour to move :  That the addresses delivered by Dr. Julian Huxley  and by Dr. Torres Bodet, at the sixteenth plenary  meeting of the Third Session of the General Confer-  ence, be published by Unesco as a pamphlet as quickly
211  as possible and be given the widest possible distribu-  tion, and that if necessary, the funds of this purpose  be made available from the 1948 appropriations.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): I propose the  adoption of the resolution just presented by the  United States delegate, by acclamation.  The proposal is adopted. (79)
43. Closing speech of the Third Session of  the General Conference.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Ladies and  gentlemen, in a few moments the Third Session  of the General Conference of Unesco will close.  Beirut, which has extended to it an enthusiastic  hospitality, will return to its normal aspect when  the forty-four flags which symbolize the living  presence of a large part of the world no longer  float in our sky. Lebanon has greeted you, gent-  lemen, so warmly that today it feels something  of the sadness we used to feel as children when  a family party came to an end.  But it would be childish to linger over these  considerations, That is not why I want to speak  to you for the last time. 1 want, in the name of  all of us, to express my satisfaction at the success  of this Conference. l will not remind you of our  hesitating preparations. 1 will merely emphasize  the contrast between the uncertainties and fears  of the preparatory weeks and the atmosphere of  security, confidence and sympathy which prevails  today. That sympathy has shown itself, first of  all, in the interest with which our country has  worked for this Organization. Twenty-two thou-  sand permanent cards were distributed, 20,000 invi-  tations were sent out for lectures in the evening,  and more than 60,000 people have already  visited the exhibitions. The Lebanese press has  devoted much space to accounts of the meetings,  and has also used all the means at its disposal  for making Unesco known to the public. But  it 1s within the Conference that this atmosphere  of confidence was felt most strongly. The  cordiality of our discussions has never failed,  and we have established that in the field of edu-  cation, science and culture no serious obstacle  can prevent our collaboration.  At the beginning of this Session 1 expressed my  pleasure that the Conference would give us the  opportunity of becoming better acquainted. From  this point of view, our exchanges have un-  doubtedly borne fruit. The delegates from the Arab  States did not need telling that Unesco is not a  political organization or an organization covering
(79) In final form  Resolution 12, p. 120.     Volume II, Section XIV,       western imperialism, but they did perhaps need  to learn that it was not a foreign institution from  the heart of which they were excluded. They are  fully convinced, today, that Unesco is the gather-  ing of a big international family dealing with  matters of the mind, and in the light of that  knowledge they have resolved to re-evaluate their  rich patrimony so that all mankind may enjoy it.  They will try to recover the dynamism which in  the past allowed Arab culture to assimilate the  most diverse cultures, in days when it extended  from India to the Atlantic; and they will be care-  ful to consider their own problems from a uni-  versal point of view.  The other delegates have been able to see that  the East, reputed to be mysterious, is not im-  penetrable, If it has its secrets, it provides, as our  President of the Republic has said, an atmosphere  of friendliness and tolerance.  The dominating impression in all quarters is  that understanding is not only possible, but  already exists on essential points, and that the  habit of working together will remove the last  few difficulties of detail.  It is of the highest importance at this moment  to preserve the results obtained, and the Arab  countries will try to put the stimulus given at this  Conference to good effect. It is to be regretted  that the Middle East Cultural Co-operation Office  has not been established in the East itself, but  premature work is doomed to failure; we must  await a favourable time, and meanwhile will do  our best to make the Middle East liaison service  in Paris a success.  Lebanon is determined to embody in stable  institutions the spirit which has animated our
9  A     Our first work 1s the execution of a  We  believe that the regional foundation of a centre  for translation will help, in large measure, our  meetings.  Lebanese project which is dear to Unesco.  cultural exchanges and increase international  understanding.  We want to do more than this : we hope to  see, one day soon, in this very building, a Leba-  nese university, whose spirit will be the spirit of  Unesco. While giving the problems of the East  a preponderant place in its work, it will affirm’  our sincere and disinterested wish to work for  the common good of the peoples. By its appeal  to professors throughout the world, it will, we  hope, be a factor in international understanding.  When this university has been established, we  think it will be easier to keep the presence of  Unesco alive within us.  In closing this Session, which promises to be  so rich in fruits, I want to voice Lebanon’s gra-  titude for the tributes which have been showered  on us. I want everyone to take away from Leba-  non memories of what Lebanon would wish to  give : the clearness of its air, its beautiful  scenery, the pure silhouette of its mountains and,  above all, the friendship of its inhabitants. I also  hope that when you leave our shores one impres-  sion may prevail over all others, and acquire the  force of a conviction—that of having accomplished  a pilgrimage.  And now, gentlemen, I have the honour to  declare the Third Ordinary Session of the General  Conference of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization closed.  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.  oo