—   —   the Mexico City Conference in the programme for Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out  Human and Social Relations (document 2C/132, that the Agenda of the Conference made no pro-  Volume II, p. 25). vision for such a meeting.  Mr. Cowell wondered whether those two |  projects should be divorced or whether they The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Cowell.  Soul, 0, he conrary, be helped Sorconiract à Mr. HOLCROFT (New Zealand), seconded by t  % Mr. NELSON (Australia), Dr. SASSEN (Nether- |  | | | lands) and M. FEBVRE (France), asked that the  Dr. AWAD (Egypt), Mr. LELAND (United following resolution should be put to the vote : | {  States of America) and Professor KABIR (India) |  Since it is impossible to discuss each of the resolu-  tions contained in the documents which have been  studied, but since the discussion which has just taken  emphasized the similarity between the two texts;  they thought they should be studied at one and
8 1 à. € | } ; TNE )e ge i -  the same time, nd that it would perhaps be well place has shown that the delegates in the Sub- t  to arrange for a joint meeting with representatives Commission on Social Sciences are agreed that the |  of philosophy and humanistic studies. project on ‘tensions affecting international under-  standing’ should be approved, the Sub-Commission  proposes the adoption of the resolutions presented in S  M. KABALAN (Lebanon) said that studies of document 3C/5 (page 71 and following pages) and of V  legal systems or cultural life should be undertaken document 3C/PRG/6.1. q  in relation to the human individual and not as | b  part of ready-made systems, since they varied Dr. AWAD (Egypt) was sorry that so short a  from one country to another. He described his Lime had been Set aside for the study of such BH n  own experience when studying the problem of the impaoriant question, and that Subjects ho Jess  re-education of juvenile offenders in Spain, France important, such as population, should have been A  and England, and showed that, while the object left undealt with. | A  was the same in all cases, the methods used were The resolution proposed by the delegate of New | n  necessarily different in each of those three coun- Zealand was adopted unopposed. W  tries. He would be glad to see a joint meeting S  arranged. (The meeting rose at 7 p.m.) tl  | if
0  Ie  SECOND MEETING ;  Thursday, 25 November 1948, at 4 p.m. 0  n  u  w . n A TAT 1 “ = )  Chairman: Mr. F. S. DUNN (United States of America) j  Ce  International Organizations in the Social tical Science Association. The Secretary, Dr. Goor- ‘|  : : ‘  Sciences (document 3C/PRG/6.2). maghtigh, who lived in Brussels, was getting  together the experts in other countries, with a p  ; . or . À . ! . . . 17  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) did not wish to view to holding a conference in 1949 for the estab-  give a definition of social sciences, which would lishment of the proposed Association. 4  satisfy no one; but those which were not men- Q  / | :  ho!  tioned anthropology, Bistors, aNiopegengiaphy Dr. FARAG (Egypt) congratulated the Secre- hi  etc.), were naturally also considered by the Secre- tariat, but would prefer it to broaden its concept  tariat. of social sciences to take in the legal sciences,  Political Sei | and, in particular, private international law. la  Political Science (pages 1 and 2) Unesco should help towards the reconstruction of a  Dr Brodersen was happy to state that, in Sep- the pre-war international legal associations, which O1  tember, since document 3C/PRG/6.2 was written, had been very hard hit. CC  an international group of political scientists had W  met in Paris. They had set up a small steering Professor VERONESI (Italy) expressed the same | to  fo  committee to arrange for an international Poli- wish and quoted the example of the International
344         -—   w—   EL  a —   —   W —   m u   |  Institute for the Codification of Private Law. It  had been a flourishing international association,  but was finding it difficult to regain its former  footing. It would hold its next Congress in 1949  on the subject of the unification of law. Pro-  fessor Veronesi wished the title of the document  to be changed to “... Social and Legal Sciences”.  The CHAIRMAN requested the delegate of Italy  to defer his recommendation until the section on  law came up for discussion.  M. FEBVRE (France) paid tribute to the Secre-  tariat for its concise and informative document.  but regretted that it gave no place to history. He  asserted that no social question could be properly  studied without being illustrated by history.  which was alone able to explain even economic  questions. If experts on various disciplines were  brought together for the study of a social problem,  the historian should not be overlooked, for his  new point of view would nearly always broaden  the study of the problem. He noted, however,  that by a curious inconsistency, history was  included in Unesco’s programme, but the Inter-  national Council on Historical Sciences was treated  within the Division of Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies. He thought that history was out of place  there and should come under the Social Sciences:  if there was to be any change in Unesco’s internal  organization, he hoped that history would be  restored to its proper place.  M. FEBVRE (France) warned the Sub-Com-  mission against the recently established “public  opinion research” bodies mentioned in the docu-  ment, not because of some of their obvious fail-  ures, but because it was to be feared that the  publicity given to some surveys might become  a means of influencing public opinion; in certain  cases, that might run counter to Unesco’s aims.  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) explained that  if not all the branches of social science (anthro-  pology, history, geography, etc.) were mentioned  in the document, that was no reflection of the  philosophy of the Division or of the author, but  was mainly due to the working conditions of the  Secretariat. There could be a re-shuffle to restore  history to the Division of Social sciences.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) congratu-  lated the Secretariat on its clear document. He  added that a lengthy discussion could take place  on the definition of social sciences without any  conclusion being reached, but, if practical results  were to be achieved, he thought it best to keep  to the sciences dealt with in the document. As  for M. Febvre’s remarks, Professor Sommerfelt  reminded members that historians would be  represented at a meeting of the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies,  to be held in Brussels in January 1949.  Economics (page 2)  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) said that the  Secretariat had adopted the same procedure for  economics as for political science. On the ini-  tiative of the “Association des économistes de  langue francaise’, the Secretariat had gathered  together some of the world’s leading economists  on 10 November 1948. Professor Haberler had  been able to come from the United States of Amer-  ica to represent the American Economic Asso-  ciation. The conference had finally voted for the  establishment of a steering committee for the for-  mation of an International Association of Eco-  nomists.  Sociology (pages 2 and 3)  Dr. Brodersen said that the same remarks  applied to sociology. In mid-October, an inter-  national meeting of sociologists had been held  at Unesco and had prepared excellent resolutions;  the Norwegian sociologist, Rinde, had been elected  Secretary of the Preparatory Committee of the  future International Association of Sociologists.  M. KABALAN (Lebanon) said he would like to  know what would be the trend of future asso-  ciations, for, at the moment, many schools held  different points of view on the content of sociology.  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) indicated that  that question was closely bound up with the study  which the Secretariat had recently been carrying  out on the methods and techniques used by the  different schools of political science. An attempt  would be made to synthesize the different methods.  A similar policy should be tried out in the field  of sociology.  Psychology (page 3)  Mr. KLINEBERG (Secretariat) reported :
1. that a meeting of psychologists had been  held that summer in Edinburgh, for the purpose  of forming an International Association of Psycho-  logy Societies. The psychologists had declared  that psychology was an exact as well as a social  science, and that their new body could accord-  ingly become a member of the International  Council of Scientific Unions:
2. in connexion with the tensions project.  Mr. Klineberg had attended the International  Congress on Mental Health in London, at which       the establishment of the World Federation for  Mental Health had been considered. He asked  Dr. Fl-Kholy, who was a member of its Executive  Council, to say a few words.  Dr. EL-KHOLY (Observer for the World Fede-  ration of Mental Health) thanked Unesco for the  assistance it had given in the matter of the estab-  lishment of the important World Federation for  Mental Health and for the contract which had  been signed between the two bodies. The new  Federation would be able to render valuable  assistance to the Specialized Agencies of the United  Nations.  Administrative Sciences (Public Administration)  (page 3)  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) pointed out that  the International Institute of Administrative  Sciences went back as far as 1930. Unesco had  signed an agreement with the Institute in Novem-  ber 1948 to last until 1950. The Institute had  undertaken a study on “The participation of the  Administrations of Member States in international  organizations.  Law (page 3)  Dr. Brodersen recalled that, upon the request  of the Social Sciences Section, Professor J. Lam-  bert had prepared a study on “The place of law  in Unesco’s programme” for the Mexico City  Conference. Although the project had been sup-  ported by France and Poland, it was rejected by  the Conference, and questions relating to law  were withdrawn from the programme. However,  comparative law was not entirely excluded from  Unesco, for, in the Copyright Division, a very  close study was being made of that question and  the Department was following its work with very  great interest.  certain studies on tensions overlooked.  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) thanked Dr. Broder-  sen for not excluding comparative law, for it  might make a valuable contribution towards better  international understanding. She would like the  example of Scandinavian countries to be followed,  where lawyers had come together to study laws  on marriage and children. She stated that she  belonged to two international groups of lawyers  (one of them a women’s organization), and that  excellent work was being done.  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) observed that, of  the social sciences, law was the best organized on  the international level. There were numerous law  associations of very diverse character.  Nor were the legal aspects of  Dr. FARAG (Egypt) supported the remarks  made by the delegate of Denmark and emphasized  that law united the peoples of the world; the asso-  ciations in question should, therefore, be given  assistance. Many countries were still cut off from  each other from the scientific point of view and  were not vet receiving legal documents published  during the war. An effort should be made to  restore international law associations.  Mrs. CHATTOPADHYAYA (India) agreed with  the previous speakers that Unesco should make an  effort to promote private international law. She  said that laws on marriage, covering human  relations within the family, should be codified  on an international level, as should laws relating  to children.  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) replied that  Unesco would have a difficult task, as there were  so many associations that they could not all be  given assistance. In addition, their aims should  not be too far removed from those of Unesco.  There were other means of helping them : for  instance, Unesco had convened a Committee of  Experts on Social Sciences, which had gone into  the question of documentation and the most  suitable means of co-ordinating the publication of  abstracts. The publication by Unesco of an Inter-  national Bulletin of Social Sciences might also  make some contribution to the work of Interna-  tional Law Associations.  M. KABALAN (Lebanon) suggested that Unesco  should help to establish National Committees on  Comparative Law.  Professor VERONESI (Italy) and Dr FARAG  (Egypt) supported that suggestion, as they  thought it desirable that a recommendation to  that effect should be made to Member States.  M. KABALAN (Lebanon) then submitted a  motion proposing that the Programme and Budget  Commission should be recommended to ask the  General Conference to take all necessary steps to  establish a body, under the sponsorship of Unesco,  to provide liaison between the various national  centres in Member States for the study of legal  problems with international implications.  A short discussion followed, during which  Dr. FARAG (Egypt) stated that his delegation had  submitted a very similar proposal on 20 November
1948 (document 3C/14).  The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the fact that  the Sub-Commission on Social Sciences could not
346  -  —   —   — —   d  W  tu         -  —   —   b l u   —     discuss a proposal which had already been sub-  mitted to the Programme and Budget Commission.  In the circumstances, M. KABALAN (Lebanon)  withdrew his proposal.  International Relations (page 4)  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) stated that  Unesco had established close relations with the  International Studies Conference, by a contract  expiring in June 1949.  M. FEBVRE (France) asked for information on  the renewal of the contract, and was told by  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) that negotiations  would be undertaken with a view to drawing up  a new contract.  Population Research (page 4)  Dr. Brodersen explained that the International  Union for the Scientific Investigation of Popu-  lation Problems had also offered to study a few  aspects of tensions problems; a draft contract  would be submitted to the Executive Board.  Statistics (page 4)  The CHAIRMAN observed that the International  Statistical Institute had asked Unesco for financial  assistance. In that connexion, the United States  delegation proposed (document 3C/34) to insert  in Chapter 5 of the Programme (Human and  Social Relations), the following general instruc-  tion :  The Director-General is instructed to assist and  promote education in statistics, and to that end to  make a grant-in-aid to the International Statistical  Institute.  Dr. BRODERSEN (Secretariat) emphasized that  the Institute was concerned not only with statis-  tics in the strict sense, but also with the teaching  of statistics and the intellectual training of statis-  ficians, in accordance with Unesco’s aims.  Dr. ROBBINS (Canada) supported the proposal.  He was himself a statistician and in a position to  know that there was a very serious shortage of  statisticians, who were badly needed in interna-  tional organizations. The ranks would therefore  have to be filled. He wished the following words  to be added to the resolution :  ... for 1949, if a suitable agreement with that Insti-  tute is reached.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) sup-  ported the addition.
347  The draft resolution (document 3C/34) and the  proposed addition were adopted unanimously.  The whole of document 3C/PRG/6.2, with pro-  gramme resolution 5.9 and the work plan and  budget related thereto (appropriation line III, 5.A)  was adopted unanimously.  The Vice-Chairman, Mr. Holcroft (New Zea-  land) then took the Chair.  Other Business.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) wished  to re-open the discussion which had begun at the  first meeting on document 3C/PRG/6.3 and reso-  lutions 5.112 and 5.3 in document 3C/5 (“Ten-  sions’ and “Humanistic aspects of culture”). He  was very surprised at a resolution which had been  passed on them, and which seemed to relate the  two studies. He did not deny that there was a  certain relation between them, but thought it an  unfortunate decision to modify the working me-  thod adopted for a project while it was actually  under consideration. It had been decided at the  Mexico City Conference that the humanistic aspects  of culture (resolution 5.3) should be studied  jointly with the tensions project. That did not  imply that the working methods for both studies  should be the same and, still less, that the study  of an important project which was already well  under way should be radically altered.  The delegate of the United States of America  therefore proposed the following amendment :  That the continuation of the study of the humanistic  aspects of culture be approved and that the members  of the Secretariat charged with its conduct be  requested to continue to consult with members of  the staff engaged in the study of tensions, on the  progress of both projects.  Mr. KLINEBERG (Secretariat) was of the opi-  nion that the Sub-Commission had no authority  to vote on such an important change; he held  that a recommendation regarding the work of the  Secretariat, and not a new resolution, was being  brought up.  After discussion, Dr. McKEON (United States of  America) withdrew his amendment, on the under-  standing that the Sub-Commission would recom-  mend that the distinction between the two pro-  jects 5.112 and 5.3 would be more clearly stated  in the working programme and that the Secre-  tariat would try to get the best results from close  collaboration in the implementation of the two  projects.   Study of the growth of Fascist movements.  Dr. McKEON (United States of America) then  passed to the second question, regarding the study  of the development of Fascist movements, sum-  med up in the form of a recommendation in docu-  ment 3C/74 :  The Director-General is instructed :  To convene a conference of experts to study and  report on the techniques and devices used to bring  about Fascism in Italy and Germany in the period  preceding the second world war, including a study  of the various stages in which symptoms of growing  Fascist tendencies become apparent. The purpose of  this conference is to provide a synthesis and inter-  pretation of existing knowledge regarding the pro-  gressive development of Fascist movements, as a basis  for early recognition of such movements in the future;  To provide for the publication of the results of this  study and to consider how they may be given the  widest possible publicity.  Dr. McKeon thought it advisable to make a  study of such problems, as a considerable body  of literature was appearing on the subject and  might throw valuable light on the causes of  tensions.  Mr. KLINEBERG (Secretariat) thought that, if  the Sub-Commission approved the resolution, the  Secretariat could easily include it in the pro-  gramme, for the study of aspects of aggressive  nationalism was already part of the tensions pro-  gramme  The United States resolution was seconded by  Mme SAUNTE (Denmark) and was adopted una-  nimously.  The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m.  SUB-COMMISSION ON EXCHANGE OF PERSONS  FIRST MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Moustafa Bey AMER (Egypt)  Election of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  In accordance with suggestions made by the  Nominations Committee, the Sub-Commission  elected the following officers :  Chairman : Dr. Moustafa Bey Amer (Egypt);  Vice-Chairman : Dr. John E. Robbins (Canada);  Rapporteur : M. Hans Kjems (Denmark).  Adoption of the Agenda.  The provisional Agenda (document 3C/PRG/
7.3) was adopted.  Needs, opportunities and possibilities in the  international exchange of persons, and  problems in the administration of fellow-  ships (document 3C/PRG/7.1 and 7.2).
348  Resolutions 2.12 to 2.123.  Mr. CARTER (Head of the Department of  Exchange of Persons) stressed the fact that one  of the principal activities of Unesco in the field  of exchange of persons during 1948 had been the  development of its clearing-house functions. The  first three and a half pages of the working paper  were devoted to eliciting the views of delegations  on the whole problem of the collection and  dissemination of information by Unesco on  exchange of persons activities, with a view to  aiding Member States in planning and promoting  fellowship programmes. In the course of 1948  the Secretariat had drawn up a world handbook  on international fellowships, scholarships and  related opportunities, which was at the moment  being printed. The handbook had been based on  information received in reply to a questionnaire  sent out by Unesco in May, 1948, to which answers  had been received from some twenty countries.