in the street; the scheme proposed was a method  of informing the general public, and wag In  no way to be compared with the Nobel prizes  or with the Pulitzer prizes in the United States  of America.  Mr. HOLLAND (United States of America)  (Rapporteur) pointed out that the project could  more suitably be included in Chapter 4 of the  programme (Cultural Questions).  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  took the view that national susceptibilities made  it unadvisable to incorporate the resolution in the  programme.  Dr. ROBBINS (Canada) suggested that the  Commission should postpone consideration of the  resolution, pending the submission of a report  by the Sub-Commission on Cultural Questions.  Agreed.  Suggestions for implementing the pro-  gramme in clearing-house activities and  adult education (page 5).  It was decided that the suggestions made by  the Sub-Commission on Education, on which no  special comment had been made, should be for-  warded to the Director-General.  Dr. AKRAWI (Iraq) brought up the question  of auxiliary languages which had been discussed  in the Sub-Commission on Education. (8?)  FOURTH     Supported by Amin Moursi Bey KANDIL  (Egypt), he explained that, in the name of funda-  mental education, foreign languages had often  been imposed on the natives of certain countries  to the detriment of the local tongue.  In reply, the CHAIRMAN said that the sug-  gestions would be noted and forwarded to the  Director-General.  Teaching of the history and literature of  Eastern peoples.  In a letter to the Chairman of the Programme  and Budget Commission the delegate of Afghan-  istan had asked that the Director-General should  be instructed to recommend to Members States  the inclusion in secondary school textbooks of  special chapters on the history and literature of  the peoples of the East.  The proposal was supported by Mr. RIDLING  (New Zealand).  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Director-  General should be recommended to refer the  question to the Division responsible for the  revision of school textbooks.  The suggestion was approved.  With the foregoing amendments, the whole of  the Education programme (document 3C/5,  Chapter 3) was adopted.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of reports of Sub-Com-  missions (continuation).  (d) Natural Sciences (documents 83C/PRG/5.4  and 3C/PRG[5.5). ‘  Dr. NEEDHAM (United Kingdom) (Rapporteur  of the Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences)
(32) See summary record of the third meeting of  the Sub-Commission on Education, pp. 317 and 318.     presented the reports of the Sub-Commission’s two  meetings.  As there were no comments on the reports as a  whole, the CHAIRMAN suggested a detailed  consideration of them, item by item.  Resolutions contained in document 3C/PRG/5.4.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the  resolution proposed by the delegation of the United  Kingdom (document 3C/PRG/5.4, page 2),         relating to resolution 6.1 (Field Science Co-opera-  tion Offices) in document 3C/5.  Baron Van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) supported  the resolution and urged the importance of  increasing the staff in the Field Science Co-  operation Offices, since they were one of the most  effective instruments for international collabora-  tion.  The resolution was adopted.  Dr. MONGE (Peru) submitted the draft resolu-  tion contained in document 3C/32 and the amend-  ment (document 3C/59) to the draft budget  for 1949. The former suggested that the sympo-  sium on high altitude biology, planned by the  Latin-American Scientific Conference, should be  held at Lima, and the latter that the sum of  $225,426 proposed for regional Field Science Co-  operation Offices should be increased by $10,000  to allow for the organization of symposia on  subjects of particular concern to individual  centres.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was quite prepared  to assist the symposium on high altitude biology  as far as possible, but he did not understand why  the delegate of Peru was asking for the transfer  of a sum of $10,000 for Field Science Co-opera-  tion Offices.  Upon the suggestion of Mr. EISENHOWER  (United States of America), it was decided, by  thirteen votes to eleven, to refer the amendment  proposed in document 3C/59 to the Budget Sub-  Commission.  The CHAIRMAN decided to defer consideration  of the draft resolution in document 3C/32, which  did not appear in the report of the Sub-Commis-  sion on Natural Sciences, until the end of the  meeting. He then put to the vote the United  States resolution on page 3 of document
3C/PRG/5.4.  The resolution was adopted unanimously.  Resolutions contained in document 3C/PRG/5.5.  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the reso-  lution on page 4 of document 3C/PRG/5.5,  providing for an increase in the appropriation for  international scientific unions.  Professor KABIR (India) drew special attention  to the wording of the end of the resolution :  “ the increase to be obtained not from reduction  of other programme activities, but from savings  | a ~ x - A -  ue A Bt 2 (Tel. ME TA 1)     which it is believed could be made in the admini-  strative expenses of the Organization”.  It was unanimously decided to refer the reso-  lution to the Budget Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN then took up the resolution  relating to the establishment of an International  Institute of the Arid Zone (pages 4-6 of document
3C/PRG/5.5).  M. PERRIN (France) strongly supported the  proposal, which was one of Unesco’s practical  projects; he thought it necessary to increase the  budgetary provision for the work.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it possible  to set aside a sum of $12,000, from the budget  appropriations, instead of the $8,000 provided for  in the resolution. He considered it essential that  the Commission should first decide on the prin-  ciple of establishing an International Institute of  the Arid Zone, after which the proposal should be  referred to the Budget Sub-Commission.  Having regard to the Director-General’s sugges-  tion, the CHAIRMAN divided the resolution into  two parts. He put to the vote the first part  (down to “... by the International Union of Theo-  retical and Applied Mechanics”), dealing with the  principle of the creation of such an Institute.  The first part of the resolution was adopted  unanimously.  the The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on  second part of the resolution.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) supported the Direc-  tor-General’s suggestion and proposed referring  that part of the resolution to the Budget Sub-  Commission. However, he thought it unwise to  specify either the year at the end of which a com-  mittee of experts and delegates of the Specialized  Agencies would submit a report, or the date for  convening an international conference.  M. PERRIN (France) suggested maintaining the  original wording of the resolution, leaving it for  the Budget Sub-Commission to alter the proposed  figure if it thought fit.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, in the light of the  observations of the Australian delegate, proposed  an amended text as follows :  . that a committee of experts and delegates of the  Specialized Agencies be called as quickly as practicable  to report on the utility, programme and structure of  an International Institute of the Arid Zone, with a  view to the calling of an International Conference  in 1950 or as soon thereafter as possible.
00     Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) said that the Director-  General's text was perfectly in keeping with his  proposal.  Professor KABIR (India) also supported the  Director-General’s amendment; he thought it pre-  mature to specify the date of the international  conference, as the time needed by the committee  of experts and delegates of the Specialized Agen-  cies for drawing up its report could not be deter-  mined beforehand.  Sir Harold SPENCER JONES (United Kingdom)  agreed with the delegate of India and supported  the proposed amendment.  M. PERRIN (France) felt that the words ‘‘as  quickly as practicable...” and “... as soon there-  after as possible” were rather vague.  The amended text was adopted by eighteen  votes to six.  Scheme for a symposium on high altitude  biology (document 3C/32).  The draft resolution submitted by the delega-  tion of Peru was adopted unanimously.  The CHAIRMAN, on behalf of the Commission,  thanked the delegate of Peru for his offer to the  Conference for the symposium on high altitude  biology to be held at Lima.  Proposed International Computation Centre  (document 8C/19).  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the pro-  posal of the United States delegation regarding the  establishment of an ‘International Computation  Centre”.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) felt sure that pure  science was the natural ally of applied science. For  several years there had been two institutes in Italy :  an Institute of Higher Mathematics for pure  research and an Institute of Mathematics for the  applications of calculus. He therefore supported  the proposal put forward by the United States  delegation.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) had no doubt of the  value of the project, but had some misgivings  about its budgetary implications. An appropria-  tion of $8,000 to $10,000 would apparently be  required, and that would entail a reduction in the  Section’s budget, unless the sum could be transfer-  red from another chapter of the general budget.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered the pro-  ject to be of great scientific interest and closely  related to the broader issue of international  laboratories, which was to be examined in colla-  boration with the United Nations. A committee  of experts, on which Unesco would be represented,  was to meet at Lake Success in February :
(1) to consider and prepare a scheme for the  establishment of an International Computation  Centre, for action in 1950 if reports were fav-  ourable;
(2) to commend to the United Nation's com-  mittee of experts on international laboratories the  great urgency and high priority which should be  given to the project.  Though the delegate of Australia was right in  considering the budgetary implications, the  Director-General felt that his estimates were some-  what excessive. He finally proposed an amend-  ment leaving Unesco the responsibility of setting  up a centre for 1950 and recommending that the  proposed committee of experts should give the  project high priority.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America),  though he was in favour of the Director-General's  amendment, observed that, as it was uncertain  what attitude the United Nations would adopt in  the matter, it would be preferable for the Unesco  Secretariat to undertake an immediate study of the  problem along the lines indicated.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL then proposed the  following text, which was approved by the delegate  of the United States :  The Director General is instructed :
(1) to prepare plans leading to action in 1950, in  the event of a favourable report on the establishment  of an International Computation Centre;
(2) to recommend to the Commission of Experts  on International Laboratories, to be set up by the  United Nations, the great urgency and high priority of  this project.  The text was adopted.  International Conference to study the estab-  lishment of a universal standard of musical  pitch (document 3C/31).  The CHAIRMAN considered that, as the draît  resolution submitted by the Austrian delegation  related to cultural questions, it should be held over  until those questions came up for discussion.  Agreed.
206            Palermo Mathematical Circle.  M. SAGLAM (Turkey) wished to draw the Com-  mission’s notice to the urgency of assisting the  “Palermo Mathematical Circle”, a very old inter-  national association (with some eight hundred  members) whose library had been damaged.  Immediate assistance would be needed to save the  unprotected books and reviews and to help the  review to resume publication.  The CHAIRMAN thought that the Commission  should note the suggestion, but that nothing more  could be done at the moment, as a document  would be required if any vote were to be taken.  However, the Director-General would be sure to  consider the matter in connexion with Unesco’s  reconstruction work.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) showed how bad  was the position of the unprotected collections,  and how manuscripts which could no longer be  published in the review were held up.  FIFTH  Dr. NIELSEN (Denmark) hoped that, in such  urgent cases the Director-General would find it  possible to provide more tangible and less sym-  bolic assistance.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured the meeting  that Unesco would make every effort to help the  Palermo Mathematical Circle. He hoped that the  latter would help in the establishment of the Inter-  national Association of Mathematicians planned for
1950. If the Circle maintained direct relations  with the International Council of Scientific  Unions, it could apply to it, through the normal  channels, for a grant, which might very possibly  be given.  The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the whole of  the Natural Sciences programme, as modified and  amended (document 3C/5, Chapter 6).  The programme was adopted.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, at 8.45 p.m.  Chairman: M. Marcel FLORKIN (Belgium)  Consideration of Reports of Sub-Commis-  sions (continuation).  (e) Social Sciences (document 3C/PRG/6.4).  M. FEBVRE (France) (Rapporteur of the Sub-  Commission on Social Sciences) submitted the  Sub-Commission’s report.  As there were no remarks on the report as a  whole, the CHAIRMAN proposed that the Com-  mission should consider it in detail.  I. Tensions affecting international under-  standing.  The recommendation in document 3C/PRG/6.1  (programme resolutions 5.1 to 5.124 and the re-  levant budget and work plan) was adopted  without comment.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  and Mr. SYME (United Kingdom) took the view  that there was already an effective distinction  between projects 5.112 and 5.3 in document 3C/5,  and at their request the second paragraph of  item 1 in document 3C/PRG/6.4 was amended as  follows :  It was further agreed, at the request of the United  Kingdom delegate, that the Sub-Commission should  press for the continuance of a clear distinction in  the work programme between the two projects, the  one relating to the question of tensions, and the other  to the humanistic aspects of culture, as they are set  out in document 3C/5 (resolutions 5.112 and 5.3  respectively). The Secretariat should also continue lo  maintain close co-operation in the execution of both  projects.  The meeting further agreed that, in the  English text, the French word “‘exécution” should  be translated “execution” and not “implemen-  tation”.  The resolution submitted by the United States  delegation in document 3C/74 (study of the for-  mation of Fascist movements) was adopted,