TWELFTH PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday, 1 December 1948 at 10.50 a.m.  CONTENTS
21. Election of seven members of the Executive Board . 135  President : M. Tevfik SAGLAM (Turkey)
21. Election of seven members of the  Executive Board.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The meeting  this morning will consider Item 16 of the Agenda  —Flection of seven members of the Executive  Board.  I will ask the Secretary to read you Article V  of the Constitution and Rules 30, 87, 88 and 94  to 97 of the Rules of Procedure.  The Secretary read Article V of the Constitution  and the relevant Rules of Procedure.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): In conformity  with the Rules of Procedure which have been read  to you, we shall proceed as follows : we shall  hear, first of all, the Report of the Nominations  Committee and the remarks of delegates on  that Report. We shall then proceed to take two  secret ballots : the first to designate the member  who is to replace M. Pierre Auger and the second  to choose the members who are to replace the  six whose terms of office expire during the pre-  sent session.  M. Hassan Saab of the Lebanese delegation and  M. Esguerra-Barry of the Colombian delegation  will act as tellers.  I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee to present his report to the General  Conference.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) (Vice-Chair-  man of the Nominations Committee): 1 have the  honour to submit the report of the Nominations  Committee, which held its third meeting yester-  day, 30 November 1948, to consider nominations  for the seats on the Executive Board to be filled  at the present session of the General Conference.  Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan of India, who was  the titular Chairman of the Committee, having  unfortunately had to leave Beirut, it fell to me as  Vice-Chairman to preside over that meeting, and  I therefore submit the recommendations of the  Committee to you.
135  The Committee submits to the General Con-  ference the following nominations :  (a) to replace Professor Pierre Auger of France  for the remainder of his term of office, namely  until the General Conference next year, 1949 :  M. Roger Seydoux of France;  (b) to fill the seats of the six members of the  Executive Board whose terms of office expire at  this Conference, the following six names in alpha-  betical order :  M. Victor Doré of Canada;  Shafik Bey Ghorbal of Egypt;  Count Stefano Jacini of Italy;  Professor Alexandre Photiades of Greece;  Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan of India;  Professor Louis Verniers of Belgium.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  Chairman of the Executive Board.  Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Chairman of the  Executive Board): Mr. President, 1 take this op-  portunity of supporting the proposals made by  the Nominations Committee and of noting that  the Nominations Committee has taken the view  that, in the interests of continuity at this stage in  the development of the Organization, it would be  advantageous if several members who have pre-  viously served on the Board were again elected  to serve.  I would like to say that there is one member  of the Board, Dr. Opocensky, who, in somewhat  different circumstances, many members of the  Conference would have desired to see continuing  in the position of member of the Board. How-  ever, as Chairman of the Board, 1 received from  Dr. Opocensky a letter in which he indicated that  he did not desire on this occasion to stand as a  candidate, and that is why no consideration was  given by the Nominations Committee to the case  of Dr. Opocensky. I do wish to take this op-  portunity to say, on behalf of my colleagues on  the Board, how much we have appreciated the  collaboration of the Czech member of the Board,            Dr. Opocensky, and how great have been the  services which he has rendered to this Organ-  ization, dating back to the preparatory period,  before it was actually brought into existence. |  would merely add that Dr. Opocensky's attitude  has obviously made it easier for the Nominations  Committee to reach final agreement as to names.  On behalf of the Australian delegation, I am very  pleased to see among the names submitted by the  Nominations Committee not only those of several  of my colleagues on the Board, but also the name  of the very distinguished leader of the delegation  of Italy.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Gentlemen,  vou have heard the proposals of the Nominations  Committee and the remarks of the Chairman of  the Executive Board.  Are there any other proposals?  M. Camille HUYSMANS (Translation): 1 regret  that the Committee has not recommended that the  term of office of Czechoslovakia be renewed.  Czechoslovakia had a seat on the Board. We  were told that these seats were to be distributed,  taking into account geographical position and dif-  ferences of culture. 1 think it 1s just as important  to take into account the political aspect. Czecho-  slovakia has its own political physiognomy, in  common with a few other States which are not  represented on the Executive Board; she represents  a special tendency from the governmental point of  view. I feel that it would perhaps have been wise  to have taken this into account, especially for the  future; we may need it. From the practical  point of view, Belgium has concluded cultural  agreements with Czechoslovakia, and we have  found that these agreements have given us entire  satisfaction, although we belonged to a completely  different political constellation. 1 note also, in  this connexion, that Czechoslovakia has carried  out faithfully the recommendations made at the  sessions of the General Conference of Unesco.  For these reasons, in the absence of the Czecho-  slovak delegation, I proposed the name of M. Hof-  meister to the Nominations Committee. The  Conference knows why Czechoslovakia, like  certain other countries, is absent; but she 1s still  a Member of Unesco and has fulfilled all her sta-  tutory obligations. 1 therefore see no reason to  justify exclusion on account of absence. There  are other States which are absent and are still  represented on the Executive Board. 1 know that  the matter has been decided. The Conference, by  tradition, will accept the advice of the Commit-  tee. 1 therefore wish to state now that I may re-  submit this candidature next year. 1 think I may  then be able to present it to a better-informed Con-  ference, instead of an ill-informed Conference.         The PRESIDENT (Translation): Are there any  further proposals?  We shall now proceed to the votes.  We shall take the first vote to elect a member  of the Executive Board to replace M. Pierre Auger,  who has resigned. Will delegates please write  one name on their voting paper and insert the  paper in an envelope? The Secretary will call the  names of the Member States in French alpha-  betical order.  The vote was taken by secret ballot.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): Here are the  results of the voting :  Votes recorded : 33  Abstentions : 1  Invalid voting papers : 2  M. Seydoux has obtained 30 votes, more than  the majority required. I therefore declare him  elected a member of the Executive Board for the  remainder of the current term, namely one  year. (°)  We shall now take the second vote.  The Conference has to elect six members of the  Executive Board for a term of three years. Dele-  gations are asked to write six names on the voting  paper, and to put it into the envelope.  The vote was taken by secret ballot.  The PRESIDENT (Translation): The result of  the ballot 1s as follows :  Shafik Bey Ghorbal (Egypt) 32 votes  Professor Alexandre Photiades (Greece) 32 votes  M. Louis Verniers (Belgium) 32 votes  M. Victor Doré (Canada) 31 votes  Count Stefano Jacini (Italy) 31 votes  Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan (India) 30 votes  Thirty-four delegations voted; 1 voting paper  was invalid.  Therefore, the six people 1 have just named  have obtained an absolute majority; in con-  sequence, I declare Shafik Bey Ghorbal, M. Louis  Verniers, Professor Alexandre Photiades, Count  Stefano Jacini, M. Victor Doré, and Sir Sarvepalli  Radhakrishnan, elected members of the Executive  Board for a term of three years. (°)  At the end of this meeting the Executive Board,  as newly constituted, will meet immediately in  Room 175.  The meeting rose at noon.     (*) Volume II, Section VI, p. 10.
(6) Volume II, Section VI, p. 10.