The procedure suggested by the Director-  General and the Acting Chairman of the Executive  Board was unanimously adopted.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAI informed the mem-  bers of the Committee that Dr. Torres Bodet  hoped to reach Beirut during the afternoon of
8 December.  The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.  FOURTEENTH MEETING  Tuesday, 7 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Programme of work for the Conference.  M. MONTAGNIER (Head of the Bureau of  Conference Planning) read the programme for the  day, and said that the work of the plenary  meetings was going so fast that it was hoped to  end the Conference at midday on Friday, 10 De-  cember. The plenary Conference still had to  examine the Report of the Programme and Budget  Commission, and that of the Procedure Com-  mittee; a discussion was to be held on the cere-  mony which was to take place when the new  Director-General took office; a resolution of the  New Zealand delegation concerning the despatch  of Conference documents to Member States had  to be examined, as had also the question of the  admission of Monaco. Item 17 of the Agenda  provided for a general discussion on the rôle of  education, science and culture, but no speakers  had yet written down their names under that  item. The last meeting of the Procedure Com-  mittee would take place on the afternoon of
8 December, and three plenary meetings would  be held on Thursday, morning and afternoon, and  on Friday morning. The report of the Joint  Committee of Fifteen would be examined on  Thursday morning and, under item 18 of the  Agenda, there would be a discussion of the  Agreement for facilitating the circulation of visual  and auditory material.  The SECRETARY added that the suggestion had  been made that the delegate of Pakistan, who was  attending the session as an observer, should be  allowed to speak when item 17 of the Agenda was  discussed.  Publication of a letter from the delegation  of Pakistan.  Count Stefano JACINI (Italy) observed that a  letter from the Pakistan delegation to the General
237  Conference had been published the previous day;  he was astonished that it should have been  published before it had been passed to the General  Committee.  The CHAIRMAN explained that he had received  the letter in his dual capacity as President of the  Conference and Lebanese Minister of Foreign  Affairs. The letter concerned the alleged publi-  cation, by the Indian delegation, of certain  pamphlets which made unfavourable references  to Pakistan and Kashmir. Upon receipt of the  letter, he had communicated with the Indian dele-  gation and had received a signed statement that  the latter had not published any material that  mentioned Pakistan or Kashmir; the pamphlets  to which the Pakistan delegation had referred had  been published by the Indian Legation, and did  not therefore concern the General Conference.  For that reason, the Chairman had not com-  municated the letter to the General Committee.  Draft resolution proposed by the New  Zealand delegation (document 3C/PRO/13).  M. MONTAGNIER (Head of the Bureau of  Conference Planning) announced that the New  Zealand delegation had agreed to reduce the time  specified in the third line of the draft resolution  from thirty-five to twenty-five days. It would  mean a very great effort on the part of the Secre-  tariat to prepare the documents in time for the  session in September 1949, but it undertook to  do so.  Mr. ROBERTS (Union of South Africa) observed  that his country was in the same position as New  Zealand; he had left for the Conference without  having seen some of the documents. He wondered  whether the Secretariat could not send documents  out in such a form that they could be reproduced      in the different countries, or in an abbreviated  form, informing Member States of the most im-  portant matters to be discussed.  Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) pointed  out that, while the Secretariat could ensure that  the documents were sent out in time, it could not  be sure that they would arrive in time. He, there-  fore, suggested the substitution of the word  “should” for “shall” in the second line of the  resolution.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that both the reso-  lution and the United States’ amendment should  be referred to the plenary meeting.  Agreed.  Proposal of the Arab States concerning the  translation into Arabic of certain publica-  tions of Unesco (document 3C/93).  The SECRETARY announced that the Budget  Sub-Commission had examined the resolution  and had provided for an allocation of $20,000; it  remained for the plenary meeting to consider the  resolution and authorize the work to be carried  out. He suggested that the matter should be  discussed at the same time as the report of the  Committee of Fifteen.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) feared that the  adoption of the resolution might create a precedent  for languages less widely used than Arabic.  M. SAGLAM (Turkey) remarked that, if such  a favour were granted to the Arabic-speaking coun-  tries, the Turkish delegation would present a  similar resolution and other delegations might  wish to follow suit. He therefore thought it  would be preferable to postpone further discus-  sion of the item until the following day.  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) pointed out  that Unesco documents could not be published  anywhere in the world unless there was a re-  sponsible salaried officer in each area; the calls  made on the budget were therefore bound to be  higher than $20,000. He seconded the proposal  that further discussion should be postponed until  the following day.  Dr. MOLINARI (Argentina) said that he would  support the Arab resolution and the resolution of  any country that wished Unesco documents to be  translated into its own national language; that  was, in fact, the best method of spreading  Unesco’s ideas throughout the world.  M. SAGLAM (Turkey) agreed with the principle  postulated by the Argentine delegate. He feared  that, if a special favour were granted to the Arab  countries, other language groups would resent it;  if the Conference adopted the Arab resolution, he  hoped that a larger budgetary allocation would be  made for the item in 1950, so that the privilege  could be extended to all major language groups.  He reiterated his proposal that the item should  be postponed until the following morning, in the  hope that a solution might be found before the  resolution was submitted to the plenary meeting.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) was impressed by  the enormous ambition of Unesco compared with  its meagre budget; the Organization was  attempting to save the world with $8,000,000 a  year, and it would make itself ridiculous 1f it  attempted to undertake anything but the most  vital tasks. He, therefore, hoped that the Arab  resolution would not be adopted.  It was agreed that the discussion should be  continued the following day.  The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m.  FIFTEENTH MEETING  Wednesday, 8 December 1948, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Hamid Bey FRANGIE (Lebanon)  Proposal of the Arab States concerning the  translation into Arabic of certain publica-  tions of Unesco (document 3C/93) (conti-  nuation).  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  Budget Sub-Commission had felt that it could not  vote on the item until it had been approved by  the plenary Conference; however, subject to the  approval of the Conference, the Sub-Commission  had allowed for a sum of $20,000 to be drawn  from the Reserve to carry out the resolution. The  Secretariat considered that the best time for the  item to be examined would be with the chapter