FIFTH MEETING  Monday, 29 November 1948, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Proposal for the establishment of a labour  liaison section in the Secretariat (submitted  by the delegation of the United States of Amer-  ica) (document 8C/81).  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America)  stressed that the proposal was another manifes-  tation of her country’s interest in enlisting further  support for Unesco. In the final wording, the last  paragraph had been altered to read :  That the General Conference instruct the Director-  General to establish a section on labour liaison, or  otherwise provide for effective liaison, in order to  further the active participation...  The alteration had been made in order not to  restrict the Director-General’s freedom of action.  M. ABRAHAM (France) fully supported the  United States proposal. However, if two alter-  native methods were being suggested, he was in  favour of recommending the second one, in order  to avoid placing on Unesco the additional burden  of a new section.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  it would be sufficient to strengthen the existing  External Relations section.  M. JAWAD (Observer for the International  Labour Organization) suggested that liaison with  the ILO might be mentioned in the resolution.  The resolution was adopted unanimously. (°°)  Study of Non-Governmental International Or-  ganizations (resolution proposed by the United  States of America) (document 3C/79 (rev. 1)).  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America)  explained that the resolution had been divided into  two separate parts; that division met the wishes  of the Secretariat, as the resolution no longer asked  for work to be undertaken but only for it to be  intensified.
(199) In final  Annex XI, p. 83.  form Volume II, Section XI,  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was very glad  to second the resolution in its new form.  The resolution was unanimously adopted. (***)  Item 10 (b) of the Agenda : Relations with  Non-Governmental Organizations (continua-  tion).  (i) Report on the criteria adopted for the  granting of contracts and grants-in-aid.  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) 1n-  troduced a resolution, already put forward by her  delegation at the fourth meeting of the Joint Pro-  gramme and Official and External Relations Com-  mission, (*!*) and designed to ensure that grants-  in-aid and payments under contract were used to  the best advantage. She stressed that a thorough  examination should be made from time to time;  results could not be assessed with fairness in one  single year.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded the  resolution, and it was adopted.  (iii) Review of Organizations approved for  consultative status (document 3C/OXR/
15) (continuation).  The first resolution, on page 2 of document 3C/  OXR/15, was adopted without amendment. (***)  Resolution proposed by the Austrian delega-  tion (document 3C/24) (continuation).  Dr. THIRRING (Austria) explained that, when  the resolution concerning the study of an inter-  national Union of societies working for peace was  discussed at the third meeting of the Commission,
(110) In final form : Volume II, Section XI,  Annex VIII, (b) (v), Resolution II, p. 82.
(111) See Summary record of the fourth meeting of  the Joint Programme and Official and External  Relations Commission, p. 423. In final form  Volume II, Section XI, Annex VIII, (b) (i), p. 75.
370       a slight re-drafting was considered necessary. He  proposed a new text, prepared after consultation  with the delegates of the United States of America  and the United Kingdom.  Mr. ENNALS (Observer for the World Fede-  ration of United Nations Associations) was in  favour of the amended resolution, as it would  bring in many new organizations to help Unesco  in its work.  M. ABRAHAM (France) and Dr. PARTON (New  Zealand) supported the amended resolution, and  it was unanimously adopted. (113)  Proposal of the delegation of Australia  concerning the position of war refugees in  the Middle East.  The CHAIRMAN explained that the following  resolution had been referred to the Commission  by the Sub-Commission on Reconstruction :  That the Director-General be instructed to take  urgent action during 1948 and 1949 to assist refugees  who have been driven from their homes by military  operations in the Middle East, and for this purpose  that Unesco :  I. co-operate actively with the United Nations  and the Specialized Agencies concerned with relief for  war refugees;
2. make, in collaboration with the Member  States concerned, an immediate survey of the edu-  cational and cultural needs of these war refugees;
3. stimulate donor organizations to contribute  towards meeting these needs, and to this end provide  information and take such other action as is necessary;
4. extend the scope of Unesco’s emergency aid  programme to include educational and cultural assis-  tance to these refugees.  Mr. NELSON (Australia) indicated that, while  the first part of the resolution had the approval  of his delegation, the second part was not quite  correctly reported.  The SECRETARY explained that the second part  was no longer a part of the Programme, as it  had been either defeated or withdrawn at a  meeting of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission. (114)  Dr. PARTON (New Zealand) had been a member  of the Reconstruction Sub-Commission and re-
(113) In final form  Annex IX, p. 82.  See Summary Record of the Second Meeting of  the Programme and Budget Commission, p. 250.  Volume II, Section XI,
(114)  collected clearly that all reference to Member  States had been removed from the resolution.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that the matter did  not concern the Commission, but should be  referred to the Committee of Fifteen.  Agreed.  Statement by the Secretariat on questions  raised by the United States delegation  concerning Unesco’s relations with the  United Nations.  The SECRETARY regretted that lack of time  had made it impossible for the Secretariat to have  its comments duplicated for distribution. Most  of the questions raised had been clarified and  answers to them were ready.  The CHAIRMAN noted that the Secretariat had  rather a lengthy reply and suggested that perhaps  only the more important points might be taken  up.  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America)  stressed that two or three points were of particular  interest to her delegation : the activities of the  New York office; Unesco’s relations with the Food  and Agriculture Organization and the World  Health Organization; and what was meant by the  Director-General’s statement on the reinforcement  of services responsible for liaison with the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies. The United  States delegation felt, for example, that an undue  proportion of the New York office’s time was  being devoted to procurement services. Mrs.  Wright emphasized that the primary function of  the Office should be to ensure liaison with the  United Nations, and wondered whether its tech-  nical staff should be increased. She also sug-  gested that, if the question of Unesco’s relations  with the other Specialized Agencies was to be an  annual item on the Commission’s agenda, fuller  documentation on the subject should be prepared  in advance.  The CHAIRMAN read the statement prepared  by the Secretariat on the activities of the New  York office.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL added that  there had never been any doubt in the Director-  General's mind that the New York office was  created primarily to maintain liaison with the  United Nations. However, the services mentioned  in the statement had to be performed and it was  thought more economical to put that additional  burden on the existing staff of the office, because    of its advantageous position in the United States  for such services. No attempt, however, was  being made to increase the staff beyond the figure  provided in the 1948 budget, since the Director-  General did not wish the office to grow out of  proportion with the rest of the Organization's  structure. It was always easy to send information  from Paris to New York, but whenever a technical  question was debated by the United Nations it was  necessary to send a member of the headquarters  staff to Lake Success. There was no doubt that, to  obviate that necessity, the New York office would  have to be reinforced by some specialists as occa-  sion demanded. Specialists could often be found  on the spot and it was very difficult to say how  much reinforcement was necessary at the moment.  The Deputy Director-General thought no Confer-  ence action was needed on the matter.  With regard to relations with other Specialized  Agencies, it should be borne in mind that, in the  early years, such relations were not so clearly  defined as they had latterly become. The cases  when overlapping occurred were rare and led to  consultations at a high level to eliminate dupli-  cation. Such consultation had taken place, for  example, in connexion with the coming publi-  cation by Unesco on “Food and People”. There  had never been any serious difficulties with the  Food and Agriculture Organization. So far as  the World Health Organization was concerned,  Unesco had undertaken certain activities before  WHO was established, but an excellent working  arrangement had been agreed upon.  Mrs. WRIGHT (United States of America) was  quite satisfied by the explanations she had  SIXTH  received, but wished to place on record that, in  her opinion, a detailed annual report regarding  such relations was desirable.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized  that co-ordination of the activities in question  would automatically improve as the Specialized  Agencies gained experience.  Travel and passport facilities for the families  of members of the staff.  Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) declared that some  people who had accepted posts on the Secretariat  were unable to obtain from their governments  passport and other travel facilities for their fami-  lies. Accordingly, he moved the following reso-  lution :  Recognizing that it is desirable that members of the  staff should, if they so desire, be accompanied by their  families when working at the headquarters of  Unesco,  The General Conference  Requests Member States to grant full travel and  passport facilities to the families of such members of  the staff.  M. ABRAHAM (France) seconded the motion,  which was unanimously adopted. (*!*)  The CHAIRMAN thanked the members of the  Commission for their help and informed them  that the report of the Commission would be sub-  mitted to them for comment.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  MEETING  Thursday, 2 December 1948, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom)  Proposed establishment of an Institute of  Cultural Co-operation for South and East  Asian countries (document 3C/62).  The SECRETARY informed the meeting that the  delegate of India had already submitted to the  Programme and Budget Commission a draft reso-  lution concerning the establishment of an Institute  of Cultural Co-operation for South and East Asian  countries. Following an exchange of views,  during which speeches had been made, in parti-  cular, by the delegates of France and the United  States of America, the delegate of India had sub-  mitted a revised draft of his proposal, for consi-  deration by the Official and External Relations  Commission, as follows :
(115) In final form Volume II, Section XI,  Annex XII, p. 83.