great credit was due to the Secretariat and the  Executive Board. Both documents were excel-  lently correlated and clearly presented.  Professor KABIR (India) wished to emphasize  two items in the programme.  Firstly, he remarked on the importance of the  study of the scientific and cultural history of  mankind. The Indian delegation requested the  Sub-Commission on Education to study particu-  larly the teaching of history and geography from  the earliest stages. Professor Kabir felt that  history, in particular, could be one of the  greatest forces in bringing about better inter-  national understanding, if it were taught from an  international point of view. Great harm was, in  fact, done to international relations by the usual  method of teaching history from a narrow national  standpoint.  Secondly, the Indian delegation wished to stress  the importance of the contribution of the Arts to  the development of human contacts. There should  SECOND  be the widest possible interchange in the Arts  between nations, and the Indian delegation hoped  that that project would receive the full measure  of consideration due to it.  The CHAIRMAN said that the officers of the  Commission would take into account all remarks  which had been made by delegations.  Proposed distribution of work among the  Programme Sub-Commissions (document
3C/2) (rev.).  The document was approved.  The CHAIRMAN then gave some details about  the time-table of meetings of the Sub-Commissions  on Reconstruction, Communication and Social  Sciences.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  MEETING  Saturday, 27 November 1948, at 10.45 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of reports of Sub-Commissions.  (a) Reconstruction (document 3C/PRG/1.9).  Mr. KIRPAL (India) (Rapporteur of the Sub-  Commission on Reconstruction) submitted the  Sub-Commission’s Report. When the Programme  recommended by the Executive Board (document
3C/5, Chapter I) was compared with that pro-  duced as a result of the discussions of the Sub-  Commission, it was apparent that the new reso-  lutions to be voted upon involved adjustments  rather than real changes.  Resolution (a)  The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on resolu-  tion (a) in document 3C/PRG/1.9, which em-  bodied the draft resolution in document 3C/PRG/
1.6.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  remarked that it would perhaps be useful, before  any discussion, to hear the comments of the  representative of the Executive Board.
249  In reply, the CHAIRMAN said that it would be  better to hear those views in the course of the  discussion.  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) thought it desirable to  continue the work of reconstruction until the end  of assistance under the Marshall Plan. Subject  to that, he approved resolution (a).  Resolution (a) was unanimously adopted.  Resolution (b)  Resolution (b) was unanimously adopted.  Resolution (c)  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the new reso-  lution was no more than a re-arrangement of the  Executive Board’s proposals covered by items
1.511, 1.512 and 1.52 in doeument 3C/5 (page 15);  resolutions 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, and 1.6 of the same  document 3C/5 had been adopted, subject to the  decisions of the Budget Sub-Commission. Reso-  lution (c) also concerned documents 3C/12 and,               in particular, 3C/57, which had been discussed by  the Sub-Commission.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) speaking as  a member of the Executive Board, emphasized that  the procedure laid down by Rule 77 of the Rules of  Procedure of the Conference was being observed  for the first time; it was satisfactory to note that as  an example of the sovereignty of the General Con-  ference. Personally, he proposed to make no  comment on the alterations recommended by the  Sub-Commission; however, he preferred the imper-  sonal terms of the resolutions and the absence of  specification of the parts of the world where they  were to be applied, in document 3C/5; that form of  presentation left the Director-General responsible  for directing his efforts to the most sensitive  points.  The new resolution 1.15 was adopted.  The draft resolution contained in document
3C/12 was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that a vote should  be taken on the items listed in document 3C/57,  which the Sub-Commission recommended should  be adopted.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) said that, since the Sub-  Commission’s discussion of the matter, he had  chanced to meet a fellow-countryman who was  to make an investigation in the Middle East on  behalf of a number of Specialized Agencies of  the United Nations, and also an American just  returned from those parts. On being informed  of the various draft resolutions proposed in doc-  ument 3C/57, those two people had taken the  view that they covered satisfactorily the assistance  which Unesco could afford in that area. When  the Australian delegation submitted document
3C/57, it was not sure that the programme was  adequate to meet the requirements. However, if  the remarks of the representative of the Executive  Board could be taken as an assurance that the  Secretariat of Unesco would also take the steps  necessary to apply the general directives contained  in document 3C/12, Mr. Little would be prepared  to withdraw his amendment, whose sole object  had been to specify details of activities which  had finally been recognized as necessary by all  the members of the Sub-Commission.  The CHAIRMAN confirmed that all necessary  assurances would be given.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured  the delegate of Australia that the Secretariat. of  Unesco would devote its full attention to the speedy  solution of the problem.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) therefore withdrew his  amendment (document 3C/57).  M. SHATTA (Saudi Arabia), who had seconded  the amendment, thought it should be maintained.  A vote was taken and the withdrawal of the  amendment in document 3C/57 was approved by
19 votes to 3.  Resolutions (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (1)  The resolutions were adopted.  Directive  With reference to the last paragraph of the doc-  ument, the CHAIRMAN announced that a proposal  of a general nature had been submitted to the  Commission. He would be glad to know whether  the Commission considered that it should be  deemed a formal resolution or a recommendation  to be made to the Budget Sub-Commission.  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America)  emphasized the great importance of International  Work Camps for the achievement of Unesco's pro-  gramme; the paragraph should be brought to the  attention of the Secretariat.  The CHAIRMAN assured the Commission that  that recommendation would be noted by the Secre-  tariat.  With the foregoing amendments, the Recon-  struction programme, as a whole, (document 3C/5,  Chapter 1) was adopted unanimously.  (b) Exchange of Persons (document 3C/PRG/
75.  M. KJEMS (Denmark) (Rapporteur of the Sub-  Commission on Exchange of Persons) submitted  his report (document 3C/PRG/7.4).  The CHAIRMAN indicated that a number of  items in document 3C/5 had been approved by the  Sub-Commission unconditionally, viz. items 2.121,
2.122, 2.123, 2.1241, 2.1242, 2.125, 2.1291 and
2.1292.  Professor KABIR (India) wished to draw the  attention of the Secretariat to item 2.1291 (ex-  changes of adults), to which objections had been  raised during the discussion in the Sub-Com-  mission. In his opinion, the substance of the  resolution should be considered primarily, and it  should be interpreted in the widest sense. To
200)               take an instance, the list should include lecturers,  as some of them might be valuable in spreading  knowledge of Unesco’s aims; nor should artists  be overlooked.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed  out that two distinct questions were involved :  firstly, that of the categories for exchanges of per-  sons and, secondly, that of the object sought,  which was to secure, through such exchanges,  better professional output. He fully agreed with  the points mentioned and with the Australian pro-  posal (on page 2 of document 3C/PRG/7.4),  aimed at raising the level of understanding among  the masses through lectures. In his view, that  twofold task should be carried out through the  National Commissions.  The CHAIRMAN thought that the question  should be remitted for consideration to a Com-  mittee responsible for selecting persons for ex-  change.  Adopted.  Items 2.121, 2.122, 2.123, 2.1241, 2.1242, 2.125,
2.1291 and 2.1292 were adopted.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) pointed out that in pro-  posing the motion set out in paragraph 6 of doc-  ument 3C/PRG/7.4 (p. 2), he had taken the view  that the question at issue was in fact one of  exchange of persons, despite the doubts of certain  members of the Sub-Commission on that point.  The paragraph was closely connected with item
2.1291, which the delegate of India had just men-  tioned. Mr. Little thought that, when discussing  the dissemination of knowledge of Unesco’s aims,  people usually had the intellectuals in mind and  seldom the average man, the man in the street.  Yet international understanding had to be achieved  at that level too, since in a democracy the votes  of the man of the people and of the intellectual  were of equal weight.
201     The CHAIRMAN indicated that, despite the im-  portance of that interesting proposal, the Sub-Com-  mission had taken the view that it was not com-  petent to adopt it; he thought, therefore, that it  was best to submit it to the Cominittee of Fifteen,  without in any way pre-judging its substance.  Agreed.  The new text of resolution 2.128, proposed by  the Sub-Commission (document 3C/PRG/7.4,  page 1) was adopted.  Resolution 2.1293 was adopted.  The CHAIRMAN announced that the delegation  of the United Kingdom had submitted a new  resolution in the following terms :  That a small committee of experts be called to  discuss the administration of fellowships and related  problems.  He accordingly suggested that the Drafting Com-  mittee should insert that resolution in the most  suitable place.  Adopted.  Mr. LITTLE (Australia) expressed the hope that  his proposal would be retained by the Joint Com-  mittee of Fifteen in the shape of a slight amend-  ment; on that assumption, he was willing to pass  Chapter 2 as a whole.  With that reservation, the CHAIRMAN put  Chapter 2 of document 3C/5 (items 2.1 to 2.1293)  to the vote.  With the foregoing amendments, the Exchange  of Persons programme, as a whole, (document
3C/5, Chapter 2) was adopted.  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.