SUB-COMMISSION ON COMMUNICATION  FIRST MEETING  Saturday, 20 November 1949, at 11.10 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs. Kamala Devi CHATTOPADHYAYA (India)  Election of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  Mrs. Kamala Devi Chattopadhyaya (India) was  elected Chairman of the Sub-Commission, Dr. F.  Tude-de-Souza (Brazil) Vice-Chairman, and  Mr. Charles Jennings (Canada) Rapporteur.  Adoption of the Agenda (document 3C/PRG/
2.3).  The provisional agenda (document 3C/PRG/2.3)  was adopted.  Unesco’s contribution to the free flow of  information, in co-operation with other  organs of the United Nations (document
3C/PRG/2.2 and addendum).  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that there were  still considerable barriers to the free flow of ideas,  in spite of technical, scientific and legal progress.  M. FLORKIN (Belgium) asked the Secretariat  for a detailed statement on how work had been  carried out that year and the results which had  been achieved.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) pointed out that the  current year was covered by the Director-General's  Report and the future by the working papers.  The Secretariat had concentrated mainly on the  following projects, which it proposed to carry  forward :
1. Collection of up-to-date information on  obstacles, as full and accurate as possible.  Although it was not very spectacular, such work  was essential. The documentary material would  be made available to the public, the Secretariat's  plan being to bring out special booklets on set  subjects instead of a general publication. If the  proposed International Institute of the Press and  Information was established in the near future,  the Institute could assume responsibility for some
292  of the publications, as it would be essentially a  research body.
2. Co-operation with the United Nations and  Specialized Agencies. Such co-operation should be  Unesco’s general policy in all its work; the Secre-  tariat had, for instance, assisted in the prepar-  ation of the United Nations Conference on  Freedom of Information, held in Geneva in the  spring, and had taken part in its work. Such  co-operation had involved co-ordination between  the United Nations and Unesco Secretariats  (a problem which had been most successfully  solved), but the matter of apportioning their  respective responsibilities still had to be settled.  Collaboration with the Specialized Agencies was  of particular importance, for many obstacles to  the free flow of information could not be dealt  with directly by Unesco, and it was only through  the United Nations, in the political sphere, and  the Specialized Agencies, in economic and tech-  nical matters, that Unesco could do anything to  remove the real barriers. In that connexion, the  closest collaboration had been established with  the Food and Agriculture Organization, the Inter-  im Committee of the International Trade Organi-  zation and the International Telecommunications  Union.
3. Activities proper to Unesco. The Secreta-  riat intended to concentrate in the immediate  future on customs barriers and exchange restric-  tions, according to the policy laid down in docu-  ment 3C/PRG/2.2, Add.1l.  Lastly, Mr. Farr stressed that all the Depart-  ments and Divisions of Unesco were working for  the free flow of information; the main function  of the Division which bore that specific title was  to ensure co-ordination.  Mr. HOLCROFT (New Zealand) observed that  the obstacles to the free flow of information were  sufficiently well known. Positive action should  be the end in view, instead of the mere collection  of informative literature. He described the faci-  lities provided by his country for the import of  educational material, and the difficulties it  encountered in exporting such material to countries  —  +»  —   c e ,   —       e e   A   —   such as the United Kingdom and Norway. Mere  studies were not sufficient to remove those bar-  riers.  Dr. ARGUELLES (Philippines) agreed with the  last speaker; there were obstacles to the free flow  of information and their removal should be the  first consideration. However, they were not  found in democratic countries, such as the Phi-  lippines.  Mr. NELSON (Australia) asked the Secretariat  for particulars about the special studies which,  according to the fourth paragraph on page 1 of  document 3C/PRG/2.2, Unesco was planning to  publish.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) replied that the scope  of the studies depended on the resources avai-  lable. Experts and official services were fully  aware of the obstacles, but the general public  usually had only a vague notion of them. Wider  information would provide the psychological  tactor and mobilize public opinion, on which  Unesco’s work could be based.  In reply to the Australian delegate, Mr. Farr  explained that the studies would cover questions  such as newsprint, the difficulties of operating  agencies in many countries, professional train-  ing, etc.  He informed the New Zealand delegate that the  suggestions contained in Addendum 1 to docu-  ment 3C/PRG/2.2 were practical, but that acti-  vities had to be founded on full information and  supported by a well-informed body of opinion;  that was the reason for the proposed resolution.  M. SEYDOUX (France) observed that, though  he was inclined to make some reservations regard-  ing document 3C/PRG/2.2, because it was too  generalized, he was quite satisfied with the Adden-  dum, which contained more concrete proposals.  They were a series of practical recommendations,  to which the French delegation was prepared to  subscribe, but which needed to be redrafted.  It was important for the Secretariat to be well  informed on public opinion and on any regu-  lations drawn up by joint commissions established  as a result of the various bilateral and multila-  teral cultural agreements : e.g. the Commission  sel up as a result of the Brussels Pact, the Com-  mittee of Five etc. The facilities for the free flow  of educational and cultural material resulting  from such agreements at the regional level repre-  sented an advance on inter-State agreements.  Such being the case, it was necessary to avoid  duplication of work by establishing useful con-  lacts, at the beginning, of an unofficial nature,  with a view to bringing about mutually advan.  tageous collaboration.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) called to  mind the doubts regarding the effectiveness of  Unesco’s work in connexion with the removal of  obstacles, raised by his delegation at Mexico City;  the justification for those doubts was apparent.  A realistic approach was‘ necessary; it was not  enough to set an aim : the means of attaining it  had to be defined. The example quoted bv the  delegate of New Zealand illustrated the difficulties  which had to be faced. How could Unesco inter-  vene in fiscal, customs and financial matters.  which were essentially national questions? It was  therefore not surprising that so little progress had  been made and it should be realized that the  Secretariat had a difficult task and that some time  would be needed to obtain concrete results.  The New Zealand delegate was against the  recommendation regarding the publication of  special studies, and advocated positive action.  But the Addendum, in Sir John’s view, contained  excellent suggestions for future work, which did  not exclude the publication of special studies.  He personally felt that publications on definite  functional subjects, like those contemplated, were  preferable to the organization and publication of  surveys on a geographical basis, such as the pro-  posed survey on Technical Needs.  As for the International Institute of the Press,  whose contribution had been mentioned in that  connexion, Sir John felt bound to mention that  British journalists who had been consulted had  given a negative reply to the question whether the  Institute would be of any real value to them.  That did not mean that the project should be  rejected, but that further consideration should be  given to it. Before it was carried into effect, it  should be ascertained that those concerned, i.e.  people engaged in the profession, wanted it to be  established, as had been the case with the Inter-  national Theatre Institute.  The French delegate’s suggestion was most  interesting. Unesco should endeavour to prepare  a programme designed to make the most of any  regional or local efforts in the same direction.  The conclusion and extension of other pacts  similar to the Brussels pact, should be encou-  raged.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) noted that a large amount of documen-  tary material had been collected; it then had to  be put to practical use. She agreed with the  French delegate that the Addendum was a prac-  tical document. Though the British delegate was  of the opinion that nothing much could be done.
293    something had to be done. The United States felt  that, if Unesco was to be merely a research  bureau, a Conference such as that at Beirut was  unwarranted. Positive action was necessary.  Much ground had been lost, particularly to the  United Nations and its various bodies, such as the  Sub-Commission on Freedom of Information.  Unesco should be the Agency responsible for col-  lecting information on the free flow of ideas and  inducing governments to take action in the mat-  ter. But if Unesco was to surrender some of its  responsibilities to other organizations, they should  be clearly defined. It was necessary to define not  only the means of attaining the goal, but what  that goal should be.  M. Jamal FARRA (Syria) mentioned that, as  the New Zealand delegate had remarked, two  years had been spent in overcoming the serious  difficulties which the Secretariat had to face in  connexion with economic, financial and political  barriers to the free flow of ideas. Documents,  research and reports by experts were essential to  any useful and objective scientific work, but a  programme was also necessary.  A Syrian scientist had spent more than six  months, vainly trying to obtain a book having no  relation to politics. It took months for meagre  supplies of laboratory apparatus to reach educa-  tional institutions. The distribution of short  wave-lengths, which was then being discussed  at the international level, had resulted in many  countries having such wave-lengths and condi-  tions that their broadcasts were unsatisfactory.  Lastly, many people found it extremely difficult to  obtain information in their mother-tongue, for  the simple reason that the use of that language  was not favoured by the authorities. Concrete,  practical and speedy solutions had to be found  to remedy the situation.  M. SANDBO (Norway) recalled the argument  put forward by a broadcasting specialist at the  meeting of representatives of National Commis-  sions, to show that it was more important to  reduce customs barriers and taxes than to distri-  bute folders or suggestions for radio programmes.  It was necessary to concentrate on the facts (cus-  toms barriers, import difficulties, etc.), set forth  in the working paper.  As for the Book Coupon scheme, Norway did  not think she needed to participate, as every Nor-  wegian could order a book from any bookseller,  whatever the exchange difficulties might be.  Import and export regulations could be im-  proved by exerting the influence of public opinion  on the authorities responsible for them.  M. FLORKIN (Belgium) emphasized the prac-  tical character of the Addendum. He did not  share the pessimistic views of the United States  delegate, for he found the situation satisfactory on  the whole, and was inclined to think that the  Secretariat should be encouraged to carry on with  its surveys, so that it might be able to arrive at  concrete solutions.  In that connexion, the draft Agreement for  facilitating the international circulation of visual  and auditory material of an educational, scientific  and cultural character should be adopted at the  Beirut Conference.  Lastly, M. Florkin proposed that consideration  of the Budget (document 3C/6, item 2.D. p. 62)  should be held over until the last meeting, after  the programme had been fully examined.  M. SEYDOUX (France) agreed with Sir John  Maud and Mrs. O'Hare McCormick that action  should be taken; that was the whole intention  of the Constitution. But the work, which Unesco  had undertaken in critical circumstances, had to  be carried on. In that respect, the Addendum  was satisfactory. However, it would be necessary  to redraft it, for in the process it might be found  that only two or three essential questions should  be considered at the current Conference, while  some items should be kept for later consider-  ation.  M. Seydoux also hoped that the delegations  might be supplied with the Report, mentioned in  the fourth paragraph on page 1 of docu-  ment 3C/PRG/2.2, Add.1, which had been drawn  up by the consultant with the assistance of the  International Tariff Bureau at Brussels.  As for the draft Agreement on the free flow of  visual and auditory materials, to which the dele-  gate of Belgium had referred, agreement should  be reached that year on a suitably revised text.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) stated that  he had prepared a resolution which could be con-  sidered after the French delegate’s proposal. [i  referred to resolution 2.2211 in document 3C/5,  to which he asked that the following words should  be added :  That the Secretariat be requested to publish, or to  arrange for the publication of, special studies on news-  print and low-priced radio receiving sets.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) asked if the resolution was to be  included in the technical needs project.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) replied that  resolution 2.21 (Technical Needs) was not  affected; his amendment referred to surveys on  obstacles to the free flow of information, whereas
294            he thought that the French delegate’s proposal  referred to resolution 2.222.  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) had with him only a few  copies in French of the consultant’s Report, which  were available to delegates; he added that the  Secretariat would redraft the practical suggestions  contained in the Addendum for submission to the  next meeting.  Mr. NELSON (Australia) felt that the Secre-  tariat should publish more than a mere bulletin  of information. But would it be wise to allow it  to prepare studies which would be more than a  statement of facts and would contain recommen-  dations with the weight of Unesco’s authority?  The International Institute of the Press might  perhaps be made responsible for the publications.  Mr. Nelson thought that all publications should be  covered by recommendations passed by the Gen-  eral Conference and that they should be handled  not by the Secretariat, but by a firm specializing  in such matters, or by the International Institute  of the Press; Unesco’s name or authority should  not be involved.  Dr. ARGUELLES (Philippines) seconded the  motion submitted by the United Kingdom  delegate.  SECOND  dv TT Pate  EN  LE sl Ee SE  The CHAIRMAN said that she had not received  the information collected by the Secretariat on  the question of obstacles to the free flow of ideas.  Such information would have made it possible to  understand Unescos rôle in that field. She  emphasized that the difficulties were due to eco-  nomic differences as well as national policies.  Not all countries were industrialized to the same  extent and backward countries were trying to  catch up with the others. Unesco should be  aware of the facts and was in better position for  that purpose than other organizations of a poli-  tical character.  The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate  was put to the vote and adopted.  Mrs. O'HARE McCORMICK (United States of  America) urged the necessity of voting, at the  current session, on the draft Agreement on visual  and auditory materials.  The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that  any discussions which did not involve the budget  were to be deferred until the final stages of the  Sub-Commission's work.  The meeting rose at I p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 24 November 1948, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. Kamala Devi CHATTOPADHYAYA (India)  Unesco’s contribution to the free flow of  information in co-operation with other  organs of the United Nations (document
3C/PRG/2.2) (continuation).  The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Sub-Com-  mission had not completed consideration of that  item of the Agenda, but said that the discussion  had been comprehensive enough for the members  to proceed to vote on the resolutions in document
3C/5 (programme approved by the Executive  Board), trying to incorporate in them the reso-  lutions put forward by Member States.  Resolutions 2.221 t02.2212 : Free Flow of  Information (document 3C/5, page 21).  Mr. FARR (Secretariat) stated that a United  Kingdom amendment, to be added at the end of  resolution 2.2211, had been adopted at the previous  meeting. Mr. Farr also read out a draft resolution  (paragraph 2 of document 3C/36) which the  United States delegation proposed should be sub-  stituted for resolutions 2.2211 and 2.2212.  M. GUEHENNO (France) was surprised at the  conduct of the discussion. At the previous