necessarily designed for a limited public, is fraught  with material difficulties.  The Director-General is instructed to consider the  possibility of establishing a special fund to assist  the publication of important works in the fields of  science and learning, and to report to the next Session  of the Conference.  Amendment submitted by the delegation of  the United States of America (document
3C/77).  After statements by the DIRECTOR-GENERAL  and M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) and  a reply from Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of  America), the amendment to resolution 2.423  (Universal Convention on Copyright) was modi-  fied at the Secretariat’s suggestion and adopted  as follows :  To circulate among Member States for comment the  results of the comparative survey and the replies to  the questionnaire circulated in 1948, preparatory to a  meeting of experts to consider that material and com-  ments, with a view to the drafting of a universal  convention.  The CHAIRMAN then put the whole group of  resolutions concerning cultural questions to the  vote (resolutions 2.3 to 2.522; 4.1 to 4.5; 5.2 to
5.43: 5.7 10.5.8).  The resolutions were adopted.  The CHAIRMAN then put document 3C/5 as a  whole to the vote and it was adopted, subject to  EIGHTH  the corrigenda, addenda and amendments agreed  upon during the Commission’s debates, and to the  report of the Budget Sub-Commission.  Draft resolution proposed by the delegation  of the United States of America (docu-  ment 3C/68).  Following remarks from the DIRECTOR-GEN-  ERAL, the resolution was amended and adopted  in the form given below :  The Programme and Budget Commission :  (a) instructs the Drafting Sub-Committee, in its  drafting of the programme for 1949, to keep in mind  the desirability of developing a code of Unesco policy  and to take steps in this direction where feasible;  (b) recommends that the General Conference  instruct the Director-General and the Executive Board,  in preparing the draft programme for 1950, to seek  so far as possible to separate the programme into two  parts, and in pursuance of this aim to preface the  project programme for 1950 with a code of all policies,  so far approved by the General Conference, which it  is proposed to continue in effect.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that a Drafting Com-  mittee should be appointed, composed of delegates  of Belgium, Brazil, France, the United Kingdom  and the United States of America.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 8 December 1948, at 11 a.m.  Chairman: Professor Paulo de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  Consideration of the Report of the Budget  Sub-Commission (document 3C/PRG—Bud-  get/2).  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) (Rapporteur of the  Budget Sub-Commission) submitted the Report.  After the fullest discussion, the Sub-Commission  had agreed that it would be possible to fix or  recommend a sum that would permit adequate  execution of the work of the Organization, pro-  vide for a balanced programme, come within the  terms of the relevant resolution of the General
268  Conference, and would also have regard to future  budgets.  For the guidance of future sessions of the  Conference, the Budget Sub-Commission believed  that it would have been helped considerably in  its work if it had been possible for the Confer-  ence to set it up at least a week earlier. It would  then have been able to discuss earlier the general  problems which had taken up its first meeting,  and prepare a detailed plan of work for the later  meetings.  The Report would show that the Sub-Commission      had given full regard to the directions received  from the plenary meeting that the budget should  not exceed $8,000,000. Although the Sub-Com-  mission considered as equal in priority all the  items put before it, it became necessary, owing  to the continuing nature of Unesco’s programme,  to suggest, on occasion, that funds should not be  provided for new projects. The Sub-Commission  had been reluctant to do that, but in the light of  its instructions and of its interpretation of the  wishes of the Conference, there was no alternative.  The CHAIRMAN asked the meeting to consider  the Report of the Rapporteur of the Budget Sub-  Commission (document 3C/PRG—Budget/2), in  conjunction with documents 3C/6 (Budget Esti-  mates) and 3C/6 Amendments.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium), seconded by Dr. SA-  LIBA (Syria), asked for an adjournment till the  afternoon, to give time for members of the Com-  mission to study the Report, which had only just  been distributed.  Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), seconded by  Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America),  suggested that the Commission should continue its  non-committal and preliminary consideration of  the Report, leaving itself free to go back at the  afternoon meeting to any points it thought neces-  sary to reconsider.  M. HUYSMANS (Belgium) withdrew his motion.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that section (7)  (pp. 4-11 of the Report) should be taken first.
7. Comment upon recommendations of the Sub-  Commission, by Chapters of the Estimates  (document 3C/6).  The only items which gave rise to comment  were :  Part III (2) G. Provision and Dissemination of  Information (page 6).  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the under-  lining in lines 9 and 10 of the English text was  an error of presentation, and had no special  significance.
2.1.4 Regional Centre (page 8).  The CHAIRMAN remarked that there were some  slight inaccuracies in the French text; the English  text was authentic.  Dr. De MENDOZA (Cuba) reserved the right to  propose, at the afternoon meeting, a motion con-  cerning the establishment of a regional centre in  the western hemisphere.
3. B. Educational Clearing-House (page 8).  M. SEYDOUX (France) asked whether the sums  necessary for seminars in the Far East and in Latin  America, and for grants to non-governmental inter-  national organizations working for international  understanding, had been included in the appro-  priation under that heading.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) (Rapporteur) replied  that both items had been included in the Appro-  priation Table.
6. Natural Sciences (page 9).  Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) said he would make  a proposal at the afternoon meeting, to restore the  amount provided for grants-in-aid to non-govern-  mental organizations to the previous year’s figure.  Dr. MONGE (Peru) spoke of the invitation by  his Government to hold a symposium in Peru, and  sald he would present a proposal on that question  at the afternoon meeting.  Part IV. Common Service Costs (page 10).  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) (Rapporteur) said  there had been an error in the drafting of the  Report, which had led to slight confusion : the  second paragraph, (“The Sub-Commission recom-  mends...”) should have had another heading, as  it referred to the over-all reduction for delays in  recruitment, which would be effective throughout  the budget as presented in documents 3C/6 and
3C/6-Amendments.  The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.