Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out two places in the general Budget Estimates where the delegation of the United Kingdom believed that too much money had been allotted. (a) The proposed figure of $842,650 (amount- ing to nearly 10 per cent of the total budget) for fees appeared to be excessive; he believed that it would be impossible to find experts who were good enough, within the time available, to spend that amount properly, and also stated that some Unesco experts had not proved satisfactory; the delegation of the United Kingdom would there- fore propose a reduction in that item. (b) The amount allotted to publications was questioned. Since some of the publications were of an ephemeral nature and were out of date by the time they reached the hands of many readers, Sir Ronald felt that some of them might be made bimonthly, with other similar economies. In regard to Reconstruction, Sir Ronald had intended to propose a reduction of $1,000 in the allotment for conferences and meetings, but would withdraw that suggestion after hearing the ex- planations of Dr. Drzewieski and the statement of the excellent results in obtaining voluntary contributions through such meetings in the United States. He did propose, however, reductions in the allotments for fees and for contractual print- ing, amounting to $2,000 and $4,500 respectively. The CHAIRMAN observed that the Commission had before it a definite proposal for a reduction of the Reconstruction budget by $6,500. Dr. WALKER (Australia) requested an explana- tion of the Personnel Costs (on page 71 of docu- ment 4C/6), in which eleven staff members, instead of ten in the 1949 list, called for a total of $48,245, an increase of 50 per cent over the
1949 total of $32,483. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) pointed out that the difference was explained by the grades and increments of the various posts and by the addition of a post of Deputy Head of Department. The CHAIRMAN asked the delegates of the United Kingdom and Australia whether they were satisfied with that answer. If necessary, their requests could be referred for consideration to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, which would make recommendations thereon. Dr. WALKER (Australia) stated that he still did not see adequate justification for such a large increase in the Personnel column. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Sub-Com- mittee, as soon as it was constituted, should answer Dr. Walker's question and examine the reductions proposed by the United Kingdom del- egation. As there were no other remarks onthe chapter on Reconstruction, the Chairman took note of the two amendments by the United Kingdomdelegate and of the Australian delegation’s request for an explanation, for the purpose of transmitting them to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The chapter on Reconstruction could only be final- ly approved by the Commission after the Sub- Committee had given its opinion. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. THIRD MEETING Thursday, 22 September 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO pE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) later: Mr. JEAN PIAGET (Switzerland) Terms of Reference of the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee. The CHAIRMAN read out certain suggestions concerning the functions of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee: LA" The title Kofi this Sub-Committee, which was established by the Executive Board, limits its func-
261 tions and defines its two fields of competence. The Sub-Committee is clearly empowered to deal with budgetary matters, as the United Kingdomdelegation desires, but not to the exclusion of programmeissues. It cannot, therefore, be a budget sub-commission in the Mexico City and Beirut sense.
2. With regard to functions, the Sub-Committee exists for drafting and for co-ordination. It has therefore no power to take decisions.
3. Tt is believed that the Sub-Committee can render great services to the Commission where, owing to differences of views in the full Commission on a particular project, or its budgetary implications, or a group of projects, or the proper detailed distri- bution of funds in one or more work plans, a careful ascertainment of facts must be made by a small group in consultation with members of the Secretariat, so that definitive proposals can be put before the full Commission. In other words, the Sub-Committee could save the Commission a great deal of time when- ever a specific detailed study is required.
4. Tor this purpose, the Sub-Committee should convene on request lo examine in detail particular points referred to it by the Commission, and to report on each issue, as soon as it is able, back to the Com- mission.
5. As regards Lhe drafting function, it may well be that, towards the end of the Commission’s work, the Sub-Committee can render great service by giving a final check to the wording of the whole programme and—as far as may be required to secure an accurate appropriation table—the budget. Thus the Sub-Committee would be empowered to draft any texts that may be required. He then read out a text defining the terms of reference of the Sub-Committee:
1. The Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee shall be convened by the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission whenever the Commission deems it necessary to refer a particular point to it.
2. The Sub-Committee shall only receive from the Commission questions of detail and fact on which the latter desires additional information before taking a decision.
3. The Sub-Committee shall report to the Com- mission as soon as it has ascertained, with the help of the Secretariat, the required facts concerning each point referred to it.
4. The Sub-Committee may also be instructed by the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Com- mission to draft any new texts that may be required. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America), referring to the first paragraph of the suggested functions of the Sub-Committee, asked if it should be under- stood that the Committee would be responsible for distributing increases and decreases of total amounts of the Budget between separate items. The CHAIRMAN stated that proposals would be transmitted to the Sub-Committee in the terms in which they had been submitted originally by the delegates during meetings of the Commission. He requested the delegates to formulate their proposals in general terms, thus leaving it to the Sub-Committee to study the matter in detail. Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) suggested that the Sub- Committee should be responsible for submitting to the Commission a report on budgetary policy. That proposal was not supported.
262 Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) suggested that the proposal of his delegation for reductions in different items of Part III of the Budget, 1. Re- construction - B (1) (Information on Needs and Campaign Assistance) should be referred to the Sub-Committee for examination. The CHAIRMAN enquired whether the Commis- sion thought that a proposal concerning points of detail (e.g. the British proposal) should be seconded by another delegation before being re- ferred to the Sub-Committee. The reply was in the affirmative. Mr. WATKINS (Canada) supported the United Kingdom proposal. It was decided, by 11 votes to 8, to refer the United Kingdom proposal to the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee. It was also decided to refer to the Sub-Com- mittee, for closer examination, the question of detail raised at the previous meeting by the Australian delegation. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France), referring to the terms of reference of the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee which had just been communicated to the Commission, asked for an explanation regarding paragraph 3 and. in parti- cular, whether the Sub-Committee was authorized to make recommendations to the Commission. Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that the drafting of the reports of the Sub-Committee would inevitably imply some recommendations. It would therefore be better to give the Sub- Committee authority to make recommendations and suggested that this authority should be stated in paragraph 3 of the document describing the terms of reference of the Drafting and Co-ordina- tion Sub-Committee. Mr. SASSEN (Netherlands) said that, in sup- porting the proposed establishment of a Budget Sub-Committee, the Netherlands delegation had thoughtthat an independent sub-committee having the right to take the initiative and to make con- crete proposals would be set up. It seemed to him that the texts submitted to the Commission considerably limited the competence of the pro- posed Sub-Committee. The CHAIRMAN replied that the proposed Sub- Committee would not have the same independence as the Budget Sub-Commissions established during previous sessions of the General Conference. The terms of reference of the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee presented by the Chair- man were adopted, on the understanding thatthe Sub-Committee would be authorized to make re- commendations.     Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 1. Reconstruction (continuation). Section 2 (Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations) Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) stated that —whereas, in view of the keen interest of the United States in the education and reconstruction needs of distressed areas (Section 1), he thought it would be unwise to make any severe cut in the funds—he questioned the necessity of the whole Section 2 (Co-operation with the United Nations and Specialized Agencies and collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations), for which the estimated costs were $17,872 (document 4C/6, page 73). He moved that programme resolu- tion 1.2 (document 4C/5 (rev.), page 7) should be deleted and that the Secretariat should com- municate to the Sub-Committee the amount of money thus saved. Dr. VAN ZYL(Union of South Africa) supported these motions. Dr. AWAD Bey (Egypt) asked for further com- ments on the reasons why Unesco should with- draw its secretarial help to TICER. Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) thought that, so far, co-operation with TICER had not been an effective means of implementing the recon- struction programme of Unesco. He also pointed out that it was the intention of TICER to extend its interests to more general fields, and indicated that this purpose would not be favourable to a more practical collaboration in the future. The CHAIRMAN asked the Head of the Depart- ment of Reconstruction to report on the collab- oration of Unesco with TICER. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) stated that Unesco, as a bureaucratic organization, was in great need of the moral sup- port of the large number of people who were represented by the many voluntary associations participating in TICER. He stressed that those associations represented all fields op opinion and could also make available the technical help of experts. He emphasized that, while Unesco com- mented on TICER’s work, the reverse was also true. As to the co-operation of Unesco with the United Nations and Specialized Agencies, this was yielding very valuable results in the Reconstruc- tion field. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) having asked whether it would not be possible for the
263 New Office of Unesco to be responsible for matters relating to co-operation with the United Nations and Specialized Agencies, Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Reconstruction) replied that the staff of the New York Office included a Recon- struction team, but that co-operation was also being developed in Geneva and elsewhere. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the sum of $17,872 covered not only the expenses of the TICER secretariat, but the whole budget of Sec- tion 2. Of that total, only $1,700 were allotted to the TICER secretariat. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) said that, considering the smallness of the con- tribution made to TICER—only a small portion of the total—the work achieved could not be of any importance. The United States proposal to abolish the TICER secretariat and the corresponding appropriation was rejected by 14 votes to 3. Section 2 was thus adopted as il stood. * Section 3 (Action by Member States) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) suggested the deletion of resolution 1.39 (stamps with a sur- charge for the Unesco Reconstruction Fund). Adopted. Section 3, as amended, was adopted. * Section 4 (Co-operation with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies) The Section was adopted without amendment, ® with the corresponding budget (III, 1, B.2; docu- ment 4C/6, page 72). Section 5 (Emergency Action) The CHAIRMAN mentioned that two proposals (documents 4C/16 and 4C/17), concerning help to China and Greece, had been submitted by the Executive Board. At the request of the CHAIRMAN, who wished to speak in the forthcoming discussion, Mr. Piaget took the Chair. AMENDMENT 1.512 (document 4C/5 rev., page 8) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) expressed the opinion that matters concerning children’s communities should be examined under Education and included in the Department of Education’s proposals. The proposed addition should in any event be deferred until the Fifth Session of the Conference. Professor BRANCA (Italy) also thought that the question should be postponed until the Florence
1. In final form: Resolution 1.4.
2. In final form: Resolutions 1.51 to 1.59.
3. In final form: Resolutions 1.31 to 1.32.    Conference. It seemed to him pointless to add new activities to a programme already covered by the Department of Education. Mr. FRANCOIS (France) emphasized the urgen- cy and importance of the help to be given to children’s communities. The Department of Education’s work and the Department of Recon- struction’s works in that connexion were entirely different; the object of the former was an intel- lectual study of the educational problems of war- handicaped children, whereas the latter aimed at giving them immediate help. The Austrian pro- posal that the children should be placed in homes willing to receive them was certainly the best one, but it was unfortunately not always possible, and the children’s communities were therefore still the only solution that had so far proved satisfactory. He asked Unesco to continue its assistance in that field, emphasizing that the children’s communities not only provided for war-handicapped children but were also helping to deal with the problem of handicapped and delinquent children. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) stressed the importance of the wel- fare aspect of children’s communities and sug- gested that the matter should be further discussed at the Fifth Session of the General Conference, which would consider a general revision of the programme. In reply to the Ttalian delegate, he said that item 1.512 did not represent a new activity but merely one that had been included in the previous year’s programme of the Department of Education. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out that he had not thought of suggesting that Unesco give up its works in relation to children’s communities. In his opinion, the matter should be placed under a different Chapter; but he was prepared to accept that the matter should be de- ferred to the Fifth Session of the General Con- ference. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) gave an assurance that the question would again be discussed at the Fifth Session of the General Conference, and Professor BRANCA (Italy) then withdrew his objection. Resolution 1.512 was accordingly adopted. * AMENDMENT 1.514. RELIEF TO REFUGEES IN THE Mine East (document 4C/5 rev., pp. 8-9) Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) expressed the deep sympathy of his delegation with the situation of refugees in the Middle East. He nevertheless indicated that, in his opinion, it was unwise to adopt a series of resolutions referring
1. In final form: Resolution 1.213. to situations in specific countries. Furthermore, he pointed out that any task requested or accom- plished concerning relief to refugees in the Middle East was covered by resolutions 1.512 and 1.513. He stressed the inadvisability of reducing the amounts of money for programmes of this kind, but moved the deletion of items 1.514 to 1.5143 inclusive, which were covered by resolutions already adopted. Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) pointed out that the refugees from Palestine were not in their own country but in countries which had offered them shelter. Lebanon, for instance, had 157,000 re- fugees, including 72,000 children, and it would be unable to look after them all if it did not re- ceive help from other quarters. The help given by Unesco up to the present was merely emergency aid; it was, however, of great importance for it was a proof of that solidarity which the Organ- ization was endeavouring to establish throughout the world. Dr. AWAD Bey (Egypt) stated his deepest ap- preciation of the outstanding efforts made by the citizens of the United States of America towards relief work. He agreed with Dr. Zook that re- solution 1.513 covered the tasks outlined in the proposed paragraphs 1.514 to 1.5143. Neverthe- less, he wondered how it could be possible to vote budgetary appropriations without knowing and mentioning any specific tasks. He stated his alarm on hearing rumours according to which Unesco would only make funds available for Relief to Refugees in the Middle East until March
1950. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) stated that indeed the matter of Relief to Refugees in the Middle East was a very serious one and that, although important con- tributions from different sources had been made available, they were not sufficient to cover the emergency needs in that area. He emphasized the educational needs of the children and young people who had taken refuge in Lebanon and other Arab countries. He also stated that funds were only available until the end of the current year and that the Executive Board of Unesco was concerned at the problem of finding new resources. Dr. MEI Yi chi (China) supported the sug- gestion of the United States delegation to delete items 1.514 to 1.5143. He reminded the delegates of the situation of thousands of Chinese students affected by the war operations in China. He made no formal request regarding relief in that area, but expressed the opinion that the Director-General of Unesco, together with the Executive Board, should be responsible for administering the funds           available when similar situations arose in different parts of the world. He hoped that more funds would be made available for relief work, but did not think that they should at this stage be ear- marked for any particular country. Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) stated that in his mind two problems were involved in this matter: the general problem of refugees from Palestine who at present received help from the United Nations and Specialized Agencies, and the assistance af- forded by Unesco towards the schooling of refugee children in Arab-speaking countries. He hoped that Unesco would continue its assistance until the situation in the Middle East was more settled. He pointed out that, in some regions, faith in the decisions of the United Nations had dwindled; this feeling might be corrected through the ma- terial assistance given by Specialized Agencies. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) supported the deletions moved by the United States delega- tion. He stressed the difficulties which might be caused by competition for funds between delega- tions from different parts of the world. He thought that amendment 1.512 covered all the necessities which would arise, and that the Direc- tor-General and the Executive Board should be responsible for the distribution of funds. Dr. WALKER (Australia) reminded the del- egates that the resolutions covering Relief to Refugees in the Middle East had been initiated He sup-in Beirut by the Australian delegation. ported the views of the United States delegation and suggested that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee should be instructed to re-examine the question in the light of the necessity of pro- viding a possibility for funds to be made available for emergencysituations arising in areas other than war-devastated countries. He suggested that a sup- plementary resolution should be adopted drawing the attention of the Director-General and the Executive Board to the importance of meeting the needs of emergency situations of this kind. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) supported this proposal and stated that it should be made quite clear that the original motion of the United States delegation had no budgetary implications. He suggested that the Secretariat should present a work plan to the Commission and that the Director-General and the Executive Board should submit to the Conference a budget indicating specific items in the field of Relief to Refugees, but that the resolution should not con- tain any mention of specific areas to be covered. The DIRECTOR-GENERALsaid he would not go into the details of the discussion; he wished, however, to point out the great risk that Unesco would run in having to apply a resolution that instructed the Director-General to assist refugees but without giving particulars. The proposed budgetary allocation for relief to refugees in the Middle East was already inadequate. If it were decided to adopt the Australian delegation’s pro- posal, it would be necessary to provide a sufficient margin to avoid a contradiction between the General Conference's resolution and the means at the disposal of the Secretariat. Mr. GROS (United Nations) reminded the meeting of the importance which the United Nations attached to the fact that Unesco should, whenever possible, give concrete proof of its interest in the refugee problem. It was decided, by 17 votes to 5, to refer the whole of Section 5 to the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee and to draw the latter's attention to the budgetary implications mentioned by the Director-General. The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.