slight inconsistency of wording in paragraph 3. The paragraph should be re-worded as follows: The Director-General is authorized to make transfers within the Budget, except that transfers between parts of the Budget, and transfers between appropriations in Parts I and III may only be made with the prior approval of the Executive Board. In extreme emer- gency, the Director-General may, nevertheless, make such necessary transfers, provided that he imme- diately informs the members of the Executive Board in writing of the details of the transfer and the reasons therefore. Paragraph 3, as amended, was adopted. Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed adding a newparagraph 4, namely paragraph 3(c) of the Appropriation Resolution for 1949 (doc- ument 3C/110, vol. II, page 39). Mr. WEITZ (Acting Head, Bureau of Adminis- trative Management and Budget) pointed out that the United States proposal would compel the Director-General to resume the old five-column presentation of the Budget programme. Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed to reword the proposed amendment as follows: No transfer shall be made to increase the item Grants for Emergency Aid in the appropriation line for Emergency Action by Unesco (Reconstruction). This amendment was adopted. The draft Appropriation Resolution for 1950, as amended, was adopted. Mr. NELSON (Australia) inquired whether there would also be a Budget Information and Appropriation Table for 1950. Mr. WEITZ (Acting Head, Bureau of Adminis- trative Management and Budget) said he was quite prepared to do this if it was so desired. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN added that the 1950 Budget Information and Appropriation Table would of course be submitted to the Programme and Budget Commission. The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m. SIXTH MEETING Tuesday, 4 October 1949, at 9 a.m. Chairman: Draft Report of the Drafting and Co-ordina- tion Sub-Committee (document 4C/PRG/13). The CHAIRMAN thanked the Rapporteur for having displayed such energy in producing his report in so short a time, and called upon him to speak. Covering report Mr. EVANS (United States of America), Rappor- teur, stated that, as document 4C/PRG/13 had been drafted at great speed the previous evening, there were quite a few passages in the text which needed revising. Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) having pointed out that, contrary to what was asserted in the second paragraph, the text of the resolution defining the Sub-Committee’s terms of reference was not annexed, the SECRETARY assured him that this omission would be made good in the final text. Mr. Rocer SEynoux (France) The CHAIRMAN did not think that the third paragraph on page 1 altogether corresponded to the principles that had guided the Sub-Committee in its work. He thought it was important to lay down clearly principles that might constitute a precedent in the event of the Fifth Session of the General Conference deciding to set up a Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. After an exchange of views between the CHAIR- MAN, Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium), Mr. EVANS (United States of America) and Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), it was decided to amend the drafting of the third paragraph so as to indicate clearly that the function of the Sub-Committee had been to consider first the resolutions and discus- sions of the Programme and Budget Commission; secondly suggestions made by members of the Sub- Committee or, with the agreement of the Chair- man, by other delegations present at meetings of the Sub-Committee; and finally, information and suggestions received from the Secretariat. In order to take account the remarks of
354          Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium), it was also decided to insert a sentence mentioning the indefinite nature of the Programme and Budget Commission’s con- clusions, which had materially complicated the Sub-Committee’s work. At the beginning of the following paragraph it was decided, at the suggestion of Mr. FLORKIN (Bel- gium), to replace the word “target” by “amount” and, at the CHAIRMAN's request, to substitute for the end of the second sentence regarding the postponement of the Sub-Committee's work the following words: “the Sub-Committee decided to request the Commission to settle this matter”. Passing to page 2, the CHAIRMAN said that there were certain obscurities or inaccuracies in the French text, especially at the end of the fourth paragraph. These mistakes, which were due to hasty translation, would be corrected by the Secre- tariat in the final text. Mr. WEITZ (Acting Head, Bureau of Administra- tive Management and Budget), referring to the second paragraph on page 2, said that the end of the first sentence (‘“… rather than distributing the savings under the various budgetary items.”) was incorrect. The savings had in fact been distributed over the different items; they were listed in the fifth column of the Budget Information and Appropriation Table contained in the Annex to document 4C/PRG/13. Mr. NELSON (Australia), referring to the accounting provisions made by the Secretariat to cover the increase of prices due to the devaluation, asked if the Secretariat had any plans to deal with possible over- or under-estimation of these provisions Mr. WEITZ (Acting Head, Bureau of Adminis- trative Management and Budget) pointed out that, in the last sentence but one of the main paragraph on page 2, reference should not be made to an individual person, i.e. the Deputy Director-General, but to the Secretariat. Referring to the wishes expressed by the delegate of the United States at the previous meeting regarding the presentation of the Budget, Mr. Weitz said that the Secretariat could not give any guarantee in this respect as various difficulties might arise which would prevent the Secretariat from keeping to any one pre-arranged lay-out. Mr. EVANS (United States of America), Rap- porteur, proposed that the main paragraph on page 2 should be split into two, the second para- graph beginning with the words: “The Sub- Committee gave its attention to the matter of the budget and agreed...”. In addition, the word “available” should be inserted at the end ofthe first paragraph on page 3 which would then end : “... т the programme resolutions available”. With regard to the second paragraph on page 3, Mr. Evans felt that the words “since it would be more advisable not to publicize...” were not strong enough, and he wished to see them replaced by: “it would be very inadvisable to publicize...”. The CHAIRMAN, recalling the difference of views that had emerged regarding the fixing of a ceiling or of a precise figure for the 1951 budget, thought it would be useful to insert in the report a sentence to the effect that the fixing of a pro- visional figure for the 1950 budget had greatly facilitated the Sub-Committee’s task. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) suggested that, as the last paragraphs spoke of resolutions and documents, any mention of ceiling figures should be incorporated in the third or fourth paragraph of page 1. Replying to a remark by Mr. BARBEY (Switzer- land) as regards the obscurity of the last para- graph on page 3, the CHAIRMAN pointed out that only the General Conference could decide whether a Sub-Committee was to be set up. Due account being taken of these remarks, the draft of the covering report was approved. * Annex A. Principle suggestions concerning the bud- get made by delegates at the meetings of the Sub- Committee. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that most of the sug- gestions contained in this Annex emanated from one or two delegations and had not been agreed to unanimously, or even by a majority vote, in the Sub-Committee. He feared therefore that, if Annex A were submitted to the Programme and Budget Commission, it might create confusion in the minds of the members of that Commission, who would regard these suggestions as being those of the Sub-Committee. So far as the ques- tions raised, but not decided, during the previous meetings were concerned, he thought it would be better simply to rely on the summary records and not to mention them in an annex to the report. Messrs. FLORKIN (Switzerland) agreed. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) was of opinion that, if any points in Annex A were to be deleted, the Sub-Committee should at least retain those points on which there had been gen- eral agreement. Point 4, for instance, contained (Belgium) and BARBEY
1. In finalform: below, p. 357. ا  ا - _ -     a request by the delegate of the United Kingdom (detailed statement showing where the $439,000 carry-over was distributed throughout the budget) which had been granted. This point of view was shared by Mr. NELSON (Australia) who reminded the Sub-Committee that some of these questions had been deferred for fur- ther discussion. He, himself, had intended to speak on point 2 (too rapid rate of expansion in the Statistical Office and $25,000 cut in the cor- responding appropriation). Mr. EVANS (United States of America) also sup- ported the United Kingdom proposal. Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought that, if it were decided to retain Annex A, it would suffice to alter its title by substituting “Observations” for “Principle Suggestions”. As regards paragraph 5 (funds allotted to the Department of Natural Sciences), he pointed out that it did not, as drafted, precisely reflect the point of view expressed by Mr. Perrin, dele- gate of France. He asked that the text be altered so as to bring out that the reduction in the funds allotted to the Department of Natural Sciences affected, not so much the total amount of those funds themselves, but their percentage of the total funds appropriated for the programme Mr. EVANS (United States of America), Rap- porteur apologizing for this omission, said that the sentence should of course read: . from year to year the percentage of programme funds... The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the duty of a sub-committee was closely defined; it could insert in its report only what had been decided unanimously or by a majority vote. He regretted he could not accept the Australian del- egate’s suggestion, owing to the short time available for the Sub-Committee to prepare the final text, which must be submitted to the next meeting of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. He proposed, therefore, that the few points on which the Sub-Committe had agreed should be detached and inserted in the covering report. Dr. SIASSI (Iran) asked that, if Annex A were retained, it should be completed by the insertion into it of certain other points that had been raised during the previous meetings. If, on the other hand, the Sub-Committee decided to suppress Annex A, he wondered whether delegates could present their suggestions to the Programme and Budget Commission itself. To this latter question the CHAIRMAN replied in the affirmative. Mr. EVANS (United States of America), Rap- porteur, shared the view that it would be impos- sible, in the limited time at their disposal, to debate all the points listed. Point 4, however, should be inserted in the body of the report. He proposed that the following words be added at the end of point 1: . for field purposes and particularly in regard to functions, organization and personnel of the External Relations Bureau. and also that the substance of point 9, relating to housing, should be included in the report. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) agreed with the Chaiman on this point: he did not think it would be impossible to incorporate more that point 4 in the body of the report. However, if the Sub-Committee decided to include point 5, he would request that his remarks be noted also. He supported the proposals of the United States delegate. It was decided that points 4 and 9, as regards which the Sub-Committee häd reached decisions, should be inserted in the body of the report. As regards point 1, on the subject of the organ- ization of the Bureau of External Relations, the CHAIRMAN submitted the United States proposal, seconded by Norway, to the Sub-Committee for decision. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) having asked whether the United States proposal implied a constructive suggestion or a criticism, the CHAIRMAN replied that in his view it was merely a request for information as regards the development of the Bureau of External Relations and its field services. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) said that there were two questions now before the Sub- Committee: firstly, were the field services of Unesco properly organized? and secondly, was the Bureau of External Relations too large for the work it had to do? He would like the Director-General to go into this question and submit a report on it at Florence. The CHAIRMAN thought the basic question raised by the United States delegate was really one for the Official and External Relations Commis- sion. As the Director-General had to present to the Fifth Session of the General Conference a report on the organization of the Secretariat, he, the Chairman, proposed that there should be inserted into the text of the report submitted to the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission a paragraph indicating the special importance attached by the Sub-Committee to the organization and budget of the Bureau of External Relations and its field services. Adopted.       It was decided to suppress Annex A and to incorporate its paragraphs 4 and 9 and its amended paragraph 1 in the text of the report itself. * Annex I. Recommended amendments in Programme Resolutions. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) explained that the amendments contained in Annex I were, except for resolution 6.512, the texts that had been approved at the previous meetings. Mr. CAIN (France) said that the new drafting of resolution 6.512, proposed by the French del- egation, reflected a desire for simplicity and clarity. The text proposed read as follows:
6.512 BIBLIOGRAPHY AND DOCUMENTATION The Director-General is instructed to promote bibliographical and documentation services relevant to Unesco’s Programme and to pro- mote the co-ordination of the various projects in the field of bibliography. To this end he shall: Continue the work done in previous years in co-operation with the Library of Congress of the United States; Assist by appropriate means, and particularly by contracts, the preparatory work of the Third International Congress of Librarian- ship and Bibliography to be organized in
1950 by the International Federation of Li- brary Associations with the co-operation of the International Federation for Documenta- tion;
6.5123 Assist the preparation and publication of a new edition of the Index Bibliographicus published before the war under the auspices of the League of Nations by the International Institute for Intellectual Co-operation; pre- pare lists of existing international bibliogra- phies of recognized value; stimulate and pro- mote the preparation of bibliographies of this type for subjects not yet covered. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that this text seemed to him to be a summary of the previous versions with, however, one important addition, namely the mention of “contracts” in the first line of resolution 6.5122. Replying to Mr. EVANS (United States of Amer- ica), Rapporteur, Mr. CAIN (France) explained that this drafting amendment involved no change in the budget estimates. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) wondered however whether it was desirable to replace the expression “financial assistance” by the more specific term “contracts”, and whetherit was really for the Sub- Committee to provide that there should be a con- tract in any particular case. Mr. CAIN (France) agreed to the substitution of “financial assistance” for the word “contracts”. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), referring to 6.5123 of the new resolution, proposed that the words “prepare lists” should be replaced by “assist in the preparation of lists”, thus making it a Unesco activity. Mr. CAIN (France) agreed. It was decided that the new text of resolu- tion 6.512, as thus amended, would be inserted in Annex I of the report. Due account being taken of the remarks that had been made, the whole of the report drawn up by Mr. Evans was approved. The meeting rose at 11 a.m. REPORT OF THE DRAFTING AND CO-ORDINATION SUB-COMMITTEE The Sub-Committee as originally established con- sisted of representatives of seven delegations and was later increased to include representatives of twelve delegations. Its terms of reference were at first limited to drafting assignments and the supply of information as requested by the Programme and Budget Commission. These terms of re- ference were broadened at the time of the reconstitution of the Sub-Committee to include
1. See Report below. fairly broad authority in regard to the drafting and co-ordination of programme resolutions and in regard to the revision of the budget estimates to approximate the target of $8,000,000 fixed by the Programme and Budget Commission. The terms of reference of the Sub-Committee were defined as follows: To examine the programme proposed for 1950 by the Executive Board and the budget proposed by the Director-General, in the light of discussions which