Miss PEDERSEN (Denmark) observed that the comment of the United States delegate had made it necessary for her to add a few words to those of Dr. Alzona. The Federation at present had
130,000 members, all of them with university de- grees and exercising professions as doctors, teach- ers, etc. and some of them active in parliaments. The Federation had been working for Unesco's aims for years, for example, in promoting the ex- change of women students and teachers, in raising money for international fellowships, in giving help to women in war-devastated countries and in run- ning homes for university women. Most of the workers were voluntary. The Federation had long been concerned with human rights, and had de- cided to make the dissemination of the recent Uni- versal Declaration of Human Rights the theme of its meeting in Zurich in 1950. There was no mem- tion of the money required in the French proposal, and the United States delegate had suggested the sum of $1,000: that amount would be in- sufficient and the Federation was hoping to obtain $10,000: the sum of $2,000 for speakers and experts coming from Australia and New Zealand, $4,000 for delegates coming from distant or war-devastated countries, and $4,000 for publications and the distribution of the records of the meeting. Miss Pedersen concluded by re- commending the French proposal for approval. The CHAIRMAN assured the reprensentatives of the Philippines and Denmark that the Commission would bear their appeal in mind. He announced that the whole programme, the general examination of which had been completed by the Commission, would be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, which would report to the Commission on the conclusion of its work. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), speaking as a member of a delegation which had raised many objections, expressed his appreciation of the manner in which all members of the Commission had been given every possible chance to express their opinion. He thanked his fellow delegates. and especially the Chairman and Professor Piaget, for their patience and for the excellent way in which the meetings had been conducted. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. TWELFTH MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Professor PauLo DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Fixing of a provisional ceiling for the Budget for the financial year 1950. The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that it was necessary to fix the total budget figure to serve as a guide to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee in making the necessary reduc- tions and adjustments. Once the budget had been fitted to the requirements of the programme, it would come back to the Commission for final consideration. The Chairman emphasized that the final budget would be fixed by the Com- mission itself in the light of the discussions, after an examination of the programme and con- sideration of the Sub-Committee’s recommenda- tions. Dr. CHAND (India) stated that the delegation of India had given careful thought to the problem of an increased budget, realizing that India was in the grip of a dificult economic situation, as
318 some others also were, and that it was a very delicate matter to make a decision which would increase the financial responsibilities of these na- tions. In regard to the fixing of a budget ceiling at this time, he recalled that a ceiling had been fixed at the last session of the General Conference, and pointed out that the Commission must decide whether it would be wiser to give a flat mandate to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee to cut the budgetto fit the pattern imposed by a fixed ceiling, or to ask the Sub-Committee to con- sider all details of the Programme, with the cor- responding Budget allotments, and, if necessary, to make cuts on the basis of comparative merit. If all items proved to have merit, he would approve the recommendation of the Director- General that the Budget be increased to $8,740,000, readjusted to $8,170,000 as a result of devalu- ation. In comparison with last year’s Budget of $7,780,000, the increase was really not very     great. He considered it most important that the Conference should not say to the world, by failing to increase the Budget, that the growth of Unesco had stopped; this would have a bad psychological effect; he would rather say that Unesco’s growth had slowed down because of the financial diffi- culties of many countries but that its activities were, nevertheless, slowly growing. He proposed, therefore, that a ceiling of $8,170,000 should be adopted, leaving the Sub-Committee at liberty to propose any economies which it found prac- ticable. Dr. PORTUONDO (Cuba) said that his del- egation had intended to propose precisely the same thing. He pointed out that, from the study of the Programme which had been made, it appeared that no part of it could be eliminated without damage to the work of Unesco. The impression must not be given that the national delegates were losing faith in the forward march of Unesco and in its activities for the benefit of humanity. He felt that all countries should make the necessary sacrifices to carry out the proposed Programme to its fullest extent. He therefore seconded the pro- posal of the delegation of India. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), while ex- pressing full appreciation of the motives men- tioned by the delegates of India and Cuba, believed that the 1949 ceiling of $7,780,000 should The National Commission of the United Kingdom had studied each item of the Programme and had come to the conclusion that the former ceiling could be main- tained during the coming year. Mr. Hardman reminded the delegates that, in purchasing power, this figure would now have a value one-half mil- lion dollars greater than in the preceding year. His proposal, although different from that of the delegates of India and Cuba, was also made with the good of Unesco at heart. He wished to see Unesco growin strength year by year, but believed that its growth could be most effectively achieved by a concentration of effort and by strengthening the work of the National Commissions. He en- visaged Unesco as a nerve centre which operated by injecting enthusiasm into the National Com- missions. Dr. VAN ZYL (Union of South Africa) recalled that the position of his delegation had been stated by the President of that delegation at the opening of the Conference. He now supported the pro- posal of the delegate of the United Kingdom. The prestige of Unesco was not at stake, but it must be considered that, all over the world, nations were having difficulties in balancing their bud- gets, and it would be a very delicate matter to go back home and say that more money must be con- be maintained for the year 1950. tributed to Unesco. He mentioned that his Go- vernment had been making reductions in its ex- penditures, even to the point of considering reductions in salaries, and that, in so far as the arguments about the urgency of needs were con- cerned, his country well knew that it needed many more schools, more teachers, and educational reforms already planned, but not carried out, but that the money was not available for these needs. The proposed ceiling of $8,170,000 really meant an increase of more than $1,000,000. He expressed the opinion that the Commission should face the facts squarely and see how it could best obtain full support for Unesco in all countries. The CHAIRMAN explained that, in accordance with the Financial Regulations, the surplus from
1949 would be carried over to the 1951 budget, with a corresponding reduction in Member States’ contributions, while the surplus from 1948 would be carried over to 1950. The Director-General had proposed a budget of $8,172,000 for 1950; when the 1948 surplus, which amounted to $363,000 was taken into account, Member States would have to pay only $7,809,000, an increase of $29,000 over the budget approved by the Beirut Conference for
1949. Mr. BIDAULT (France) had been on the point of drawing attention to that fact and to the futility of lengthy discussion regarding so small a sum. The first necessity was to keep the purposes of Unesco in mind and not to hesitate—considering the tremendous expenditure of all States on na- tional defence—when the question at issue was the allocation of such modest sums for national defence in the realm of the mind. The $8,000,000 which the man responsible for Unesco’s fate considered essential were only a drop in the ocean of State expenditure, and the French delegation endorsed the proposal made by the Indian delegate and supported by the delegate of Cuba, considering it extremely important that the suggested budget figure should be kept as the provisional ceiling. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) supported the proposal of the delegate of the United King- dom. With the fullest realization of the value of Unesco’s Programme, his position was motivated by the economic difficulties now being experienced by a number of countries. The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission had before it two proposals: one from the delegate of India, supported by the delegates of Cuba and France, recommending a ceiling of $8,172,000; and the other was from the United Kingdom         delegate, supported by the delegates of the Union of South Africa and Norway, fixing a ceiling of $7,780,000. He asked if there were any other proposals. Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) reviewed the method by which the Commission had arrived at the prob- lem now before it. When the issue was first raised, there had been much criticism against fixing a Budget ceiling from the beginning, the bulk of opinion having favoured examining the Programme item by item and fixing a ceiling later in the light of that examination. The Commission had therefore proceeded to examine the Pro- gramme in detail. He recalled that he had been among those who had said, during the debates on Educational Reconstruction and other items, in eachiicase;” 11118 is ‚vital. We cannot cut.” Dr. El-Hashimi felt, however, that the minority point of view must be always considered in order to assure a democratic method of procedure, and that an arbitrary compromise should be avoided. The Commission should reach an agreement based upon a plainly evident need. While he was not a supporter of reductions, he appreciated the reasons given by those who desired that economies be made. In conclusion, he suggested that, unless the Secretariat could convince the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee of the danger in making a reduction, in each case, the Commission should adopt a reduced total. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) felt that all the argu- ments on both sides had been developed at length and that the minds of delegations were made up; he therefore proposed that a vote should be taken. He reminded the Commission of Mr. Huysmans’ speech in Beirut about the discrepancy between the high aims of Unesco and the scant means at the Organization’s disposal. In spite of its pre- sent economic difficulties, Belgium would vote for the retention of the budget figure proposed by the Director-General. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) thought that, if the cost to tax-payers in all the Member States of the time spent discussing a sum of $29,000 were worked out, it would be found that the sum in question was far exceeded by the loss of valuable time. The Greek delegation would vote for the Indian proposal seconded by Mr. Bidault for, in spite of its poverty, Greece was anxious to invest what little wealth remained to her in a peaceful organ- ization in which the country had placed all its faith and hope. Count JACINI (Italy) said that the Italian del- egation would also vote in favour of the Indian proposal. He reminded the Commission that Unesco-s plan of work was not drawn up by the Director-General alone, but in agreement with the Conference and the Executive Board; its policy was discussed item by item and the resources for carrying out that policy should be adjusted to it, as the Director-General was responsible for the execution of a programme which he was com- pelled to accept. The Italian delegation therefore accepted the Director-General’s proposals as they stood and, though it would be glad if that figure were re- duced, it felt that the responsibility must be left to the Director-General. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) stressed that the matter under consideration, while impor- tant from the Agenda standpoint, was even more important for Unesco. The United States del- egation would be most unhappy if the vote on the Budget total showed a sharp division of opinion. While fully adhering to the principle of national sovereignty and the right of all countries, large or small, to vote as they desired, he felt that, nevertheless, a close vote in any international organization might not represent, as Dr. Niebuhr has said on the previous Tuesday evening, “the community of interest of the nations”. It was most important for Unesco to have a unanimous agreement on its Programme and Budget. To clarify one point, he recalled that, as the President of the Conference has stated, there was a surplus of $300,000 from the operations of 1948, usable in 1950. He felt certain that every del- egate agreed that there should be a growth of Unesco. This was, at least, one point of reference. He interpreted the proposal of the delegate of India as meaning in reality that, having gone through the Programme and Budget, the Com- mission had come to the conclusion that under no circumstances could Unesco avail itself of more than $8,170,000. He then gave warm praise to the Budget which had been presented by the Director-General and, recalling the fact that he was accustomed to be “on the other side of the bar” in presenting pro- posals for the allocation of funds, he stated that he would be very proud if he could go before the Congress of the United States and present as clear, direct and lucid a budget as that which the Director-General had presented to the General Con- ference. In the face of the clear programme presented by the Director-General, the Conference had a definite and great responsibility. The fixing of the appropriation was a matter of what it took to do each job; more harm could be done to Unesco by a bad appropriation of, say, $10,000 for an unjustifiable purpose than by a gross appropriation of $8,000,000. Every item should be right        and the total would then follow by a process of addition. He felt that it would be best not to fix a ceiling, but rather a target figure which the approximate total would be expected to come to. He proposed that the Commission should send instructions to its Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee that the target figure should be $8,000,000. The CHAIRMAN noted that a third proposal had been added to the previous two—a proposal that the Commission should instruct its Sub-Committee not to fix a ceiling, but to aim at the target of a budget as close as possible to $8,000,000. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) observed that the Commission had before it two proposals at oppo- site extremes and one intermediate proposal. All delegates wished to support Unesco’s work; the programme contained essential activities which could not be cut down. On the other hand, the recent devaluations and the redistribution of the
1948 surplus would make it possible to reduce the original figure. The Swiss delegation therefore supported the proposal made by the delegation of the United States of America, which it consi- dered was the most prudent. Mr. WATKINS (Canada) stated that, normally, the Canadian delegation would oppose fixing a ceiling in advance and would favour, instead, the examination of each item and the elimination or reduction of those considered unnecessary or least necessary; but the economic conditions of the various countries must be considered. He stated that the Canadian delegation considered the figure proposed by the delegate of the United States as being high, and would support it only with the definite understanding that the Sub-Committee would be very careful in its consideration of the appropriation for each item. The CHAIRMAN asked the delegates of India and the United Kingdom whether they still stood by their previous proposals, or whether they would be prepared to agree to the compromise solution suggested by the United States delegation and seconded by Switzerland. Dr. CHAND(India) agreed to the proposal made by the United States delegate and withdrew his own. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) stated that the United Kingdom delegation found itself in a very difficult position since, to its great regret, it could not support the target figure proposed by the United States delegation. While fully agreeing that the proposed programme was a most excellent one, his conclusion was based on the thorough discussion which had been held by the National Commission of the United Kingdom and on a full consideration of the budgetary implica- tions by those who would have to request the appropriation of funds. The CHAIRMAN remarked that there were now only two proposals before the Commission: that made by the United States delegation, setting the Sub-Committee the target of a budget in the neigh- bourhood of $8,000,000; and that made by the United Kingdom delegation, proposing a ceiling of $7,780,000. As the United Kingdom proposal was furthest from the Secretariat’s proposal, the vote would be taken on that first. Mr. BIDAULT (France) asked for clarification of the United States proposal before giving an opinion on the two proposals in question, neither of which, he observed, had been submitted in the proper form, i.e. in writing. If his understanding was correct, Mr. All>n’s proposal was that the Sub-Committee should be asked to consider the Programme and, in the light of its conclusions, to work out a budget instead of a budget ceiling. If that was so, the French delegation was prepared to agree to the proposal. The United Kingdom proposal, supported by the Union of South Africa and Norway, was put to the vote and rejected by 23 votes to 7. The proposal made by the United States of America, and supported by Switzerland and France (on the aboveinterpretation), was put to the vote and adopted unanimously. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, after the uncertainty of the past few days, he was deeply touched by the unanimous vote, which confirmed the unity of Unesco; the Organization would be able to face the world with redoubled faith and confidence in its destiny. He thanked, in parti- cular, those delegations which, with a fine spirit of unity, had fallen in with the majority view to make the unanimous verdict possible. The CHAIRMAN asked the Chairman of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee to call a meeting as soon as possible in order to resume the Sub-Committee’s work in the light of the deci- sion taken. Consideration of the First Report of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee (document 4C/38). The CHAIRMAN mentioned that, in addition to the Sub-Committee’s report (4C/38), the Com- mission had before it a draft resolution submitted by the delegations of Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon and Syria, dealing with educational relief to Palestinian refugee children (document 4C/51).       When the Sub-Committee had drawn up its first report, it had not yet been advised of the instruc- tions regarding the budget which were to guide its work. The Chairman therefore thought that, before considering the document, it would be advisable to refer it to the Sub-Committee so that it might be brought into line with the direc- tions that had been issued subsequently, thus avoiding two standards for the estimation of the different chapters in the Programme. Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) saw no objection to referring the draft resolution in document 4C/51 to the Sub-Committee, provided that the latter was asked to consider it particularly favourably. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not think, per- sonally, that the Sub-Committee was competent to consider a question relating to the Budget for
1949. He thought it would be much more logical to ask for the Executive Board’s opinion on the draft resolution in document 4C/51; the Board was to meet that day and the Director-General thought that the document in question should be transmitted to it, to make sure that the Sub-Com- mittee did not have to abandon the question, the next day, on the ground of its incompetence. The Commission would be able to take a decision afterwards, in the light of the Executive Board's consideration of the matter. Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) thanked the Director- General and accepted his proposal. Report of Unesco’s publications (documents
4C/PRG/6 and 4C/PRG/6 - Add.). Mr. MENZIES (Head, Bureau of Central Adminis- trative Services) summarized what had been done as a result of the work of the Joint Committee of Fifteen and its report to the Third Session of the General Conference, with the resulting resolution. In February 1949, the Director-General had estab- lished the Division of Documents and Publica- tions. This Division had had to make a complete beginning in every phase of its activity, and with- out any communication channels previously estab- lished. The seven months of activity in that Divi- sion had accomplished much progress. In 1948, Unesco had issued eighteen publications, as com- pared with seventy-two publications in the first nine months of 1949. There had not only been an increase of 300 per cent in the number of publica- tions, but he believed that the quality had been improved, and there had been an increase of
230 per cent in sales. The work had been greatly helped by the provision made by the Executive Board, atits Sixteenth Session, for visits to various countries by representatives of the Documents and Publications Division (document 4C/PRG/6 -
317 Add.), and these missions had been well received in all countries visited. Mr. Menzies felt that, for the first time, Unesco had its feet on the right road in the field of pub- lications. In 1947, Unesco had borne the full cost of its publications, whereas, in 1949, experiments had been made with publishing houses which stand the costs and pay to Unesco 10 per cent of the proceeds of the sales. Twenty-three publica- tions had been issued in that way. The quality of these publications was good. A serious prob- lem was that some countries required the payment of duty on Unesco publications and the proceeds could not be transferred to Unesco headquarters in Paris. He suggested asking the General Conference to vote a resolution recom- mending to all Member States that Unesco publi- cations be admitted duty-free, and that the funds resulting from the sale of these publications be transferable to Paris without hindrance of any kind. He pointed out that the Constitution of Unesco included a clear statement on that point. Mr. Menzies was aware that there were many deficiencies in spite of the progress made and of the generally promising situation. A definite step in advance had been made by the appointment, on 10 January, of two editors; the benefits, how- ever, of this new editorial policy had been felt only recently, since it had been necessary for the editors to become familiar with the policies of the Director-General, and to know much about Unesco. The Director-General had said that this service should be enlarged and that the publications should be edited and distributed in order to reach not only intellectual circles, but “the man in the street”. Mr. Menzies expressed regret that there had not been more co-operation in this connexion on the part of the National Com- missions, although he felt assured of the good wishes and of the future co-operation of these Commissions. He believed that, at a meeting to be convened in October, including representatives of the United States, France and the United King- dom, a long-term policy would be established for Unesco publications and that a definite publica- tions policy, which Unesco did not have, would be produced. In conclusion, he pointed out that the problem of the production and distribution of documents and publications, in order to carry out most effec- tively that function of Unesco, was a serious one and that it required funds, personnel and the co- operation of the National Commissions. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) declared his personal belief that there had not been a better statement made in the Conference Hall than that which had just been made by the representative of the Director-General on publications policy.     The United Kingdom delegation had always re- cognized Publications as one of the most important instruments for the carrying out of Unesco’s objec- tives. This had been discussed at Beirut, but at that time there was no definite policy on publica- tions and he was gratified at the great progress which had been made since that time, mentioning especially the improvement in the presentation of the publications. He called attention to the fact that there were many problems to be solved, for example, the economic question, namely whether to distribute publications free or to be paid for, considering this question not only from the standpoint of cost to Unesco, but from the viewpoint of the effective- ness of a publication for which one pays as con- trasted with something that is handed out free. He mentioned as an example the art catalogue (“Exposition internationale d’Art moderne”). He felt that Unesco must strike a proper balance in this connexion, since many Unesco documents must necessarily be distributed free of charge. Sir John also mentioned the problem of what to publish and what to refuse, citing as an example the Tensions Project, which was reaching the point where an over-abundance of material was coming forward from professors and others stim- ulated by Unesco, and it would be necessary for the Director-General and his staff to decide what material did not justify the cost of printing and distribution, although that was a delicate prob- lem. He also felt that economies could be reason- ably made by publishing some documents bi- monthly, instead of monthly, such as the Re- construction Newsletter, and also by more careful control of the number of copies distributed in given places. For example, he and his colleagues of the United Kingdom had received seventy copies of the Proceedings of the General Conference, al- though they had estimated that twenty would have been sufficient. He expressed particular approval of the twenty-three publications which had been handled by publishing houses, and suggested that this technique should become the normal pro- cedure. In conclusion, he expressed great pleasure in noting the report on Unesco’s Publications and hoped that much more information would be forthcoming in the reports for the next session of the General Conference, showing the imple- mentation of the directives of the Third Session and including developments on the points which he had mentioned, with particular reference to the method of selecting the publishing houses, by competitive tenders or not, and the methods used in determining what to publish and how. Mr. MENZIES (Head, Bureau of Central Ad- ministrative Services) expressed his appreciation
318 to the delegate of the United Kingdom who had not only given definite encouragement but had so clearly and constructively stated some of the most important problems which had to be solved. Mr. Menzies gave some further details of the pro- gress which had been made to date. He said that the Publications Division was in contact with four National Commissions and four Member Govern- ments. Referring to the Art catalogue, he said that only fifty copies had been distributed free to Heads of delegations and members of the Executive Board, others being supplied on request. Present plans included sixty additional manuscripts to be printed through publishing houses, assuring savings in costs and wide dissemination. Seven manuscripts, not considered suitable for publica- tion by Unesco, had been returned. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that document 4C/ PRG/6 - Add. contained a draft resolution stating that the General Conference requested Member States to take immediately all the necessary steps with a view to enabling Unesco: (1) to import its official publications freely and without customs duties, and sell them within their territory; (2) to transfer freely to Paris the revenue derived from the sale of such publications. The Chairman asked for delegations’ opinions on the question. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) announced that the United States delegation had no objection to, and in fact favoured, the resolution of the Director-General in regard to Unesco pub- lications (document 4C/PRG/6 - Add., Annex I). However, no programme or lack of programme in Unesco had been so consistently criticized by members of the United States delegation and its National Commission as the publications pro- gramme, this criticism having been chiefly direc- ted (a) toward the criteria used in the selection of material, and (b) toward the lack of a clearly defined system of distribution, since they did not know whether they could have copies of particular publications for distribution or not. The United States delegation felt greatly reassured by the con- versations held with Mr. Menzies and by his state- ments to the Commission. Mr. Eisenhower then made three suggestions:
1. that the Secretariat in Paris should expect the National Commissions to help not only in the dis- tribution but also in the improvement of the out- put, by conveying immediately to Mr. Menzies their comments, suggestions and criticisms;
2. that the list of publications given in doc- ument 4C/PRG/6 be not binding on the Director- General to use the amount appropriated for those particular publications, but that he be free fo apply selective criteria and to make such substi- tutions or changes as he found advisable; and
3. that the programme of publications be co- ordinated with all the other means of Mass Com- munications since, although interest may be aroused by radio and other means, the most effe~- tive work is done when the people whose interest has been thus aroused get the documents they desire. In conclusion, Mr. Eisenhower again expressed the encouragement felt and assured Mr. Menzies that he would receive suggestions from the United States, from month to month, as the publications were received. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) said that the draft resolution of the Director-General met with no objection on the part of his delegation, whici hoped that it would be adopted, but called atten: tion to the fact that currency restrictions might limit distribution in his country. In this con- nexion, he suggested that the free entry of Unesco publications in all countries should be insisted upon and that, if there were restrictions on the transfer of the proceeds, the money should be used for the work of Unesco in the respective countries. He believed that Unesco should sponsor the pub- lication of a handbook for the whole scientific world, since there was no such publication now in existence which could be considered reliable and satisfactory. He mentioned favourably Min- erva, published before the last war. Professor Nielsen believed that a comprehensive and reliable publication of this nature, sponsored by Unesco, would be of benefit to science and to humanity, and that it could be published through a com- mercial firm on a non-profit basis without expense to Unesco. The Director-General accepted the criticisms in the spirit in which they had been made—to assist Unesco. He admitted that those criticisms were serious and justified, but he wished to remind the Commission of the very difficult circumstances of the Publications Division during the year and paid tribute to the astonishing output of a small staff which had been working night and day. He drew attention to the need for deciding on a de- finite publications policy for Unesco; Sir John Maud had just urged that consignments of pub- lications should be smaller, whereas, in the Offi- cial and External Relations Commission, the same delegations, if not the same delegates, had asked for larger numbers of documents. Up to a certain point, the Director-General agreed with Sir John Maud’s remarks about the supply of publications free of charge; but he observed that Unesco had not yet reached the stage of commanding a large demand and sale for its publications. It should not be forgotten either that free supply of some of those technical pub-
319 lications was expected by scientific organizations. He thought that any recommendation would be premature, as a committee of experts was to meet, the following October, to consider the contacts already established by Unesco, particularly with the United Nations Publication Service; he hoped to be able to present a more satisfactory pro- gramme to the General Conference in 1950. He welcomed Professor Nielsen’s suggestion that there should be a successor to the publication Minerva; the Secretariat would study the problem and afterwards submit specific proposals. Although the Commission had adopted the Bud- get for 1950 with enthusiasm, the Director-General was well aware that several delegations had re- servations ta make with regard to the sums pro- vided for short-term contracts. He had made no secret of his grave concern at facing another ceiling, that of staff; the Conference might con- sider a higher ceiling, or set aside a proportion of the revenue derived from the sale of publica- tions for recruiting staff. In order to produce good publications, more good editors were needed; but the Director-General was very much afraid that, if the services of people in demand in the pub- lishing world were sought as consultants for periods of four or five months, there would be many disappointments; few people were prepared to leave a safe post, even when poorly paid, for a short-term job, however remunerative. He thought that better results would be secured if the Secretariat were allowed greater freedom of action. In conclusion, the Director-General referred to the Danish delegate’s observation: while those States which refused to grant duty-free entry to Unesco’s publications raised the more serious moral problem, the States which, although they allowed the import of publications, did not per- mit the transfer to Paris of revenue derived from their sale, raised a practical problem. He thought it was not enough merely to adopt a recommen- dation: it must be insisted that delegations should ensure that the recommendation was implemented in Member States. The sums involved were quite small, but would make it possible to increase the number of publications. It would possibly be ad- visable to add to the recommendation a provision stating that the Conference would request the Director-General to report to each session of the Conference the names of Member States which were refusing to allow the transfer of those in- significant sums. Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) wished to reassure Mr. Menzies and to tell him that his proposal regarding the customs clearance of Unesco’s pub- lications and the transfer of revenue derived from their sale had already been adopted by the Leb- anese Government. He also wished to tell him   how very grateful he was that an Arabic trans- lation service was being organized. In that connexion Mgr. Maroun mentioned how greatly Unesco would benefit, in the Arabic- speaking countries, from the publication of a sum- mary of articles which had appeared in various Unesco publications and which, if reproduced in the Arab press, would help to inform an audience which knew too little of Unesco’s work. The draft recommendation (document 4C/PRG/
6 - Add.) was adopted. * Proposal Regarding the Code of Policies (doc- ument 4C/13). The CHAIRMAN drew attention to a proposal re- garding the Code of Policies that had been sub- mitted by the delegation of the United States of America (document 4C/13); the Director-General was prepared to support that proposal, which con- cerned Part IIT of document 4C/5 (rev.). The proposal was adopted *. The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. THIRTEENTH MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: later: Technical Assistance Programme (documents
4C/8 rev. and 4C/9). The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the item involved no budgetary discussion. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afganistan) remarked that his country was in great need of technical assistance, without which the recommendations of the Gen- eral Conference could not be carried out; in that connexion, he mentioned that he had already re- ported his country's difficulties in education to the meeting of the International Bureau of Edu- cation. He pointed out that the technical assistance Programme provided for contributions from Mem- ber States based on a variable rate. Governments had already divided out their budgets between various specific items of expenditure and, if funds were to be devoted to the new programme, it would be necessary to cancel or reduce the appro- priations for otheractivities. He therefore thought that it would be better, for a beginning, to deal with only one item instead of two orthree. He wished to have some further details about the share governments were to take in the fellow- ships programme. He observed that most Member States already awarded a number of fellowships for study abroad, and he thought it unnecessary to ask those governments to make a fresh con- tribution to a programme which was already covered by their own budgets. In his opinion,
1. In final form: Resolution 9.5. Mr. Jean Prager (Switzerland) Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) the Technical Assistance programme ought not to entail either budgetary complications of the sus- pension or curtailment of work already in progress in the beneficiary countries. Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) reported that a Com- mission had been set up in his country to study the Technical Assistance programme, which had been most enthusiastically received in the Lebanese press, and mentioned that the specialized Depart- ments of the Lebanese Government were examining the technical needs of the country; a report would be sent to Unesco. The Lebanese representative explained that, in his country, the programme was regarded as a practical expression of the effective solidarity which should exist between the peoples, and par- ticularly between countries belonging to the same Organization. There were in fact two types of countries: those which had been able to exploit their natural resources by their own efforts, and those which had enjoyed fewer natural advantages; the sense of community should therefore be ex- pressed in the provision of assistance for the latter by the former countries. Financial assistance how- ever, could not be effective without technical assist- ance which would help experts in the countries re- ceiving assistance to take advantage of the financial aid. Moreover, technical assistance provided sole- ly by foreigners would offend national feeling in any country, and foreigners would not always fully
2. In final form: Resolution 9.6.