Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada), Rap- porteur — The last item in the Report is 9—Other Questions—page 25 in the English text and 26 in the French text, the Preliminary Study of the Reports of Member States. The PRESIDENT — If there is no objection to this proposal and no comment, I declare this re- solution adopted. No objection? Adopted.’
28. Adoption as a whole of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission. The PRESIDENT — Now, as regards the Report as a whole, may I take it that, subject to the votes recorded against two of the resolutions, namely, one about Germany and one about Japan, the Con- ference, as a whole, adopts the Report of the Com- mission on Official and External Relations. If there is no objection to my recording a decision in that sense, of it is adopted subject to the votes recorded against two parts of it by certain delega- tions, I will declare the whole Report adopted? Adopted. The next plenary meeting of the Conference will be held tomorrow morning, immediately after the meeting of the Nominations Committee. The Nom- inations Committee will meet at 10.30 in this room for the purpose of agreeing on nominations to the Committee of seven governments to consider the problem of headquarters and premises of the Organization. The business at the plenary meeting will be to vote on the proposals from the Nominations Com- mittee, to take a supplementary report from the Procedure Committee; and to take such parts of the Report on the Programme and Budget as are ready, and it is especially hoped that, in the morn- ing, we can dispose with the part of the Report relating to Technical Assistance. It is expected that the plenary meeting will con- tinue in the afternoon to complete the work on the Programme and Budget, and that the Confer- ence will conclude towards the end of tomorrow afternoon. The Meeting rose at 5 o'clock. FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 5 October 1949 at 11.15 a.m. GONTENTS Supplementary Report of the Procedure Committee . . . . . . . . . 202 Election of seven members to the Headquarters Commission . . . . . . 202 Report by Member States for 1949. Referral of their consideration to the FIRASession oie Conor Conference ZTA Ge ee ee 209 President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia). The PRESIDENT — I wish to give the Conference some indication regarding the work to be under- taken in the course of the day. At this plenary session now, which will be a short one, we shall receive a supplementary report from the Procedure Committee and the Report of the Nominations Committee on the appointments to the Head- quarters Committee. Following that, the plenary session will adjourn and the Programme and Budget Commission will meet in this room at
11.30 a.m. to complete its consideration of the Programme and Budget, the question of Technical
1. In Final form: Resolutions 30.4 to 30.42. Assistance and one or two other outstanding points. The plenary session, which will be the closing session of the Conference, will take place this afternoon at 3 o'clock, not 3.30 as stated in the Journal. The business will be, first of all, to receive the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission and to adopt it. We shall also have to take a formal vote on the amendment to the Constitution. You will remember the provision relating to the voting rights of Member States which are two years or more in arrears. We postponed the formal vote on that amendment to the Constitution until the conclusion of the    Conference. It is expected that the Conference can be brought to a close in the course of the afternoon.
29. Supplementary Report of the Procedure Committee. The PRESIDENT — Now we take up the two points on our Agenda for this morning, first of all the Supplementary Report of the Procedure Committee, and I will invite Dr. J. C. Beaglehole, the Chairman of that Committee, to come to the tribune. The document is 4C/PRG/8, Addendum. Dr. J. C. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand), Chair- man of Procedure Committee — Mr. President and fellow delegates: This Supplementary Report incorporates material which the Rapporteur, when he delivered the first Report of the Committee, indicated wasstill to come. The points noted in Section V arose out of a discussion over the ma- terial of Section VI; it is when we were consider- ing the matter of the use of Spanish as a further working language, that the points of procedure arose. The Procedure Committee held a further meeting last Saturday, 1 October at 11.30 a.m. V. The Committee noted a number of questions which had arisen over the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and submits the following resolution to the General Conference: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, CONSIDERING the necessity of making the Rules of Pro- cedure as plain and unambiguous as possible, Instructs the Director-General to enquire into the following questions:
1. Is it possible to define more closely what pro- posals not on the Agenda of the General Conterence or of a Commission of Committee shall be regarded as ‘new’ items? [Cf. Rule 14 (1) and (2). |
2. Under what circumstances may a proposal not on the Agenda be brought before the General Con- ference ?
3. Under what circumstances may a proposal not on the Agenda be brought before a Commission or Committee ?
4. Under what circumstances may a proposal be amended when brought before a Commission, without further notice?
5. Should new rules be brought down in answer to these questions, and, if so, what rules?
6. Is it possible to draft a useful additional rule to the effect that all new items which have budgetary unplicauons must be submitted to the Generar won- ference at its very beginning? Should all such items be referred to the Programme and Budget Commission ?
7. Under what circumstances, if any, should the Chairman of a Commission or Committee record a vote? Should a Chairman under any circumstances record a casting vote? (Cf. Rule 90.)
8. Does Rule 104, on ‘Suspension’ apply to the meetings of Commissions and Committees as well as to meetings of the General Conference ? (Cf. Rule 48.)
9. How far is it possible to co-ordinate new rules on these subjects with the existing Rules of Pro- cedure, and what further alteration would be necessary to ensure co-ordination ?
10. Is there any other alteration which, on the basis of General Conference experience, should be made to the Rules of Procedure ? The last Section of the Report of the Procedure Committee follows: VI. The Committee then considered certain draft al- terations to the Rules of Procedure asked for by the Mexican Delegation, which would make Spanish a full working language of the General Conference. After a lengthy discussion, the following motion was passed: THE PROCEDURE COMMITTEE, HAVING REGARD to the interest and sympathy shown by certain delegations for the proposals put forward by the Mexican Delegation, document 4C/PRO/9, RECOMMENDS to the General Conference:
1. That the Director-General be instructed to ex- amine this question exhaustively from every angle;
2. That the Mexican Delegations proposals be in- cluded in the Agenda of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the Supplementary Report of the Procedure Com- mittee. Is there any comment or observation? If there is no objection we may take it that this Report is approved and adopted * by the Confer- ence. It is so agreed. I should like to thank the Procedure Committee for the excellent work they have done. It is very important that our procedure should be developed in a way that will avoid any unnecessary difficulty from the procedural angle, and from that point of view the work of the Procedure Committee is of great assistance to the carrying on of the work of the Conference.
30. Election of seven members of the Head- quarters Commission. The PRESIDENT — The next point on our Agenda is the election by the Conference of the seven members of the Commission to consider the ques- tion of headquarters. I call on Mr. Allen, of the United States of America, Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Amer- ica), Chairman of the Nominations Committee —
1. In final form: Resolutions 41.2 to 41.42.     Mr. President: The Nominations Committee has met and submits the following names of countries for the Headquarters Commission: Australia, Bel- gium, Brazil, France, Egypt, United Kingdom, United States of America. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the proposal from the Nominations Committee. Any comment or objection? If not, I will declare the seven countries named by the Chairman of the Nominations Committee elected to serve on the Headquarters Commission. So agreed.
31. Report by Member States for 1949. Referral of their consideration to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The PRESIDENT — There is one other item on the Agenda of the Conference which we shall not have treated in plenary session—the Reports from Member States. I would remind you, however, that at yesterday's plenary session we adopted a resolution which formed part of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission on this matter. The resolution was under Section 9 of that Report, and provided that Member States should be invited to complete the information con- tained in their reports submitted to this Fourth Session of the General Conference, on their acti- vities during 1949, and to complete them prior to the Fifth Session of the General Conference in By the resolution the Execu-Florence next year. tive Board was requested, in setting up the organ- ization of the Fifth Session of the General Confer- ence, to provide for the examination of the annual reports submitted in 1949—as brought up to date —and for the presentation of recommendations to the General Conference on any changes which may be appropriate in the policy of Unesco with refer- ence to the annual reports required by Article VIII of the Constitution. This matter will be consi- dered by the Board and suitable arrangements made at the Florence Conference. It is an appropriate stage in the life of the Organization to get this matter cleared up, because the work of Unesco is more and more moving out into the fields of Members States and their Na- tional Commissions, and it is clearly of the utmost importance that we should know just what pro- cedure is desirable to enable the General Confer- ence to consider the work that is going on in Member States, whichis the subject of their reports to the Conference each year. So, since we have already taken a decision bearing on this matter in yesterday's plenary session, I may take it that this point on the Agenda, namely, Consideration of Reports from Member States, has been dealt with and that it is not necessary to consider it further at this Conference. It will, as I have said, be considered at the Florence Conference. That completes the business of this plenary ses- sion, the Programme and Budget Commission will meet in this room to complete its report. That report will then be presented to the plenary ses- sion of the Conference at 3 o'clock this afternoon. That plenary session will be the closing session of the Conference. The plenary session is adjourned until 3 this afternoon. The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m.