The whole information and appropriation table was adopted. * The CHAIRMANthanked Mr. Seydoux, Mr. Flor- kin and the Rapporteurs for their painstaking accomplishment of an enormous amount of work in a very short time. The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m. FIFTEENTH MEETING Wednesday, 5 October 1949, at 12 noon Chairman: Draft Report of the Programme and Budget Commission (document 4C/PRG/15). Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur, pre- sented the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission (document 4C/PRG/15). On behalf of the Commission, the CHAIRMAN thanked the Rapporteurfor the way he hadcarried out his duties. He openeddiscussion of the report paragraph by paragraph. Paragraphs 1 to 11 Paragraphs 1 to 11 inclusive were adopted without comment. Paragraph 12 Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur, re- quested members of the Commission to amend paragraph 12 by the deleting “2 and 3” at the end of the third line and substituting: “and the re- vised table designated as Annex II (rev.)”. Paragraph 12, as amended, was adopted. Paragraph 13 Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) regretted that he had not been present during the discussion of the technical assistance programme. He wished to make explicit certain points which were implicit in the report. His delegation was in favour of the whole scheme and was very glad that Unesco was participate in it; he felt however that, while Unesco’s tasks in the field of education as part of the technical assistance programme were very clear, its responsibilities in the field of science were less clear. There would be three aspects of science involved in the technical assistance pro- gramme: (1) Hygienic conditions; (2) Sociological problems; (3) Applied Science. The first aspect was the concern of WHO, but the last two con-
1. In final form: 4C/Resolutions, pp. 42 and 43.
391 М. Jean Prager (Switzerland) cerned Unesco and it was absolutely necessary that, in all its actions, Unesco should be in friendly and close contact with social scientists and na- tural and applied scientists, and that it should enlist the co-operation of scientific bodies like the International Council of Scientific Unions. It was Unesco’s essential task to ensure a scientific ap- proach to the problems involved in Technical Assistance, otherwise Dr. Kruyt feared that it would have small successes and large failures. Professor AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) thought that the position of science with regard to Technical Assistance was fairly fully covered. He was prepared to give any additional information required. The Secretariat had thought that the two most important points concerning the rôle of science in technical development were the following:
1. Whena technical process which hadalready been tried out was transferred to some other re- gion of the world, it was essential to make a very thorough scientific study in order to adapt it to the new conditions; that was a matter for scien- tific research, which would come very close to pure science and would undoubtedly derive ad- vantage from the advice of a body such as the International Council of Scientific Unions;
9 Preparation of the ground was equally es- in Technical Assistance, account had to be taken of the capacities of the population, whose development should keep pace with technical de- velopment, if they were to realize what benefits sential; would accrue to the country; the dissemination of science had a great part to play in that field. Paragraph 13 was adopted. Paragraph 1) Paragraph 14 was adopted without comment. The whole report was adopted. The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.