TWELFTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 4 October 1949 at 10.45 a.m. CONTENTS Second Report of the Credentials Committee Report of the Administrative Commission Report of the Official and External Relations Commission Consideration of the Report of the Official and External Relations Com- mission on Unesco’s work in Germany . President: Dr. E. RonaLp WALKER (Australia).
22. Second Report of the Credentials Com- mittee The PRESIDENT — The Agenda for today, as notified in the Journal, contains two items— Consideration of the Report of the Administrative Commission, and the Draft Report of the Official and External Relations Commission, together with, under that second heading, a draft resolution pro- posed by the delegations of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary. I desire, however, to enable the Committee on Credentials to submit a short report before we take the other reports, and I would call on Pro- fessor Nielsen, of Denmark, Chairman of the Credentials Committee. Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) — [Translation from the French]: The Credentials Committee met on Tuesday, 4 Octo- ber, at 9.30 a.m., under the Chairmanship of Mr. Niel- sen (Denmark). The Committee noted that credentials in due form have nowbeen transmitted by sixteen more Member States, in addition to the twenty-three received before the opening of the General Conference, and mentioned in the Committee's first report. Those States are: Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, Cuba, France, Haiti, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Lebanon, New Zealand, Pakistan, Peru, United Kingdom, Uruguay. The following eight Member States have forwarded credentials not in due form: Afghanistan, Australia, Bolivia, Colombia, Egypt, Iraq, Turkey, Venezuela. These eight Member States have sent one or more telegrams from their Ministries for Foreign Affairs and also, in several cases, furnished letters from their Embassies in Paris. Three have announced that cre- dentials in due form are on the way. The Committee is of the opinion that, although the credentials of these States are irregular, they should, onthe strength of the telegrams sent by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, be allowed to vote. The Committee again draws the attention of the
180 General Conference to the need for revising the Rules of Procedure in respect of the form of credentials. That, Mr President, is the Report of the Credentials Committee. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Venezuela. H. E. Mr. PARRA PEREZ [Translation from the French] As regards the credentials of the delegates of Venezuela, I am glad to inform the Chairman of the Credentials Committee that this very morning I received credentials in due form from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Venezuela, and that I have just signed the letter sending these credentials to Mr. Nielsen. The credentials of the Venezuelan delegation are, therefore, quite in order. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the Report of the Credentials Committee, which proposes that the various delegations be accepted and also suggests that the Rules of Procedure should be modified or reconsidered in order to clarify certain aspects of the credentials require- ments. I take it that the Conference will adopt this report and that we shall request the Director- General to arrange for the next Conference to consider at the Procedure Committee what modi- fications might be necessary in the rules relating to credentials. If there is no objection, I declare the Report of the Credentials Committee adopted. Adopted.
23. Report of the Administrative Com- mission. The PRESIDENT — We take up the next point on the Agenda for today, the Report of the Adminis- trative Commission. I call on Mr. Kirpal of India to present the Report.       Mr. P. N. KIRPAL (India) — Mr. President, the document 4C/ADM/20 (rev.) embodies the Report of the Administrative Commission. The Com- mission met on 26 September and held five meetings, under the Chairmanship of H.E. Mr Léo Mundeleer, delegate of Belgium. Dr. Li Shu Hua, delegate of China, was elected Vice- Chairman. The Commission set up a small com- mittee of eight members under the Chairmanship of Mr. Smith, delegate of Australia, to consider a number of important questions. This Com- mittee reported back to the Commission. The Commission’s deliberations proceeded smoothly and in a businesslike manner, and the final report which is before you was adopted unanimously. The Report is divided into three parts. Part A deals with seven financial questions, Part B with five staff questions, and Part C embodies the reso- lution on the proposed establishment of the Headquarters Commission. The main Report contains general comments on all these matters, while the relevant resolutions are recorded in the three Annexes. Both the general comments and the proposed resolutions are embodied in the Report and it is not necessary for me to add anything to what is stated there, except to point out one minor correction in the French text of the Report. Page 6, Annex I, in the French text only, in line 11, instead of “... 31 Decem- ber 1954”, should read “... 1 January 1955”. I shouldalsolike to point out that the Frenchtrans- lation is perhaps somewhat insufficient and might require a few verbal alterations. Mr. President, with your permission, I move the adoption of the document 4C/ADM/20 (rev.) the Report of the Administrative Commission. The PRESIDENT — I thank the Rapporteur for presenting the Report of the Administrative Com- mission which is now before the Conference for consideration. The Report has a number of pro- posed resolutions attached to it which give effect to the decisions of the Committee contained in the Report. I suggest, first of all, that any delegation desiring to comment on the general body of the Report might speak, and then I propose to put to the Conference one by one the resolutions contained in the Annexes of the Report. Does anybody wish to speak on the body of the Report? We have heard the proposal from the Rappor- teur that the Report be adopted * and I take it that, in the absence of any comment, the Report is adopted in principle, and that we may pass to consider the detailed resolutions contained in the Annex to the Report. The first of these relates to the question of the Auditors’ Report. No comment, no objection? If Section III.1. See doc. 4C/Resolutions, there is no comment or objection I shall assume that each resolution is adopted. The resolution relating to the Auditor's Report is adopted. * The second resolution on page 2 relates to the scale of contributions. Any comment or objec- tion? Then I declare the resolution relating to the scale of contributions adopted. * Page 3 of the Report in English, Annex 1, resolution 3,—Currency of Contributions. Are there any comments on this resolution? Is there any objection to the adoption of the resolution? Then I declare resolution 3 relating to the currency of contributions adopted. * Resolution 4 on page 5 relates to the adminis- tration of the Revolving Fund. Does anybody wish to comment on this resolution? Is there any objection to the adoption of the resolution? In the absence of any objection I declare resolu- tion 4, relating to the administration of the Revolving Fund, adopted. * Resolution 5 covers certain amendments to the Financial Regulations—to Financial Regulation 26, to Financial Regulation 2 and Financial Regu- lation 4. Also a minorcorrection, a change in the name of the former Revolving Fund, in Regu- lations 6, 7, 8, 11 and 20. All these changes are rec—— by the Administrative Commission. Is there any comment on the proposals? If there is no objection I shall assume that all the proposed changes in the Financial Regulations are adopted by the Conference. Any objection? I declare the changes in the Financial Regulations adopted * by the Conference. Page 7, Regulation 6: Categories of Miscellaneous Income, including monies received from publications. Any com- ments or objections? I hear no objection and | declare these resolutions relating to the utilization of certain categories of miscellaneous income adopted. * Resolution 7 is on page 8, and relates to the Appointment of Auditors of the Organization, and involves an amendment of Financial Regulation 21. Any comment or objection? 1 hear no objection and therefore declare the resolution under 7 relating to the appointment of auditors and the amendment of Financial Regulation 21 adopted * by the Conference. Annex II — Proposed Resolutions on Staff Ques- tions. These relate to measures to implementstaff regulations, to the salary and allowance system, Utilization of Certain final form: Resolutions 20 to 20.255 final form: Resolutions 21 to 21.5. final form: Resolutions 22 to 22.5. final form: Resolutions 23 to 23.4. final form: Resolutions 24 to 24.4. final form: Resolutions 25 to 25.3. final form: Resolutions 24.5 to 24.54.   and to the joint Staff Pensions Fund, inluding the election of certain persons to act on the Unesco Staff Pensions Committee. Are there any com- ments or objections? Then I declare the proposed resolution in Annex II on Staff Questions adopted * by the Conference. Annex III relates to other Questions, particularly the problem of accommodation of the headquar- ters of the Organization. Is there any comment on this question? Or any objection to the resolution proposed by the Administrative Com- mission under Annex III? I hear no objection, and therefore declare the resolutions in Annex III relating to Other Questions, particularly the mat- ter of headquarters accomodation, adopted * by the Conference. The Report of the Commission has been adopted. I would like to thank the Chairman, Vice- Chairman and Rapporteur of that Commission, as well as all members of the Commission, for the assistance they have given the Conference in carrying out this work. Following the adoption of the Report, action is required in one matter. The Report provided for the establishment of a Headquarters Commis- sion, and it will now be necessary for the Nomi- nations Committee of the Conference to meet in order to select the seven governments of Member States which, in accordance with the Resolution just adopted, should be represented on the Head- quarters Commission. The best arrangement, it appears, would be for the Nominations Com- mittee to meet in this room tomorrow morning at
10.30—we expect it to be a short meeting—and then we can immediately continue with the plen- ary session of the Conference, as soon as the seven governments have been selected for pro- position by the Nominations Committee to serve on this Headquarters Commission.
24. Report of the Official and External Relations Commission. The PRESIDENT — We proceed to the next item, the Report of the Commission on Official and External Relations. I invite Mr. Charpentier of Canada, the Rapporteur of that Commission, to present the Report. Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Mr. President and fellow delegates, I have the honour to lay before the General Conference the Report of the Official and External Relations Com- mission. In doing so, I wish to pay tribute to all the members of the Commission for their
1. In final form: Resolutions 26 to 28.
2. In final form: Resolutions 29 to 29.13. devotion to duty, for the excellent suggestions made during the debate for the common good of the Member States and of Unesco, and for their diligence in expressing their ideas with brevity and clearness. In the words of the poet: In what they left untold, there was also a lot of good sense. The Official and External Relations Commission met for the first time on 21 September, and it held its last meeting on 1 October, after having examined all the items of its agenda. During its meetings, thanks to its Chairman, H.E. Mr. Antonio Castro Leal, and to the close co- operation of its members, the Commission was able to examine carefully the various questions submitted to it and to solve them in accordance with the interests of Unesco and of Member States. The task of the Rapporteur was facilitated, not only by the co-operation of all, but also by the able assistance of the Secretariat, MM. de Blonay and Gebelt, who, at the instigation of the Director-General, had prepared the documentation for the Committee and who have acted as the latter’s advisers. Unesco's official and external relations are the conductors, as it were, which transmit to Member States, the National Commissions, the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, and to governmental and non-governmental organ- izations the watchwords and directives which are issued by headquarters and contribute to the intellectual, cultural and scientific progress throughout the world. It is therefore essential that these means of communication and action should operate well and as far as possible be improved. In most cases, Unesco has made use of existing bodies. In other cases, it has been deemed necessary to establish new organs such as the Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere, which will furnish our Latin American friends with an advisory centre specially intended to meet their needs. It would be a truism to say that we must help young people. Unesco, which is itself a young organization, must benefit from this help. Unesco and the successful carrying out of its activities depends on the interest taken in it by each of its members. Each Member State has a duty towards the Organization and the surest means of hindering its work would be to take no more interest in it. The reports which Unesco expects from its Member States were not all presented in due time. The Commission has therefore decided to post- pone their examination until the next General Conference. Many countries did, however, send in their reports in proper time. They have therefore    not only presented a report, but have also given a good example and deserve our thanks. The Commission has wisely decided to leave the Director-General a wide measure of freedom in carrying out the resolutions which it has adopted. This decision not only constitutes a mark of con- fidence in the high qualities and capacities of Mr. Torres-Bodet, but it also permits him to econ- omize from time to time without the feeling of being paralysed or hamstrung by terms which are too precise. Unesco's work will require consi- derable time for its accomplishment, and, if the structure itself is to be a permanent one, it must have solid foundations. During the first two joint meetings of the Offi- cial and External Relations Commission and of the Programme and Budget Commission, it was decided to continue with the work begun this year in Germany and in Japanas far as circumstances permit and irrespective of all political considera- tions. No decision could be more in accordance with the aims of Unesco, which, in the carrying out of its task, sometimes meets with misunder- standing, but which nevertheless keeps its faith in mankind and in its high destiny. The Report I am submitting to you is the sum- marized work of the Official and External Relations Commission. You have in your hands all the necessary documentation. The French text has been entirely revised overnight and, without being perfect, includes, I think, all the modifications which were submitted up to yesterday evening at the end of the joint meeting of the two commis- sions. You have received with the English text
4C/OXR/23 addendum. Those addenda will com- plete the English text which you have; they have been prepared according to certain amendments and suggestions made yesterday afternoon in the Committee of the External Relations Commission. Then there is one other addendum which is not in the English text, and which you will find at the beginning when we go through all the items one after the other, and a third addendum on page 2, item 4A—Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere—after the word “Office” in line 3, “notes the measures taken to establish a Regional Office...”: the words “in Havana” should be included in the English text. It is already in the French text. Mr. President, I wish to thank those who appointed me Rapporteur of the Commission. I deeply appreciate the honour for my country, and I only hope that your expectations in my respect have been fulfilled. I beg to move the adoption of the Report, which will be examined item by item. The PRESIDENT — I would thank Mr. Char- pentier for having presented his Report, which is now before the Conference for consideration. It is proposed that we take the Report section by sec- tion, as there are a number of specific resolutions. I will ask the Rapporteur if he would read the title of each section and I will then put the reso- lutions to the Conference, according any delegation the opportunity to comment on each matter as we come to it. Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — The first operative item is on page 2, No. 4—Member States and National Commissions. The first part is A—Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere. Again I wish to draw your attention to the fact that there should be another addendum which is not in 4C/OXR/23, namely, the inclusion of the words “in Havana” after the words “Regional Office”, in the first line of the resolution. The PRESIDENT — Any comment on this reso- lution? Is there no objection? I declare the reso- lution adopted * by the General Conference. Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Para- graph B—Liaison with MemberStates and National Commissions. The PRESIDENT — The resolution on page 3. Any comments? Any objection? If not, I declare the resolution on page 3 relating to Liaison with Member States adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Para- graph C—Institute of Cultural Co-operation for South and East Asian Countries. The PRESIDENT — Any comment on this reso- lution? Anyobjection? I declare it adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Item 5—United Nations and Specialized Agencies. First paragraph A—Consideration of the Agree- ment between the United Nations and Unesco. The PRESIDENT—Any comment on the reso- lution appearing on page 49 If there is no objection I declare the resolution adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Item 6—International Organizations. Under para- graph A there is a certain number of resolutions which we will take one by one. It starts with inter-governmental organizations, and then No. (i) —Directives concerning relations with inter- governmental organizations. The PRESIDENT — Anyobjections? Adopted. ® Resolutions 30 to 30.112. Resolutions 30.2 to 30.22. Resolution 30.3. Resolution 31. Resolution 32.1. . In final form: . In final form:
3. In final form: . In final form: . In final form:    Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — No. (ii)—Consideration of the Provisional Agree- ment between Unesco and the International Bureau of Education. The PRESIDENT — Any objections, or com- ments? Adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — No. (iii)—Relations with the Organization of American States. The PRESIDENT — Any objection? Adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Para- graph B—Non-Governmental Organizations. Con- sideration of the List of International Non- Governmental Organizations approved for Con- sultative Status. The PRESIDENT — The resolution appears on page 6. Any comments or objections? I call on the delegate of the United Kingdom. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. Chair- man andfellow delegates, on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation I want to say that we hope that this will go through in the form in whichit is presented to us, because the whole question has been very thoroughly thrashed out in the Com- mission. But on behalf on my delegation I want to make one or two comments. We feel that there is great substance in some of the views which were expressed yesterday by the Director-General when this matter was finally agreed by the full Commission, on the Report of the Rapporteur. We recognize that the Director-General and the Executive Board have an exceedingly heavy burden of work to do between now and the Flor- ence Conference, particularly in the matter of revising and concentrating the programme, and we feel that that should have priority in the time which the Executive Board, the Director-General and the Secretariat can spare between now and Florence, which will be on us all too soon. At the same time we also feel that, at the Florence Conference, the main work must be consideration of the proposals which the Director-General and the Board will put before us relating to the pro- gramme and the budget of the Organization for succeeding years. Moreover, we think that this matter of reconsidering which organizations should continue to have consultative status in relation to Unesco is a very delicate one. I have myself—if I may speak personally—been a member of the Committee of the Executive Board which has had the task of making the first
1. In final form: Resolution 32.2.
2. In final form: Resolutions 32.3 to 32.34. examination, before the Board takes its decision on applications from organizations which desire to have consultative status, and I can assure my fellow-delegates that it is exceedingly difficult to harden your heart and refuse to grant consultative status, particularly as every body that comes before us wishing for consultative status has much to be said for it. I think myself that, in future, we have got to harden our hearts—perhaps more frequently than we have done in the past—and be tough, so that we do not include in the list of bodies having consultative status any body in re- spect of which it is not really in the interests of Unesco that they should have that status. I think myself that the discussions which have taken place in the Commission, the results of which are before us, should be taken as an instruction to the Ex- ecutive Board to pay perhaps more careful atten- tion than they have in the past to this matter, and not to feel that they are in any way insulting a particular body if they feel that that body shouid not obtain consultative status. My conclusion, Mr. President, is that we should pass this resolution as it stands, but, in doing so, we should feel sympathy with the Director- General in what he said yesterday, and with the Executive Board, and we should quite frankly not expect too much of the next Florence Conference. This will be a continuing, and a continuingly diffi- cult task, for the Executive Board and the General Conference, and we fully agree that, by the time of the Florence Conference, we should have made more progress than we have made in the last year towards securing a satisfactory method of dealing’ with these organizations. What in conclusion I, personally, and my delegation feel very strongly, is that we do not want to have a great deal of time spent by the Conference at Florence in going through the details of each of the hundred or two hundred individual organizations with which we do have consultative status. Above all, we do not want to encourage any lobbying of individual delegations by the representatives of those organ- izations, and we hope therefore that the Director- General will be able, with the assistance of the Executive Board, to present to the Conference at Florence something which can be gone through pretty simply there, without a great deal of expen- diture of time or energy. And we hope that in the meanwhile, between now and Florence, the Director-General and the Executive Board will not be expected to spend more than a reasonable amount of time in preparing the document and answering questions from Member States. I do not want to suggest an amendment, but in the final paragraph, before the request of the Executive    Board on the English text on page 7, at the top, where the Director-General is instructed: to make available to Member States which request it all information regarding the composition and acti- vities of any given international non-governmental organization. I think what is meant there is all available information. In other words, it is perfectly reascnable that any Member States should ask the Director-General to let them know, if they happen to be interested in it, all that he knows about a given organization; that is the interpre- tation that I would hope we should put upon this phrase. I had thought of suggesting that the word “available” should be put in before “information”, but I do not think that is necessary. But I do think we should certainly not expect our Director- General to make elaborate Gestapo enquiries into each organization, which is perhaps suggested by the wording as it stands. With those words, Vr. Chairman, I hope myself that we shall be able to accept what comes to a unanimous recommendation, made after a great deal of study, in this Commission. The PRESIDENT — Any other comments? The delegate of the United Kingdom did not suggest any actual amendment, but he gave an interpreta- tion of the resolution, and his statement will be contained in the records of this session. If there is no objection I declare the resolution adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — No. (ii)—Review of the Formal Agreements con- cluded with International Non-Governmental Organizations, on page 7 of the English text. The PRESIDENT — There are several resolu- tions. Any comments or objections? I declare the resolutions adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — No. (iii), on page 8—Report of the Director- General on Contracts concluded with International Non-Governmental Organizations and Grants-in-Aid allotted in 1949. The PRESIDENT — Any comments or objection? I declare the resolutions adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — On page 9 of the English text, and page 10 of the French text—Report on the Scheme for an Inter- national Union of Organizations Working for Peace.
1. In final form: Resolutions 33.1 to 33.12.
2. In final form: Resolutions 33.2 to 33.252.
3. In final form: Resolutions 33.3 to 33.322.
185 The PRESIDENT — This is a resolution to note in the Report. 1 take it there is no objection? Adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — No. (v), on the same page, page 11 of the French text—Liaison with Labour Organizations. The PRESIDENT — Any comment? Any objection? The resolution is adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Reso- lution 7, Juridical Questions. It is in two parts. First part paragraph A—Consideration of Draft Regulations governing the approval by the General Conference of Recommendations to Member States and International Conventions. The PRESIDENT — Any comments or objec- tions? If not, I declare the resolution adopted. * Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Para- graph B, which is on page 14 of the English text, and page 13 of the French—Agreement with the French Government on the Privileges and Immu- nities granted to Unesco. The PRESIDENT — Any comment on this pro- posed resolution? Any objection? None. The resolution relating to the Agreement with the French Government on the Privileges and Immu- nities granted to Unesco is, therefore, adopted 7 by the Conference.
25. Consideration of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission on Unesco’s work in Germany. Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada) — Reso- lution No. 8.—Activities of Unesco in Germany and Japan. It is in two parts, paragraph A—Germany. The Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization in Germany during 1949, and the policy to be adopted in 1950. The PRESIDENT — There have been tabled two resolutions by way of amendment to this part of the Report. One is a resolution presented by the delegations of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hun- gary—document 4C/54. The text of the resolu- tion would be to amend this part of the Report. There is also a draft amendment proposed by the delegation of Brazil-—document 4C/55. The effect of this amendment is to alter the first paragraphs of the draft resolution relating to Germany, those that are in the nature of a Preamble, together with
4. In final form: Resolution 33.4.
5. In final form: Resolutions 33.5 to 33.523.
6. In final form: Resolutions 34.1 to 34.132.
7. In final form: Resolutions 34.2 to 34.23.        the final paragraph containing the decision of the Conference—before the detailed activities are set out. These two amendments will be considered along with the Report of the Commission on this matter, and the matter is nowopen to discussion— both the amendments and the actual text of he report of the Commission relating to Germanyare open for discussion. Does anybody wish to speak? I call on the delegate of Czechoslovakia. Prof. VANA (Czechoslovakia) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, before taking a vote on the Report of the Joint Commission relating to Unesco’s activities in Germany, I wish to sum up the point of view of the Czechoslovak delegation, and, at the same time, to justify the resolution proposed by the dele- gations of Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia, in document 4C/54. The fundamental and decisive principles which must govern relations with pre- sent-day Germany were expressed very clearly and precisely in the Yalta and Potsdam Agreements. In the Preamble to the Potsdam Agreement it is said that German militarism and Nazism shall be eradicated, and the Allies shall now and in the future, jointly, take the other measures necessary for preventing Germany from again becoming a danger to her neigh- bours or to world peace. And what then follows the pursued: makes clear aims It is not the intention of the Allies to destroy or to enslave the German people. Their intention is to offer the German people the opportunity of preparing itself to begin its life again on a democratic and peaceful basis. If the efforts of the German people are firmly directed to this end, it will be possible for it, at the proper moment, to take its place among the free and peaceful nations of the world. According to the Preamble of the same Agreement, the treatment meted out to the German popula- tion must, as far as possible, be uniform through- out Germany. If we consider towards approve the fact that the United Nations Organ- the the German of the Allies cannot but intentions people, we ization for Education, Science and Culture—which was established precisely in order to achieve grad- ually, with the co-operation of the various nations, in the field of Education, Science and Culture, international peace and the general wel- fare of humanity—envisaged, at its second General Conference in Mexico, the possibility of extending its purposes and functions as defined in Article I of its Constitution, to Germany. When the Director-General’s Report on Unesco’s activities in Germany was being discussed by the Joint Commission, some of the comments sug-
186 gested that certain countries in their attitude towards Germany were moved by a spirit of ven- geance. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not a single one of us who, desiring and working for peace, would not wish to see the German people take its place among the free and peaceful peoples in their efforts to establish international understanding and co-operation. But, as regard Unesco’s activities in Germany, described in the Director-General's Report and proposed to us for 1950 in the Report of the Joint Commission, we must ask two ques- tions:
1. Has the moment spoken of in the Potsdam Agreement, which I mentioned a moment ago, really come for Germany to participate in the life of the free and peaceful peoples of the world? In other words, have German militarism and Nazism really been eradicated? Has Germany ceased to be a danger to her neighbours and to the peace of the world?
2. Does the activity exercised, or proposed, by Unesco apply—and must it apply—uniformly to the whole of the German population? Allow me to answer the second question first. The answer, as you are already perfectly aware, is that Unesco’s activities in Germany merely con- cern the Western Zone. This means that Unesco accepts and approves the idea of a Germany divided into two parts. Such an idea is a flagrant viola- tion of the Yalta and Potsdam Agreements, which reflect the whole meaning of all those sacrifices made by millions of men in their fight against Fascism and Nazism, in their fight for Democracy and for a better life for all mankind. These Agree- ments did not aim at the destruction of the German people, but at the transformation of Germany into a peaceful and democratic state. This trans- formation will obviously only be possible if Ger- manyis unified politically and economically. The founding of the so-called West German State is in complete contradiction with those Agreements. Unesco should therefore not endeavour to carry out its activities in Germany unless it can extend such activities to the whole of German territory. Otherwise, instead of reconciling men, Unesco risks sowing discord among them. Let us now come back to the first question. We must ask what is the real nature of the Ger- many with which Unesco is ready to co-operate. If it was possible to entertain certain hopes at the time when Unesco began to draw up plans for work in Germany, the situation had already changed by the time of the Third General Confer- ence, although the latter did not considerit neces- sary to take that fact into account. The situation changed still further while the Committee of Experts was carrying out its work and it has    changed even more during this Fourth General Conference. All these changes point in the same direction. They are an indication of the rapid rebirth of Nazism. Western Germany is quickly becoming not a democratic State, but a centre of neo-fascism and militarism. The so-called Bonn Parliament is becoming a platform from which fanatics utter cries of vengeance. That is the result of the policy of the occupying powers in Western Germany. Do you really think, ladies and gentlemen, that the racial hysteria which burst forth a little while ago in Munich during a public demonstration, and that the movement organized bythe Freiheits- partei for the annexation of territory belonging to the Czechoslovak Republic—I cite these two facts at random—are proofs of a democratic state of mind and are indications that Nazism and German militarism have been eradicated (These being the preliminary conditions to Germany's entry into international organizations)? Is it possible that you do not see as we do that such episodes are a danger to Germany's neighbours and to world peace) It was rightly pointed out during the discussion by the Joint Commission that Unesco should pay main attention to the young. Now you read the newspapers. You will certainly have read the article in the Monde on 25 September. Accord- ing to this, former members of the Hitler Youth Movement are to meet from4 to 10 October next in the Steinbach Youth Camp near Cologne. This meeting has been approved by the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Adenauer Government. The letter of invitation reveals that the Hitler Youth Movement in 1939 had 7,729,000 members and that very many of them served the Movement with genuine idealism and unparalleled devotion, and it is emphasized that it would be regrettable if the fine qualities of most of the former leaders of the Hitler Youth Movement were not utilized. Is it with these former leaders of the Hitler Youth Movement that Unesco will have to co-operate? Certainly it is, since there is no other organ- ization approved or admitted by the Adenauer Government. Some of the honourable speakers have seen in our proposal for the suspension of Unesco's acti- vities in Germany a purely negative attitude, and have expressed the opinion that it is precisely the rebirth of Nazism in Western Germany which jus- tifies not only the continuation but even the exten- sion and increase of Unesco's activities in Ger- many. Ladies and gentlemen, to claim that Unesco will be able to co-operate in Germany with democratic elements is to expose oneself to an error which is obvious to those who are familiar with the political system in Western Germany and who know very well that nothing could be done there without the direct approval of the Adenauer Government. The Nazi demonstrations have been organized under the patronage and on the initiative of the so-called German Government, as is clear from the speech- es made in the Bonn Parliament. How would Unesco be able to carry out the re-education of German governmental circles? It is true that there are also democratic circles in Western Germany, but they are submitted to constant persecution. It is therefore not within them that Unesco would be able to collaborate. In view of this situation, the suspension of Unesco's activities in Germany would alone consti- tute a really positive attitude, for such an act would make clear to the German neo-fascists that Unesco is deeply disturbed by the rebirth of the spirit of revenge and of nationalism in Germany. The German question is of vital interest to the Czechoslovak people. Its importance stares us in the eye at this season, whichrecalls the sinister events of Munich. Those are the reasons why the Hungarian, Polish and Czechoslovak delegations were obliged to protest strongly against the continuance of Unesco's activities in Western Germany and to leave the Joint Commission as a sign of that pro- test. To preserve friendly collaboration among all Member States of Unesco, we ask you to consider once morethe grave responsibility you will assume by your coming decisions, and that is why we recommend that you approve the draft resolution on the policy to be adopted in Germany for 1950 presented to the General Conference by the Hun- garian, Polish and Czechoslovak delegations. The PRESIDENT — I Call on Professor Car- neiro, of the Brazilian delegation. Mr. Paulo de Berredo CARNEIRO (Brazil) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, the German problem is a world problem and it is because it concerns all people that I venture to propose certain amendments to the projects under discussion. Certainly, the neighbours of Germany have the first right to speak on this grave matter. They have paid heavily for their pro- pinquity. None of us can forget the rape of Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Holland, Bel- gium and France, to speak of no other countries. All those who saw the Nazi flag flying in these countries and who witnessed their martyrdom under the Nazi occupation are now united in the firm desire to save mankind from similar catastrophes in the future. But it is only the fate of the neighbours of Germany which is at stake. Nazism is a sort of contagion and the most distant regions have suffered from it. In        particular, Mr. President, those countries which for centuries have welcomed German workers have been in a position to measure the gravity of the crisis. It is because I am convinced of the universal importance of the German question that I venture to say that Unesco should give all its attention to this problem and endeavour to find a solution to it. We are, alas, very far from knowing the right treatment for this kind of social disease. In this field we are no further advanced than the doctors of Molière. We knowso little about the mecha- nism of the social body that we must advance gropingly and with humility, recognizing our mistakes, but without losing hope of reaching our goal. It is precisely because our information is in- adequate that we must have recourse to Unesco and seek aid from its anthropologists, psychologists, and all those specialized in these great collec- tive disturbances that the most violent and the most ignoble passions create. This should be one of the first preoccupations of Unesco, and it is in this international laboratory that we must seek the appropriate social therapeutics. Germany, indeed, is not cured of its ills. Cer- tainly we would not have such an important task before us if Nazism had vanished at a touchof the magic wand. We all know that it is still alive and every day we have graver and more alarming proofs of its existence. We knowthat a very large part of German youth is ready to follow the same path as it did yesterday. We knowthat the leaders responsible for the crimes against humanity are once more in power. No one is ignorant, nor can be ignorant, of the fact, but for that very reason it is necessary for Unesco to be present in Germany. lt must be present in order to dissipate this unhealthy climate in which all the latent evil developed during the Nazi régime, to break down the bar- riers between the German youthof that period and the healthy influence of the youth of other coun- tries. Free circulation must be ensured in Germany for our books, pamphlets, radio, cinema, ideas and hopes. It is by the influence of Unesco’s ideals upon Nazi passions that we hope to find salvation. To abandon our task in Germany because it is a difficult one and because Nazi demonstrations are at present taking place would be lo betray our mis- sion. The motives of our action and the rules of our conduct in Germany must remain completely independent of political aims and economic interests. We are not swooping down on Germany like vultures, but are going there as missionaries with our charter in our hands, and it is in the name of this code of freedom and solidarity that we are going to eradicate them from the minds of the Germans. What does Unesco propose to do? Its pro- gramme includes nine parts, and each is to contri- bute to the forming of a new public outlook capable of neutralizing the poison of Nazism:
1. To distribute to interested groups in Germany, and especially to educators and leaders of youth move- ments, the documents, publications and other ma- terials of Unesco, and to make known the aims and achievements of the Organization by all appropriate means;
2. To facilitate the exchange, between Germany and other countries, of publications and of scientific, educational and cultural works and information cal- culated to further the aims of Unesco;
3. To study the question of textbooks in Germany and to define, from Unesco’s point of view, the criteria that should guide the preparation and publication of such textbooks;
4. To survey the problems involved in, and the opportunities that exist for, the exchange of persons between Germany and other countries, in accordance with Unesco’s objectives;
5. To encourage objective research by German social scientists, with a view to promoting a better understanding by the German people of their own problems and of their relationships to other mem- bers of the international community;
6. To invite qualified German individuals to attend in appropriate cases expert meetings, technical con- ferences and seminars held under the auspices of Unesco, in accordance with the general rules go- verning participation in such meetings, the choice of individuals to be invited being made by the Director- General who may consult in this respect with appro- priate German bodies;
7. To enter into consultation with agencies, private and governmental, national and international con- ducting the planning of cultural activities in Ger- many, with a view to devising with them the ways in which Unesco could progressively co-ordinate such cultural activities, including student exchanges, inter- national conferences, etc.;
8. To stimulate contributions from private sources and endowments, both in Germany and abroad, for the financing of certain projects falling within the framework of the programme approved by the Gen- eral Conference, but which would not be effectively accomplished due to lack of resources, it being un- derstood that such funds as may be procured in this way would be administered by Unesco for specific purposes to be approved by the Executive Board;
9. In order to ensure the greatest possible effec- tiveness of Unesco's action in Germany, it is re- commended that, within the framework of the above programme, highest priority should be given to those projects directly designed to influence public opinion towards a spirit of peace and international un- derstanding. In this respect, special emphasis should be placed on press, film and radio, particularly in their use in the formation of youth and the training of teachers. Mr. President, how can we possibly consider these nine articles as a form of collaboration with anti- democrats or with Nazis? It is precisely in order    to help the democratic and anti-Nazi groups —which, alas, are all too weak—that Unesco intends to carry out work in Germany. It is in order not to leave them in that state of abandon in which they found themselves between 1932 and 1940, it is in order that they may constantly be admonished to respect the common rights of mankind, and in order that all governments and peoples, and pri- vate or governmental organizations, may constantly be reminded of their duties that we intend to be present in Germany. I have asked you, Mr. President, to submit to the Conference certain amendments to the texts under discussion. The French delegation has opened a path which I think we should follow. It has proposed—and you have accepted its proposal— that our activities in Germany should be con- tinued only if the German circles concerned, in particular the educators, the leaders of youth movements and those who are instructed to form public opinion, abstain from all campaigns and all polemics which are opposed to the principles of the Organization, and endeavourto establish the atmosphere of mutual understanding which is necessary for the development of those activities. On the basis of the proposal made by the French delegation—a warning to German youth which might be misled, and to a German government which might betray its mandate and revert to a revengeful and anti-democratic attitude—I venture to propose these two new amendments. The first, “recognizing how important it is to defend the unity of Germany and howdesirable it is that the Allied powers should co-operate for this purpose”, aims at informing the Germans and all other peoples that Unesco’s voice must be heard everywhere and that it is intended for the whole of the German people; that, from the cultural point of view, which is the point of view of our Organization, there is no iron-curtain separating one part of Germany from the other; that our wireless, pamphlets and publications should circu- late freely in both zones and that we appeal to the occupying forces for their co-operation. It is pre- cisely to avoid a cultural schism, conflicting hopes and the existence of chasms between the different parts of the country, that I ask you to accept this first amendment. The second amendment, “nothing that the Exe- cutive Board is able to supervise Unesco’s present activities in Germany, and to modify or suspend any or all of themif the principles of the Organ- ization and the development of the general situa- tion in Germany so require”, meets a need which we all recognize, namely, to adapt Unesco’s pro- gramme more and more and better and better to ceaselessly changing circumstances in Germany. The programme we wish to apply is not a rigid and abstract one, but a programme which keeps the facts always in sight, and it is for the Exe- cutive Board to keep itself constantly informed of the circumstances in order to decide at any moment whether it shall continue or suspend an activity in the interest of Unesco’s ideals. If the Conference accepts these amendments, 1 should like it to consider its aceptance, firstly, as a warning to the German people: We are endeav- ouring to reinstate you in the community of free men; we ask you to co-operate with us; we promise to help you; but do not betray your his- toric past; do not betray the memory of Goethe, whose bicentenary we are commemorating this year; do not betray the immortal Beethoven, whose voice continues to fill the world with its noble accents. Secondly, I would like you to consider its acceptance as a message sent beyond the German frontiers to the peoples of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, to tell them that it is in their name and in the name of their sufferings, in the name of their ruins and in the name of their dead that Unesco wishes to carry out its work in Germany. The PRESIDENT — The delegate of Poland wishes to speak. Mr. Przemyslaw OGRODZINSKI (Poland) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, in my earlier speech before the Commission, I men- tioned a series of alarming outbursts of German nationalism and revisionism. 1 then stated that, in spite of the past and present activities of Unesco, the spirit of revenge and of aggression, the tradi- tional militarism and excessive nationalism, far from disappearing or diminishing, had, on the contrary, increased in Western Germany. In the speeches of the representatives of the other dele- gation I have found no arguments refuting the facts I mentioned. On the contrary, my view of the situation in Germany was approved by many delegations. I need not therefore dwell further on this question. But, if in the course of the discussion anyone were to question this rebirth of nationalism and of the spirit of revenge in Germany, I would naturally reserve the right to answer him. The answer will be all the easier as each day brings newfacts in support of my point of view. I would only have to produce the latest editions of the daily press in Paris. The majority of the Commission considered that there fears engendered by the “Revanchist” demonstrations in Western Germany could be allayed by the safety-clause proposed by the French delegation. The Polish delegation cannot accept this point of view. It considers the Brazilian reso- lution in the same light. The Brazilian resolution   a A o S g A I R В a D U E E ج م و ت      is content to leave the Executive Board the power of applying this safety-clause. In the present circumstances, what is the meaning of this “safety-clause”? In the best of cases it can be interpreted as a clause giving Unesco the right to view its work in Germany if new revisionist and militarist excesses occur in that country. But we all know that the “safety-clause” pro- posed by France and Brazil should be applied immediately. We all know that the “German circles concerned, in particular... those who are instructed to inform public opinion”, instead of abstaining “from all campaigns contrary to the principles of the Organization” and instead of endeavouring to “establish the atmosphere of international understanding” are concentrating all their efforts on stirring up a campaignof revenge, and that they are doing all they can to accentuate the differences between the Powers and so wilfully endeavouring to provoke a new war. In these conditions, to adopt the resolution which proposes the application of the “safety- clause” in the future and not immediately, is to shut oureyes to facts. More than that, for 1 shall speak frankly, it is to give one's approval and blessing to revisionist remonstrations and to the aggressive spirit already rife in Germany. Thus, when public opinion in Western Germany is inflamed against Czechoslovakia with a view to stripping the latter of a quarter ofits territory, is Unesco to ignore the fact? When Western Germany wants to rob Poland of a third of its territory, is Unesco to regard that as perfectly natural? When Western Germany speaks openly of liqui- dating one of the MemberStates, namely, Austria, should Unesco have nothing to say in the matter? Unesco, then, should not react until the aggressive elements in Western Germany make formal claims to Alsace and Lorraine and to the former German colonies? Members of the French delegation, I cannot believe that these were your intentions when you proposed your “safety-clause”. But I am obliged to note that only thus can it be interpreted and, what is worse, it is only in this way that it will be interpreted by those who are at present in control in Western Germany. We are unable to associate ourselves with this idea of the “safety-clause”, not only because it openlythreatens the security of states which were the first victims of Nazi aggression, but parti- cularly because it does not serve the cause of general peace, which is one and indivisible, and also because it is contrary to the interests of the German people, whom the warmongers now want ‘
190 to transform into the mercenaries of a new ex- pedition against the East. Gentlemen, if you have adopted the resolution that “Unesco’s activities in Germany... can succeed... only if German circles concerned abstain from all campaigns contrary to the principles of the Organization...”, either you agree to admit that the recent campaigns of Adenauer and Co. are in accordance with Unesco’s aims, (in that case I myself would no longer believe that Unesco’s aim is to maintain peace), or else you condemn Unesco to activities which you know very well beforehand are bound to fail; in other words, you condemn Unesco to bankruptcy. Hence the only logical and courageous means of allaying the anxieties expressed in the proposal of the French delegation, the only logical conse- quence of the statement by the head of the Bra- zilian delegation that the Nazis are still in power in Germany, is the adoption of our proposal for the suspension of Unesco's activities in Western Germany, that is to say, the immediate application of the “safety-clause”. Gentlemen, allow me to point out to you that the proposal of the French delegation was adopted by a little less than one-third of the State, participating in this Conference. Forthe momentit is difficult to find a completely satis- factory explanation for the large number of abstentions. It is possible that certain delegations had not had time to examine the question; it is possible that the formula proposed by the French delegation is regarded as inadequate; possibly certain States desired to show their indifference to the growth of the spirit of aggression in Germany; lastly, it is possible—but this I find hard to be- lieve—that they regard such phenomena as nat- ural and favourable to their interests. I believe that this meeting will give an unequi- vocal answer to these questions. In any case, the Polish delegation considers that we have not the right to ignore the stirring up of the spirit of revenge and of agression in Western Germany, nor to endeavour to solve these problems by a few trite formulas. If Unesco wishes to remain loyal to the principles of its Constitution and to the cause of peace, it must clearly and explicitly condemn such demonstrations. If you do not now condemn the revisionist demonstrations of Adenauer and Co., history will judge your attitude severely. Moreover, history teaches us that those who hesitate to resist German imperialism become its victims. The resolution presented by the delegations of Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland states clearly and unequivocally in the last paragraph but one that the atmosphere in Western Germany is becoming more and more imbued with the spirit     of chauvinism and aggressiveness. That is a tact known to all of us and we have not the right to pass it over in silence. The resolution proposed by Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland states clearly and unequivocally in the last paragraph but one that the atmosphere in Western Germany is becoming more and more imbued with the spirit of chauvinism and aggressiveness. That is a fact known to all of us and we have not the right to pass it overin silence. The resolution proposed by Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland also empha- sizes the principles which should guide Unesco’s activities in Germany. If the examination of these principles leads us to conclude that present con- ditions in Germany are not propitious to Unesco’s activities, that is not our fault, nor is it due to any feeling of hatred for the Germans. I repeat what I said at greater length before the Commission: we believe in the existence of peace- ful and democratic forces in Germany. Nobody desires more ardently than Poland the rebirth of a peaceful and democratic Germany, and I declare that Poland sincerely wishes to see neighbourly and friendly relations established between itself and Germany instead of the century-old conflicts which have divided the two countries. If today we are unable to see any possibilities for Unesco's activities in Germany, the fault is due to those who have established such a situation and such condi- tions in Western Germany that Unesco cannot carry on its work there without betraying its prin- ciples. Passing on to other points of the preamble to the Resolution of Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland, I wouldfirst like to stress the link which exists between a logical and effective denazification and demilitarization of Germany on the moral plane, on the one hand, and the possibilities of Unesco’s activities in that country, on the other. I have already said before the Commission that “Unesco was induced to intervene in German affairs at a time when the failure of the campaign for denazification, moral disarmament and demo- cratization was becoming clear in the Western Zone, and that Unesco is continuing its activities in order to cover with its name and its prestige a failure which is now beyond all doubt.” What is the essence of Unesco’s activities in Ger- many according to the project submitted to us by the Executive Board? It is a question of estab- lishing as many contacts as possible in the field of education, science and culture between this non-denazified Germany and the rest of the world. Consequently, it is a question of establishing con- ditions most favourable to the spread throughout the world of all the neo-Fascist elements in Western Germany. You will all agree with me that Nazism is a contagious disease. We have proof of it in many countries. You will surely agree with me that Unesco should endeavour to rid the world of this disease. Now, as far as 1 know, sanitary regulations pre- scribe in most contagious diseases:
1. Official notification of the disease;
2. The isolation of the invalid so that he shall not be a menace to those around him;
3. Effective treatment. But the resolution presented to us by the Ex- ecutive Board runs entirely counter to those reg- ulations.
1. Instead of notifying the disease it is passed overin silence and concealed;
2. The invalid is placed as frequently as pos- sible in contact with healthy people;
3. In such conditions, there can obviously be no question of effective treatment. Gentlemen, Unesco cannot work in Germany without previous and effective denazification, as is indicated in the Polish resolution. If Unesco is determined to work in present conditions, not only will it not assist in liquidating the vestiges of Nazism in Germany, but it will risk becoming one day itself the instrument of penetration by the Nazi Fifth Column in the field of education, science and culture. I wouldlike to drawyourattention to that point of the preamble to our resolution which speaks of the priority to be given by Unesco to countries which were victims of German aggression. This point is in accordance with the resolutions already adopted by Unesco. But we consider that it is opportune and just to draw attention to it once more at a time when Unesco’s programme in Germany is being discus- sed. Lastly, I would like to pass on to the essential point of the German problem, namely, the prin- ciple of the unity of the Four Powers and of the unity of Germany, which are indispensable con- ditions for Unesco’s work in Germany. It is a problem which cannot be avoided by vague for- mulas such as those proposed to us by the Bra- zilian delegation. Allow me to remind you of the successive stages in the activities of Unesco in Germany: The Mexico Conference decided that Unesco should first take action in Germany through the four Occupying Powers. As we have seen, certain efforts were made to profit by this decision to carry outa campaign for the division of Germany and to accentuate the differences between the four Occupying Powers. The decision of the Mexico Conference was said to authorize Unesco to carry out its activities, not in Germany as such, but in the different zones.   o _ — щ а ли ьу у a r e s e p a a E A A S A o m
7      When the Control Council was unable to agree on conditions which would have enabled Unesco to extend its activities to the whole of Germany, this was unjustly used as a pretext by Unesco to start immediate activities in Western Germany. Instead of efforts to facilitate a decision by the four Occu- pying Powers on the basis of German unity, recourse was had to the hasty enrolment of Unesco in the campaign for the division of Germany. The General Conference in Beirut unfortunately did not pay enough attention to this question. Today the problem appears far graver. Further attempts are being made to use Unesco’s name: Unesco is to prepare the way, in the field of edu- cation, science and culture, for the formal recogni- tion of this pseudo-State of Western Germany. Documents 4C/OXR/16 and 4C/OXR/16 Adden- dum leave no doubts in that respect. Unesco is to help to overcome the reluctance of all who up to the present have been unwilling to embark upon the adventure called Western Germany. Unesco is to deck this venture with cultural garlands. We are completely against such machinations, and we oppose to them the paragraphs of the preamble to the draft resolution of Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland, dealing with the need for the unity of Germany and for the unity of the four Occupying Powers. Gentlemen, the German problem is the touch- stone of the whole of Unesco’s work. The man- ner in which this problem is dealt with will show whether Unesco really intends to remain true to its principles of universality, or whether it will appear in the eyes of its members as a political instrument in the hands of a bloc of States or single State. We ourselves stand for Unesco’s unversality and, to defend this universality, we are ready to show the maximum of good will and conciliation. But we will not help to annihilate Unesco’s universality by approving attempts to embark Unesco on this adventure which is called “Western Germany”. You may argue, gentlemen, about the need to collaborate with an international peace organ- ization, and you may find only a coterie of secta- rians and intellectuals, without paying any atten- tion to the existence of a powerful peace organ- ization. You may, if you wish, prepare Unesco’s participation in the dissolution of the World Federation of Trade Unions and lay plans to grant Unesco’s help to the seceding unions. You may prepare the way for Unesco’s entry into Southern Korea and Western Germany; but in that case we must replace the term “Member States” in the Constitution by “Semi-States”, “puppet fractions of States”, and introduce an article prescribing that any scrap of territory
192 whatever now under American rule may join Unesco. If you like, gentlemen, you can reduce Unesco's róle to that of a body designed to prepare and facilitate the policy of the Western bloc, the Amer- ican bloc in Germany. In that case, however, let us frankly admit that Unesco's róle as a world organization will have ceased to exist. There are tendencies at work among us to make Unesco nothing more than a kind of Office of Psychological Warfare in the cold war. But, if those tendencies should prevail, we shall have to strike the words “United Nations Organization” out of ourtitle. It is possible that we may not be able to prevent Unesco, instead of uniting the various cultures of the world in peaceful co-operation, from being transformed into a gramophone record doomed to grind out the tunesof the Atlantic Pact. Speaking for ourselves, however, we shall not march to those tunes. The PRESIDENT — Two delegates have asked to speak—Professor Alf Sommerfelt of Norway, and Sir John Maud of the United Kingdom. If other delegates wish to speak in this debate, I would ask them to send their names up to the platform as we hope to terminate this matter before the con- clusion of this morning’s session. I call on Pro- fessor Sommerfelt of Norway. Prof. Alf SOMMERFELT (Norway) — Mr. Pre- sident, fellow delegates, as a member of a nation who also has its devastated districts and who mourns the loss of a great number of its people, executed or tortured to death in German concen- tration camps, I can very well understand the anxieties and the scepticism of our Polish, Czecho- slovak and Hungarian fellow delegates. I share this scepticism myself, but, on the other hand, it is a fact that one of the main ideas behind the creation of Unesco, an idea which was being discussed in London when the bombs were still falling, was to fight against the fierce and bar- barous doctrines of Nazism and Fascism. We cannot abandon this fight, for if we stop work in Germany, we may declare ourselves beaten. If we cannot work in the whole of Germany,—and, as you know, we have never received a reply from the authorities of Eastern Germany—we have to work where we can—in Western Germany. We cannot stop or postpone our effort at the crucial moment. It is one of the most important efforts of Unesco. To leave off now would be against the very spirit, the very idea of Unesco. That is why the Norwegian delegation supports the Brazilian amendment. The PRESIDENT — As a result of my call there   are five speakers now on the list. I call on Sir John Maud from the United Kingdom. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. Pre- sident and fellow delegates, none of us can speak this morning in this debate without a sense of heavy responsibility. This is a matter on which there has been more serious difference of opinion since Unesco was born than on any other subject. Speaking for the United Kingdom delegation, I want to say in all sincerity that we respect, and deeply respect, the sincerity of the views which have been expressed this morning by the delegates of Czechoslovakia and Poland. We believe that they also will respect our sincerity in what we say in disagreement with them. The Czechoslovak delegate asked a question. He said, “Is Germany ready for Unesco to work there?” “Is Germany democratic enough?” Mr. President, which of us, in all honesty, can say that our own country is perfectly democratic today? Most certainly the United Kingdom would not claim to be perfectly democratic, and we remain in Unesco because we believe that Unesco can help us to become more democratic, that community will become more of a community, that men and women can forgive each other, that they can be converted. Inthis faith we believe we can give a perfectly clear answer to the first ques- tion of the Czechoslovak delegate. It is because Germanyis not yet democratic enough that Unesco should work there. The Czechoslovak delegate also asked, “Will Unesco’s activity be in the whole of Germany or not?”. Mr. President, that is a question which no one in this room can answer. It depends on one, and on only one authority, the Soviet authority. From the very beginning, the approaches which have been made by Unesco under the Mexico City Resolutions and since then, have been to the Allied Authorities; the Quadripartite Authority in the first place, and the several Allied Authorities in the second. And it is solely because the Soviet authorities have not felt it possible, either in the Quadripartite discussions or in answerto an indi- vidual invitation, to agree that Unesco should work in the Soviet Zone of Germany, that the probable answer to the Czechoslovak delegate’s question is that Unesco’s activity will not, in the coming year, be in the whole of Germany. But, Mr. President, the Brazilian resolution, which on behalf of the United Kingdom I want most strongly to support, leave the door open to the Soviet authorities and emphatically invites their participations, so that Unesco may work in a united and whole Germany. Mr. President, there is everything to be said for agreement on a matter of great moment like this, and I honestly believe, having been at all the Conferences and the meetings of the Executive Board where it was discussed, that we, who disagree with the Czecho- slovak, Polish and Hungarian resolution, have done our utmost to be reasonable and to make it easy for there to be agreement; but a moment comes when it is impossible to compromise with one’s principles, and it is because of this that the United Kingdom delegation believes with all its heart that the work which has been begun in a tentative way in parts of Germany must go on, must not be stopped, and that the Director-General must be given a clear instruction, as the Brazilian resolution does give him, to continue the construc- tive work, which is far the best method of denazi- fication inside Germany. It is for that reason that we in the United King- domcannot agree with the resolution proposed by our friends from Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland; and we earnestly ask that they respect sincerity in our view and accept what is the democratic way of reaching a conclusion when there is not agreement, that is, accept the majority view, accept it perhaps by abstention, perhaps even by a formal vote against, but not accept it in a spirit which says, “We can then have nothing to do with this Organization if it disagrees with us”. Mr. President, it is our most serious wish that the work of Unesco which has begun in Ger- many should continue, and expand on the lines set out in the resolution. In this way, we believe, there is most hope for all of us in this room con- tributing to a process which will lead to a united Germany, a united Europe, and a united World. The PRESIDENT — I call on Mr. Gyalmos, the delegate of Hungary. Mr. Jánas GYALMOS (Hungary) —Mr. President and fellow delegates, we have read the draft report of the Commission on Unesco’s activity in Ger- many and the proposed resolutions. They aim at wide authority for Unesco in Germany. The activity of Unesco is based on resolutions of the Third Session of the General Conference, but these resolutions sprang from political circum- stances which were different from those which have now developed. To neglect the principle of Ger- many's unity means the acknowledgement of this new State, Western Germany. In Western Ger- many we find much political dissatisfaction, just as after the last war, and because of this coinci- dence of circumstances Germans await appro- priate military direction and a new, a third world war, in which Germany will play a decisive role, and will again become a leading power in Europe. This belief in a victorious and invincible Ger- many has twice caused world wars. Here it is intended to rebuild a country founded on real democracy, international understanding and an     appreciation of other nations and races—that is, acknowledgement of other nations’ right to inde- pendence. The evacuation of Germans from Eastern Europe, however, is supposed to be the reason for all troubles and it is claimed that this problem, along with all the others, may be solved only by returning “lost” territories. This is the reason why in Western Germany there is aggres- sive nationalism and revisionism. Western Ger- manyis filled with immigrants who do not want to return. They left their homes instead of remaining to work hard at rebuilding, and their presence encourages the nationalistic circles of Western Germany. Naturally there is no peaceful situation, but a revival of aggressiveness and imperialism. European nations in the twentieth century suffered greatly from wars, and now German chauvinism with its agressiveness is directed towards the East, and so the other neigh- bour nations of Germany hope they are out of danger. Peaceful reconciliation and progress in such circumstances is impossible. Those circles which created Western Germany as a new State are responsible for this position. We know that among Germans there is to be found a real demo- cratic, peaceful and human element, which wishes reconciliation and lasting peace, but this is op- pressed, as we have seen, by frequent warlike manifestations. In the execution of its activity in Germany, Unesco cannot help being connected with Western German authorities and the govern- ment, which government, it seems, is supporting extreme German nationalism and the spirit of revenge against Eastern. Europe. Unesco’s activity will be possible only in a unified Germany based on an agreement of the four Occupying Powers and when real democratic principles are ruling. We do not believe that the German political scene can be changed through education, conciliation, and the integration of German cultural life in the cultural and scientific life of the world alone. All political circumstances must be changed in Western Germany, for in this area those feelings are being fostered which are dangerous not only for Germany's neighbours but for the whole world, and constitute a threat to the peaceful progress of mankind. The proposal of the Brazilian delegation contains essentially the same points of view as the French proposal. Both proposals support Unesco's acti- vity and declare it to be important for human understanding and peace. We disagree for reasons mentioned above. The results of Unesco's activity will be influenced by economic, social and poli- tical circumstances now ruling in Western Ger- many, and will be far removed from the noble aims of Unesco. There suchactivity as proposed should be deferred for the consideration of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. That time may be more appropriate. The PRESIDENT — I call on Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the delegate of India. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — Mr. President, fellow delegates, we generally have a very animated discussion whenever this prob- lem of Germany comes up, because there are very strong views held on this question by different Member States. But I should like to say that the suggestion made by the Brazilian delegate is a sug- gestion which has taken into account some of the points which are urged in the resolution put for- ward by Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Poland. The latter resolution says that the democratic unity of Germany, and agreement and unity among the four Occupying Powers are of great importance. It talks about the German people legitimately aspiring to unity, particularly cultural unity within political unity. The Brazilian resolution notes the importance of safeguarding the unity of Germany and also the importance of having the Allied Power’s agreement: These are things which are common to both the resolutions, the Brazilian, as well as the other resolution put forward by the Czechoslovakian, Hungarian and the Polish dele- gates. The next question is that we all recognize that Nazism is not yet completely defeated in Germany. We feel that though it was defeated in the battle- fields, the Fascism of mind, the Nazism of spirit, is still latent. Our work is to bring about denazi- fication. The Polish resolution starts by saying that Unesco’s activities in Germany can only bear fruit if preceded by effective denazification and the extirpation of the spirit of revenge and agres- sion. If denazification takes place, if the spirit of revenge and aggression are extirpated, there is not very much left for us to do. Why are we there? It is not the healthy that require medical assistance. It was once said that if there is one place where God is required most, it is in Hell and not in Heaven. It is the people who are ailing, who are sick, it is the people who are victims of this aggressive spirit, who have to be educated. Education is not a quick-change process. You cannot alter the minds of people the way you can destroy an enemy. It is a spirit, and that spirit will have to be overcome by the slow processes of education. My feeling is that, if German unity is established, if Nazism is destroyed, if the spirit of revenge and agression is extirpated, then Germany would be leading us, because most of us still have so many disabilities from which we suffer. Sir John Maud actually put it to us—which of us can stand up here, put on the robes of righteous-     ness and say “We are perfect democrats and are fit to live in a peaceful world”? None of us can stand up and say with honesty that we have achieved this ideal. It is true, the Polish resolution asks us to work in war-devastated regions, regions which have been the victims of Nazi aggression. We are working there. It is a question of whether we should work in Germany also. We are for the unity of Ger- many; we regret the events that are taking place today; we do not want the country to be broken into two, for we ourselves have suffered from this kind of division and can sympathize with people who are agitating for one Germany and a united Germany. Whatever work Unesco does will be covered by the resolution the Brazilian delegation has put forward, namely, that we want Germany to educate herself, to be united. We want Unesco to work with the consent of all the Allied Powers if possible, and if that is not possible, Unesco should go to work wherever the opportunity pre- sents itself. If by such work we feel that we are accentuating differences and not minimizing them, we shall be the first to withdraw from our acti- vities in Germany. This resolution says that, at any moment, if you feel that you are doing some- thing wrong, that you are betraying the prin- ciples of Unesco, you can suspend all the activities of Unesco in Germany. You have therefore the unity of Germany, you have a recognition of the desirability of work there, and you have also the possibility of stopping all work as soon as it is revealed to us that our work is not helping the unification of Germany or its reconstruction, or is not enabling her to enter the comity of nations as a peaceful democratic people. I wish to assure you that this Brazilian resolution is so framed as to satisfy the fundamental principles of unity of Germany, of denazification and of the eventual suspension of activities in Germany. These three things, which the Czechoslovakian delegation calls for, are incorporated in the Brazi- lian resolution, and you can trust the Executive Board to discharge its duties in a spirit of true universality. The PRESIDENT — I call on Mr. Perrin of the French delegation. Prof. PERRIN (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, delegates, I do not intend to remind you how critical the German problem is for France. I feel that all of you are already aware of the fact and no one would imagine that France has forgotten the misfortunes brought on the world by the development of nationalism in Germany. We showed our anxieties at the beginningofthis discussion when the French delegation proposed to the Commission an amendment to the draft resolution which was submitted to us. We had what seemed to us an essential safety-clause intro- duced into the preamble, in view of the great difficulties raised by Unesco’s activities in Ger- many, as it appears to us today, as it appearsto us, alas, even after the military defeat of Nazism. But we are now presented with two amend- ments to the text adopted by the Commission, and the French delegation fully agrees with the amendment proposed by the Brazilian delegation. We consider that this amendment defines and develops the main ideas upheld by France in the Commission and that it takes into full account the legitimate anxieties expressed by the delegations of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary. This amendment expresses, in addition to what was previously accepted, Unesco’s earnest desire to do its work in Germany in agreement with the four Allied Occupying Powers. But we can do no more than hope for such an agreement; we cannot ourselves bring it about. We can forcefully indi- cate what we consider to be an important condi- tion for effective work by our Organization in Ger- many, and this is what the Brazilian draft does. Moreover, the safety-clause re-introduced into this amendment is completed by a phrase which specifies the conditions in which it might operate. We had envisaged the suspension of Unesco’s acti- vities in Germany, if circumstances seemed to make them ineffective. The present amendment explicitly provides that the Executive Board shall keep itself informed of the development of Unesco’s work in Germany, and thatit will be able not only to decide on their total suspension, if circum- stances really render such activities impossible, but also to propose or to decide the suspension of any activities likely to become ineffective. We consi- der that this greater flexibility increases the effectiveness of Unesco's action. Lastly, in the decision itself, in the resolution, words have been changed to make it clear that Unesco's activities in Germany must be under- taken through and in agreement with the Allied Authorities. This point determines the exact pro- cedure to be followed by the Director-General and the Secretariat for the carrying out of such acti- vities and, in our opinion, eliminates any ambi- guity in the former terms. After comparing the two draft amendments sub- mitted to us, I think it may be said that we are in general agreement upon the aims of Unesco in Germany. But the whole extent of the difference becomes clear as soon as we have to decide whe- ther such activities are possible at the present time or not. We agree with those who hold that we must try to act even under unfavourable conditions. Unesco's activities in Germany are made more difficult by the rebirth of Nazism. But it is this          rebirth which seems to us, as well as to others, to render such activities particularly necessary, and that is why we agree with the Brazilian amend- ment which envisages the continuation of Unesco’s activities. In a democratic organization it is not only a majority decision which must be taken but, if the Organization is to be a permanent one, the majority decisions must take into full account the wishes, convictions and desires of minorities, and we con- sider that the Brazilian amendment represents from this point of view considerable advance on the initial project, which gave rise to such grave anxieties on the part of certain delegations. But, once the majority has shown its under- standing and its desire to take into full account the wishes of the other members of a community, it is for the majority to decide what is to be done. Fromthis point of view, I feel that we are entitled to appreciate the high quality of the discussion, during which certain points of view conflicted, and to pay homage to the sincerity and ardour of the convictions expressed. After that, if we wish the community to continue to exist and to preserve its universal nature we have to bowto the decisions taken by the majority of the community at the end of a thoroughly frank discussion. It is therefore not with anxiety but with hope that the French delegation will vote for the amend- ment of the Brazilian delegation, and it considers that the universality of Unesco will be maintained in spite of the divergence of opinions on this important matter. The PRESIDENT—I would like to know whether there are other speakers who wish to take part in this debate. We have to vote on these amend- ments and on the resolution of the Commission, and we also have to proceed to the resolution in relation to Japan. If there are any other speakers, would they please send their names up to me immediately? The French delegation proposes that the discus- sion be adjourned until this afternoon. It is almost 1 o'clock and it would undoubtedly take us until after 1 o’clock to complete the business this morning. If there is no objection, I think we should adjourn. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Amer- ica) — I suggest that, if there is only one more speaker, we should continue. The PRESIDENT — Does any other delegation wish to speak? The delegate of the United States would prefer to go ahead and complete the matter this morning. I must know definitely whether any other delegation intends to speak on this mat- ter before the vote is taken. H.E. M. Proceso E. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) — I wish to speak on the subject of Japan. The PRESIDENT — The delegate of the Philip- pines wishes to speak on the subject of Japan which, however, is the next item to come up for discussion. Does anybody else wish to speak on Germany? The French proposal has been opposed, but is it supported? The United States delegation has withdrawn its suggestion and agrees to the French proposal, which is supported also by the delegation of Norway. Before I declare this meeting adjourned until this afternoon I want to point out that the Exe- cutive Board is called for 3 o’clock; the plenary meeting will resume at 3.30 this afternoon and, immediately after the discussion, that is to say about 4 o'clock probably, the Programme and Budget Commission will resume its work. The Meeting therefore is adjourned until 3.30. The meeting rose at 1 p.m.