The budget ceiling would be fixed by a vote. They would then begin the discussion of special sections (a different procedure from that adopted by the Beirut Conference, where the budget ceiling had first been fixed and then discussed by the specialized Sub-Commissions and not by the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission). Mr. CAIN (France) observed that Professor Carneiro had spoken of fixing a budget ceiling after the discussion in the Commission and the Sub-Committee; he thought that the Sub-Com- mittee should set to work immediately. If certain data were assembled without delay, they might help to fix the budget ceiling. Furthermore, certain principles which were still not quite clear needed to be defined in preparation for the work of the Sub-Committee. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, said that the Sub-Committee would immediately begin its work but that it would be difficult for it to do anything before the budget ceiling was fixed: it would have to wait for the results of the vote on the morning of 29 September. The CHAIRMAN pointed out the desirability of members of the Sub-Committee attending the meeting of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. The Sub-Committee could then take up consideration of the budget: as some items con- nected with fees and travel allowances required separate consideration, the Sub-Committee could deal with those matters and report on them to the Commission just before the discussion of the budget ceiling. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) recalled that his delegation had been in favour of the proposal for members of the Sub-Committee to attend the discussion on the programme before the budget ceiling was fixed. By 29 September, all delegations would have had an opportunity of discussing or raising any points of interest to them. To carry out its work, the Sub-Committee needed to knowthe general structure of the bud- get, so that the matter could be settled by Thurs- day morning. 3 At the close of the discussion, the CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the following proposals:
(1) The budget ceiling would be fixed by a vote immediately the discussion of the Programme was completed;
(2) The Drafting and Co-ordination Committee would not meet while the Programme and Budget Commission was in session, thus enabling its members to keep abreast of the Commission’s discussions; The question of the budget ceiling would not come before the plenary meeting again until the reports of the Commission and Sub- Committee were submitted; The Sub-Committee would meet simul- taneously, with the Commission until the vote on the Budget ceiling had been taken and while the Commission was discussing the Technical Assistance Scheme. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he would refrain from expressing his views on those proposals. The Chairman’s proposals were adopted. The meeting rose at 70.40 a.m. SEVENTH MEETING Wednesday, 28 September 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN suggested convening the Proce- dure Committee for Thursday, 29 September be- tween 9.30 and 11 a.m. in order to approve its report and to consider Item 18 of the Agenda (Draft Amendment to Article IV of the Constitu- tion of Unesco, relating to the steps to be taken Dr. E. RonaLpD WALKER (Australia) with Member States which had not yet paid their contributions). Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium), Chairman of the Administrative Commission, stated that the Administrative Commission would be sure to have finished its work by 29 September. The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Mundeleer for his       information and congratulated him upon conduct- ing the discussions with such speed. A short plenary meeting would be held on
30 September at 10 a.m. for the adoption of the Procedure Committee’s Report and for consider- ation of Item 10 of the Agenda (Recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of Ceylon). The Procedure Committee's Report had to be approved before the election of new members of the Executive Board, as it contained provisions relating to their status. That plenary meeting would be a short one, as the Director- General, the President of the Conference and delegations were to attend the inauguration of the Exhibition on Human Rights by the President of the French Republic at the Musée Galliera at
11 a.m. The Programme and Budget Commis- sion’s meeting fixed for the 30th would thus be cancelled. The Nominations Committee would meet at
3 p.m. on 30 September to consider nominations for the new members to be elected to the Executive Board. Lastly, a plenary meeting would be held on
1 October at 10 a.m. to carry out those elections; the Programme and Budget Commission would meet in the afternoon of the same day. Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium), Chairman of the Administrative Commission, reported that the Sub- Committee of the Administrative Commission had already considered the situation of countries in arrears in the payment of their contributions and had reported to the Commission, so that the Pro- cedure Committee would have before it that Com- mission’s decision when it met on 29 September. The CHAIRMAN explained that that did not involve any overlapping but rather co-ordination with the work of the Procedure Committee, to which an amendment was submitted to the effect that the voting powers of States which had not paid their contributions for more than two years, should be curtailed. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico), Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission, drew attention to the necessity of making provision for an additional meeting of the Official and External Relations Commission, which still had two items on its agenda (Liaison with labour organizations and Consideration of the Reports of Member States). The CHAIRMAN suggested holding that meeting on the afternoon of 1 October. He asked the Secretary if the Procedure Committee was the only organ which had to submit a report to the Confer- ence for the consideration of the draft amendment to the Constitution.
238 The SECRETARY explained that the draft amendment had already been discussed by the Third Session of the General Conference, which had approved a text that had been communicated to Member States; the final consideration would be based on their observations. The CHAIRMAN said there was thus no over- lapping with the work of the Sub-Committee of the Administrative Committee, which dealt with individual cases of States in arrears with their payments. Organization of the General Discussion (con- tinuation). The CHAIRMAN wished to refer to the public debate held on the previous evening. He felt that all would agree that, thanks to the good quality of the speeches, it had been a “fairly good even- ing”. It had been somewhat long, but the public had followed the speeches with interest and had remained until the end. He stated that there would be six speakers on Wednesday and Thursday evenings (28 and 29 September). A meeting of those taking part in the public debate was to be held that afternoon at 5 o'clock; he expected to be present and to impress upon the speakers the necessity of not speaking too long in each case. He mentioned that, on his return to Unesco House after the public debate of the previous evening, accompanied by Dr. Niebuhr, he had found great activity in the radio studio in connexion with the recordings, and Dr. Niebuhr and he had made a six-minute transmission about the public debate for Lake Success. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, after expressing his gratitude to the President of the Conference for the assistance he had given him both in presiding over the first meeting's discussions and in helping to organize the work, confessed that he felt some misgivings for the future. He thought that a different system should be arranged. The French delegation, from which the idea had originated, could perhaps consider the question, together with another delegation and put forward suggestions for the Florence Conference, more in accordance with the French delegation’s wishes, which were perhaps not faithfully reflected in the Beirut re- solution. The Programme and Budget Commission had heard a proposal from the Italian delegation for the organization of a round-table discussion of writers; but the Director-General personally felt that a good idea should not be spoiled by rashly holding too many round-table discussions and that they should merely organize each year: (a) A symposium which, as a variable part of Unesco’s programme, would be held succes-       sively in different countries; the first could be held in France, as the Rector of the Uni- versity of Paris, who had been very interested in the previous evening's discussions, was prepared to offer the Domaine Richelieu, where nine or ten distinguished people chosen by the Executive Board could hold a full-scale symposium on the model of the round-table discussions organized before the war by the International Institute of Intel- lectual Co-operation; (b) Another symposium organized in conjunc- tion with the annual Conference and for which the speakers, eight to ten in number, would be allowed a great measure of free- dom, and would each give a straight address. Florence would provide a splendid setting for such a discussion and the Director-General urged the need for choosing well in advance a subject suited to the country and circum- stances and reflecting the trend towards a more compressed programme for the Organ- ization. He had first considered leaving the Conference itself to choose the nationality of the speakers; but, foreseeing voting diffi- culties, he proposed instead that the Confer- ence should pass a resolution leaving that choice to the Director-General who would confer with the Executive Board, and, of course, ensure a rotation of countries. He hoped that by that means they would obtain more considered speeches from which a publication of lasting value could be pre- pared. In conclusion, the Director-General stressed the need for studying the problem immediately, in order to obtain a resolution which would provide for a discussion more in keeping with the French delegation's wishes. The CHAIRMAN thanked the Director-General for his suggestions, which he thought very timely; but he did not think it advisable for the General Committee to thrash out the whole question, as it might take them too far. Mr. CAIN (France) agreed. He observed that the two public debates to follow would yield fur- ther conclusions in addition to those already drawn by the Director-General from the first debate, so that the question was not yet ripe for discussion. He was glad to hear the reference to the round-table discussions of the International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, for Unesco could profitably strike out along the same lines. He recalled that the discussions had been carefully prepared by advance correspondence and that Paul Valéry, Chairman of the Arts and Letters Committee, had been free to choose for the dis-
239 cussions outstanding men in every branch of thought, not necessarily drawn from delegations. By adopting those two guiding principles (pre- paration by correspondence and free choice of speakers), M. Cain thought that the idea could profitably be taken up again in the light of the experience gained that year. Count JACINI (Italy) emphasized the value of the experience gained and, without broaching the main issue, he wished to make a few comments which might be helpful for the Florence meeting. The worst fault of the first meeting was that it had been a mere succession of speeches instead of a debate, whereas the fundamental purpose of the original plan had been to provide an atmo- sphere of free discussion. For the Florence symposium, he suggested arranging to have a very small number of really outstanding speakers selected according to the method advocated by the Director-General; the speakers would give straight fairly short addresses immediately followed by a discussion. Such a procedure would be bound to arouse keen interest among the general public. The offer by the Rector of Paris University was very attractive, and Count Jacini suggested the possibility of similar arrangements for Florence, holding the symposium in an ancient villa in the hills to give it a pic- turesque setting; he also wondered whether it would not be just as well to “stage-manage” the arrangements for Florence, holding the symposium discussions a little so as to avoid any untimely remarks or airy talk. In conclusion, he stated his conviction that such a debate would be of far greater interest to the general public than the present experiment. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) stressed the importance of conducting these public debates in a harmonious spirit, without putting too much emphasis on the “debate” angle, lest a public impression be created that Unesco was being converted into a debating society. He said these meetings should be kept on a high level. The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Committee could easily hold a good debate on that subject, but he would now pass on to the next item on the Agenda. Work of the Programme and Budget Com- mission (continuation). Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, thought that in the light of the vote taken the previous day, the General Committee would wish to reconsider the matter; he felt that, though it had not yielded any positive results (21 votes cast in favour and   t t : H nn ج ب
21 against), the sounding of the Programme and Budget Commission had still been of some use and would help members to find a satisfactory solu- tion. Some delegates had been surprised to see procedural questions coming before the Commis- sion but all who were accustomed to international meetings would realize that it was quite natural, in view of the fluid nature of the questions under consideration. Professor Carneiro considered they should not take a fresh vote that day. The General Com- mittee’s proposal might obtain a slight majority, but what they wanted was a general expression of opinion. If the Committee decided to with- draw its proposal in face of the difficulty of getting a sufficient majority to guide the Commission, the delegates who had supported that proposal would certainly have no objection and a sufficient ma- jority might perhaps be found subsequently. He therefore suggested that the Commission pursue its consideration of the programme and, that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Commit- tee should meet that day to establish initial con- tacts and begin its consideration of the matters already referred to it by the Commission. Before presenting its report, the Sub-Committee would perhaps ask the Commission for a few further explanations. The CHAIRMAN observed that the discussion on procedure had proved to be livelier and more emotional than had been anticipated. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) stated that, as one who has supported the proposal of the General Committee, he now desired to asso- ciate himself with the solution offered by Profes- sor Carneiro. The CHAIRMAN clarified the result of the discussion by stating that the proposals of the Committee, as presented by the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission to that Com- mission on the previous day, would be withdrawn and that the General Committee would propose, as an alternative procedure, that the discussion and debate on the Budget be pushed forward as rapidly as possible and that the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee should re-examine the questions at issue in the light of that debate and with consideration of the economies to be effected as a result of the revaluation of national curren- cies. The Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Com- mittee would decide if it could proceed directly on the construction of the Budget and make its report, or if it required further instructions in regard to the ceiling of the Budget. The Chair- man believed that this was the essence of Professor Carneiro’s proposal, with the purpose of not pres- sing for an early vote on the ceiling.
240 Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) agreed with Professor Carneiro. He felt that a serious situa- tion would be presented in the work of the Con- ference if another unsatisfactory vote, such as that of the preceding day, should be recorded and that a vote should be avoided on that very day. The ground should be properly prepared, and voting should take place only after the total budget had been made clear. However, he requested clari- fication as to why the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee should meet that afternoon. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, said that it was hoped that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, meeting at 3 p.m., could hold a preliminary discussion on the problem and could make some progress. If it encountered some dif- ficulty, it could refer such difficulty to the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission for immediate discussion. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL fully agreed with the views put forward by Mr. Allen and Mr. Hard- man in support of Professor Carneiro’s proposal. He made no secret of his disappointment at the division between delegates of such an organization as Unesco, whose motto was better international understanding; the recurrence of such a thing should be at all costs. Though he approved the withdrawal of the Committee’s proposal, the Director-General pointed out that, under the Constitution, it would be necessary to invite Mr. Piaget to the Committee’s meeting to inform him of the decision and to persuade him to with- draw his own proposal; the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission would then be able to announce that, as both proposals had been withdrawn, there was no point in taking a fresh vote. With regard to Mr. Hardman’s remarks, the Director-General was in favour of convening the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee as soon as possible, as time was so limited in a session that was to be a short one. Since the Programme and Budget Commission had worked so quickly, the Sub-Committee had enough time before it. The CHAIRMAN welcomed Mr. Piaget, who had just arrived, and explained the situation to him. He informed him of the new procedure, according to which the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee would immediately begin its work, and, if necessary, would ask the Programme and Budget Commission for further details regarding the ceiling. It was not intended to take the vote on the Budget ceiling until the Sub-Committee had completed its work, unless the latter thought that it had not yet sufficient data to go on. In         conclusion, the Chairman asked Mr. Piaget if he would withdraw his proposal. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) was all the more ready to do so as the Commission was moving towards an agreement on the substance of the question, so that there would be no need to dwell on a procedural matter. Mr. CAIN (France), too, agreed with Mr. Allen and Mr. Hardman. He also strongly approved Professor Carneiro’s proposal, though he wished to stress one point: although he was in favour of asking the Sub-Committee to set to work imme- diately, he urged the need for clearly defining its terms of reference at the outset, in order to fore- stall the possibility of any future misunderstand- ings between the Commission and its Sub- Committee. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, stated that, apart from its obvious drafting responsibilities, the Sub-Committee would have to examine, in the light of the Programme and Budget Commission’s discussions, the 1950 Programme and Budget pro- posed by the Executive Board and the Director- General; it would be quite free to suggest to the Commission any adaptations or any modifications which it might find desirable. The CHAIRMAN thought that definition accept- able, but it did not go far enough in one respect. Manydelegations had comments to make on details in the Budget; now it had been decided that, to avoid encroaching too much on the Commission’s time, the Sub-Committee would have the respon- sibility of carrying out the detailed consideration. Delegates should therefore have an opportunity of submitting their comment to the Sub-Committee —a point to be made clear in its terms of refer- ence. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, reminded the Committee that delegates could submit any proposals in writing to the Sub-Committee or even its meetings. He himself could frame the final definition of the Sub-Committee’s terms of refer- ence with the help of the Chairman. The CHAIRMAN asked Professor Carneiro to announce to the Programme and Budget Commis- sion that any delegates having points which they desired to propose should put them in the form of a note to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) pointed out that the Programme and Budget Commission would examine the question not only in the light of the details suggested by the various delegates,
241 but also in the light of the result of the delibera- tions of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee itself. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, thought his proposed text, which he again read, to be explicit enough and left no room for any restriction. In his opinion, questions of detail were adequately covered by the expression: “any modifications”. He would convene the Sub-Committee that day at 3 p.m. Agreed. Proposal in regard to the United Nations “Convention against Genocide”. The CHAIRMAN read a telegram from Professor Lemkin, of the United Nations Commission on Genocide, stating that a resolution had been adopted on the preceding day, at Guatemala, on behalf of the “Convention against Genocide”, and expressing the hope that the General Conference of Unesco would adopt a similar resolution. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) stated that he felt an obligation to propose action by the General Conference in regard to the Genocide Convention, because such a great number of organizations and individuals throughout the United States expected him to promote such action, in common with the promotion of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. There- fore, the United States delegation would put for- ward, at the proper time, a proposal somewhat as follows: “The Director-General is authorized to offer the services of Unesco for furthering and developing a better understanding of the Genocide Convention of the United Nations”. If it were desired that this be referred to the Executive Board for the preparation of a resolution to be submitted to the Fifth Session of the General Conference, or any similar action, he would agree. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was all the more ready to support Mr. Allen’s proposal, as some time ago he had received a visit from Professor Lemkin, the champion of that doctrine, who had communicated his enthusiasm to several of Unes- co’s officials. He thought Mr. Allen’s proposal excellent; it would perhaps be advisable to sup- plement it by arranging for the Executive Board to undertake a survey on the basis of which more practical proposals could be submitted to the General Conference in Florence. The CHAIRMAN stated that the Committee took note of the suggestions of Mr. Allen and of the Director-General, and expressed its general agree- ment with them. The meeting rose at 11 a.m.