SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE FIRST MEETING Monday, 19 September 1949, at 11 a.m. Chairman: The SECRETARY invited the Committee to ex- amine document 4C/CRE/1 containing a note concerning the Credentials Committee. After reading out Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure, he said that it was the practice to confer a pro- visional right of vote on delegations whose credentials, although they did not exactly comply with Rule 22, were nevertheless signed by an official personality such as the Minister of Edu- cation, or the Ambassador accredited to the French Government. He announced that two new Member States had been officially admitted to membership of Unesco: Pakistan (which was represented on the Committee, and to whose representative he offered a cordial welcome) and Israel. He asked delegates to indicate the candidates they intended to propose as Chairman of the Committee. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed the delegate of Denmark, Professor Jakob Nielsen. The proposal was unanimously adopted. Professor Nielsen took the Chair. The CHAIRMAN thanked the Committee for the honour to his country and invited the Secretary to read out the list of States that had communi- cated credentials. The SECRETARY said he had classified the credentials of delegations in two categories ac- cording as they did or did not comply exactly with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure. The following countries came within the first category: Liberia Luxembourg Mexico Monaco Netherlands Norway Philippines Poland Saudi Arabia Burma Canada Czechoslovakia Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Greece India Italy Professor Jako NIELSEN (Denmark) Union of South Africa United States of America Switzerland Syria Thailand The Secretary said that the second category in- cluded delegations whose credentials, although not completely regular, had been issued by such high personalities that he proposed that the Com- mittee should consider them as equivalent to regular credentials (for instance, the credentials of the Italian and Syrian Delegations, signed by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs). Adopted. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed the examination of an amendment to Rule 22 with a view to making it less rigid as regards the form of credentials required. He said that in the United Kingdom, for instance, it was extremely difficult to obtain the signature of the Head of the State or of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, not only because of their other duties but also because of their frequent and prolonged absences. He thought it would be preferable to relax the rule rather than constantly to infringe it. The CHAIRMAN said that it would no doubt be advisable to inform the General Conference of the measure provisionally adopted in favour of delegations in the second category, and that the Procedure Committee should also be informed of the matter. He invited members to make known the difficulties they had incountered in obtaining the necessary signatures. Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) said that he had been instructed by the Italian Delegation to mention the difficulties which it had encountered owing to the absence of the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs; the credentials of the Italian Delegation were signed by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As regarded Lebanon, in the absence of the Minister and the Secretary- General of Foreign Affairs, the credentials had    not been able to be communicated within the prescribed time-limit and would only arrive on that or the following day. Stressing the same difficulties, Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) said that in his opinion other persons than those mentioned in Rule 22 should be authorized to sign credentials. Dr. BRULL (Cuba) pointed out that, according to the Cuban Constitution, in the absence of a Minister of State, the Under-Secretary (who was also the Head of Personnel) was authorized to sign on the Minister's behalf. He therefore thought that this delegation of signature should extend to credentials. The SECRETARYread out the list of countries in the second category: Afghanistan Hungary Australia Iran Austria Iraq Belgium Israel Bolivia Lebanon Brazil New Zealand China Pakistan Colombia Peru Cuba Turkey Egypt United Kingdom France Uruguay Haiti Venezuela On the proposal of the CHAIRMAN, the Com- mittee unanimously decided to recommend to the General Conference that it should provisionally accept the credentials of the above-mentioned delegations. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that the Committee should meet a short time before the close of the session to examine the credentials of the delegations which would have taken the necessary steps in the meantime to comply with Rule 22. The CHAIRMAN seconded Mr. Cowell's proposal, but suggested that the meeting should not be held just before the end of the Conference. The SECRETARY announced that he had ar- ranged a third category including a number of non-Member States who had sent observers: Ceylon Korea Chile Nepal Eire Nicaragua Finland Sweden Jordan Vatican Mr. BIRECKI (Poland) having raised the ques- tion of representatives from Republican Spain, the CHAIRMAN replied that it was not for the Com- mittee to decide on the advisability of sending such and such an invitation, and M. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) said that, in accordance with a decision of the Executive Board, representatives of Republican Spain had been invited to follow the work of the Conference in an unofficial capacity, as guests of honour. The meeting rose at noon. SECOND MEETING Tuesday, 4 October 1949, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: The SECRETARY stated that, at the time of the Committee’s previous report, twenty-three regu- lar ones had come in, as well as a telegram from Canberra regretting that the credentials of the Australian Delegation were delayed in the mails. In two special cases the credentials did not exactly comply with Rule 22: the French credentials were a certified copy of a document signed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France and the credentials of the Pakistan del- egation were signed by the Prime Minister of that country acting probably as its Foreign Professor JAkoB NIELSEN (Denmark) Minister. Both these credentials could therefore be considered as regular. The credentials of Afghanistan, Australia, Bolivia, Colombia, Egypt, Iraq, Turkey and Venezuela were quite irregular. As the Secretary was speaking, new credentials, those of Lebanon, had arrived and he submitted them to the Chairman. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Lebanese credentials were sufficient since they were signed by the President of the Republic with whose signature he was quite familiar.