the important financial consequences that would arise from the adoption of the Mexican proposal. He requested the suspension of the discussion, under Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, so as to enable a larger number of delegations to give their opinion on the substance of the question. The CHAIRMAN said that, if he accepted the application of Rule 90, he was bound to adjourn the Committee and ask the General Committee to arrange for a further meeting at which the matter could be re-discussed. Mr. NICHOLAS (Australia) said that, since the meeting was to be adjourned, some information should be made available to the Committee, before it met again, on the cost involved by the Mexican proposal. The CHAIRMAN agreed that this should be done. The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949, at 11.30 a.m. Chairman: The CHAIRMAN said that he had informed the General Committee that morning of the fact that, at its last meeting, the Procedure Committee had not finished its business in relation to: (a) The request put forward by the delegate of Mexico for discussion of his delegation’s amendment to the Rules of Procedure; The obscure position concerning the Rules of Procedure. (b) The General Committee had asked that the Pro- cedure Committee should discuss, without pre- judice to any rule of procedure involved, the pro- posed amendment of the delegate of Mexico, and that its Chairman should report the feeling of the Committee on that question. If the Committee wished, it could approve a resolution; but such a resolution could only have for effect to inform the General Committee on the discussions. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, the Procedure Committee had been asked to discuss the matter; the object of that discussion would be to report to the General Conference with a view to having the situation clarified. The Chairman said that he had carefully studied the Rules of Procedure, in consultation with the Secretariat, and his recommendation was that the Committee decide that the Rules be submitted to the Secre- tariat, which would be asked to make a report and submit it to the Fifth Session. The Chair- man now opened the discussion on this point. Proposed amendment to the Rules of Pro- cedure of the General Conference. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) proposed that, in
468 Dr. J. C. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) view of the diversity of arguments put forward and the contradictions they contained, the Secre- tariat should make a summary of the points at issue and present a report on the question to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) sup- ported the delegate of Mexico's suggestion, and also the adoption of the general procedure outlined by the Chairman. He thought the only satis- factory method would be to have the Secretariat prepare draft amendments to be submitted to the Fifth Session, and that it would take into account the difficulties of other Commissions and Com- mittees in the same respect. Mr. JAY (Canada) was prepared to withdraw the objection he had made at the previous meet- ing. He agreed with the delegate of the United States that the tangle of procedural difficulties should be referredto the Secretariat. He also pro- posed that the Committee discuss, on the terms suggested by the General Committee, the Mexican delegate's proposed amendment concerning Rules of Procedure 52 and 55. The CHAIRMAN thought that four queries arose from the discussion at the last meeting: (1) what was the definition of a new item on the Agenda?
(2) what was or should be the exact procedure involved in the adding of a newitem to the Agenda of the General Conference? (3) what was the exact procedure involved in adding a newitem to the Agenda of a Commission or Committee?
(4) was a new Rule of Procedure necessary where- by all new items which involved budgetary            implications should be submitted to the General Conference at the very beginning of a Session? With regard to another point which had arisen at the previous meeting, concerning the giving of a casting vote by the Chairman, he had not given such a vote, although as the only New Zealand representative present he presumed he could have done, and that question also would appear to need clarification by the Secretariat. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) feared that, in em- barking on a detailed discussion of the above- mentioned questions, the Committee might take on the appearance of a committee of jurists. It was rather for the Legal Services of Unesco to make the required examination, with a view to presenting a report to the General Conference in Florence. He asked the Committee to approve in principle such a report. Mr. JAY (Canada) supported the proposal of the delegate of Mexico that the questions should be submitted to the Secretariat for study. He would add one more: what was the Secretariat’s understanding of the phrase “other items” and what could be discussed under that heading? Mr. NICHOLAS (Australia) agreed that the questions should be referred to the Secretariat. He thought the questions might be framed in the following way: Under what circumstances may a proposal not on the Agenda be brought before the General Conference? Under what circum- stances may a proposal not on the Agenda be brought before the Procedure Committee? Under what circumstances may a proposal be amended without further notice? He had used the word “proposal”, as distinct from “item”, because a distinction must be made between a proposal and an amendment to that proposal. The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of Australia to put his suggestion in writing to the Secretariat, so that they could take account of it in their re- port, and Mr. NICHOLAS (Australia) agreed to this. It was agreed that the Secretariat be asked to report on, and suggest clarifications to, the Rules of Procedure, the report to be submitted to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. * Proposed Amendment to Rules of Procedure
52 and 55 presented by the Mexican Del- egation (continuation) (document 4C/PRO/9). Mr. ROSSI (Uruguay) regretted that, owing to a mission for his Government that had required his
1. In final form: Resolutions 41.2 to 41.3.
469 presence elsewhere, he had been unable to attend the previous meeting of the Committee. As the proposal for an amendment to Rule 52 had been originated by the Uruguayan delegation and as the Mexican delegation’s proposal differed from that of Uruguay, he again asked the Committee to take a vote during the present meeting on his first proposal: English, French and Spanish are the working lan- guages of the General Conference. That proposal was distinct from the one sub- mitted by the Mexican delegation. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) asked that his delegation’s proposal should immediately be dis- cussed. It was based on the following consider- ations: The question of the use of Spanish as a working language of the General Conference had already, at the Mexico City Conference, been the subject of a proposal put forward even more vigorously than at present. In Beirut it had been decided to use Spanish as an oral language of the General Conference, by means of simultaneous interpretation. Since then the need had been realized for the use of Spanish as a written work- ing language, as regards the printed documents and records. Although it agreed not to ask in its proposal for the publication of the Journal of the Confer- ence in Spanish, the Mexican delegation put for- ward a further decisive argument in favour of the proposal, namely, the decision which had been taken by the United Nations to use Spanish as an oral and written working language. The Mexican delegation had been well aware of the budgetary difficulties involved in its pro- posal. It therefore proposed to reduce to $60,000 the budget of $96,000 originally requested. It would be possible to eliminate the estimated tra- velling costs of technicians going from Latin Amer- ica to Paris by recruiting competent staff on the spot, from the Latin American community in Paris. The Committee was therefore in a position to discuss forthwith the amendment to Rules 52 and
55 proposed by the Mexican delegation, which would supply all the necessary technical data. The use of Spanish for Unesco’s publications would be an excellent means of propaganda, and would no doubt induce certain Latin American countries that were not yet members of Unesco to join the Organization. In conclusion, Mr. Castro Leal emphasized that his proposal was in every respect in harmony with that of the Uruguayan delegation. Dr. CORTINA y CORRALES (Cuba) thanked the Chairman for his understanding and courtesy in regard to the proposal under discussion. He dwelt   on the importance of the language question, and the fact that the General Committee had overcome the procedural difficulties and authorized an open discussion without prejudice to the Mexican and Uruguayan proposal. It seemed inconsistent that the use of Spanish should be admitted by the United Nations as both a spoken and a written language, but should be restricted by Unesco to speeches. He emphasized the link that would be estab- lished between Latin America and Europe by the use of Spanish in a world cultural organization. Considerations of economy should be outweighed by the desire to make Unesco better known, and the Cuban delegation therefore warmly supported the Mexican-Uruguayan proposal. Mr. JAY (Canada) wondered whether some of the delegates had listened to the very cogent argu- ments put forward by the delegates of Mexico and Cuba in support of their worth-while proposals He asked whether perhaps one practical side of the matter had not been overlooked by the delegates of Mexica and Cuba, and that was the repercus- sions on the staff of the Secretariat if their amend- ment were to be approved at the present time. He was not speaking of the merits of that proposal, nor of what should be done at a later time; he was speaking with respect to the plea that the Director-General had made to the effect that he be not saddled with more work than the staff could accomplish between the present time and the Fifth Session of the General Conference. As a consequence of that plea, Mr. Jay proposed that the Procedure Committee recommend that the subject of the amendment to the Rules of Pro- cedure, in the sense suggested by the delegates of Mexico and Cuba, be placed on the Agenda of the Fifth Session. As regards the use of Spanish by the United Nations, Mr. ZUTTER (Switzerland) proposed that they should refer (Article 57 of the United Nations Charter) to the practice of the other Specialized Agencies having the same interests as Unesco, e.g., WHO, FAO, IRO, ITU, Universal Postal Union, ICAO. In spite of his liking for the Spanish lan- guage, he thought that the problem should be carefully examined before any decision was taken. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) agreed with the Committee on the importance of the Mexican delegation’s proposal and the need for a thorough examination of the question, taking into account the budgetary implications, the aspirations of Spanish-speaking countries, and the practice of the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies. It should, in particular, be borne in mind that a precedent was being established and that other
470 languages (Arabic, for instance) might also claim the right to be adopted as working languages. The French delegation therefore supported the proposal that a survey should be made by the Director-General and a report subsequently sub- mitted to the Executive Board, which would in- clude the question of Spanish in the Agenda of the General Conference to be held at Florence. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the proposal made by the delegate of France. Dr. NEUHAUS (Peru) supported the delegate of Cuba and associated himself with the latter's tribute to the Chairman. He was, however, un- able to conceal the painful impression made on his delegation by the raising of minor procedural questions, at a meeting of the most important cultural organization in the world. Financial and economic considerations were not negligible, but precedence should be given to the noble aim of the universal dissemination of culture. Certain provisions were no doubt necessary in more tech- nical organizations such as WHO, but the prestige of the aim pursued should here outweigh all other considerations. The ideals of Unesco should be disseminated in all the languages of the world and, instead of limiting its publications to two languages, the Organization should issue them in all languages. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) prefaced his remarks by saying that he wished his Spanish- speaking colleagues to take them in the same spirit of comradeship inside Unesco in which he offered them. In his view, the matter was not a purely technical one. It might be asked why Unesco had adopted English and French as its working lan- guages. It was not because those cultural part of the world were important that those two lan- guages were used. The French- and English- speaking countries were not so favoured—though he did admit that it was of a great advantage to their nationals to be able to express themselves in their own language. The real reason why Unesco adopted French and English as working languages was that those were two languages most commonly taught as foreign languages in those countries where the mother tongue was neither the one nor the other; it was a common means of understanding for the greater part of the coun- tries of the world, and had nothing to do with the disposal of cultures in the world. All the other Member States were under the same dif- ficulty, and felt the inconvenience of having to express themselves in a language other than their own. Professor Nielsen wondered whether it was real- ly an advantage for the Spanish-speaking delegates to speak in that language. In earlier years, they had spoken in French and he had understood them        well; now they spoke Spanish, and he had to listen to the simultaneous interpretation, and had the feeling that the delegates were no longer speak- ing directly to him, and that he was only getting a résumé. He thought that prestige entered some- what into the matter of partition of cultures in the world, but in his view it was really one of having a common means of expression, and in that respect English and French prevailed. Those delegates who bowed to the inconvenience of expressing themselves in a foreign language were those, he thought, who really helped in getting over that difficulty in meetings. It had been observed that, if Spanish were introduced as a working language. more Spanish-speaking countries would join Unesco. Professor Nielsen emphasized that the majority of the Member States of Unesco—his own included—had agreed to join the Organization and to speak a foreign language, without making any reservations on that point, and he thought the Spanish-speaking peoples should join Unesco on the same basis as the majority of other Member States. There was the further question of expenditure, and Professor Nielsen thought it necessary to make a distinction. For such publications as Unesco might wish to distribute all over the world, he agreed that Spanish should be used. The working languages however were another thing; he did not doubt that all the spanish-speaking delegates at the present Conference understood French or English sufficiently well to read the documents, and he thought therefore that the situation should remain as it was at present. Mr. ROSSI (Uruguay) thought that the Swiss delegate’s proposal was based on an error; the aims of the Organizations mentioned by him had nothing in common with those of Unesco, and Mr. Rossi expressed his surprise at the nature of the arguments adduced against the use of Spanish. Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) stated that his delega- tion had supported the Chairman's ruling concern- ing the discussion of the amendments to Rules 52 and 55. But although it was in sympathy with that proposal, the Belgian delegation did not think that effect should be given to it for the time being. It agreed with all the arguments in its favour (in fact, from the point of view of the dissemination of ideas, it was impossible to disregard the ques- tion of languages); but, as the delegate of Den- mark had just pointed out, a distinction must be made between language as a working instrument and language as a means of disseminating ideas. The Belgian delegation therefore recommended the Committee to adopt the French proposal: the discussion would thus take on a general character (detailed examination of the question and its cul- tural implications), and the amendments proposed by the Mexican delegation would be submitted for consideration to the Secretariat. The question might have far-reaching conse- quences. If the resolution advocating the use of Spanish as working language were adopted, it was to be expected that other countries would claim the same advantage for their national language. The decision should therefore be unanimous. Dr. de LOS SANTOS (Philippines) agreed with the arguments in favour of the use of Spanish as a working language. Here was an opportunity for Unesco to show that spiritual principles should prevail over technical and procedural considera- tions. Mr. ZUTTER (Switzerland) supported the French proposal. He wished to rectify the misinterpreta- tion of his suggestion. He had not meant, as the Uruguayan delegate seemed to have understood, to assimilate Unesco’s practices to those of the other Specialized Agencies, but merely to refer to the latter. He then declared, in Spanish, that, as an ad- mirer of the Spanish language and culture, he would be the last person to object to the use of Spanish as working language. The CHAIRMAN observed that the delegate of France had proposed a resolution in much the same terms as that of the delegate of Canada; that the Secretariat or the Director-General should be asked to explore the proposal made by the delegate of Mexico in all its implications, and re- port to the next Session of the General Conference. Finally, and to meet the wishes of the Latin American delegations, Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexi- co) proposed that the French proposal should be transmitted for consideration to the Secretariat, together with a note mentioning the support and sympathy which the Mexican proposal had received from the Committee. The Mexican delegation agreed that its proposal should be referred to the Conference in Florence, but considered it neces- sary to emphasize the sympathy and interest with which that proposal had been received, even if it was thought that the moment had not yet come to settle the question. The CHAIRMAN assured the delegate of Mexico that he would take the utmost care to put the feeling of the Committee before the General Com- mittee as accurately as possible. Dr. NEUHAUS (Peru) thought that the remarks made by the Danish delegate should also be added. Even if it were not possible to give effect to the Mexican proposal, note should be made of the suggestion that all Unesco documents likely to be    of world-wide interest should be published not only in Spanish but in all languages. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) wished the Com- mittee to take a vote on the question of referring his proposal to the Secretariat. The CHAIRMAN repeated his previous statement regarding the proposal made by the delegates of France and of Canada, that the Director-General or the Secretariat study the Mexican proposal and report on it to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) then proposed the following text: THE PROCEDURE COMMITTEE, ConsiprrinG the interest and sympathy accorded by certain delegations to the proposals presented by the Mexican delegation (document 4C/PRO/9), RECOMMENDS to the General Conference:
1. That the Director-General be instructed to carry out a complete survey on the question in all its aspects; That the proposals of the Mexican delegation be included in the Agenda of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Mr. ROSSI (Uruguay) recalled that he had had the honour, during the first meeting at which the use of Spanish as a working language had been discussed, of proposing the amendmentto Rule 52. He therefore asked the Committee to take a vote on the Uruguayan proposal. The CHAIRMANsaid that, under its terms of reference, the Committee could not take a vote on the delegate of Uruguay's proposal. All it could do was to support a proposal such as that of the delegate of France. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) suggested that they should speak of the “Mexican-Uruguayan proposal”. It seemed to him that the French delegation had considerably modified its original suggestion (to include the question of the use of Spanish in the Agenda of the Conference in Florence). The CHAIRMAN repeated that the Procedure Committee could not insist that an item be placed on the Agenda of the Fifth Session, although it could urge the Conference or the General Com- mittee to take action in that connexion. He was confident that, if the delegate of France's proposal were approved, the Secretariat would carry out the necessary study and, if the Mexican delegation went through the necessary process as defined in the Rules of Procedure, the question would be given exhaustive discussion at the Fifth Session. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) said that the French delegation had not in any way changed its original proposal. It was merely adding a few words concerning the support given by certain delegates to the Mexican proposal and the desire of the French delegation to see it discussed at the Conference in Florence. The CHAIRMAN said that, before the question could be thoroughly discussed, there would have to be a report from the Secretariat, which the Committee could ask for. The Executive Board could also be requested to place the question on the Agenda of the Fifth Session. Any delegation could also ask to have the matter placed on the Agenda. The Chairman now considered the discussion as closed, and he asked for a vote on the resolution of the delegate of France. The French resolution was adopted with one abstention. ! Mr. CARRERA ANDRADE (Ecuador) protested against the confused way in which the discussion had been conducted. It seemed to him that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a vote should have been taken on the Mexican-Uruguayan proposal. The CHAIRMANstated that the protest of the delegate of Ecuador would be noted. He added that the vote taken at the previous meeting was on whether the Chairman had given a correct rul- ing or not as to discussion of the matter. The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
1. In final form: Resolutions 41.4 to 41.42.