that Unesco is a living force. It is, as I have said, and now repeat, an obscure and rather uncouth word; in France, and even in Lebanon last year, people who were most favourably inclined won- dered what that collection of initials might mean; well, those initials represent an institution and that institution must live. Our presence here proves that, in spite of the ill-chosen month and time, it lives in your thoughts and your hopes. We must find a way of making it live tomorrow as it lives today. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Before closing the meeting, I should like to thank the speakers who have taken part in the discussion this evening, on behalf of all of us here. You have all seen howvaried are our points of view and what great advantage we find in this exchange of views between people from every corner of the world. I should like to express the thanks of the whole audience to ourcolleagues who have spoken this evening, to those who began the discussion and, in particular, to Mr. Bidault who introduced it, and to all the others who made contributions. We shall continue the discussion on the same subject tomorrow evening, with Mr. Zaldumbide, the Head of the delegation of Ecuador and a Vice- President of the General Conference, in the Chair. Speakers from several countries are to take part and the three who will open the discussion will be: Professor Jean Piaget, the Head of the Swiss delegation; Professor H, Hertik, the Head of the Czechoslovak delegation; and Mr. U Ba Lwin, the Head of the Burmese delegation. Afterwards, on Thursday evening, with H.E. Count Jacini, the Head of the Italian delegation, in the Chair, we shall hear Earl Russell, who is perhaps better known as Bertrand Russel; Rector Siassi, of the University of Teheran, the Head of the Iranian delegation; and Professor Eugène Dupréel, of the Belgian delegation. The meeting rose at 11.50 p.m. EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 28 September 1949 at 9.20 p.m. CONTENTS
15. Discussion of the general subject (continuation): Speakers: Prof. Jean Piaget, Prof. F. Her¢ik, U Ba Lwin, Mr. Tara Chand, Prof. Adam Schaff, Prof. Frisch, Prof. Roberto Ibáñez and Dr. B. Ernst Bushbeck 181 President: H. E. Mr. GonzaLo ZALDUMBIDE (Ecuador).
15. Discussion of the general subject (con- tinuation) The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I do not intend to claim your attention for more than a minute, for what I have to say would add neither to the matter of the debate nor to the prestige of the speakers. I just want to thank the public in Unesco’s name for enhancing the importance of these meetings by its presence and for reinforcing Unesco’s interest in this form of discussion. This debate has been organized in order that more direct contact could be established between that part of public opinion which is interested in these subjects, and Unesco.
131 I wish also to thank the speakers who have agreed to put before you without restrictions and with full justice to its importance, this problem of general interest. For reasons of geographical distribution, it has been decided that the order of speakers will be the following: Professor Jean Piaget, Professor Ferdi- nand Herdik, and Mr. Ba Lwin. The first to speak will be Professor Jean Piaget, psychologist and educationist, professor at Geneva University and Director of the International Bureau of Education. I call on Mr. Jean Piaget. Prof. Jean PIAGET (Switzerland) — [Transla- tion from the French] Mr. President, ladies and   gentlemen, it is not without apprehension that I enter on this discussion, for we stand at a cross- roads and this subject is, in the strictest sense, one of vital importance to our generation. Today it is not yet too late to discuss it; tomorrow may be. Another reason for hesitation is that the solution of the problem itself is beyond the scope of Unesco and is subordinate to social and political considerations on which we are not called to give our opinion. The first duty of States in order to ensure mutual understanding between the peoples would be, no doubt, to review the question of their sovereignty in favour of a universal international organ- ization. The day on which the peoples discover that their most vital interests are bound up the existence of a powerful and durable international organization, will be the day on which interna- tional understanding will become a spontaneous need easy to satisfy. But for the time being we are far from this idea, and even Unesco’s work is restricted by a rule forbidding it to intervene in the domestic affairs of States; even if we were convinced of the necessity to abolish this rule, we should not be able, today, to convince the Govern- ments we represent. In the present state of things the only possible course lies in the education of public opinion in instigating in it a desire for international under- standing and in making it aware of the interdepen- dence of nations and of the absolute need for the Thiscreation of a human spiritual community. education of public opinion and of youth, the only field in which Unesco is empowered to act, involves particularly intensive and systematic effort, since we do not know how to think inter- nationally and must first learn to do so. The solving of international problems is not merely a matter of knowledge or information or of an emotional turn of mind constituting an extension of national feeling. We must, on the contrary, in order to solve these problems, completely revise and alter our accepted opinions and our everyday way of thinking. We shall have to forge a new intellectual and moral instrument that we do not yet possess. A comparison may help to understand this. In order to discover that the earth revolved around the sun and not the sun around the earth, it was not enough for Copernicus, Galilei and Newton to observe, to obtain better information on the move- ments of the sun as these were seen by us, to discover that the sun appears in the north in the southern hemisphere, in the south in the northern hemisphere, and overhead at the equator. It was not by the accumulation of knowledge about the visible movements of the sun that truth was reached. It was necessary to shed obstinate and deep-rooted delusions, geocentricity, a form of intellectual and moral egocentricity inherent in all primitive minds (the mind of the child and the mind of every society in its early stage of evolu- tion). A new way of thinking was necessary; a new instrument had to be devised. This was clas- sical mechanics together with the theory of rela- tivity of movement, the basis of all modern science. I contend that international education, mass education, the education of youth, is a task that Unesco must embark on and must be able to demand of States and is no more than a Coper- nican revolution in intellectual and moral attitudes in every field of spiritual life. And that is why the problem of international education which I was asked to speak of tonight is such a difficult one, infinitely more so than is generally supposed. This education entails a total change in the instinctive attitude of the mind, a complete reversal of instinctive egocentricity and socio- centricity in the direction of reciprocity. It is thus a question of a real training of the mind and not merely a work of information or teaching. I will speak very briefly about it, first on the level of primary and secondary education, then on the university level. In primary and secondary education, the solu- tion generally adopted is merely to add to the already overloaded syllabuses a few hours of instruction about United Nations institutions in the same way as most countries between the two wars, devoted a few hours to teaching about the League of Nations. In my opinion, if this were contemplated as an isolated measure, and not as part of a concerted plan, in the sense I mentioned just now, such a measure would be useless and even in some cases do more harm than good. This for three reasons. In the first plan education is a whole in itself. It is quite hopeless to depend on specialized edu- cation for the building up of world-mindedness if the other branches of education do not inculcate a sense of the solidarity and inter- dependence of peoples. I am thinking of history lessons. Provided history is not regarded simply as the story of kings and of battles, but, as is generally accepted today, a history of civiliza- tions, their coincidence or lack of coincidence in time and their interdependence—then nothing can be of greater help to the development of an inter- national sense. The teaching of geography seems particularly designed to rid us of the egocentric illusions I have mentioned. The teaching of lan- guages and of literature can help us to read the soul of foreign nations. In the teaching of science, the close interdependence of research and discoveries, and their striking international    character, proceeding simultaneously in different countries, with repercussions from one country to another, and also the interdependence of techniques, these are all fields that illustrate this solidarity. Secondly, oral teaching has never shown good results and in the international field, even more than elsewhere, it will remain completely a dead letter unless it is backed up by more active methods. Take, for instance, the teaching of what in my country we call instruction in citizenship, which consists in introducing the pupil to his country’s institutions. I am in a position to speak from experience not as teacher but as an ex- pupil; if lessons in civics are not part of a pro- gramme, they are not generally understood, and do not arouse the interest they deserve. I believe that the good citizen of tomorrow is not the pupil who is capable of reciting lessons he has been given to learn, but the one who has taken an active part in the social life of the school, the one who in schools where there is a measure of self-govern- ment, has taken his share of its communal life; the one who has not shirked his responsibilities; the one who has learnt how to become a useful citizen and not the one who knows how to say his lessons. In the international field, this is truer still. There is a whole number of activities in which the pupils can join: inter-school corres- pondence, organization of international camps, travel, exchanges, mutual aid clubs, research clubs and so on. But the third of the reasons I spoke of seems to me the most important of all, it is—not to be content with the measures I have mentioned— that in the field of international education there are no ready-made teaching techniques such as exist in other subjects. We cannot even answerall the questions pupils may put to us and that we are asking ourselves. Intellectually, the adult is no doubt superior to the child; he may equally be morally superior, but he certainly cannot boast of being internationally superior. Our generation has known only gropings and setbacks in interna- tional life and that is not a stimulating example for the generations to come. International teaching and the introduction to international life must therefore be based on careful study of the complexities of the problem by the devising of a new instrument of intellectual and moral co- ordination. There can be no question of giving an ex-cathedra education, supplying ready-made answers to problems that have not yet been solved. And if we have not yet been able to find these answers we must make use of our absence of knowledge as a basis. I think it should be spe- cially emphasized in this matter that we do not yet possess an intellectual or moral understanding
188 of the present world on an international scale; that we try to adapt to the international field modes of thought and of action meant to be used on a lower level. We find it difficult to understand the pre- sent world because on most levels it does not understand us, and the breach is widened as the levels rise by reasons of the egocentricity and socio-centricity I previously mentioned; as these are transcended on a given plan, thus allowing co- ordination on a higher level, they reappear imme- diately at this new level and in different forms, and from then on, in the field of international edu- cation, the fight starts again on every “front”, starting with the child and up to the adult. Let us make an easy and childish comparison, quite in place, as we are dealing with young children, to help you to understand the nature of this intellectual egocentricity; it is not a form of egoism or narcissism, but only a complete in- capacity to dissociate one’s own point of view from that of others and the inability to grasp that others are in the same position. The example 1 am taking to illustrate my opinion on the relations between child and child, is taken from my experiences of a few years ago: we had been interrogating children on their family relation- ship, relationships that seemed to be simple and did not appear at first sight to raise any difficult- ies. We just asked to a young child the follow- ing question: “Have you got a brother?” If he answered: “Yes, I have a brother, we have two brothers in our family.” TI put to him the second question, which was: “And your brother, has he himself got a brother?” “Has your brother got a brother?” Most children replied immediately: “Oh, no, he hasn't got a brother, only I have a brother; as we are only two in the family, he can’t have brother.” In other words, in the question of a purely family relationship experi- enced daily, the child was not able to reverse his own point of view and to understand this elementary instance of reciprocity. If we now come to the clan, to the primitive tribe as described by sociologists, we find a socio- centricity resembling very closely that of the child’s. This socio-centricity has been conquered, that is to say, we have ceased to believe as the primitives did that we are the centres of the world, or that we can govern the movements of the stars. We have established co-ordination; we have risen to the level of the nation and this is tremendous progress from the point of view of the history of humanity, this co-ordination has enabled the individual to forget himself in a spirit of sacrifice, to devote himself to causes of more importance than himself. But on this level, we are still faced with the nation, which may be represented by patriotism, the means of co-ordination, but also   perhaps by nationalism, a new form of that socio- centricity and egocentricity which reappears at every fresh stage of co-ordination. The problem of international life is really one of “un-centring” our habitual ways of thought and action; it is this “un-centring” itself that is so difficult to achieve psychologically, because any such re-focusing is difficult in itself and in this case is further complicated by the expansion of the social groups to which we belong and by ideolo- gies, whichare very difficult to outlive and whose symbolical character is very difficult to under- stand in its relation to the socio-centricity I men- tioned above. Mr. President, I would like to say two more words on this problem at the university level. When the life of a nation is endangered by a scourge or pestilence, the medical, scientific or social science academies immediately start on its study. The existing international chaos is one of the greatest of present scourges. But it is on such a scale that, for the reasons explained above, the universities, taken as a whole, seemto face it with timidity despite the individualefforts of some of their professors who seem to have grasped the problem. Besides the educational measures for primary and secondary education we have pre- viously mentioned, we can imagine the setting-up of specialized teaching about international relation- ships. I believe that there is room in this matter for a special kind of discipline that would not merely be juridical or economic, nor simply his- torical or geographical, nor only sociological or psychological, but, while including all these fac- tors, would be a synthesis of these numerous aspects of the problem. This discipline alone can help us in the devising of this new instrument of co-ordination I mentioned above. But even if such teaching, which is, as a matter of fact, given in a number of universities, did not show immediate tangible results, they would all the same present the immense advantage of drawing public attention and that of students to one of the most essential problems of the age. I believe that the creation of such Chairs would be of the greatest help. I believe they could promote scientific thinking which would be of great help to opinion in general. The social world of today is torn by two conflicting tendencies that have persisted for years and even centuries. The two conflicts have generally been separate but are now more and more merging into one. These con- flicts are class warfare and antagonism between nations, whence spring class ideologies, which fal- sify perspectives and prevent us from viewing the truth objectively. Only a strictly objective and scientific approach could lead to truth and allow us to solve the problems of our generation.
134 We cannot conceive that the human mind, whose conquests of the material world have in the course of three centuries surpassed the wildest dreams of the founder of this classic mechanics I mentioned before, is forever incapable of forging the instrument of parallel co-ordination which we need and which would help to define the laws of the social world. But this instrument must be sought for and, while the duty of the State in the field of primary and secondary education is to work at a remodelling of education on inter- national lines, in the university field its duty is to promote everything that direct our thoughts to the greatest of the scourges that menace us. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] 1 call on Professor Herlik, Professor of General Biology at the Masaryk University of Brno. Prof. F. HERCIK (Czechoslovakia) — Mr. Chair- man, ladies and gentlemen: It is my task to pre- sent to you the point of view of a scientist and a Marxist on a problem that has already been discussed by several speakers, the problem of what can be done by the various governments for mutual understanding among nations. I should like to point outfirst of all that this task is a very difficult and responsible one. There are at the present time about 700,000,000 people in the world who accept Marxism as their ideology. I am not entitled to speak in their name, but I shall speak as one of them. And you may be convinced that if any other member of this large part of humanity were here in my place, he would use almost the same arguments as I am going to use now. I frequently have the opportunity of visiting some western country, and it always seems to me then that I am not only travelling in space but also in time. Please do not think that I am alluding to a relativistic problem—no, nothing of the kind. What I want to say is, going to the west seems to me like returning to my youth and, in the case of some countries, even like going back to my childhood. To showyou that I am not the only one who feels that way, let me quote the British philosopher, Olaf Stapledon, who, speaking at the New York peace con- ference on British-American relations, said the following: Formerly we used to think of America as being in many ways far ahead of us. Today we don’t. we may often regard Americans with admiration for their practical intelligence and their warm-heartedness, but at the same time we are convinced that America is fifty or a hundred years behind us in social concious- ness and social organization. So far Mr. Stapledon. Now, when I am in Britain —where, by the way, I very much like to be—it    always seems to me that I have returned to the years following the first world war in Czechoslo- vakia when we started on a programme of nationalization which, however, soon broke down, since our Social Democratic Party did not work in the interests of the working class but in the interests of the proprietors. And when 1 happened to be in the United States I felt like going back to the days of my childhood, to the days of the rigid Austro-Hungarian monarchy, when it was high treason to be a socialist and when the reds were regarded as outcasts by respectable society. Today, we, the people of the eastern democra- cies, are ahead or you in the field of social evolution, in social consciousness and the social organization of our communities. Our output in refrigerators may not be very high, nor do we have so many shining chromium-plated cars. For, while acknowledging the importance of tech- nology, we care more about the ordinary man and his happiness than about machines. We love life and everything connected withit. We don't think that we are living in a world full of tragedy. On the contrary. In this world—at least in a large part of it—the ancient dream of mankindis being realized... You will forgive me when I tell you that when I heard for the first time about the problem which was introduced by the Unesco Conference held at Beirut, I felt as if the days of my youth had come back. At that period we took an interest in such questions. But, ladies and gentlemen, maybe you will agree with me that a question that has already been answered—and correctly answered—ceases to be a question and loses its right to exist as such. And this is exactly the case with the problem which has already been dealt with here by so many speakers. For the eastern democracies this problem has ceased to be a problem and has been transformed into a part of the daily practice in governmental as well as non-governmental circles. The idea of mutual understanding among nations is implemented in our educational system, in our press, in our broadcasts and through all other means of mass education. Let me explain to you why we implement this idea and how we are doing it. First of all I must point out that our conception of the State is not some kind of non-historic abstraction; the State is not a Utopian institution which has nothing in common with history, but an instrument of government which passes through various stages of historical development. In different periods the State served the interest of different classes of society, as, for example, the aristocracy, the bour- geoisie and the capitalistic class—for all of them the State was an instrument of government. Under
135 all these systems the broad masses of the popu- lation—the really creative part of the community— were not properly respected; their interests were not considered. On the contrary, we were, as we are at the present time, well aware of the fact that in many countries the creative part of the popula- tion, the working class, is receiving inadequate treatment. Our State system avoids these defects, since it is based on the self-government of the broad masses of the population. It is a real people’s government, and not a merely nominal self-government, where, under a very clever camouflage, power is in actual fact concentrated in the hands of a small group. In our eastern democracies the decisive influence is in the hands of people and we very well know that our people want peace. We are trying with all the means at our disposal to show our people that they are not alone in this peaceful endeavour, but that they have support of millions of people from countries of East and West, and that there is a longing for peace in North and South, East and West alike. This longing for peace is the only common denominator of the most divergent sec- tions of mankind. We are daily working for the intellectual and moral solidarity of men. In this respect our endeavours are in full accord with the Preamble of Unesco which reads that A peace based exclusively upon the political and economic arrangements of governments would not be a peace which could secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the world, and that the peace must therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind. We can achieve this goal by telling people the truth. We do not believe like Pirandello that everybody has his own truth. There is only one truth, the scientific truth, or as Lenin puts it: “Truth is a process, a process which in an asymp- totic way approaches the objective reality sur- rounding us.” The Constitution of Unesco speaks about the “unrestricted pursuit of objective truth”. We know very well that this objective truth is sometimes—as Danton put it—a harsh one. But we knowequally well that this objective, scientific truth reflects the social status, that it is an expres- sion of social conditions. The view that universal science resides somewhere above humanity in an ivory tower of absolute seclusion seems to us extremely doubtful. No, science is a human pro- duct, and as such it is connected in this or other ways with the ideology of the ruling class. This is the reason why science deteriorates when the ideology of the ruling class does not correspond to the development of the social forces. You must forgive me for explaining to you such elementary    matters, but I wanted to make our point of view absolutely clear. We strongly adhere to this kind of objective truth. In our newspapers you will not find any articles directed against the people of the western countries. You will find, however, articles show- ing that in some of these countries there is a handful of plutocrats who prepare war, who ini- liate aggressive treaties and pacts. In some States a large part of the budget is set aside for cold and hot wars; in one State the amounts spent on past and present wars reach a total of approximately thirty-four billion currency units, which is roughly three times more than the expenditure for other items of the budget. We must emphasize strongly that while the bourgeoisie did very much for Western civilization during the nineteenth century it is now a decaying part of society whichis at the present moment—according to some eminent western psychiatrists—in a state of hysteria waiting forits inevitable fate. Nobody, a French poet said, has yet invented a jail to imprison the future, and we fully agree with him. The bourgeoisie will slowly disappear in the new society and will take with it all the intellectuals who, in a very clever manner and, under the cover of high-brow slogans, support it. We are strongly opposed to racial and colour discrimination, not only because such discrimina- tion is cruel and immoral, but also because it is in complete contradiction to scientific facts. There exists not only the brute racial persecution of the Nazis and of their followers among the members of the Ku-Klux-Klan, but there is also a far more widespread discrimination which manifests itself in the economic sphere. For example, in the Panama Canal Zone, negro families are termed “silver workers”, the term “gold” applying to whites. “silver workers”, that is, negroes, receive less than one-third of the wages of white workers for the same work. Gene Weltfish said that racialism is more than a verbal doctrine—it is a non-employer. Only last Sunday I read in the newspaper France-Dimanche, that in Paris there are at present about 100,000 North Africans, only
21,000 of whom are employed. This means that
79 per cent of the North Africans living in the Paris region are unemployed. A similar racial discrimi- nation can be noted in education. In some coun- tries the sum allotted to the education of negro children is only one-fifth of that allotted for white children. As a result of this, the percentage of illiteracy among negroesis eleven times higherthan among whites. During the past week I compared what the newspapers of the western countries wrote about my country and about other eastern democracies. I met with many very cleverly distorted facts which
136 must give the impression that in our countries there is no personal freedom whatsoever, and that we are living in a state of gloomy oppression. Are these open lies helping the cause of mutual under- standing? Certainly not. In our countries you will find no hatred for the people of western countries. Everybody coming from a western country can tell you of the cordial welcome given him. On the other hand we too make discriminations. We discriminate between war-mongers and peace- loving citizens, between the members of the leisured class—if I may use a term of the American sociologist Verben—and the working masses; we discriminate between those intellectuals and influential clergymen who are the lackeys of the bourgeoisie, and those who go with the people. We recognize the enemies of our people who are the enemies of the people of the world. We have fought them and shall go on fighting them mercilessly. Ladies and gentlemen, there are different eco- nomic systems in the world. There is no question whether they can exist side by side. Both do exist. They should be the expression of the will of the largest number of their people-and one should be aware that today this will may be identified with the notion of peace. Tell the people the truth, tell themthe objective, scientific truth and you will have the best basis for mutual understanding. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] I call upon U Ba Lwin of Burma, honorary Secretary of the Burmese Council of Education. U BA LWIN (Union of Burma) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow delegates: First of all I should like to appeal to you to have restraint. I take it that we are gathered here to share, to pool, our experiences in a give-and-lake spirit. As Professor Piaget has told us, this subject is of vital importance to us today. I shall be saying much the same things in the course of my remarks, but I do appeal to you to be tolerant and to try and understand the other man’s point of view. Speaking for myself, I listened to the last speaker with very great interest. It was a pleasure to hear that he and his country want peace, that theylike peace, that they are after truth. I applaud this spirit. Truth, to us in the East, is the highest form of religion and I believe you here in the West will agree with us. This by way of intro- duction. Professor Piaget has covered so much ground that there is very little left for others to say. | shall, however, do my best. First of all, I am deeply conscious of my great responsibility in taking part in the general discussion on this sub- ject. Everyone of us has great interest in the   subject and is very keen to hear what we, who have come from different countries to attend this Conference, and at the same time, to participate in this new venture, have to say. The leaders of Unesco, in compliance with the wishes expressed at the Beirut Conference, arranged this meeting, a family meeting, and our President, the Director- General, the otherleaders, you and I, have met in order to find out the truth. Eminent people from many countries in both hemispheres have spoken to you, and I amsure you have heard with interest, illumination and instruction the wise observations they have made. May I say how happy we are to be together in this atmosphere of fellowship and understanding in this historic country of France. It is a unique opportunity. The twentieth century has been called the century of the common man and on this occasion it will be my duty to submit to you the point of view of a common man. I should like to tell you some true stories about people. Since 1946, when Unesco came into being, I have made journeys to quite a number of coun- tries. Last year, on my way to attend an inter- national congress in Los Angeles, I wanted to have a smoke rather late in the evening, so I went to the back seat of the aeroplane and sat down. The air hostess came along and said, “May I sit by your side?” I said, “Please do, the seat is vacant, you are welcome”. For a while she surveyed me from top to toe, from toe to top and then asked, “Now, do tell me all about Tibet.” Well, I shall explain why she asked me to tell her about Tibet. Innocently she had taken me for a Tibetan lama. One must not quarrel with her or blame her, or be angry with her, for it was simply a case of international misunderstanding. The other side of the question, however, is this—for all we know, for all I know, she must have been very interested in that verylittle-known country of Tibet. The other story is about a child. I had left my hotel to attend an international conference, and on my way I passed a nursery school. A number of children were playing in the garden and one little boy stepped forward and asked me, “Who are you?” 1 replied, “I am a friend from Burma”. “I don’t know Burma,” and he continued, “Are you Father Christmas?” We all enjoy the curiosity on the part of the child; but I felt at the time, as I do now, that the child was quite right. The child has that healthy, natural instinct of curiosity. I said, “Laddie, not yet, it is only August. Father Christmas is not yet on this world.” I have deliberately told you these stories in order to give you a background and in order to provide you with some food for thought. Let me explain, my friend the air-hostess in all probability, took me for a Tibetan lama, and in the second place, she may have been very interested in Tibet. The case of the child at Harrogate was quite different. I believe the child evinced its normal and healthy instinct of curiosity. The child was pure, honest and clean. For that reason, it longed for Father Christmas. The fact of the matter is that we know very little of each other, and we will not be far wrong in saying that we know practically nothing. Since my arrival on the 12th of September in Paris, in this ancient city of light, learning, cul- ture and civilization, I have made many friends, and I can say without any fear of contradiction that these friends from all corners of the world have learnt a considerable amount about my coun- try. If Unesco has not achieved much, it has brought together friends from various countries, united in service to bring about peace, good will and better understanding in the world. The mere fact that the governments and peoples of coun- tries great and small have banded together like one family living together in one world is no small achievement. That, I repeat, is a most creditable achievement. The present discussion is of course vitally important. Throughout the centuries, educators have defined education in ever so many ways—education for life and living, education as a life-long process, education for society, education for community, education for service, education for citizenship, and so forth. It is admitted on all sides that there are material values and spiritual values in life, but we have, in the past, been prone to follow the shadow rather than the substance in education, as well as in all other spheres of human activity. What we need is education of the whole man for the whole man by the whole man, of his head, hands and heart. In other words, education of the body, mind and spirit. I am a firm believer in the great and pressing need for Unesco and its Programme, and, to my mind, the type of education giving freedom from fear, freedom from want, freedom from hatred, freedom from greed, freedom from bitterness and selfishness is the need of the hour. We speak of the government and the governed, the rulers and the ruled; but the most important thing is that the Government, the State, the Ruler should be our guide, philosopher and friend. The State and its citizens should work in partnership in the matter of promoting the work of Unesco as outlined in its Programme and as decided at the last three General Conferences. To my way of thinking the great educational maxim: “Learn by doing” should not be lost sight of. I believe very strongly that we should do all we can to make ourcitizens lift rather than lean. It follows, therefore, that we should educate our citizens so that they realize their duties and    responsibilities, as also their rights and privileges. Education for sanity is what is needed. The art of living together in this complex society of ours of today should be the main item in the pro- gramme of fundamental education. The world is today at the crossroads. Domination or service, which shall be our choice? Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the enlargement of State social service and the consequent reduc- tion in the functions of voluntary societies is widely advocated as contributing to the solution of the problem before us. I think, however, that this argument is based on two challengeable suppositions. First, I chal- lenge the supposition that there is only a certain amount of social service to be undertaken, that the situation, in the words of Professor Jessop, is comparable to the quantum theory in mathe- matics, that there is only a certain quantity avail- able, that the more the State does, the less there is left for the voluntary organizations to do. I for one do not believe that to be true. The other challengeable supposition is that society is relatively static. We have no reason to believe that the State, in the enlargement of its functions in social service will not, in the process, create other problems which might well merit the attention of voluntary social services. We have to formulate the problem in newterms; we must ask ourselves what is implicit in the idea of volun- tary service. The answer is that there must be preserved, inviolate and intact, free fromthe inter- ference of the impersonal State, an area in which free, spontaneous, personal service can be given. I conceive the scope for such service, which lends itself to exploration by voluntary workers and voluntary societies, to be nothing less than the whole range of human requirements and desires. Can we not do something to loosen the deadlock of State and voluntary services? Since we are all human beings, and since we must live together, it is of great moment that we preserve this area in which personal relationships between people can flourish. Another very important reason for the maintenance of this relationship, is that, how- ever far the State may go, however much in the way of social service it may take upon itself, per- sonal relationships will always remain within the circle of the family and among friends. Voluntary service is free, free from restriction and free to find its own ways of doing things. It is possible for us to go “the extra mile”. I believe that to understand what it is that makes people “go the extra mile” is essential to an understanding of the philosophy of service. “What are men?” we should ask ourselves. I think that a great part of the excitement ofliving at a time like the present is that circumstances
138 of everyday life are forcing normally unreflective people to think more and more deeply about the social problems facing them; this is not only natural, but very proper, because no solution of the problem can be superficial. I should like to impress upon you the fact that we are persons, spiritual beings, not mere animals. Therefore, the individuality of the citizen must be respected, and there should be no undue interference in the liberty of the individual. The growing social conscience of the people, their imagination and human sympathy must be given scope in some of the elementary social services. The field of voluntary endeavour nowadays lies much more in ministering to the minds of the people. I meanthat the voluntary agencies could tackle the loneliness and unhappiness to be found among people of all kinds these days, and bring light into their dull, drab and dreary homes. I believe that the key to the life of the people in the future rests with the smaller voluntary bodies, largely because it is so much easier for them than it is for the State to be concerned with simple, human values. Unfortunately, in all our demo- cratic countries, we work largely through volun- tary services which could rapidly adjust themselves to new conditions. One more point—it is essen- tial for us to get younger people to take up volun- tary work, because there are indications that if they do not, all voluntary services, including local government services, will find it difficult to keep going. We in Burma fully recognize our duty to our citizens in education and culture as is manifest in Clauses 33 to 35, and 43, Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Union of Burma. Our aims may be set forth as follows: 1. To root out mis- conceptions and ignorance in education, science and culture, by (a) review and revision of text- books and educational equipment; (b) inclusion of specialized courses in paedagogic training insti- tutions; (c) reorientation courses for teachers and social-service workers; (d) provision of clean, wholesome, and healthy entertainment and cul- tural programmes for our own people as well as for other countries. 2. Provision of significant information by (a) exchange between States of special touring commissions on science and cul- ture; (b) exhibitions; (¢) modern-language insti- tutes. 3. Interchange of ideas and inter-cultural communications by (a) contact between learned bodies; (b) exchange of group visits; (c) fellow- ships and scholarships; (d) exchange visits of students; (e) free international flow of books and cultural objects. This, in brief, is the programme of the Govern- ment of the Union of Burma. We fully believe in the potentialities of the sacred mission Unesco    has taken upon itself, and in the principle of voluntary social service to our fellows. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, The general statement of the problem that we have just been hearing will be followed by a debate on the same subject. For the same reason of geographical dis- tribution as before, it has been decided that the contributors to the debate will speak in the follow- ing order: Delegation of India, Delegation of Po- land, Delegation of Denmark, Delegation of Uru- guay, Delegation of Austria. We regret that Monseigneur Maroun could not speak as was planned. We now call on Mr. Tara Chand, Indian de- legate, vice-counsellor of Malabar University, Pre- sident of “The Indian Historic Congress” in 1944. Mr. Tara CHAND (India) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I am afraid I must strike a note somewhat different from that of others. I assume that we are agreed that States in the modern world have a duty to ensure better under- standing between all the peoples of the world. I say I assume, because I am not quite sure whether there are really valid and incontrovertible reasons for holding that it is more than an assump- tion. Facts compel me to say that the contrary is nearer the truth, and unless we recognize these facts we will continue to live in a world of un- realities, a world which will so ensnare our minds as to make the task of realizing the aims of our Organization even more difficult than it is at pre- sent. For what are the facts? Can anyone say with confidence that States constituted as they are today recognize any duties beyond what they regard as the welfare of their own people, any duties ex- tending beyond the interests of their own citizens, any duties towards groups inhabiting lands beyond their frontiers? We are all helpless witnesses of the fact that, in almost every important branch of politics, social service, economics, culture—and in culture I include education--science, art and literature” States tend to be self-sufficient in framing their policies and deciding upon measures; they hardly seem aware of the existence of other peoples, except in so far as they need their sup- port for attaining their national aims. In regard to political and economic policies, evidence of this is so patent that it is not necessary to give any facts or illustrations. But, in the realm of culture, the situation, if not so hopeless, is nevertheless not at all satisfactory. Internationalism in science we take for granted, but, quite apart from recent controversies and apart from that branch of sciences which is con- sidered directly connected with the instruments
139 of power, the instruments of military might, is it not a fact that many applications of science to industry are regarded as treasured secrets not to be revealed to outsiders? The discoveries of pure science are published in the learned journals, though not in all of them, but where pure science ends and applied science begins no one can tell, and the latter, like a coy maiden, still seeks to hide her- self behind a thick, if not altogether impenetrable veil. Is art international? If so, how many, even among the learned few, are aware of the wonder- ful monuments of art in that part of the world where more than half of the human race lives, and whose cultures had reached a venerable age when Western Europe was still immersed in utter barbarism? The West does not even begin to appreciate Eastern music and dance, two modes of expression in which the human spirit employs language of immediate and therefore universal understanding. And the reverse is just as true, for in my part of the globe there is almost equally abysmal ignorance of Western art. One need not feel surprised at the lack of understanding of literature, for here linguistic dif- ferences create formidable difficulties, but edu- cation is so potent a factor in creating homo- geneity and solidarity in a people, that it is doubt- ful whether any State would allow anything to interfere with its particular purposes. Teaching a few facts about the world, removing some gross prejudices from textbooks is mere tinkering with a process in which deep and pervasive emotional forces work through unconscious and semi- conscious levels of the human mind, and in which ideologies rooted in group experiences, collective behaviour, and habits consecrated by time and tra- dition act as compulsive drives. The fact of the matter is that today we are groping towards the solution of the one fundamental problem of the world—how to create and strengthen that human fellowship, that sense of mutual obligation, which constitutes the substance of the national commu- nity and exercises a binding authority upon indi- viduals composing it, but which is so weak in the relations of men and of States. Political obli- gations there is none today, and moral obligation is tragically weak. Yet in the absence of such a sense of obligation, how can we speak of duties? The situation of one who loves the human race and anxiously watches its blundering zigzag march is not very pleasing, yet it is not hopeless. The State, which recognizes no duties and which looks upon itself as an end unto itself, is but a phe- nomenon of yesterday. In the six thousand years of recorded human history it occupies a bare three hundred years. It may be said to have received the homage of mankind from the time the legions of the Great Warrior sleeping under the Cenotaph    of Les Invalides thundered across the Rhine, the Elbe and the Vistula: A great contemporary of his, the immortal Goethe, scarcely understood this new phenomenon. He regarded national hatred as something peculiar, to be found in its strongest, most violent form among men of the lowest degree of culture. Today, like a tornado, it has swept across the seven seas and overwhelmed the peoples of the five continents. It would however be a mistake to think that this Leviathan, this God bestriding the earth, this omnicompetent State is some ugly monster who only bears tidings of evil. If so, if mankind had accepted and liugged to its bosom an embodiment of utter darkness, there would be no basis for faith in the United Nations declaration that all human beings “are endowed with reason and con- science and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood”. The power of the Nation State over our minds due to its twofold contribution to our spiritual and material welfare. It has given a newethos to man, a vision of human fulfilment, a principle of atonement with our fellow-beings, simple, direct and non-metaphysi- cal. “If England lives, who dies?” It has opened is up ways of communal life promising the maxi- mum good to the greatest number, ways which have led masses out of poverty and squalor, ignorance and disease. Yet, what till yesterday was a powerful means of human uplift is today an instrument of great evil, an instrument which has lost much of its beneficence because of its inherent propensity to promote human strife. If world civilization is to endure and mankind to enjoy peace and happiness, the second moiety of the twentieth century must overcome the aberration of the last century and a half. The unregulated wildness of the Nation State must be tamed. We must bring into human affairs the conceptions that above and behind the positive law of the State, there is the law of man, the law of nature and perhaps the law eternal. The ancient Indian Law-giver declares: Law is that which sustains, by law are the peoples held together. Signs are not wanting that an awakening is taking place. It has been observed that war, though it turns loose human passions, at the same time stirs human conscience. The relations of India and England, the American War of Independence, the Napoleonic Wars, the First World War and the Second World War inspired, amongst other things, the Impeachment of Warren Hastings, the Charter Act of 1813, the August Declaration of Montagu and the Act of Indian Independence, each one of them indicating an unusual acuity of moral perception.
140 European wars had similar results—the Concert of Europe, the League of Nations, the United Na- tions Organization. But the danger of sliding back is always there. For as soon as war is over, the glow of idealism begins to dim, and consider- ations of practicability start to moderate enthu- siasm. Men cannot live long in an atmosphere where toil and sweat, blood and tears are the ordinary food of day-to-day existence. We are witnessing today the rapid change of the spirit of camaraderie which led the allies to victory barely five years ago and which promised the dawn of a new day. But if the small voice of reason and conscience is not to be drowned in the roar of so-called prac- ticability, something has to be done. The prob- lem is complex. States have to carry out the task of self-examination and correction. They have to convert themselves, cease to be States based on absolute and unlimited rights, and become States responsible to humanity, recognizing their obli- gations towards peoples of the world. They have to restrain their will to live for themselves, so that the will to live in co-operation with others, the will to live in fellowship, may emerge and ultimately become their habit of life. The task is difficult but not beyond the power of man. For the State today is not too sure of itself, its confidence in its ability to stand alone has received a tremendous shock. It is genuinely frightened of its own unrestricted sovereignty which signifies competition, violence and war, cold or hot, and the fearsome prospect of the annihilation of human civilization. It furtively recognizes that in war there no longer are victors or vanquished. On the contrary, the vanquished become a charge upon the victors, for as soon as they are “defeated”, rehabilitation must be started if chaos, which threatens the economic and social system of the victors, is to be prevented. War lets loose incalculable forces which cannot be con- trolled unless the devastations of war are speedily repaired on either side of the line of battle. For if waris total and global, peace and prosperity are equally so. The question “Am I my brother’s Keeper?” is no longer relevant, for whether one wishes it or not, we cannot keep one part of humanity in bondage, subservience and impov- erishment without suffering grievous loss our- selves. Thus it is that interdependence grows, and with it a newconsciousness. Forinstance, if standards of life are to be maintained in the United States of America, the products of its highly effi- cient factories must find consumers; but if hundreds of millions in undeveloped countries continue to live on the margin of subsistence, the output of commodities may, under its own weight, submerge the very creators of that wealth. If    loathsome diseases and fearful plagues ravage sec- tors of humanity, all others must live in fear. Hunger and nakedness are no longer a local men- ace, but may upset the whole balance of world politics. The past is still powerful, the known lends a sense of security, and practically—which is another name for reversion to ideas which governed the affairs of nations yesterday—makes an almost irresistible appeal. Yet the future, which today may not be clearly perceived and may beckon us towards un- known goals, is fraught with danger. So, there is a dualism; a conflict rages within the soul of mankind. And it is the duty of those who have faith in this Organization to give a clear and un- mistakable call, summoning States to their obli- gations, for this call from humanity in the name of the collective wisdom of the nations to each nation separately may impart the necessary strength to their will, prevent their footsteps from faltering and their eyes from looking backward, it may dissipate some of their doubts, encourage them to listen to the voice of the future and to followit, for it calls them to their own real and permanent good which is also the common good of all mankind. It was with reference to such a situation that Urfi, the Persian Poet, said: Let thy voice be pitched harsher, if thou find the appreciation of thy music on decrease, and let thy driver's song be chanted more swiftly in case the burden on thy camel be heavy. This leads me to a consideration of the practical needs of the nations. It appears to me that we cannot ask States to undertake duties in regard to education, science and culture unless we un- derstand their limitations and abilities. Nowin our Organization the States may be roughly divided into two classes—States whose main concern is with peace, and States who above all desire welfare. The peace States are chiefly the great powers of the West, whose policies conflict and produce wars. These States do not lack education, science and culture in the ordinary sense of these terms. The subjects of these States enjoy the blessings of universal education and they are fast and success- fully endeavouring to extend the period of schooling. They are all alive to the need of scien- tific advancement, they are pursuing study and research to the limit of their capacity and em- ploying many methods for spreading scientific knowledge. No one can say that art does not flourish there, for the number of painters, sculp- tors, architects, musicians and dancers is ever on the increase, more literature is being produced and more books are printed every year. Some may not be satisfied with the quality of their achievements in art, but the intensity of creative impulse and greatness of expression cannot be determined by any known standards. It is also true that culture is still the monopoly of the few. The many do not rise to the standards of refinement of thought and feeling, or of appre- ciation of the utterances of the spirit, which should be shared in common‘by all. It may also be conceded that nations still have much to do to remove the causes of misunderstanding which arise from the nationalistic and particularistic ten- dencies of their education, science and culture. But let me say that in my opinion the causes of war do not lie principally in these mis- understandings. Community of culture is not a guarantee of peace; my own part of the world is a proof of it; nearer home you will find many instances and I need not point them out. While it remains undisputed that wars are made in the minds of men, we ought not to forget that the human mind is a complex almost unfathomable in its intricacies, made up of all kinds of har- monies and contradictions, subliminal drives, con- scious and reasoned ideas and ideals, unsuspected capacities for sublime and heroic action—and also of their opposite. Regions affected by education, science and culture may be the least important for the purposes of peace. This is not an argument for neglecting them, but for the assessment of correct values. We must find out what is wrong with the mind, what makes it issue in violence. Hobbes’ answer was fear and pride. Perhaps he saw this with the clarity of mind of a pioneer. In any case, he resolved the problem into its simplest elements and perhaps he was right. If so, the peace States must discover the means to exorcise fear and pride, and the world must help. The second class of States have a different set of needs. For years they have been the playboys of the Western World, pawns in the game of power politics. What do these States want? Freedom from hunger is their first need. In India there are mil- lions who do not have two meals a day, and many millions who live in mud hovels and share their shelter with their beasts and cattle. They have hardly any clothes to hide their illness. The day ends for them with the setting of the sun, and to illumine their nights they depend upon the light of the moon and the stars. Not more than
15 per cent can read or write, so it is impos- sible to reach the vast mass of them through books and newspapers. Their second great need is freedom from ignorance. And what applies to India applies in a greater or lesser measure to the teeming millions of Asia and of Africa. Their national incomes and standards of living being so terribly low, it is not surprising that in    education and science their backwardness should be so great. A few scientists of world fame and a thin layer of educated people do not materially affect the situation. Culture, however, is a dif- ferent matter. The discipline of the spirit and all that it implies in the realm of conduct— charity, humility, self-abnegation, patience, a lively sense of the great values of human existence, these are the traditions of the East, and in so far as they constitute an important element of culture, they are perhaps more frequently found among the il- literate there than among the educated elsewhere. Nevertheless, it is undeniable that the duty of the welfare states towards their peoples is first to re- move the paralysing evils of hunger, ignorance and disease. They are far too weak to think of wars which endanger the peace of the world and far too absorbed in the solution of the elementary problems of their national existence to be able to contribute materially to measures which will promote the understanding between nations so necessary for the establishment of peace. But their very helplessness is a menace to world peace. They are a stimulus to the conflict of world ambitions. They represent vast potential markets for the consumption of goods—material and ideological. Their indirect influence upon world policies is incalculable. The way in which from China to Morocco they are entangled in power politics shows their potentiality for good or evil. The needs of the welfare States, as distin- guished from those of the peace States, demand immediate attention if a fruitful source of world misunderstandings is to be removed. Human con- siderations which constitute the raison d’être of Unesco— also indicate this course. The peace States took the lead in laying the foundation of the United Nations Organization and its ancillary agencies. Their task is not ended. They have resources, industry, wealth and power. In the marchof history they head the procession of humanity today. But from those to whom much has been given much is expected. The question is whether they will treat their great gifts as a trust for the promotion of world welfare, or interpret their destiny in a spirit of narrow, short- sighted egoism, intent upon the realization of na- tional interests. If the former, mankind will bless them, indeed they will be twice-blessed, blessed in themselves and in others. If the latter, history will perhaps record another failure of man . . . and beyond yawns the valley of the shadow of death. The two sets of States have no alternative other than co-operation in a great adventurous enter- prise. On the one hand, if the peace States must raise themselves, by education, above their pre- sent condition of fear and pride, and must cease to regard their less fortunate associates as a means
149~ of fortifying themselves against fear, and of bol- stering up pride, on the other, the welfare States must seek the co-operation of their more fortunate associates in order to speedily end the conditions which condemn large numbers of human beings to a life unworthy of man. The two are inextricably intertwined. Both suffer from passions and apprehensions which have their roots in the irrational. The remedy in either case is to infuse the human mind with reason, so that the conviction may grow that humanity suffers because its sense of oneness is weak. The path on which we have to travel must be cleared of many obstacles. Education, science and cul- ture may help in this necessary task if they are inspired with the great moral purpose—the reali- zation of human unity. The United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture must however show the way to the States, and keep the ideal undimmed before their eyes. Those who work for it must be the missionaries of a new faith, and among them should arise new saints as great as St. Augustine, St. Anselm and St. Thomas Aquinas, who will teach a new philosophy of man, a philosophy of man as the bearer of a consciousness, a mind which in its absoluteness is the ground and basis of his will and reason, and in its relations consti- tutes the universe of nature, a philosophy which will wash the ugly wounds which history has in- flicted and lay on the healing balm which will restore the wholeness and integrity of the human social organism. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization will thus become the nu- cleus of the world mind and will go forth among the States in their severalty with its message, con- tinuously and without tiring, and the States will listen to this call of duty and, maybe, will respond. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] I call on the delegate of Poland, Pro- fessor Adam Schaff, Professor of Philosophy, of the University of Warsaw. Prof. Adam SCHAFF (Poland) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of our public debate, in which so many voices have already been heard, on “The Guarantee of International Understanding by the means of the Development of Education, Science and Culture”, seems to be clear-cut and precise. The chief objective of Unesco is work in the domain of education, science and culture for a lasting world peace. What could be closer to the purpose of Unesco than the theme proposed for our debate? What could be clearer than the way in which it was presented? But if we think more deeply on the subject, it will awaken in us some anxiety and further       reflexion. Is it really this question which is im- portant to us? Has the question really been stated properly? We know very well that the way in which a question is formulated is often the condition for its proper answer. And we have more than one example in the history of human thought where the inaccurate formulation of a question made the solution impossible from the very beginning. I am speaking, at this moment, to an audience representative of science and culture, who have come here from every part of the world. I am speaking to people who are devoted to differing political and scientific opinions, but who are so united by a deep love for science and culture and human progress, that they are consequently also united by a love for peace. For without peace there is no progress in science and culture, and there is no development of human society. This desire to protect peace and to protect "pacific co-operation between nations has been stressed more than once at the plenary sessions and in the work of commissions. I deeply believe in the sin- cerity of those statements, in spite of the fact that I very often differ on the manner of realizing our common purposes. And this is why, ladies and gentlemen, I feel free to speak to you in this way. You do not use this language to people who have already made up their minds, to people who are tied by instructions from their governments, but to people of good will, to scholars, who have per- haps not the same viewpoint as you have, but who know how to think independently and who want to think independently. Did you ever wonder why, in spite of the many declarations emanating from innumerable meetings such as this, the question of peace is today much more compromised than it was when Unesco began its work? Did you ever wonder why, in spite of the finest resolutions, the States vou are representing often act precisely contrary to those declarations, to those resolutions? Con- sequently, has not the question arisen in your minds, that the chief problem we have to solve is not the question of what the States ought to do in the fields of culture and science for the defence of peace, (this is already clear and well known) but why the States do not do those things of which so muchis said and about which every- thing is already known. Once more we are to solve the problem of what the governments ought to do in the field of edu- cation, science and culture for the rapprochement of peoples and to avoid war. As if this were a difficult and mysterious question! But, ladies and gentlemen, we are an assembly of representatives of science and culture. We ought, of course, to have as much common sense as the man in the
143 street. Ask the man in the street the question and he will answer in a way which will certainly dispel the fog of scientific sophisms—of the so- phisms which often separate us from common sense. He will answer in such a way as will show clearly and precisely that for the defence of peace you have merely to prevent your govern- ments from doing what they so often do. Let us free ourselves from scientific sophisms; to which of us will it not then be clear that if one wants to defend peace the newspaper must not provoke war; that if one wants the rapprochement of peoples one must not use biology, sociology and philosophy to make apologies for racial discrimi- nation; that if one wants to reinforce mutual con- fidence between peoples one must not use black- mail on the question of atomic-bomb secrets; that if one wants peace one must not make of science the handmaiden of war; that, in a word, one must not do what governments of capitalist States are doing. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, for a brief moment take off our academic robes; let us move down from the sphere of scientific acti- vity to the field of common sense and let us sin- cerely answer the question: Is there one single person here who does not know who is provoking war today, who uses blackmail or, at least up to now, used blackmail on the whole world on the question of the atomic secret? Is there one of us here who does not understand that if one wants peace one has to educate people in the spirit of peace, one has to utilize science on behalf of peace, one has to abolish the so-called “freedom” of those who advocate war? Is there one of us here, who, retaining his common sense and his sense of humour, does not see that in the question as it was formulated for us tonight, there is, in fact, no question at all. I know a tale of Ander- sen’s about a nude king. Nobody acknowledged his nudity for fear of being compromised, until somebody exclaimed “The king is naked!” And I, ladies and gentlemen, am exlaiming “The king is naked!” The question as presented tonight is not the real question, and this is not the proper method of arriving at answers. Do I, therefore, say that this debate is useless, that it has no sense at all? Of course not. The question of the defence of peace in the present international situation is the chief question. If Unesco has a reason to exist at all, it is, first of all, to act in the interests of this great cause. Let us discuss then, but let us discuss in the proper manner. Let us formulate the question in such a way as to serve peace and not merely to throw dust into the eyes of mankind. Let us work for peace, and not gesticulate with the word “peace” on our lips. Let us speak, precisely and sincerely, as scholars,   who though using many languages, still intend one and the same thing,—peace, which we con- sider to be indispensable to the betterment of mankind. Let us ask ourselves with precision and sincerity: what is causing us anxiety, what problemis torturing us? Is it the question as to what the States should do to assure peace? No, for we of course know that very well; those are simple and intelligible matters. The problem which causes uneasiness is why the States do not do those simple and intelligible things. And in relation to this, we are tortured by the question: what ought we to do, we who are scholars, men of learning, we who are people of good will, in order to lead the nations on the proper road, to initiate activities for peace and against war? This is the real question. And we knowthat when one has the question properly enunciated, one already holds half of the answer. But in this connexion we reach a precise point: we require definite action for peace. But can a State achieve this purpose? Can any given State achieve it? And if not every State, which one can? I am sure that this way of for- mulating the question must appear strange to those accustomed to empty abstractions, such as State “in general”, human beings “in general” and so on. But it is precisely this lack of con- creteness and historical comprehension that is the chief reason for the sterility of numerous reflec- tions of this type. What is a State? This question immediately leads us into the depths of sociological, juridical and philosophical discussions, which separated and still separate intellectuals into different schools and grouplets of thought. I do not intend to get mixed up in those subtle and often sterile discussions. Let us leave those with their “spirit of nations” and others with their formal juridical definitions. Let us forget speculative thought and let us look at life. Let us again, for a short time, get out of our academic chairs and into the skin of the man in the street. If we do so, common sense, whichis immediately aroused, will answer: The State? It means policemen, those who regulate traffic, those who disperse strikers or who throw them into prison. The State? It means the army, it means the prisons. But one could ask, not without reason,—schools, hospitals, communications, etc., are they not also the State? Of course, they are also the State. But who can dispute the fact that the functions of power have a determining significance in life and that all other functions are dependent upon it? Who can dis- pute the fact that those who dispose of the army, the police, the apparatus of power, also dispose of all the other functions of the State? Who then would care to dispute the fact that the State is, second
144 first of all, the apparatus of power, and that qua- lities of the State are dependent upon the class this apparatus serves? Let us look straight-forwardly at these questions and the fog of speculation will vanish before our eyes. Historically, the State is the apparatus of powerin the hands of one social class, which by means of economic domination obtains political domination. The ancient State was the State of the slaveholders. In the middle ages the State belonged to feudal lords. The contemporary capi- talist State is the State of the bourgeoisie. The State in general is an abstraction. In fact, there are different types of State, historically determined, which we can distinguish by knowing what social class it serves, what class interests it defends and against which class it is directed. The comprehension of a class approach to the analysis of social phenomena is the basis of the science of society. Here is the strength of Marxist science and the weakness of that of the bour- geoisie. The understanding of this problem has a decisive significance for the solution of the question which faces us tonight. It is this un- derstanding which will decide whether we have to wander into the dead ends of such abstract notions as “State in general” or whether with the help of a scientific approach toward social phe- nomena we can succeed in historical formulations within the concrete conditions of time and place. We know how the State, using the weapons of education, science and culture, should act to re- inforce the understanding between nations, to defend peace and arrest the danger of war. We also see that some States are making such an attempt and that others are not. Does it mean then, that we have to express once again our demands so often already expressed or, on the other hand, should we analyse why we find obstacles to the realization of those demands and look for the way to overcome these obstacles? Both Marxism and common sense are in favour of the second alternative. Let us now proceed with this analysis. Ladies and gentlemen, let me use as an illustra- tion an example of my own country, Poland. More than once, during Unesco sessions, I heard the opinion that the development of science and culture is the best way to fight against war. Poland, as all know, was the country which, next to Russia, suffered most from the war and Hitlerian occupation. Our country, which was bled white and economically ruined, began, im- mediately after the liberation of the smallest part of its lands in July 1944, to reconstruct, eco- nomically and culturally. What are the results of the first five years of reconstruction? I shall give       you only very general figures. The budget of the Ministry of Education reads as follows:
1949 53,2 billion zloty. We had in 1938, twenty-eight higher schools and universities; now we have thirty-nine. In 1938 we had 48,000 students; now we have more than
100,000. What I said about Poland is equally true of the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, Hungary or Bul- garia, and can be verified by corresponding data. Besides the development of education, science and culture in those countries, you can also verify the fact that there is no war propaganda in our news- papers, no racial propaganda in our books, and that our science is not used for atomic blackmail. If you make a similar analysis in the capitalist States you will easily discover that their official science and culture are used for war purposes— that they are weapons not for the rapprochement but for the separation of peoples. Can a newformulation of the duties of the State in the field of culture change those facts? Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that words are of no use here, that the one thing left to people of good will is to fight for peace. These are the facts. The true state of things is that one has to fight for peace. Why are the Soviet Union and the countries of the popular democracies developing their science and culture in the name of peace and for peace? Because these are countries of a socialist type—countries in which power belongs to the people and acts for the people. And the people are interested in peace because the preserv- ation of peace is in direct relationship to their well-being. Why do capitalist States use their science and culture for war purposes? Because they are States where power is in the hands of the bourgeoisie, where the State is the apparatus of the capitalists’ power. When capitalist interests send people to the battlefields, then science and culture will be used by the instigators of war. And this is why we must fight for the utilization of science and culture for peaceful purposes, must fight for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, if our debates are to have any meaning at all, if they are not to be empty repetitions of words calculated to quiet our conscience, then the conclusion must be as follows: fight for peace. We Marxists, who stressed the role played by material conditions in the life of society, understand very well the great rôle played byideas in the development of history. Consequently, we understand the rôle of pro- gressive intellectuals, the rôle of men of science and culture in the present fight for peace. We know that the voice of every one of you progressive men of science and culture may have enormous significance for the mobilization of your people in the fight for peace, in the fight against the insti- gators of war. It is important to recognize one’s place and one’s significance in the fight which is taking place. I wish to repeat what I said in the beginning. I believe that you are people of good will. I believe that you want peace as we do. I believe that you want to dedicate your science and knowledge to peace and the happy development of mankind. Therefore, unite your forces with those who are already fighting. We who desire peace are the majority in this world. Our strength is great, we are much stronger than the instigators of war. The only problem is to consolidate those forces. There exists at the present time a powerful move- ment of Peace Congresses which includes more than 600,000,000 people. Is not the place of Unesco in its ranks, if our words are not to remain mere words. Many of you are going to say that this is politics, and that you do not want to become involved in politics. But think more deeply whether your passive attitude is not in fact making politics. Of course it is. But it is making politics which serves the instigators of war—poli- tics all the more dangerous because it hides behind a curtain of beautiful words. What is wanted at this moment is not declar- ation, but action. I come from a country in which the custom is unknown of sending people, who at home preach the atomic war against the Soviet Union and the people’s democracies, to make a speech in an international assembly on the subject of the “Duties of States in the Fight for Peace”. 1 am the modest representative of thousands and thousands of intellectual workers who, in my country and in other socialist coun- tries with the Soviet Union as their leader, are working for peace. In their name, I am appealing to you, men of science and culture of the whole word assembled here for the Unesco Conference, —if you want peace, fight to make the States serve the people, enter into the world front of the defenders of peace. Action for peace is not talking about peace, but giving one’s knowledge and strength to the fight for peace. And this is the task of Unesco: the mobilization of men of science in the fight for peace. The PRESIDENT — French] from the[Translation
1 nowcall on the head of the Danish delegation, Professor Frisch, Danish Minister of Education. Prof. FRISCH (Denmark) — [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great   honour for me to speak in this debate on the prin- ciples of international co-operation, especially in Paris, that ancient spiritual capital of Europe. In the course of the long history of European culture, from the earliest ages, all intellectual movements originated in France, or, if not, at least awoke their liveliest echoes in this centre of Western culture. At this historical moment, when the creation of true world-mindedness is the issue, it appears to me not only natural, but symbolically encouraging that Paris should have been chosen as the seat of Unesco, this organization born of a war but devoted to the promoting of the spirit of peace. All the nations who are joined in Unesco take inspiration from the same noble belief in universal peace and share the same ideas for co-operation. However, in the statement of the problem on which the debate is to turn, nations or peoples are not mentioned, but only the State, a narrower and less substantial concept than the two former. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to put this question: Does the State in the accepted sense of the word possess any feelings, ideals and opinions whatever? The State, of course, has national aspirations as was shown for the first time by Thucydides, the old Greek historian, who founded the doctrine of the “raison d'Etat”. But every- thing that concerns the “raison d'Etat” forms a part of Machiavelli’s so-called “sacro egoismo”, to which we must oppose true international feeling. I have put this question because I very much doubt that under democratic régimes, it is the State’s function to regulate the mind. The Emperor Nero in ancient Rome claimed this as a right; so did Hitler and Mussolini, and perhaps there are other post-war statesmen who affirm it. For my part I frankly confess that the idea of the State governing minds is very distasteful to me, not only because this governing seems to me a menace to the independence of mind and thought but still more because I do not consider it to be the State’s mission. In any case in my country, Denmark, I am certain that, if the government imposed rules upon the public or in the schools, it would arouse gen- eral distrust. I do not think that this critical atti- tude is peculiar to Danes. On the contrary, I believe that this mistrust is one of the greatest forces of democratic resistance. As a very clear example of this, take the cele- bration of the United Nations’ anniversary on
24 October. As Minister for Public Education of Denmark, I have just sent a circular to all Danish schools calling attention to this anniversary and inviting the masters to celebrate this occasion, but I added the words ‘leaving it to each one’s dis-
146 cretion”. Atthesame time our Ministry encouraged the dissemination of informative documents about United Nations through voluntary organs for collab- oration with United Nations and Unesco. But why did I add “leaving it to each one’s discretion”? To safeguard the individual liberty of the teacher, of course, they being free citizens of a democracy. Then again we fear lest there be men or organiza- tions who want to use the schools and other public institutions to stir up agitation, opposed to the feelings and ideals of the people, in regard to inter- national co-operation. And we are ready to give financial and administrative help to the voluntary organizations. I will conclude by saying that in a democracy the State is an instrument of very restricted scope in the matter of governing minds, but is, on the other hand, very powerful in encouraging voluntary intellectual efforts. If the truth must be told, ladies and gentlemen, liberty is a very frail thing. If the State, even with the best intentions, tries to control it, then it will rear up in the form of a Gorgon, against which the State, at least the democratic State, is absolutely power- less. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] I call upon the delegate of Uruguay, Pro- fessor Roberto Ibáñez, professor of Hispano- American literature, of the Humanities Faculty at Montevideo University. Prof. Roberto IBANEZ (Uruguay) — [Transla- tion from the Spanish] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the lateness of the hour compels me to give only a brief outline of what I meant to say, as well as a short commentary on the speeches which we have just heard. But I would first like to say how deeply impressed I was by the latter: the clear, straightforward and well-balanced speech of the Danish delegate; the extremely human words of the Indian delegate, marked as they were by stamp of a culture measured in thousands of years; the compact and masterly speech of the Swiss delegate; and the charming address by the Burmese delegate, with his travels throughout the world and his unexpected promotion to the status of Father Christmas. In impassioned words he reaffirmed his faith in the cause of peace and human solidarity. Without any wish to be polem- ical, and merely by asking a few questions, ! wish to refer to the speeches by the Czechoslovak and Polish delegates. In the main these speeches coincided. The Polish delegate said many things which we have often heard in similar speeches. The Czechoslovak delegate bitterly attacked the western democracies. TI recognize his right to do so, for who can refuse him such a right? But I    wonder whether we should be able to criticize the eastern democracies, in Prague or in Moscow, for instance, in the same way as he is able to crili- cize the western democracies in Paris. I must confess that the very expression “popular demo- cracy” seems to me a curious one. Does demo- cracy exist in regions where freedom is suppressed in the name of social justice? Are not freedom and justice inseparable? Must they not exist to- gether in a moral symbiosis if there is to be true democracy? I am convinced in the same way as a distinguished writer of my country, that the task of democracy is not yet completed, and that poli- tical democracy must be transformed into social democracy; but I feel that this social democracy will have meaning only if men establish harmony between freedom and justice. Where man is deprived of freedom, I do not see how he can express his will and be invoked as a pretext for popular democracy—the adjective is purest irony. Much could be said not only about the ideas of the two speakers concerning Truth but also about some of their allusions. The Czechoslovak dele- gate spoke of the negroes working in the cesspools of Panama. I will simply evoke another dark picture, that of the millions of forced workers who live or manage to survive in Siberia. But, leaving aside certain intentional or unintentional polemics, I feel that our differences are due simply to the fact that we speak in different languages. I do not mean that some speak in English, others in French or in Spanish; but that each speaks in a different political and moral language. TI feel that efforts for peace should be founded on a concep- tion of man instead of being ceaselessly accom- panied by the same refrain of extortion or atomic “blackmail”. I am going to read only two extracts of the speech which I had prepared. In establishing the moral and rational bases of the present discus- sion, I would remind you that Unesco claims to follow a lawful ideological policy: based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is now seeking its logical counterpart in a declaration of the duties of States, at least from the point of view of education, science and culture. The ideology of Unesco has a humanistic motive. That is what magnetizes. Humanism can be defined or conceived in many ways, but men of good will understandit in one sense only. I will venture to define it as an idea destined, by means of the cultivation of freedom and the freedom of culture, to enable men to realize themselves fully and to extol their rights and duties as moral beings and creators of spiri- tual values. How often do we forget man's rôle as the creator of spiritual values; I agree that we should first ensure the necessary material welfare; but we must not stop there nor limit the horizon.
147 We must not seek a paltry philosophy with doubt- ful aims. So far I have tried to sum up a few isolated points of myspeech. Iwill also leave aside the part in which I tried to outline the bases of interna- tional understanding. But 1 will dwell on a passage concerning the rights and duties of the State (particularly the duties, for the State is the holder of power). In this passage I point out that the State, in order to answerthis enquiry satisfactorily, must begin by carrying out certain major duties: Firstly, it must maintain and encourage the corresponding collective personality (namely, the character or originality of the human organization which composes it) above all nationalist excesses and all political narcissism. Secondly, it must show, on the international plane, tolerance and respect for other States, and defend the universal conquests of the mind. Thirdly, it must maintain intact the principles of democracy, understood as a régime in which freedom and social justice are harmonized without any other distinctions than those of the mind and without any other aim than the constant devel- opment of the mind. Lastly, I refer in my speech to the inner peace which must be guaranteed by States throughtheir respect for democratic institutions; they must, for instance, prevent usurpations of power. I then consider the duties of the State with regard to education, science and culture. I shall leave aside (for my speechis to be published by Unesco) what
1 was going to say about the principles and methods which I consider necessary and possible in the field of education and science. I shall simply dwell for a moment on certain of my remarks concerning the necessary dissemination of culture: the personality of a social groupfinds its highest expression in culture. We men of new countries who have just begun to make our history feel this perhaps more than anyoneelse. Thus we Latin Americans are trying hard to make our own social and indigenous mark, andare following the cultural process of advanced countries with the enthusiasm of youth. We do so without slavish adoration, but with an admiration so heartfelt that it is transformed into affection for each of the peoples who are guiding us in our spiritual evolu- tion. These words, based on reason, show the existence in Latin America of an undeniable col- lective sentiment. Reason and sentiment, therefore, unite in our case to showthe unexampled way in which dissemi- nation of culture brings nations together. It is thus seen how a force, which, although virtually universal, and national in character, becomes      transformed into an indissoluble bond of interna- tional solidarity. Perhaps it will be objected that the ‘minority’ character of our culture and the cosmopolitanism of our demographic integration influence our bound- less admiration. If that is so, we shall have encou- raged other peoples to follow us spontaneously in observing a norm which should be universal. Cul- ture, without ceasing to be an end in itself, would then constitute an irreplaceable method of establishing international co-operation, that is to say, universal brotherhood. For culture, by working in the inmost recesses of the soul, raises the fundamental dictates of reason to the emotional plane. Having broached the problem, mainly from the emotional point of view, perhaps, I shall men- tion some of the duties of the State. I then went on to say that the State should maintain, encourage and disseminate culture as its main title to respect, and that it should also open up its own frontiers to other cultures without any anxiety, for a culture that languishes in isolation must be constantly reinvigorated. The State (as I emphasize later on) must also respect the independence of culture. Controlled culture (which is an evil—we say so frankly for we agreed to speek frankly to each other—an evil of the so-called eastern democracies) is a culture in uniform, an artificial culture, an imitation culture, in short, lack of culture. Art, for instance recognizes no social classes. There is no bourgeois music or progressive music; there is simply good or bad music. To decree that the rose shall be nutritious like the lettuce is to impose on the rose the function of the lettuce. I say this with the respect to which vegetables are also entitled. As regards the means, I mention at the end of my speech what seem to me the most prac- ticable ones. In conclusion I say that I have always insisted on invoking certain principles which many refuse to consider as mere abstractions: democracy, justice, freedom, peace. The time has come to declare our inextinguishable faith in them. For since the last war, which was fought to destroy Nazism the so- called abstractions have received eternal life through the blood of the men who sacrificed them- selves for them. All of us here have agreed to form ourselve into an army of peace. Unesco will not be able to include these discussions in an order of the day nor in an order of the century. We are co-operating with it in its fight for peace. Unesco is not simply a standard-bearer for education, science and culture; it is itself a school, a school of States. Let it continue with its noble instruc- tion. Let it teach every man of good will to spread the light of culture. Let it continue to advocate the compulsory service of the mind in the cause of democracy, in the cause of peace and for the destiny of man. Uruguay will always be with those peoples who pursue this ideal. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I call on the last speaker on the list, the Austrian delegate, Dr. B. Ernst Buschbeck. Dr. B. Ernst BUSCHBECK (Austria) — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, a sound principle of musical compo- sition teaches us that we should go back at the end to the first motif of a musical piece and con- clude on what is termed in musical language the keynote. I would therefore like to end on the note of sincere realism that we heard at the beginning of the evening. However I have no illusion as to my ability to equal Professor Piaget’s perfection nor the wisdom of the East as expounded by the dele- gate of Burma, nor the fair-mindedness of the delegate of India, nor the really democratic per- suasiveness and frankness of Mr. Frisch, and Pro- fessor Ibáñez. Last night Mr. Bidault, in a speech to which I paid tribute, for I felt it to be particularly repre- sentative of the clarity and lucidity which have always been among France's greatest glories, gave us, if I may say so, a lecture on the natural history of the State. He showed us how this being that we name State claimed by its nature to be omni- potent (even perhaps omniscient; he did not say this but he implied it). He showed us with accu- racy and moderation what enormous progress the Organization named State represented over earlier social forms. And he showed us how this sup- posedly omnipotent State clashed with other States as omnipotent as itself and whose citizens and institutions could not be brought under its own sovereign jurisdiction; and lastly, how, owing to this, the whole idea of omnipotence was chal- lenged. I would like to add my modest contribution to this brilliant analysis. It seems to me that there are other factors which, thank God, restrict the State’s claim to omnipotence. And since we are tonight dealing with education, we should perhaps examine these factors in that field. Is not man’s education governed in great part by forces entirely independent of the State? After the initial education the infant gets in his cradle and which teaches him to submit his need for food to fixed hours, after that other education—much more painful-—where he has to learn cleanliness, after the numerous experiences that we call the schooling of life, is this not a large educational system in which the State takes no part? The advice and, still more, the example given by parents, the necessity to get on (more or less) with brothers and sisters, religion (not only the    Christian religion), inasmuch as it lays down rules of conduct, contact with school chums and, later on, the atmosphere and the attainments necessary for the practice of a trade or profession, the opinions and prejudices of the class to which the individual belongs, even his amorous experi- ences, all these various factors contribute quite as much and even more to man’s education, than the purely didactic part which is the responsibility of the State. And this applies to moral education as much as to intellectual education. I would like to draw the moral from these findings, which, I fully realize, have nothing ori- ginal about them. Unesco (unfortunately and for want of some- thing better) is an organization of States, but I wish that it would devote its attention to that non- State side of education that I have just mentioned, and that it would watch out for any opportunity to exert an influence on this non-State education in the strict sense and make it serve the ideals we all believe in. I know that this proposition will horrify the jurists in Unesco. And I can see that it does not lend itself easily to the drawing up of resolutions for inclusion in recommendations and draft con- ventions. But, as we are treating of mat- ters of the mind, we should know how to catch its spirit wherever it blows. We must have that cou- rage. The greatest jurisconsult in my country once told me: “When I pronounce a sentence, I first decide on the sentence and look for the reasons afierwards”. That is a wise saying and could very well be aplied to the present case. I would like to touch very briefly on another question suggested to me by Mr. Bidault's eloquent speech. Speaking as a good Frenchman and 1f he will allow me to say so, as a good Christian, he declared his faith in the equality of men and in the unity of humanity. I pay tribute to his idealism, which we all share, and which is, if I may say so, the corner-stone of all Unesco’s acts and aspira- tions. But it is perhaps necessary to season this idealism with a bit of realism, first, in the interest of truth, secondly, to spare ourselves possible disappointment. This assertion of equality and unity seems to me true in the sense that there undoubtedly exists in each individual substratum, a nucleus, so to say, common to all humanity. This nucleus consists of hereditary elements and of the fruit of a member of collective experiences common to all. But these difficulties start in every human soul or, if you prefer, in every human personality there is a strong consciousness of its own identity. Consciousness of one’s self is balanced by aware- ness of what is “non-self”. This antithesis shows
149 itself in the conscience of the social group, starting with the family and on through all the hierarchy of the clan, the union, the tribe, the professional group, the social classes up to the religious com- munities, the peoples and the nations. The “We’s” are oposed to the “You's” and the “They's”. You find a good example of this in the French and Spanish languages in their use of “Vous autres” and “Vosotros”. On the emotional level the anti- thesis finds its expression quite naturally in anti- pathy. The ideal of humanity therefore findsitself at war with very deep and very primitive emo- tions and you knowas well as I do that there is no trifling with deep emotions. The problem of personality has another aspect. I mentioned just now what I called the nucleus of personality; as life goes on, different layers are superimposed upon this original nucleus, being the result of the experiences of the individual and of the influences he has come under. Allow me to make use of an image, not very flattering perhaps, but illustrating very well my way of thinking; human personality reminds me of an onion, the superimposed skins of which surround and en- close a centre part, itself of complicated structure. These layers are, of course, formed in early life; for most of us the process seems to be completed by the end of the second decade; 1 think it may be said that in Europe the building up of the personality, especially in intellectual élites-to-be, is completed by matriculation and in Anglo- Saxon countries, at the time when a young man leaves school. The nature of these superimposed layers is determined by the education received by the indi- vidual, by the words and the concepts he is taught, by the doctrines inculcated in him, by the habits of thought he is led to acquire, and, lastly, by that hierarchy of conceptions and of values that make up our intellectual and moral life. We must admit that we have not today at our disposal a single language, a homogeneous system of notions and values and a universal mode of thinking. This is quite as true applied to the various social groups of one nation as to the relations between different nations. It goes without saying that these layers, these onion skins, are the thicker and tougher as the particular civilization in which the individual has been brought up is more evolved and more strongly marked. Anyone of us who has dealt in international matters or as I prefer to say, supra-national matters, has known moments of anguish and des- pair when he must have said to himself what an eminent delegate said to me two days ago—I will not give his name—: “We do not understand each other. They speak another language”. It was not always so; the intellectual élite of     the Middle Ages spoke the same tongue figuratively as well as literally. Let us not forget that the Saxon Albert, Count of Bollstaedt, better known as Albertus Magnus, and the Lucanian St. Thomas Aquinas taught at the Sorbonne not two miles from here. At that time Unesco was not needed to establish intellectual unity. Even cultivated society in the eighteenth century retained traces of this unity, which extended beyond the borders of nations and States. Ladies and gentlemen, why did I draw your attention to these difficulties, which each of you has probably experienced himself? Because, when matters of the mind are discussed I would like to see less complacency and less easy optimism. Most of all I would like to see less incense burned on the altar of ideals and less neglect of hard facts. I desire this because the first duty of the servants of the “Word” is truth and sincerity. Without them we cannot lead the way for others to follow. I would like to see people admitting frankly to themselves and to others that the task before us is by its nature superhuman. I would like to see the kind of courage, that, faced with difficulties and obstacles, replies, “Quand même”. As Charles the Bold said in his full-bodied Bur- gundy accents, “We have set our hands thereto and may God prevent us in ourtask”. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] The delegate of Poland has asked to make a short statement. Although it is late, we gladly grant him the right to speak, but I will ask him to keep to the five minutes he has asked for for this last speech of the evening. Prof. Adam SCHAFF (Poland) — Ladies and gentlemen. I beg your pardon for coming back for five minutes. I want to make only a short declaration. I heard with great interest the words of the honourable delegate for Uruguay. I will not now begin to discuss what he said, it is too late, but I want to stress two points. Permit me, to begin with, to tell you a short story. I was in Oxford last year and there people asked me: “How about your iron curtain? Does it exist?” And I answered: “Yes, the iron curtain exists. It exists because you built it”. There is an iron curtain between East and West. It is the iron curtain of ignorance on the part of the West of what is going on in our country. I regret to say that I heard an echo of this ignorance in what has been said here. It is difficult to go over all these arguments. I cannot begin now. I can only repeat that I heard in the words of the honourable delegate of Uruguay an echo of all the humbug that we read every day in the Hearst press. It is quite understandable —Uruguay lies too near the United States and the Hearst press not to be influenced by what is written there. Alas, they are too far from us to
150 know what is going on in our country. I can assure the honourable delegate of Uruguay of one thing—if he would like to visit our country and see for himself I may invite him in the name of the Warsaw University to come to us and discuss all those things he is interested in. If he comes to us and speaks of the people’s democracy, not in the manner of the Hearst press, but from what he sees with us—perhaps he will see for the first time in his life how a people lives for its ownsake, lives for its own country—then perhaps he will speak differently. Now, one more brief remark. The honourable delegate of Uruguay said we spoke different lan- guages. It is true that we speak different lan- guages. I spoke to you, or I hope I spoke to you, in a language of peace. I stressed the fact that we have different political, economical, philosophical view-points, but I also stressed the fact that what unites us as scholars and people of science, is the will to enforce peace all over the world. And I, as a representative of Marxist thought, held out my hand to work with you for peace’s sake. Now with what language did you speak to me? You did not want to hear my words, the words of a man who wants peace and who speaks of peace, though per- haps I understand the way to peace in a different way from you. Instead of stressing that, in spite of all these differences, we may go one way and should go one way, you used a different language. I am quite sure that the majority of you, however much you applauded, though you did not applaud me, understands the language of peace. I hope so and I feel sure of it, as it is impossible for people who love science, culture and education not to speak that language and not to understand each other. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] Although we regret the polemical and personal note in the last speech, the delegate of Uruguay is entitled to reply to the attack upon him. I hope he will be brief. Prof. Roberto IBANEZ (Uruguay) — [Transla- tion from the Spanish] Mr. President, I wish to say a few words only. The Polish delegate, with a moderation for which I thank him, referred to the speech I made earlier in the evening. He has invited me to visit his country. Visits such as this, which are prepared in advance, show us much less than we would really like to see. But, even so, I thank him cordially for his kindness and I promise to give him an answer in the near future. The Polish delegate also said that I, as a Uru- guayan, am influenced by the press of the United States, since Uruguayis more distant from Russia, and that I take my facts from this press in deter- mining my attitude toward the popular democra-    cies. In answer, I might say that I was living in France two years ago. If I am not mistaken, France is nearer to Russia or at least nearer to Czechoslovakia and Poland than to the United States. If the French press also takes its instruc- tions from the United States, then we must admit once again that the monopoly of truth and culture is the privilege by divine right of the popular democracies. I am not going to detain you fur- ther at such a late hour. I believe in the cause of peace. I believe that it should be based on a true conception of man, and that, wherever man is oppressed, the seeds of war will always sprout. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] This evening's debate will be concluded tomorrow night, when we shall have the pleasure of hearing the United Kingdom delegate, Lord Russell, Rector Siassi, delegate of Iran, and Professor Gustav Dupréel of Belgium. You are cor- dially invited to the last session in the debate. The meeting rose at five minutes after midnight. NINTH PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949 at 9.10 p.m. CONTENTS
16. Discussion of the general subject (continuation): Speakers: Earl Russell, Rector Siassi, Prof. Eugène-Gustave Dupréel, Prof. Alf Sommerfelt, Prof. A. K. Stout, Dr. Inés Segura Bustamante, Mr. Jacques Rueff, Dr: Mei'Yi chi and Dr., Castro Leal... SL President: H.E. Count Jacını (Italy)
16. Discussion of the general subject (con- tinuation). The CHAIRMAN — [Translation from the French]
1 declare the meeting open. This is the third meeting devoted to this discussion and I shall have the honour of calling upon each of the speakers in turn. Earl Russell, Bertrand Russell, who is to speak first, needs no introduction. His name alone suffices to command your attention. Earl RUSSELL (United Kingdom) — Mr. Presi- dent, ladies and genilemen, the general subject of these debates, as I understand, is the educational duties of the State, for promoting understanding between nations, and I propose to confine myself almost entirely to suggestions which I think practicable in the near future without too much difficulty and without too much utopianism. I would like to say, to begin with, that I con- sider this a matter of the very greatest importance. In the long run the possibility of peace depends upon the existence of friendly feelings between nations more than upon any other one factor, but in the creation of such feelings education must play a major part. I think that, for convenience, we may divide the problem into three parts, first, questions con- cerning universities, libraries and the world of higher learning. Secondly, there are questions concerning university students and school teachers and educational administrative officials. Thirdly, there are questions concerning ordinary school- children. To begin with the highest cultural level, what is needed is mainly to restore the conditions that existed before 1914. But, owing partly to cur- rency difficulties, and partly to various kinds of import duties, the conditions that existed before
1914 can only be restored by government action directed to that end. I should like to say here that, while we of the United Nations are fairly united in thinking that such action ought to be taken, we all of us are, in our respective countries, people subject to governments which do not have the ob- jects of United Nations in view, although they may say they have. For, in fact, they put every kind of obstacle in the way of the recirculation of books and any Education Minister going back from this Conference to his own country will find in the Finance Minister of his own country, no matter which country that may be, his bitterest enemy. And that I think is much to be regretted, and I think our chief battle should be not here, with