SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 21 September 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN stated that a modification of the time-table had become necessary in order to avoid conflicts between plenary meetings and meetings of the Programme and Budget Commission. Changes had already been made in order that the Director-General might be present during the dis- cussion of his Report, resulting in the loss of one period of the plenary meetings and one for the Programme and Budget Commission. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL shared the Chairman's fears on the danger of the Programme and Budget Commission’s meetings clashing with plenary meetings, and suggested cancelling one of the meetings fixed that day for the Programme and Budget Commission; that would not hold up proceedings, as provision had been made for two meetings to discuss the Code of Policies, which, however, had been adopted at the first meeting. Furthermore, as so many speakers had signified their desire to speak on the Report, the President could insist on them keeping to the fifteen minutes allowed and save further time by convening the meeting for 3 instead of 4 p.m. Moreover, he thought it advisable for the Finance Committee of the Executive Board to hold a meeting that day to consider the effect of the devaluation on the 1950 budget, for it was important that, while the budget was being dis- cussed, the Conference should have both the Secretariat's and the Finance Committee's views on the matter. Mr. SEYDOUX (France) approved that proce- dure, in view of the doubts raised by the devalu- ation. Would the Finance Committee's report be sent direct to the Conference orfirst considered by the Executive Board, as in the case of the Programme and Budget already presented? The DIRECTOR-GENRAL admitted that that would be the correct procedure, but he was afraid that it would prolong the discussions and perhaps make it necessary to cancel one plenary meeting to enable the Executive Board to meet. He recalled that, under the Constitution, the Budget was the Director-General's document, and, though it was only natural that he should seek the opinion of the Finance Committee, it was perhaps not Dr. E. RonaLp WALKER (Australia) essential to have the matter considered by the Board itself while the General Conference was in session. The CHAIRMAN suggested that all members of the Executive Board be informed of the Finance Committee's meeting in case they should wish to attend it. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISNAN (India), speak- ing as Chairman of the Executive Board, stated that he would inform the members of the Board so that they might attend the meeting of the Finance Committee at which this question would be discussed. The CHAIRMANstated that, on the basis of the Finance Committee's report, the General Conter- ence would decide upon the procedure to be followed. He hoped that the discussion on the Director-General's Report might be completed on that day (Wednesday, 21 September). He there- fore proposed to limit the plenary meeting of the following morning to one hour, to be devoted to the reply of the Director-General, with limited time for any other speaker requesting, and to be followed by a meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission at 10.30. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized that the following day's Agenda depended on how far the discussions had proceeded that day. If possible, he would reply before the evening to the comments on his Report, but he thought it advisable to arrange for a short meeting the following day for the end of the discussion and his reply. The CHAIRMAN stated that, with the aid of Shafik Ghorbal Bey, Vice-President of the General Conference, who was to replace him in the Chair at the plenary meeting that afternoon, he would be able to carry out the proposed procedure, and that he would adjourn the plenary meeting of the fol- lowing morning at 1 p.m. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the Official and External Relations Commission could hold its first meeting during the afternoon. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Director- General's proposal involved overlapping with the plenary meeting. Н Н , s s в s u o = s s
225 L e R e Y a ‎حأ   The SECRETARY reminded members that the Executive Board had arranged for an informal meeting of the representatives of National Com- missions as an offshoot of the Official and External Relations Commission; it could be held at 4 p.m. That solution was adopted. The CHAIRMAN stated that the Finance Com- mittee of the Executive Board would meet that afternoon at 5.30, and that the Official and External Relations Commission would meet at
4 p.m. to organize its work and make its schedule. The Programme and Budget Commission and the Official and External Relations Commission would meet separately on the following morning, their joint meeting (proposed by the Secretariat) not being held until the morning of Saturday,
24 September, when Unesco’s work in Germany and Japan would be discussed. The Chairman then called for suggestions in regard to the sched- ule for the discussion of the reports of Member States, which, during previous sessions of the General Conference, had been conducted with comparative brevity. The SECRETARY considered it advisable to follow the procedure adopted at previous sessions and to defer consideration of the reports until the end of the Conference. Moreover, many of the National Commission’s reports had not yet reached the Secretariat and it would be a pity to arrange a discussion too early, as it would then be based upon incomplete data. The CHAIRMAN stressed the obligation of the General Conference to consider the reports of Member States, stating that eleven reports had already been received. He would announce in the plenary meeting that Member States which had not yet submitted reports might still do so. Very careful consideration should be given to the best wayto conduct the discussion of these reports. He proposed to ask the Official and External Relations Commission to examine the question and recom- mend a procedure. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL shared the Chair- man’s views and suggested submitting to the Offi- cial and External Relations Commission a remark put forward by the Afghan delegate during the discussion on his Report, to the effect that States too often report on their normal work for education, science and culture, so that it was impossible to obtain a clear idea about work resulting directly from Unesco’s suggestions or the Programme laid down by the General Conference. The reports were inclined to beat about the bush and to pass off normal work as Unesco activities. The Commission might consider the Afghan dele- gate’s constructive suggestion, and this might lead to the presentation of shorter and more concise reports, bringing out clearly the part played by Unesco. The CHAIRMAN concluded that the matter of the national reports, with the suggestion of the Director-General, would be referred to the Official and External Relations Commission, and that, after receiving the recommendations of that Commis- sion, the General Committee would assign a place in the time-table. Organization of the General Discussion (doc- ument 4C/BUR/2). The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Secre- tariat was in an awkward position, as it was beyond its authority to organize the discussion before the session of the General Conference, while, if it had acepted the drawbacks of having no preliminary planning, the Secretariat would have run counter to the wishes of the French delegation when it had suggested the discussion to the Beirut Conference. Member States had therefore been requested to supply the list of speakers wishing to take part in the discussion and a summary of the arguments they intended putting forward, in order to avoid having a series of mono- logues. If the President explained the situation to the Conference, a time-limit could be set for receiving lists of speakers and summaries of their arguments since only three evening meetings could be set aside for the discussion. Four further speakers had been added to the list given in doc- ument 4C/BUR/2, thus bringing the total to fifteen. The Director-General drew the attention of the Committee more particularly to the two methods of organizing the discussion suggested in para- graph 6 of the document in question: the speakers would either be called on in the order in which they had signified their desire to speak, or the meeting could be divided into two parts, the first devoted to the actual speeches and the second to a discussion between delegates, or a kind of “round-table” discussion. Lastly, in paragraph 5, the Director-General sug- gested that the speakers should hold two informal meetings at Unesco on 22 and 23 September for a preliminary exchange of views. The CHAIRMAN stated that arrangements for this discussion would necessarily depend on the number of speakers. He suggested that noon of the following day be set as the limit for receiving requests to speak. A meeting could then be held in the afternoon and establish definite arrange- ments, with an order of speakers which would alternate different regions of the world.       As several of the speakers (including the most brilliant) had not yet arrived in Paris, the time-limit by twenty-four hours, thus enabling delegations to make arrangements with speakers. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) informed the meeting that Earl Russell would not be arriving until 24 September. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL admitted that that was too long to wait, but a few short contacts could be made within twenty-four hours and absent speakers could be represented at the pre- liminary meeting by a substitute. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) agreed. The CHAIRMAN concluded that the time-limit for receiving papers would therefore be noon of
23 September and that the first informal meeting proposed would be held on the afternoon of
23 September, and the second on 24 September. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) proposed that the general arrangement of that part of the General Conference be left to the speakers them- selves and that the second procedure suggested by the Director-General in his memorandum (doc- ument 4C/BUR/2, paragraph 6 (b)) should be followed. The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Allen. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) called atten- tion to the amount of time which would be involved, since fifteen speakers, even if limited to fifteen minutes each, would take 3 hours and
25 minutes. He did not believe, however, that the distinguished speakers should be limited in time. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed with both Mr. Hardman and Mr. Allen. The distinguished visitors invited would have to be treated with due respect and left free to choose how long they should speak and under what conditions. How- ever, the suggestion contained in paragraph 6 (b) of document 4C/BUR/2 would considerably enli- ven the debate. The French delegation at Beirut had already thought of broadcasting discussions in many countries, and radio listeners particularly appreci- ated an atmosphere of free, spontaneous discussion. He therefore felt that the choice should be left to the speakers themselves, as Mr. Hardman proposed, but bearing in mind that a broadcast was much less effective if not organized along the lines of a “round-table” discussion. Lastly, he pointed out that, since the meetings were to be held at the Maison de la Chimie (much more spacious than the Unesco premises), they would be strictly limited to three meetings, owing to the commit- ments already undertaken by the Maison de la Chimie; accordingly, if the speakers did not volun- tarily limit themselves to a quarter of an hour, it would be impossible to hear them all. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) agreed with Mr. Hardman that a short time-limit should not be placed upon the speakers. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) pointed out the extreme difficulties involved in the organ- ization of a “round table” discussion, even in one language, these difficulties being increased greatly by the need of an interpretation system in three languages. He believed that the speakers already listed would have their addresses prepared and that time required could be estimated. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested:
1. Leaving the speakers full discretion and authorizing the Secretariat to give them all neces- sary assistance for their consultations, as advocated by Dr. Beaglehole;
2. Requesting the President to announce that only one person could speak on behalf of each delegation;
3. Drawing the attention of speakers to the fact that the Maison de la Chimie would be available to Unesco for only a limited time. The CHAIRMAN accepted the concrete sug- gestion of the Director-General and stated that the General Committee would re-examine this question during the following week. The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.   n s