The CHAIRMAN did not think that it could be effectively carried out by a Sub-Committee of twelve members. He therefore proposed entrust- ing it to a Drafting Committee consisting of re- presentatives of Belgium, the United States of America, France and the United Kingdom. The Drafting Committee would meet that same day at 4 p.m. That proposal was adopted. It was decided to adjourn the meeting and to request the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission to have a decision taken re- garding the provisional budget ceiling as early as possible. The meeting rose at 3.50 p.m. SECOND MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: The CHAIRMAN said that, under its terms of reference, the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee had to make the necessary budget alterations so as to arrive at the total figure of $8,000,000 decided by the Programme and Budget Commission, and, in so doing, to take account of the opinions expressed in the three Commissions of the General Conference. For that purpose, he proposed examining first the amend- ments involving reductions or increases of ap- propriations, after which the members of the Sub- Committee would be able to comment on any other items in the Budget. The Secretariat could then be asked to draft as quickly as possible precise proposals concerning budgetary reductions, Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) asked for an ex- planation concerning the utilization pf budget surpluses for the financial years 1947 and 1948. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the 1947 surplus was applied—in accordance with a resolution of the Beirut Conference—to the payment of the last million dollars of the Revolving Fund, and not to the reduction of Member States’ contributions to the 1949 Budget. This year, now that the Revolving Fund was fully reconstituted, it had been decided to apply the surplus to the reduction of the 1950 contributions of those Member States who had fulfilled their obligations to the 1948 Budget. Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) said that, in his opinion, the reduction would not amount to $140,000. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the further difference was due to the number of new States which had become Members of Unesco in 1948, and to the resulting adjustments.
333 Mr. Rocer SEYnoux (France) The CHAIRMAN observed that all reductions were made on the proposal of the Programme and Budget Commission. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out that the increase from $59,914 to $76,484 for the Book Coupon Scheme was not shown. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERALagreed that the effect of devaluation on the scheme should have appeared; the omission would be rectified. * Mr. EVANS (United States of America) expressed a preference for going through the Budget chapter by chapter. But he did not press his point as long as the Sub-Committee remained free to deal with items other than those presented by the Secretariat. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) supported the proposal of the United States delegate; close investigation might disclose details which could be immediately adjusted, thus gaining time. The CHAIRMAN said that delegations could, of course, at any time propose reductions. Would it not be advisable to begin the general discussion, as that would enable the Sub-Committee to examine all the items concerned? He asked the Deputy Director-General when the Secretariat would be able to submit its new proposals. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, if the Secretariat started on it that evening, the revised paper—which involved many intricate re- calculations—could be ready for discussion on Saturday morning. In reply to a question from M. PIAGET (Swit- zerland) whether the Sub-Committee was in-
1. See document 4C/6 - Amendment 3, p. 2.   structed to examine only Part III of the Budget or whether the other parts could also be discussed, the CHAIRMAN said that he had already raised that question; he himself thought that the Sub-Committee should discuss all parts of the Budget. Agreed. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked if it was the desire of the Sub-Committee that the Secre- tariat should take the paper adopted by the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission and insert corrections into the appropriate parts of the Budget, and, in so far as there might be con- sequential changes, to make themalso in Parts I and II. The CHAIRMAN thought the answer was very simple; on Saturday morning the Secretariat would submit a report on the reductions, taking account of the proposals of the three Commissions concerned (Programme and Budget Commission, Administrative Commission, Official and External Relations Commission). Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) agreed, but added that new proposals were expected from the Secre- tariat in addition to those already made by the Commissions. If the Secretariat thought that reductions could be made in other items, it should submit proposals to that effect. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) thought that the Secre- tariat should keep the Sub-Committee informed of the effect which the proposed budgetary reductions might have on parts of the Budget other than Part HI. The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Secretariat was to try to make reductions to the amount of $175,000, firstly on the basis of the proposals of the three Commissions, and then, if that were not sufficient, by new proposals. Mr. FRANCOIS (France) observed that priority should naturally be given to the proposals of the three Commissions. The CHAIRMAN thought that, as the Sub-Com- mittee had reached agreement on the procedure to be followed, it could turn to the consideration of the different drafting questions that had been referred to it. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) stated that the drafting committee (Sir Ronald Adam, Mr. Francois, Mr. Mulliken and himself) had prepared a series of revised texts for submission to the Sub-Com- mittee. Moreover, it had prepared resolutions outside the Programme concerning refugees in the Middle East, aid to victims of the earthquake in Ecuador and the situation of Greek refugee children. As regards the resolution concerning aid
334 to victims of the earthquake in Ecuador, there was a slight correction to be made to the text: the words “to address an appeal to donors and donor organizations” should be replaced by the words “ to donor organizations and, through them, to individuals”. The CHAIRMAN would prefer the term ‘private persons” to be used instead of “individuals”; but he had no objection to the text presented by the Florkin Committee. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) explained that the change of wording had been made because the drafting committee realized the dif- ficulty for the Director-General to address himself directly to all potential donors. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) proposed similar amendments to the texts of all three proposals. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL was con- cerned over the wording of the resolution in its present form, and was doubtful of the result. He wondered if the Sub-Committee had considered the possibility of a world-wide appeal to the potential donors by the Conference itself. He was afraid that, if the Director-General followed the procedure proposed, expenses might not be commensurate with results. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that his com- mittee had noted that there was a slight difference between the two texts: the resolution requested the Director-General to appeal to private persons through donor organizations, and not directly. The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the appeal should be launched by the Executive Board or by the General Conference. It would be useful if delegations raised that point when the question came before a plenary meeting. In any case, the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee did not appear competent to settle the matter. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) pointed out that the question had already been discussed by the Programme and Budget Commission. The task would be greatly facilitated if the Heads of del- egations agreed on the question of form. The present wording of the text diminished its effectiveness. Once the Programme and Budget Commission had approved the principle, Professor Photiades had not expected a text like the one now proposed. He would raise the question at a plenary meeting. Mr. FRANCOIS (France) explained that the Florkin Committee had been given a text already amended by the Sub-Committee itself, and that the latter’s wish had been for identical texts in all three cases (Greek children, Middle East,       Ecuador). M. Francois had opposed a proposal then made by the British delegation, but the majority had supported that proposal. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) said that a distinction should be made between the cases. As regards the other proposed resolutions (Middle East and Ecuador), had Governments made formal requests, as had been done in 1948 for the Greek children? Had M. Trygve Lie applied to Unesco on behalf of the United Nations? Who had proposed the amendments under discussion? Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) remarked that, as regards Greek children, the text was only partially based on resolution 8.3 and that item
8.34, in particular, had been deleted. The present proposal was very vague, and he agreed with Professor Photiades. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) pointed out that his committee had only been empowered to deal with the words “donor organizations”. The rest of the text had been drafted by the Committee of Seven (Frangois Committee) independently of the drafting committee. The CHAIRMAN observed that the Mexican del- egate had proposed that the text should be revised so as to bring it closer to the original text. That proposal, seconded by Professor SOMMER- FELT (Norway) and Dr. BRULL (Cuba) was adopted: Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) suggested that a representative of the Middle East should be consulted by the Sub-Committee. The CHAIRMAN thought that, as the new text differed far too widely from the original one (and they all agreed on that point), the Florkin Com- mittee should be asked to resume its work, dis- regarding the work of the Committee of Seven. He therefore asked M. Florkin to convene his com- mittee and add to it a representative of the Middle East. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) asked that the Florkin Committee should not meet in private. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) pointed out that his committee consisted of only four members and that the text drawn up would be submitted to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee for discussion. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) stated that the Committee of Seven had taken a vote; a summary record of the proceedings should therefore have been made. The CHAIRMAN said that the situation was not the same. The Florkin Committee was only
335 responsible for drafting a text. It could, of course, make contact with the delegates of Greece and Ecuador, but there would be no voting except by the present Sub-Committee. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) thought he could give an assurance, on behalf of the delegation of Ecuador, that the latter did not attribute great importance to the extent of the aid given, and that it would be satisfied with a token of sympathy. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) asked if the Sub-Committee had authority to re-write Programme resolutions concerning which no proposals for amendment were made in the Programme and Budget Commission. The CHAIRMAN said that, as the Florkin Com- mittee was merely an off-shoot of a Sub-Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission, it could only deal with texts on which the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission had already taken decisions. Texts requiring drafting would there- fore be submitted to the Florkin Committee. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) enquired if, should the Secretariat recommend the deletion of an entire Programme resolution, the Sub-Com- mittee was authorized to do so. The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat had first to draw up a plan of budgetary reductions on the basis of the decisions taken by the three Com- missions concerned. If that were not sufficient, the Secretariat should make new proposals which might affect other items in the Programme. But the present Sub-Committee was quite free to make proposals to the Programme and Budget Com- mission, which would take decisions upon them. That procedure was adopted. The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the report of the Florkin Committee. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) stated that his drafting committee’s task had been purely literary. It had dealt with formal resolutions of the Programme and Budget Commission, having no budgetary implications. The CHAIRMAN proposed examining the doc- ument page by page. Under item 3.32, he noted the French word “indexage”. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) observed that the term had been used in deference to the views of Professor Auger of the Secretariat, and M. FRAN- COIS (France) said that it had been necessary to coin a new French word. The new wording of Item 3.32 was adopted. The new wording of Item 3.422 was adopted without discussion. ;   Mr. EVANS (United States of America) did not remember any discussion on the budgetary im- plications of resolution 3.51. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the documentation centre referred to in the resolution was the normal service of the Depart- ment of Natural Sciences and that no additional funds were needed. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) stated that the new wording of Item 3.51 cut out the last four lines of the corresponding item in document 4C/5 (rev.). The new wording of Item 3.51 was adopted. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) stated that his delegation was not enthusiastic about resolution 3.7 (International Institute of the Arid Zone). He wondered if the Sub-Committee was in possession of sufficient records of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission's proceedings to followits decisions with accuracy. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) was present when the Commission had discussed resolution 3.7; the Secretariat had promised to alter the words “to set up” pending confirmation of the project by the Conference. The CHAIRMAN asked that the summary records of the Programme and Budget Commission should be sent to the Sub-Committee as soon as possible. In the meantime, he proposed either that the meeting should be adjourned until the following day or that the consideration of Item3.7 should be postponed. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) was per- fectly willing to proceed without summary records with such items about which no questions had been raised in the Programme and Budget Com- mission. It was decided to postpone the examination of Item 3.7. The new wording of Items 3.8, 3.94, 4.2 and 4.21 was adopted without discussion. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) mentioned the draft- ing difficulties raised by Item 4.33. The French delegation had submitted a proposal concerning that item. Mr. FRANCOIS (France) explained that the term “National Socialism” had been inserted owing to the need to distinguish between Fascism and Na- tional Socialism. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) suggested that, as Fascism had been added, Italy should be mentioned before Germany in the English text. Agreed. The new wording of Item 4.33 was adopted. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) sup- ported a suggestion, made by the United Kingdom delegation, of substituting “suggested” for recom- mended” in Item 6.14 in order to save the latter term for occasions of greater emphasis. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) thought it would indeed be useful to establish an order of priority between “encourage”, “suggest” and “recommend”. M. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said that M. Florkin proposed asking the French del- egation for a new wording for Items 6.141 to 6.144. Agreed. . The CHAIRMAN read the provisional list of the other drafting questions that had not yet been examined. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out that resolution 6.135 should now be entirely omitted, and M. FLORKIN (Belgium) assured him that the drafting committee would not fail to do so. The CHAIRMAN proposed referring the French draft text on the dissemination of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (document 4C/31) to the Florkin Committee. Agreed. The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.