suspension of tomorrow morning's meeting of the Programme Commission, I will take it that it is agreed. Then before closing this meeting I would re- mind you that the Programme Commission will meet this afternoon in this room at 4 p.m. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. FOURTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 21 September 1949 at 11.00 a.m. CONTENTS
11. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation): Speeches by the representative of the World Health Organization and delegates of Belgium, Burma, Lebanon, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Egypt, Colombia and Pakistan President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia) The PRESIDENT — Before resuming our discus- sion of the Director-General's Report, 1 desire to announce to the Conference certain decisions of the General Committee taken this morning. The Committee has decided to submit the following proposals to the Conference regarding the organi- zation of our work for the next few days. The meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission scheduled for this morning was already eliminated by decision of the Conference yesterday, and it is recommended that the meeting scheduled for this afternoon also be eliminated. This will enable the Plenary Meeting to continue for the whole day and this afternoon’s session will begin at 3 o’clock sharp. It is hoped that it will be possible to complete the general debate on the Report of the Director-General by the end of this afternoon. If that should not be possible, there will be a further short plenary meeting tomorrow morning beginning at 9.30 and ending at 10.30, but it is very much hoped that speakers in this general debate will strictly observe the time limit of fifteen minutes and, if possible, compress their remarks into a shorter period in order that the debate may conclude this afternoon. The second proposal of the General Committee is that the Official and External Relations Com- mission should hold its first meeting this afternoon in Room 11 at 4 p.m. The purpose of the meeting will be to organize the future work of that Com- mission, and probably to arrange. an informal meeting of representatives of National Commissions who are attending the Conference. Thirdly, the Programme and Budget Com- mission will meet tomorrow, but the combined meeting, the joint meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission withthe Official and External Relations Commission which was scheduled for tomorrow for the discussion of Unesco's activities in Germany and Japan will be postponed until Saturday, 24 September. 'Tomorrow the two Commissions will meet separately, that is, the Programme and the External Relations Com- missions. The meeting of the Procedure Com- mittee envisaged for tomorrow morning will be held at a later stage in the Conference. The General Committee has been informed by the Director-General that the Secretariat is examining the implications for the budget of the recent devaluation of certain currencies, and that the results of this first study of the problem will be submitted to a meeting of the Finance Com- mittee of the Executive Board which will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m. I take this opportunity of requesting members of the Finance Committee to meet in the Executive Board lounge this afternoon at 5.30. Other members of the Board who are not members of the Finance Com- mittee, are of course perfectly free to attend the meeting and observe the discussion. This pro- cedure is, of course, designed to allow the Director-General to have the advice of the Finance Committee of the Executive Board before bringing to this Conference his views on any changes in the budget that can be made following the devaluation of certain currencies.    The other matter discussed by the General Committee this morning relates to the organization of the public debate which it is intended to hold at the three evening sessions next week. The delegations will be aware that they have been invited to nominate a speaker, if they so desire, to take part in that debate. The General Committee asked me to make it quite clear to the Conference that this invitation is extended to only one member of each delegation. We have only three evenings available for this discussion, and are therefore obliged to ask that there should be not more than one spokesman from each delegation. One or two delegations have sent in several names and I would ask them to modify their suggestions, taking account of the General Committee's decision that there can be only one speaker from each de- legation. We have already received the names of fifteen speakers, and it is intended that those who are to take part in this public debate should hold two informal meetings among themselves on Friday afternoon and Saturday afternoon, in order to discuss the general organization of these public debates, for which it is desired to arouse the widest possible interest among the general public. The General Committee asked me to inform you that the time limit for submitting the names of speakers for these debates is Friday noon. Del- egations are requested, therefore, if they have a member who is going to take part in the general debate, to give his name to the Secretariat of the Conference not later than noon on Friday, so that the list can then be closed, and the members who are going to speak can consult among them- selves on Friday afternoon regarding the organi- zation of the debate so as to ensure it maximum success.
11. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation) The PRESIDENT — Fellow delegates, we now resume the discussion of the Director-General's Report. We have twenty-two speakers on thelist, and it may be that there are some other delegations that wish to speak on the Report. I propose to close the list of speakers at noon today, so that any delegations which have not sent in their names should do. so before 12 o'clock. 1 would also request speakers to confine their remarks to fifteen minutes, and we will give them a warning red light as they approach the end of their fifteen minutes. The first speaker on the list is the Representative of the World Health Organization, Dr. E. Grzegorzewski. Dr. E. GRZEGORZEWSKI (World Health Or- ganization) — Mr. President, the Director-General
74 of the World Health Organization, who is on his way to America, could not, to his great regret, attend the Conference in person, and he conferred upon me the honour to convey to you his best wishes for the success of this Fourth Session of the General Conference of Unesco. These wishes are not merely an expression of courtesy and friendly feeling within the family of the United Nations Agencies. In fact, the World Health Organization is actively interested in the further successful development of Unesco's acti- vities. The constitutional responsibilities of the World Health Organization in the scientific and educational aspects of medicine bring it close to Unesco's sphere of work. On the basis of the agreement between the two Organizations, it was possible to develop means of collaboration and avoid duplication of work. Our collaboration may be judged as very satis- factory indeed. In saying this, I mean not only that excellent relations exist between the two Or- ganizations, but also that some practical results have been achieved through joint action. Co-ordinated planning at all stages of our col- laboration, from the initiation to the implemen- tation of programmes, will certainly be able to bring still better results. May I emphasize that the World Health Organi- zation shares the noble beliefs in the future of Unesco which were expressed in this distinguished audience in such a brilliant way, and wishes to do its part in joint efforts for the common cause—the well-being of mankind. “The PRESIDENT — The next speaker is the delegate of Belgium, M. Mundeleer. Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium) — [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first opportunity that has been given me to speak from this chair. I am speaking with enthusiasm, for Unesco represents for me a great hope. In the past, thinkers, forerunners of the noble ideal of the intellectual and moral brotherhood of man, and statesmen have all endeavoured to make human fraternity a living and effective force. The idea was launched by philosophers. The politicans wanted immediate results without thought for the preparatory measures, long-term no doubt, but which soon appeared to be indispensable. The results were not forthcoming. The civilized working classes are not to blame; they bear the burden of wars they have not desired, for they are war’s invariable victims. Civilized peoples, especially those belonging to small nations, are by instinct upholders of peace; their one ambition is to see their rulers and leaders     find friendly and permanent solutions to the problems that confront them. They suffer from being the victims of ideologies and harmful interests aroused and fostered by unscrupulous adventurers whose vainglorious ambition ignores or tramples upon the sound international morality to which we all aspire. For the first time, the United Nations have understood that, failing a large-scale campaign of propaganda, launched by intellectuels and addres- sed to all classes of society, their desires and their decisions would prove vain and insubstantial. The United Nations had the happy idea of creating Unesco and of entrusting it with the enormous but fruitful task of disseminating, the world over, education, culture, arts and sciences, the only means of bringing men closer together and providing them with liberty, independence and equality. It is neither by treaties, by promises, nor by solemn pledges of unity, often more superficial than true, that the dream of universal peace, alive in the heart of all men of good will, can triumph. To realize this dream, two great tasks lie ahead, and Unesco has understood this. The first consists in educating peoples handicapped by history or geography, in order to rescue them from the baneful influence of their own instincts or of warmongering leaders; the second is to win over all men, scientists, intellectuals of every nation without distinction of religion, race, ideology, philosophical ideas, to one commanding idea: the condemnation of all war whatsoever. Until these efforts find a real response in the world, the spectre of armed conflict will continue to haunt us. Up to now, I have not taken any personal part in your work and only knowofit through the able reports sent to me and through the documents I have consulted. I saw that the Beirut Conference drew up a programme of very great importance. If I men- tion it, it is only to emphasize the tremendous effort accomplished by our permanent Secretariat under very difficult conditions. Yesterday’s masterly speech bythe Director-General illustrated his dynamism and his unchallengeable right to be at the head of our Organization. It was not just a report that he read; it was a conclusive commentary on Unesco’s Constitution, to which he added the sum of results already achieved. This speech deserves more than the applause and congratulations awarded him by the speakers before me. I hops that Unesco will give it the widest possible publicity. We particularly approved of three points in it.
1. The synthesizing of the working pro- gramme in order to concentrate upon greater efficiency. This work is in full swing and answers the wishes previously expressed by the Belgian delegation at successive Conferences of Unesco. My colleagues had made this recommendation at the Paris Conference in 1946. I note with pleasure that you have all come round to that way of thinking.
2. The dissemination of more information about Unesco’s various activities through publi- cation of the Courier, the Bulletin, periodi- cals, books and broadcasts. This propaganda is absolutely necessary to persuade the sceptics and rally them to our cause.
3. The repeated insistence of the Director- General that the National Commissions shall support the work of the Paris Secretariat in their respective countries. I would like to be allowed to say on this occasion how helpful was: the Director-General’s visit to Belgium on the occasion of the installing of the Belgian National Commission; it stimulated the interest of the population in the ideals of the Organization. The Belgian delegation wishes to give you its entire support on another matter, i.e., the manner in which the resolutions of the various Unesco Conferences have been put into effect. I would like to add a few short remarks on the subject of Unesco’s participation in the plan of technical assistance to under-developed countries. The Belgian delegation approves the generous but realistic idea inspiring this far-reaching plan and believes that the raising of the material and moral standards of handicapped countries is necessary to the re-establishment of a balanced world economy, and to the maintenance of peace, the ultimate aim of the United Nations and of all the Specialized Agencies, particularly our own. The Belgian delegation believes that Unesco can effectively contribute to technical assistance of an industrial or agricultural nature, but that it would be wise in this matter, as in the implementation of its normal programme, to limit its action to well-defined objects, this by reason of the modest financial resources on which it must inevitably rely in the early days of the work. I note with pleasure that this view is that of the present directors of Unesco. The Belgian Government also deems it desirable that Unesco's intervention be subject to certain general principles:
1. The request for technical assistance must come from the under-developed countries them- selves, and assistance must be limited to what a country request; in other words, we must never make our assistance an obligation. We must not try to enforce prosperity whereit is not desired.
2. The beneficiary States must prove their share of the expenses, in a proportion remaining to be fixed in each case.
3. Unesco must avoid creating superfluous organs by making the fullest use of those that exist—for instance, the co-ordinating offices set up by the African peoples. Subject to the observance of these principles, we are ready to give you the benefit of our engineers, our technicians, our chemists, agricultural special- ists, as well as of our scientists, teachers and artists. You all know that Belgium has had a certain amount of experience in this field: she has done important work of civilization in Central Africa, for instance. Belgium asks for nothing, and she is ready to give all help in the fine enterprise you are embarking on. Belgium believes in the Or- ganization and will support it morally and financially to the limit of her powers. The motto of one of our great thinkers, illus- trating our peoples's spirit of enterprise and achievment, was this: “Hope is not necessary to endeavour, nor success to perseverance.” Yours is the endeavour; we shall persevere, and we shall succeed if we have the energy and the will to do so, as we surely have, gentlemen. And, having placed them gladly at the service of Unesco and its great civilizing enterprise, tomorrow we shall confidently be able to say with the poet: “Let the dawn break”. The PRESIDENT — The next speaker is the delegate of Burma, U Ba Lwin. U BA LWIN! (Union of Burma) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as the latest member in the family of Unesco I should like to make a few observations on the Director-General’s Report under review. We in the East have a saying: “Katannuta Kata Vedi” (“Be ye for ever grateful”). In that spirit of appreciation and gratitude the delegation of the Union of Burma now addresses this Conference, which is for us momentous and vitally important and, to my mind, will mark a turning point in the history of Unesco. Sir, we have read the Report with the keenest interest, and we have received from it much illu- mination—it is an inspiring document. Listening to the Director-General’s forthright speech the other day, one could not but feel most heartened. Unesco, since its inception, has perhaps not received full support, encouragement and co- operation from all concerned. We are prone to doubts, disappointments and disillusion. It is mainly, we think, owing to fear and frustration. But it must be remembered that Unesco is still an infant, mewling and puking in its mother’s arms. Its task is comprehensive and all-em- bracing, its goal is noble, its aim lofty and sublime. The work that lies before it is, of neces-
76 sity, most arduous and onerous. It should be a joyous adventure, an opportunity for us all—the like of which seldom presents itself. It is a bold enterprise and it ministers to the dire need of this sick and sorry world to return to sanity. We believe that Unesco has gone from strength to strength, and we feel confident that the day is not far distant when the peoples of the world will learn the art of living together. The days of “splendid isolation” are long past. This is an age of interdependence. We also believe that we have erred because we all desire peace. Peace is said to be around the corner but we must go straight there. A devious path is bound to lead us astray and this time, if we go astray, there is little chance of finding our way again. We must change our hearts, our attitudes and our way of life. There is the tendency, too, to wait for others to begin, but we in Unesco are of Unesco and for Unesco, and it is for us to begin. The Director- General’s Report is clear, convincing and cour- ageous, and for this we must thank him. Sir, may I say we all want a new world—a better, brighter and more beautiful one—but a different world cannot be built up by indifferent men with indifferent ideologies. The world is changing fast and man must keep pace. It is not my intention, nor my desire, to take up the valuable time of this Conference, but only once a year do we meet to share our experiences and pool our knowledge and information. We of the East believe in the three people’s principles, namely: the right to food, clothes and shelter, and we also believe in the unity of man, culture and nature. The Director-General’s Report shows imagination, breadth of vision, sympathy and understanding. We strongly believe that we must have a fighting faith, and practise charity and good will in the twentieth century crusade against aggression, ignorance, ill-will and greed. Edu- cation for life and for living abundantly means giving and taking, caring for and sharing with each other, as children of the same parents. Unesco is, to our way of thinking, not of the West nor of the East, but of every man and of every land. It is for humanity and it must be worked out by mankind in closest co-operation— that we feel, in all conscience,is the right attitude. “Appamadena sampadetha” (“Work out your own salvation with diligence”). These were the last words of the Lord Buddha before he attained Nirvana. What we need, and most urgently, is the leadership, guidance and help of Unesco. War-torn, war-worn and war-weary countries everywhere need the three R's—relief, rehabili- tation and reconstruction, and the world needs, webelieve, co-operation, co-ordination, correlation. We must devote all our efforts and energies to   satisfying these needs. Are we asking for more, Sir, if we plead for loving care from our leaders and the more fortunate countries and peoples? Death, destruction, distress, damage and desolation have been the aftermath of the last war. We want to start afresh, we want to build anew. We have pinned our faith, for good or ill, on Unesco, this great programme chalked out, and on the sincer- ity of purpose and singleness of aim underlying its philosophy. In the Director-General's own words: “Unesco must justify the faith which the leaders and peoples have placed in it.” Herein lies the keynote of success. History down the ages teaches us that all great and good movements rise and fall with the growth and deterioration of the faith of the leaders and followers in their cause. I should like to submit one point to this august body for consideration. Unesco must rise above narrow nationalism. Culture is not the monopoly of one nation or one people. In all aspects of our work in Unesco there should be fair dis- tribution of opportunties, facilities and assistance. Equal opportunity must be afforded. We must get to know each other. The desperate edu- cational, scientific and cultural needs of every country should be met. Austerity, priority and wise planning we all appreciate—but desperate diseases require desperate remedies. We welcome the educational missions and visits of Unesco's leaders; study conferences and exchange of visits are further steps in the right direction. We look forward to the visit of several leaders of Unesco to the East in the near future, and their presence alone, we may assure you, will give us no little inspiration and hope, and will goad us on to further efforts. We give you our assurance that we will do our best to follow the leadership of Unesco in the work of winning the peace and upholding the rights and dignity of man. From now on, in the minds of men, we must build up a world that works. We shall be happy to make our contribution, to take our share of responsibility in the remaking of the world, in a co-operative and positive manner, to the end that our work will lead us on to the much-needed structure of a world of peace, prosperity and plenty, established on the sure and sound foundation of love, concord, good will and understanding. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Lebanon. Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) —[Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference returns to Paris for its Fourth Session after much travelling; it can now look back, measure the progress achieved, and face the future with an optimism justified by the successes recorded during the four working years of the Organization. Unesco has made a start. Those of us who have had the privilege of attending the three Sessions of the General Confer- ence in the course of its four years of existence, can see for themselves the advance that each Session has shown on the previous one. Paris was the seat of the First Conference, and had many titles to this honour: Paris is the spiritual capital of the world, the heart of a universal and generous culture; it was the perfect setting for the birth of Unesco. It was the first gathering of intellectuals of all nations since the war. We had to draw up a working plan embracing all forms of cultural activity for all the countries concerned. The ground to be covered was enormous and threatened chaos and confusion. The result was a certain amount of discouragement, much intensified at the end of the Conference when we were asked to agree upon a philosophy for Unesco. This threat- ened to nip in the bud and blight the good will of men who had appreciated the need to build the defences of peace in the minds of men. By thus recalling the conditions of the First Conference we can more easily measure the progress made in the two Conferences of Mexico and Beirut. At the opening meeting of the Mexico Session, M. Jacques Maritain very clearly stated the con- ditions for securing that agreement between minds which was necessary to common action. He showed that it was impossible to base this agreement on a “common doctrinal denominator”. It had to be founded on “common practical ideas”, on the assertion of a single body of beliefs for guidance in action. Thenceforward there were foundations on which we could build. Nevertheless, despite great efforts, much still remained ill-defined in the Organization. Then came the Beirut Conference. After the New World, Unesco paid a visit to a country with the oldest civilization of all. To indicate the essential progress marked by the Conference at Beirut, we might say that it recorded a triumph of the mind; and that this was brought out during the Session as it never had been before. At the penultimate meeting, during the consider- ation of Item 17, the Conference was unanimous in admitting that Unesco was not only a meeting place in which one could examine projects in the course of realization and discuss a budget, but that it had to become the “living conscience” of the United Nations. Unesco can only be that end if it is at pains to protect human values; this demands on its part a definite attitude, an initial choice regarding such    essential problems as the human personality, the aim of education and the rdle of science. Agreement on these points was shown by the unqualified adoption by the Conference of the Declaration of Human Rights. This declaration, by solemnly proclaiming the essential rights of man lays the foundations of a new humanism that Unesco is entrusted to promote on a world-wide scale. Now, in view of the working plan outlined by the Director-General in the opening speech of this Session we can believe that Unesco is recording a notable advance on previous years. Lebanon, nowlinked with Unesco by the closest bonds, registers deep satisfaction at seeing this Organization making a deeper impression every day on the minds of the peoples and thus becoming, as the Director-General says, the living expression of humanity's deepest and dearest aspirations. In its study of the Director-General’s Report, the Lebanese delegation was pleased to note this advance made by our Organization. I was very pleased to note in the first place the considerable technical improvement: the pro- gramme seems to be considerably lighter and more coherent as well as concrete and practical. The best intellectual elements of all countries seem to be represented more and more widely in the structure of the Secretariat. Member States and National Commissions whose desire it is to work for mutual understanding of peoples will nowfind in the programme presented to them every opportunity to help Unesco in its mission. When Unesco came to Lebanon it made contact with the Arab world. This meeting stimulated a general desire for closer unity. The Secretariat took this opportunity to bind the Arab world and Unesco more closely together. The Middle East Office and the International Committee for the translation of classics, set up in Beirut, are now permanent and efficient organs of co-operation. I would like to express Lebanon’s gratitude for the assistance to the refugee children of Palestine undertaken under the sponsorship of Unesco. The Secretariat has already received official doc- umentation on the efforts of the Arab countries to provide education for the refugees. In Lebanon official schools have accepted 4,800 children; more than 6,000 young people are continuing their studies in our colleges and in our two universities, thanks to a personal gift from the Pope of
15,000,000 Italian lire. Unesco itself has already ten schools in Lebanon. We hope that the General Conference, taking into consideration the tragic position of these refugees, will authorize the Director-General to prolong the assistance urgently
78 needed by these schools until the problem of its refugees is solved. The Lebanese delegation has devoted particular attention to the project for technical assistance. We do not yet know what form this assistance will take; but we perceive the spirit in which it is given and this gives us every reason for hope. The extension of the blessings of civilization to all peoples and all classes brings peace to men's hearts, a peace which cannot exist without love and a minimum of well-being. I would nowlike to make two remarks: the first is that Unesco is faced with an essential choice from whichit cannot now withdraw without being untrue to itself. You know what happens in a time of shipwreck and disaster; temporary ex- pedient and out-of-date remedies prove unavailing; only what is authentic, essential and necessary can help. This century has reached a crucial stage where any provisional measures or half-measures by Unesco towards solving the essential problems that divide the world would threaten the Organization's existence. The great political, economic and social drama of today lies in the clash between two irreducable conceptions of man. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Unesco is the only international organization really concerned with man and with what is specifically human: liberty, conscience and the mind, and that, precisely is what is gravely threatened today. In moving terms the Director-General in his speech conjured up a presence—an invisible presence, but a very real and active one. It imprints its sacred character upon Unesco’s noble mission and is its ultimate justification. That presence is man himself, the centre of all. The sacred character of man is now profaned. In the last century or so and especially in the last twenty years, only one voice has been raised in defence of man and that is the voice of the Pope. That is a sign of the times! The two last Popes have spoken far more of man than of the Christian, for in the fabric of modern civilization it is not the arches that crack but the columns that tremble. We watch in neighbouring countries the sup- pression of liberty, the denial of human personality and the flouting of truth. Unesco must pledge itself to testify to the truth by its stout defence of man. The second remark is of quite another nature. It concerns the problem of Unesco’s co-operation with Member States. Unesco will only fully achieve its object and its mission when Member States, as parts of a whole, agree to adapt their ideals to those of Unesco, to align their policy on Unesco’s own, in other words   to become really Member States, with emphasis on the word “Member”. States are emigrants from the world family; if their detachment is a sin of commmission, Unesco is none the less guilty of a sin of omission. Unesco is entrusted with the task of enlarging civilization; there is hardly any part of the world where there is not to be found one or more offshoots of Unesco and in some parts those offshoots have expanded to cover whole continents. By gradually associating with itself all forms of civilization, Unesco will prepare the basic con- ditions of a new and world-wide humanism. Whatever the forms and types of these civilizations may be and however opposed they may be one to another, this humanism consists in the acknow- ledgement, overt or not, of a human brotherhood deriving from the fact that we have all the same Father. This humanism is in the making; Member States and Unesco itself must help in its birth. We may not live to see this new Jerusalem we are helping to rebuild. Never mind. We know at least that we are working for a purpose. We need no more, we are only humble workers with a task to be done. This is all the satisfaction we want and we shall work withouh pause to build this Jerusalem of the spirit. The PRESIDENT — The next speaker is the delegate of the United Kingdom, Mr. David Hardman. Mr. David R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates: I do not intend. indeed it would be presumptuous on my part, to begin this speech by uttering many congratulatory phrases. We have had a remarkable variety of contributionsto this debate, and T am quite certain that the Organization will get great benefit from the many suggestions that have been made. One thing all the speeches have in common is an expression of the desire that we should all do our best for Unesco. I do not think that we need to congratulate ourselves upon that plain moral duty. But I would like, on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation to thank the Director-General for one of the most moving speeches any Conference has ever listened to. It was certainly for me a most moving experience to hear expressed so vididly the moral fervour and idealism of Dr. Bodet. His insistence in his Report and in his speech on certain practical steps that we as an Organization should take, is certainly most gratifying to my delegation. For instance, that Unesco is not a Secretariat alone—it is not a house in the Avenue Kléber nor a team of technicians, nor a gathering of learned people, nor an academy of thinkers. It is first and foremost some fifty Governments, and the Director-General insisted all along and insists in his Report thatit is Governments and Commissions which must act within their own territories. Here at headquarters is the nerve centre, the planning and co-ordinating body, but it is by the fruits of work by Governments and National Com- missions that mankind will know of Unesco. We here at this Conference, who are learned and intelligent individual men and women, have a special responsibility as representatives of our Commissions and Governments. The responsi- bility is I think, to see that thinking and publicity become action, to ally thought with the doing of things. As it would be expressed colloquially in parts of my country, “Cut the cackle and get on with the job”. It is because in so many societies of learned individuals and intellectuals the world over that this has very often not been done, that we learned, intellectual, intelligent people tend to be suspect when we gather together and plan for the good of mankind. So, we are as delegates, in a particularly vulnerable and responsible position at a Conference of Unesco. I am not sure some- times whether we should not ban the phrase “Peace and Security” from our Conference vocabu- lary for a number of years and write on the walls of this Conference hall, or wherever the Confer- ences may be held, “Raise standards of health and education the world over and peace and security can look after themselves”. The Director-General and the Secretariat alone cannot do the job. This Conference sitting in Paris, in Mexico, in Beirut, in Florence, or anywhere else cannot do it. We alone can prime the national pumps within our own frontiers. I am not here this morning to blow the trumpet of the United Kingdom, of the Government of that country or of its National Commission, but I can say that the past year in Britain has shown a grati- fying growth in the better understanding and support for Unesco: a debate in the House of Lords, a debate in the House of Commons, the first meeting of our National Commission which was visited and addressed by the Director-General, some forty separate meetings since the Beirut Conference of the various co-operating bodies which make up the National Commission of
250 key persons in education, science and culture. Since the Spring of this year there has been a most gratifying increase in the national and local press in Unesco’s work all over the world So, fellow delegates, what I have to say about the Director-General's Report is based upon growing interest, enthusiasm and activity in my own country, upon the deliberation and full reflexion of powerful and responsible co-operating bodies which make up the National Commission of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, that is, on    our deliberations this year following the Beirut Conference. Our co-operative bodies, the National Commission as a whole, has been worried about certain aspects of our programme. There is still a feeling, which I knowis one in which the Director- General shares, that our programme is still dissipated in too many directions, that we are still trying to embrace too many projects. Concen- tration on good practical work, and in the Director- General's Report he has this sentence: “Twenty tasks carefully carried out are worth more than one hundred enterprises still in the rudimentary stage”. Another striking phrase he has used is this one: “Our mission is both militant and prac- tical”, and my delegation feels that being militant and practical at this business Conference means concentration. Not through reorganization neces- sarily, but in particular by wielding the axe and cutting out a lot of the dead wood. We all know how much good work is being done by this Or- ganization. One thinks for instance of the impact of the discussions on “Food and People” that have originated from the United Nations Specialized Agencies concerned. We feel, in Britain, that the tremendous interest aroused in this subject has been due in particular to our Organization— Unesco. Fromthe schoolchild in the classroom to professors in the lecture room and in the common room, there has been an intense interest in this problem which affects every nation in the world. It has made a real impact in Great Britain. The Director-General’s Report raises in our minds the question which every speaker at this Conference, I think, has discussed in one way or another. Can we be more effective if we con- centrate upon that good work which we all know Unesco is doing? We feel in the United Kingdom that the whole question of the payment of fees needs very careful examination. Not because we are against the principle of paying fees —how can the Organization do its job without payment for experts serving the Organization — but the pro- posals that are before us and which will be discussed in detail do, I think, in this direction, require very careful examination. Again, when one thinks that some 30,000,000 pages of cyclo- styled memoranda and documents in a single year have emanated from the Organization, surelyit is reasonable that we should ask ourselves, is all this really necessary? One comes across, for instance, what is no doubt an admirable paper, and extremely important to those expertly concerned, “The effects of the introduction of exotic fish into the Belgian Congo”. As I say, no doubt an ex- tremely important subject, but among all these documents published, isn’t it reasonable to ask “Have we used the media that already exist?”—in this instance, for example, the learned journals which it is the business of Unesco to put into the hands of experts all over the world. What of Unesco’s clearing-house functions—to see that those in the Belgian Congo or elsewhere who want expert knowledge of this subject, can get it in the appropriate journals. We feel very strongly that where in countries there is expert and practical machinery for the publication of books and of documents, it is the business of the Secretariat to use those publishing houses, rather than attempt to set up itself a grandiose Unesco, Avenue Kléber, publishing establishment. The Director-General refers to the long hours of work that are being loyally and indefatigably carried out by members of his staff. There must be a return to normal working hours. No or- ganization can expect its servants to give of their best at the present rate of work. Long hours during the working week, and in many cases the Director-General has pointed out, long hours at weekends. Every individualspirit and intelligence requires recreation and refreshment. We all have to recharge our batteries and there must come a time, very soon I hope, when the Secretariat will return to normal working hours. But the question arises, how do we attain this desirable end? One way suggested is to employ more staff, which means of course, more money. The United Kingdom delegation representing our Government and our Commission believes that that is not the way. It believes that it can be done—this reduc- tion of working hours—by concentration. There- fore, this morning, on behalf of my delegation and the National Commission at home, I make a plea for cutting out the inessential things and for attaining a balance within the programme. The honourable delegate from Iraq, on Monday, used the phrase: “Let us convince peoples that this flood of literature means something. ” It is the business of this business Conference to examine this problem which he has so cogently placed before us. That is why I say that we feel there is too much reporting, too much printing, all admirable in the years ahead, but looking back over the past year, the kind of question this business Conference must ask itself is this: “How many people have we taught to read for the first time in their lives, since the Beirut Conference?”, and not “How manycyclo-styled pages of memo- randa and luxury editions have we published?” Before expansion, our view is we must con- solidate and realize current obligations within MemberStates before we look to expansion. This does not mean that we must all advance at the pace of the slowest member, but we mustrealize that even the fastest should not go too quickly. We must take public opinion with us. It takes time to officials of treasuries, to convince members of Parliament—it takes time to convince them that they must face increased expenditure on    Unesco. And as a minor politician myself in my own country. I know very well the scepticism that is to be found in certain quarters of our own House of Commons, — in our own government departments too, it takes time to convince these people. If this concentration of which I have spoken is to be achieved this business Conference must exercice restraint collectively. Each of us must be prepared to give up some of our pet schemes. We are quite prepared as representatives of the United Kingdom to conduct a bloodless operation among our own pet schemes. It follows, we think, that we should do the Organi- zation more harm than good by increasing the burden imposed on Member States at the present time. When I say that, fellow delegates, I am not only thinking of the size of the budget, I am thinking equally emphatically of the burden of work. It is, therefore, in our view, not true that, merely by increasing staff—consequently increasing the budget—we should make the Or- ganization as a whole more effective. May I suggest a thought here—it’s commonplace, but perhaps worth remembering every day as we meet . . . It is a fundamental fallacy of the expan- sionists that more money means more effective work done. When we look at and examine this curate’s egg, good in parts, acknowledge the good, but let us remember the parts of the egg that are not quite so palatable. And my plea on behalf of my delegation is not to end expansion, is not to say that Unesco must advance no further, that it should be content simply with the programme as it is; my plea is that we should at this Conference consider concentration and consolidation, so that for all governments the need for expansion will be self-evident in the years that lie ahead. We have justified our existence already, but as M. Bidault so eloquently said yesterday: “It is to the individual, primarily, that our reason, our wisdom and our courage must be addressed.” We do that by proving to them that we are not an or- ganization that thinks in terms of praises an self-congratulation and ideals—important as those things may be in their place—we justify ourselves, because year by year, at each Conference, we can point to a few effective things well done and done for the benefit of mankind. The PRESIDENT — I call on the leader of the delegation of Mexico, M. Castro Leal. Dr. Antonio CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) — [Trans- lation from the Spanish] Mr. President and delegates, to record the impressions which the Director-General’s Report has made on the various delegations present is a manner not only of ex- amining and appreciating the results obtained up to the present, but of making us realize how Inesco, in the pursuance of its ends, must keep on intensifying its work in order to keep pace with realities which are ceaselessly changing and becoming more intricate. Therefore, looking out from the tower of the Director-General’s Report, as it were, we are able to see how much of the road we have already covered and to look for the territory on which we shall have to lay down the road to follow in the future. To begin the Confer- ence with what we might call “variations on the same theme” is therefore a satisfactory way of opening the discussion, because it will enable us to think about the ensemble of the matters which have brought us together. What has Unesco done in the period covered by the Director-General’s Report? What perspectives are opened up for the Organization by the work already done? The Director-General’s Report, as you will all have noticed, is both eloquent and precise as regards the concrete results obtained. Three of its pages, very closely filled, set forth concisely what has already been achieved or is being achieved, as well as the new activities or projects which have been insured by the successes already obtained. The general impression, in my opinion, is one of steady progress in the right direction. Unesco’s activities have continued to increase both in extent and in intensity. The Organization has been multiplying the means for achieving those ends which usually elude international activity, and has started forms of co-operation which are better adapted to the methods in use in the various countries. It has also succeeded in concentrating, intensifying and speeding up its activities, although we all know that considerable time is necessary in order to start international activity, which requires a whole series of preliminary con- sultations and compromises. But all these activities, carried out with such zeal and discipline, with such efficiency and speed, must be regarded not simply as confined to the sphere of action, but as belonging also to the realm of thought. As the Director-General so eloquently expressed it in his Report, they represent an idea and a perspective: an idea of the ends which will enable Unesco to carry out its important and dif- ficult mission; a perspective in which the ex- amination and realization of these ends must be viewed in their proper order. Unesco is the expression of a powerful universal aspiration, the consequence of a need felt by all peoples, an international organization which must inspire education, science and culture, never before treated as international problems, with ideals of peace. Unesco, whose foundations and structure are so solid, must intensify its activities, establish closer contact with realities, and, without losing    its universality, try other solutions which make use of the special characteristics and methods of each country. But does not activity involve risks? Would it not be better to let life itself impose its needs and problems without any preconceived order? It does not seem difficult to answer these questions. There will be no danger of Unesco becoming submerged in its activities provided that it has an exact idea of its proper place between the national and international fields, and of the real importance of the problems which it must solve; that is to say, provided that there is, as was said in the Director-General's Report: a true idea of what Unesco is, and a correct perspective of its interests and problems. The fact that both exist at present permits us to state that the moment has arrived in which the Organization can intensify its activities without risk of error or deviations. Greater and more intense action is necessary. But greater action requires more working hours, more means for establishing contacts and dis- seminating ideas, as well as the realization of what is at present a mere project. In other words, it requires a larger budget. With regard to the means of distribution, I would like to point out, to comment on the remarks just made by the delegate of Great Britain, that, although I cannot say anything about publications in other parts of the world and in other languages, as regards the publications of Unesco which are prepared in Spanish in Latin America, a system has already been established according to which the cost of these publications is shared by the different Latin American States and by private publishers. Con- sequently, Unesco has only to bear the cost of the copies of these publications which it receives for its own use: the rest is borne by the publishers and the local distributors in each of the Latin American countries. Unesco has not yet carried out its mission, nor has the danger of war been completely eliminated. The aim of establishing a bulwark of peace in the minds of men is just as important as, and even more important than it was four years ago. A campaign must also be carried out in the field of ignorance, in whose fertile soil all kinds of pre- judices take root, as well as in the realms of science and philosophy whose false inferences and deviations are usually more dangerous than the prejudices of the uneducated, as the late Director- General of Unesco has so forcefully demonstrated in the field of biology. On the basis of the facts themselves, the lie must be given to those who believe that Unesco was established immediately after the last war, in the atmosphere of a danger which has passed, simply in order to allay certain scruples and as a concession to the aspirations of the moment,
82 and that the original faith in its existence and activities has been gradually diminishing. Also on the basis of the facts, the lie must be given to those who create an atmosphere of scepticism around Unesco. Such an atmosphere, if it does not stifle it entirely, will, as if by magic, rob the work of the Organization of the vitality, strength and impulse which are necessary for establishing in the minds of men a firm belief in peace. To sum up, I consider that the Director- General's Report shows that Unesco has done very good work and, in the last few months, has greatly intensified its efforts and, in certain cases has improved on its former methods, and has organized an effective and carefully thought out plan for its future activities. In intensifying its activities it was obliged to give priority to certain of them, bearing in mind the possibility of their complete realization. In addition to concentrating on urgent and feasible projects, Unesco has also thought of inducing Member States to do likewise. A State is, in principle, interested in all questions concerning education, science and culture, but social circumstances can oblige it to give priority to some of these. Unesco’s work will gain in efficiency and efficacity if it gives priority to the same questions as Member States. This, no doubt, is one of the tasks which will be carried out, as far as Latin American countries are concerned, by the Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere, to be established in Cuba. I am sure that the final impression left in the minds of most of the delegates by the Director- General's Report is that Unesco’s programme is now closely related to realities. The Organization which was necessarily founded on noble ideas, general formulas and theoretical aims, gradually took shape and moved along as though in a mist, with a desire to fill in the void between the inter- ests of the States and between the minds of men. Today, Unesco is entering on a new stage, and is beginning to establish closer contacts with real- ities. It is now, when it is entering on this new path, that we should give it all our support if we wish it to fulfil its mission of bringing freedom to men through science and culture. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Egypt, H.E. Shafik Ghorbal Bey. H.E. Shafik GHORBAL BEY (Egypt) — Mr. Pre- sident, at this stage of our proceedings I have the honour to express the pleasure we of the Egyptian delegation feel at the return of the General Con- ference to Paris. It is for my colleagues and my- self an opportunity for the renewal of contacts with my country’s old teacher and friend. It was particularly apposite that, at a General   Conference held in Paris, the Director-General made the Rights of Man the principal theme of the stirring address to which we listened the other day. I may recall that it was at its meeting in Egypt that the Executive Board took its decision about the dissemination of the Universal Declara- tion of the Rights of Man. The Declaration is a modern version of the system of rights and duties evolved in Egypt many thousands of years ago, when the common man was held accountable for his acts when he was admitted to share in eternal life, and to us, it is this sharing in eternal life which is the only valid basis for a system of rights and duties. The times marched on, but as late as 1789 the Declaration of the Rights of Man pro- claimed by the French National Assembly invoked the Supreme Being. But in the 1948 Declaration even that has disappeared. It is sad to reflect that when a formula of compromise is sought, it is always done at the expense of belief and believers. The rehabilitation of the common man is, as we see it, the supreme justification for the ex- istence of our Organization. And how sadly he needs rehabilitation. Let us think howfaith and his belief have been destroyed, howhis traditional culture has been assailed, and what is he offered instead of the traditional wisdom of his ancestors? —the common product of the modern radio, the film and the press. One shuddersto think. Even here in Unesco I venture to note a tendency in one of the departments—the Department of Social Sciences—towards an excess of so-called scientific investigation and surveys and planning. I admit my own ignorance, but I plead again for the dignity of the common man and the rights of primitive communities. The Director-General’s Report emphasizes what has been referred to as the failure of Unesco on the “national” level, in other words, the failure of the nations to play their part in the work of the Organization. But I venture to put this prob- lem in a different way. It is obvious, I think, that what maybe called genuine Unesco activities, projects and ideals are actively pursued all over the world. Let me mention the great impetus to education, noted by Professor Piaget the other day, the vast increase of cultural interchanges, bilateral and multilateral, and of scientific co-operation. All this is genuine Unesco work, but the problem is one of integrating all this activity in one world- wide movement for the rehabilitation of man. This objective has to be kept constantly in view, and patiently and prudently pursued. There are many means and devices which we can take to help us to reach this objective. I think more direct action on the part of Unesco, closer relations between Unesco and the nations—all this would help. Developing contacts between the represen- tatives of Unesco and the nations would establish confidence and would ensure collaboration in the carrying out of definite tasks. We have all acclaimed sincerely the declaration of the Executive Board that Unesco has been for- tunate in its Director-General. Let us see then how best we can help him in his great work. I would say, let us support him in his efforts to render the programme more coherent and more concentrated. The criteria he laid down for the selection of priorities are excellent. With them we fully agreed. He complains also of the restric- tive and harmful effect on the fixing of a ceiling for the number of posts. I think the Conference is bound to examine this and remove this and other hindrances. Lastly, I would say let us do away with some of the cruder forms of national egoism and susceptibility, for example, insistence on the use of our own particular language as a working language of the Conference, the number of posts that are allotted to our nationals, the projects which are of immediate profit to our own country. Let us, in short, consider Unesco as a society which we serve rather than a fund or a pool out of which we draw. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Colombia, Dr. Guillermo Nannetti. Dr. Guillermo NANNETTI (Colombia) — [Trans- lation from the Spanish] Gentlemen, before broaching the main object of my speech, I wish in the name of the head of the Colombian delegation, the distinguished Dr. Armando Solano, who is un- able to be present owing to ill-health, to offer our congratulations to the Director-General for the admirable achievements to which he has referred in his Report to the Conference, for the series of excellent suggestions which he has made to us, and for his own personal efforts, which have so exalted Unesco’s mission in defence of the dignity and freedom of man; and I wish to assure him of our co-operation in Unesco’s future work. It is not my intention, gentlemen, to take part in the general discussion of the Report. I wish merely to refer to one matter in it, a matter con- nected with one of the most important activities recently carried out by Unesco, one of those acti- vities capable of strengthening our faith in Unesco and which show how our Organization is capable of grappling with problems interesting the great human masses, and which also show howthe new forms of international co-operation are continually acquiring new methods and new techniques. I will refer, in short, to the Seminar on Illiteracy and Adult Education which was held last August in Rio de Janeiro under the auspices of Unesco,    the Organization of American States and the Government of Brazil. There are 70,000,000 Americans who cannot read, and there are 90,000,000 African children of school age who are lacking in schools. If we regard these gloomy statistics of ignorance with pessimism and as a shadow on the future of America, we must, on the other hand, consider with optimism the movement which was begun at Rio de Janeiro and which brought together so large and constructive a force. The basic theme of the Seminar was that edu- cation is not simply the teaching of reading and writing, but the teaching of howto live a worthy life. For that purpose, the Organizing Committee knocked at the doors of all institutions working for the dignity of man and they all, without exception, responded to its appeal. In Washington, under the auspices of the Pan- American Union and with the co-operation of Unesco, a Bureau was set up to carry out the preparatory work. This Bureau worked out the plan for the Seminar, organized the preparation of working documents as well as the participation of Governments and International Bodies, and chose the experts who advised the Seminar on essential matters. It is very gratifying to recall how the work of co-ordination in various institutions and in dif- ferent nations was furthered by this American experiment. The following organizations co-operated through their experts in the drafting of the working doc- uments: the Bureau of Education in Geneva, the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London, Unesco’s Department of Education, the World Health Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization, various universities of North and South America and the Institute of Inter-Amer- ican Affairs. Attention must be drawn—as to new fact in international life offering positive guarantees for the future— to the manner in which a whole series of institutes and services of the Pan-Amer- ican Union, with their latent possibilities for educational activity, was mobilized. Thus we saw the Pan-American Health Bureau, the Pan-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences, the Inter-American Institute of Statistics, the Departments of Cultural Affairs, Economy and Social Welfare, the Library and Services of the Department for the Protection of Natural Resources, all co-operate in the Seminar. Gentlemen, this is the first international ex- periment in which the principal world and regional organizations for education, science, health, labour and agriculture have co-operated in a joint
84 campaign against illiteracy throughout the whole of a continent; for the Seminar was a continental experiment. About twenty American countries sent a hundred of their best educators to study the vast problem of Literacy and Adult Education. Observers from five non-American States, namely, Great Britain, France, Holland, Egypt and India, also participated. The Seminar divided its studies into five basic themes: Statistics and documentation concerning il- literacy; The primary schools and illiteracy; The organization of campaigns; Objectives and techniques; Literacy and adult education. Fach theme corresponded to a Working Group. The activities were conducted in accordance with the most rigorous technique used in Seminars. Each of the participants assumed per- sonal responsibility for a specific theme. Each received a working document prepared by a uni- versity authority or international institute, and disposed of an adequate library as well as a series of working materials in the form of exhibitions or reading or auditory and visual aids used in the American countries. All the Groups produced remarkable results. The following may be mentioned: (a) The preparation of fifiy-two monographs containing a rich documentation based on Amer- ican experiments, (b) Thefirst statistical presentation of the prob- lem of illiteracy, based on American techniques and due to the co-ordinated work of twenty-one Statistical Departments in American countries; and forming the bases for the cultural and educational statistics which will be discussed at the Inter-American Conference to be held in November with a view to the preparation of the census to be taken in the American countries in
1950. (с) A fundamental survey—the most complete ever carried out in America—on the Latin-Amer- ican primary schools, on their qualitative and quantitative deficiencies and on the solution of their problems. This documentation concerning primary education offers the basis for an Inter- American Seminar mobilizing the whole continent for the extension and improvement of primary schools which are the foundation of the American democracies. (d) A whole series of directives for govern- ments, parliaments and educators concerning the organization of campaigns against illiteracy: model laws, plans of administrative services, financial sources, methods of mobilizing public opinion and private co-operation.   (e) Surveys on the method of teaching adults how to read and on the appropriate material for awakening and maintaining cultural interest by means of books. (f) A Manual or Handbook dealing with adult education and based on five weeks’ work of thirty- two specialists. This book, which was welcomed by the whole Seminar, gives the general outline of a philosophy and a doctrine of adult education in America. It represents the first attempt of its kind in Spanish and Portuguese. Unesco should feel highly gratified with the preparation of this Manual or Handbook, because it breaks away from the routine work of interna- tional conferences which usually present reams of conclusions or recommendations as their results, and it establishes a precedent for the constructive work which we shall be entitled to expect from future Seminars.
(9) The Seminar presented the basis for a vast campaign against illiteracy in America by means of National Seminars, which will consider the possibility of applying the Rio conclusions to the participating countries. I particularly recommend the Conference to study the possibility of Unesco and the Organization of American States carrying out in 1950 an experimental campaign against illiteracy in the country or countries desiring to co-operate in it. (h) The Seminar offered the basis for the organization of a Centre for the production of materials, and of a Centre for training educators of adults in accordance with Unesco’s programme which will be examined by the present Conference. (i) Finally, the Seminar presented a series of recommendations to Unesco, the Organization of American States and the governments participating in the Seminar. These recommendations relate to future educational policy in America. I wish to draw the attention of the Conference to the activity of the Government and people of Brazil, who have won an outstanding position among the nations who understand, defend and realize Unesco’s high ideals. Brazil offered the Seminar not only generous hospitality but the matchless co-operation of its educators. His Excellency the President of the Republic, General Dutra, accompanied by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Education, officially visited the Seminar and also gave it a State reception. The Seminar was constantly encouraged by the Minister of Education, Dr, Clemente Mariani, who participated in the discussions on various themes. The Minister of Education and the Chairmen and Members of the Education Commissions of the Senate and of the House of Representatives attended the discussions on the work done by Group V with regard to Literacy and Adult Education. The Seminar held joint meetings with the Congress of Brazilian Trade Unions, with a view to defining the cultural activity of Workers’ Organ- izations. The Directors of Education of the Brazilian States and representatives of the teaching profes- sion, the magistrates, the Army, the Church and of the Ministries of Agriculture, Hygiene and Public Health, all co-operated with the Seminar. The participants were cordially welcomed by the Governor of the State of Rio de Janeiro and by Brazilian authorities and social circles. Owing to the impossibility of mentioning all those entitled to my thanks, I will merely refer to one who sums up all the virtues of the Brazilian character, namely, D. Lourengo Filho, Director and organizer of the Seminar. Yesterday he was a village teacher, today he is one of America's educators. The Organization of American States, whose Secretariat is the Pan-American Union, is also entitled to Unesco’s thanks for its co-operation. The twenty-one ambassadors of the American States belonging to this Organization made tremen- dous efforts in order to obtain the participation of their respective countries. Dr. Alberto Lleras, Secretary-General, Dr Jorge Basadre, Director of the Department of Cultural Affairs, and the entire staff of the Specialized Institutes and Services spared no efforts to ensure the greatest possible success of the preliminary work, and sent to Rio a group of experts and officials who constituted the nucleus of the Seminar. The American, and particularly the Brazilian Press took the keenest interest in the work of the Seminar and gave news of it in their front pages and in their leading articles. We are indebted to the American Press and particularly to the daily newspapers of Brazil and to the Reader’s Digest and Editor’s Press Service for their wide publicity campaign. The broadcasting services of Brazil, under the direction of Dr. Fernando Tude de Souza, Unesco’s distinguished spokesman and defender, carried out a non-stop programme. The Voice of America co-operated with the Seminar in the same way. We owe considerable thanks to the international organizations, participating governments, delegates and experts, members of the Secretariat and Library, interpreters and auxiliary services, who worked with such enthusiasm. Special thanks are due to our Director-General, M. Jaime Torres Bodet, to the Departments of Education and Communication of Unesco, also to Dr. Beeby, Director of the Department of Education    and to our two distinguished colleagues, M. A. I. Stoddard and Paulo Carneiro, who made possible the holding of this cultural experiment. It was a helping hand so to speak, given by Unesco to the disinherited of the American countries, to those who cannot read nor write, but in whose souls the divine spark glows. The PRESIDENT — call upon the delegate of Pakistan. Mr. S. M. SHARIF (Pakistan) — The Pakistan delegation has read the Report of the Director- General and listened to his very inspiring address with great interest. It is my privilege to associate my delegation with others in the warm tributes paid to the ability and enthusiasm of the Director- General. Our delegation, Sir, has been greatly impressed by the Director-General’s practical and realistic approach to the problem. We agree with him that so long as vast numbers of people are illiterate and their countries under-developed, the ideal of securing lasting peace must remain an empty dream. We therefore heartily support his pro- gramme of priorities of first things first, and we endorse his views that basic education and the provision of technical skill for the under-developed countries should take top priority. In this connexion, my delegation wishes me to express the hope that Unesco will extend its help readily and quickly to all the countries which may need and ask for such help. Sir, I have one comment to make, not by way of criticism, but by way of suggestion—it is about the staffing of the Secretariat. I find that the Secretariat does not reflect adequately the represen- tation of the various Member States. I venture to submit that the implementation of the policy enunciated so forcefully by the Director-General will be greatly facilitated if the representatives of the countries which need help the most are asso- ciated with the Secretariat and on the various bodies of this Organization. Pakistan has joined this great Organization only recently. It will, therefore, be appropriate for me to say a few words about my country and its ideals with reference to the work of Unesco. Pakistan is a new State, but its people have a historic past, an ancient tradition and a great culture. We have full faith in the ideals of Unesco and we believe, Sir, that Pakistan can make an important contri- bution to the achievement of those ideals. We feel that a moral and spiritual regeneration of the people is essential if enduring peace is to be achieved. It is in this sphere that Pakistan can serve the cause of Unesco best. Soon after the establishment of Pakistan, a little more than two years ago, the educationists, the men of letters and
86 of science in Pakistan met in conference to determine the educational policy of the new State. They laid down that there should be equality of educational opportunity for all its citizens. They further laid down that that educational policy should be based on the concepts of universal brotherhood, justice and toleration. These were not new concepts; these are the fundamentals of Islamic ideology. In basing educational policy on this ideology, in restating these concepts, Pakistan has laid the necessary emphasis on the moral and spiritual regeneration of mankind. These fun- damental principles exclude narrow nationalism and prejudices, the causes of many wars and much misery. It is well to remember that universal brotherhood transcends all barriers of races and religions, castes and creeds; that justice ignores distinction between rich and poor, between the powerful and the weak. We believe that toler- ation, even more than those other two virtues, is a powerful instrument for peace. It was toleration which the honourable delegate from India pleaded so eloquently tho the two opposing forces in the world today. Wefeel sure that by basing its edu- cational policy on this Islamic Ideology, on the concepts of universal brotherhood, justice and toleration, by emphasizing the moral and spiritual recovery of mankind, Pakistan is practising the very ideals for whisch Unesco stands. The PRESIDENT — The next speaker is the leader of the Italian delegation, Count Jacini. Count JACINI (Italy) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian delegation desires to take its share in the tribute paid by the previous speakers to the Director-General. The Italian delegation thanks the Director-General for the high tenor of his Report and wants to affirm its full agreement with its basic statements and to the suggestions they have inspired. As I read the document before the meeting, my faith in the future of Unesco grew stronger. There are critical hints in the considerations the Director- General has put forth, but such criticism is wholesome, loyal and fruitful. To admit a mistake in time and to try and correct it, is even more necessary than to look on the positive aspects of our work. Courage was needed, will and capacity for work was needed, and these are quali- ties M. Torres Bodet has in highest degree as well as a deep and discerning faith in man. The Italian delegation thanks the Director-General for these qualities and for devoting them whole- heartedly to the service of Unesco. I have already announced the unreserved approval of the Report by the Italian delega- tion. I intend only to stress a few points that   particularly struck me in the Report itself and in the comments made on it by this Assembly. The first refers to the relations between Unesco and the Member States. One notices in the Director-General’s Report a certain disappointment at the attitude of some governments towards questions and requests put to them by Unesco. As M. Bidault has rightly pointed out in his speech of yesterday, governments are unfortunately too occupied by urgent matters to be able to give all the desirable attention to the communications they receive from international organizations, especially from those whose work is not immediately polit- ical. Of course—and I am now restating one of the Director-General’s own ideas—the number and complexity of the communications Unesco sends to Member States are sometimes detrimental to their effectiveness. Nevertheless, we must stress the need for developing communication and liaison between Unesco and Member States; it is necessary that action in favour of Unesco in the States themselves should be more constructive and better co-ordinated. It is most desirable that States which have accepted Unesco’s Constitution and the responsibility of disseminating its spirit in their own countries should work harder and therefore more effectively in this field. States must make full use, to that end, of the consultant bodies designed by the Constitution, that is to say the National Commissions representing the culture of their respective countries. I am happy to note that relations between Unesco, the United Nations and the other Special- ized Agencies are becoming more and more fruitful. Life cannot be enclosed in watertight compartments, and all efforts to better human conditions need co-ordinating. Here, we are, it seems, in a particularly good position, as Unesco’s universality enables it to transcend the limits which politics may impose upon other organ- izations, but which the mind in its universality can ignore. So much for the range of our activities. As to its quality and depth, I would like to emphasize that the Italian delegation entirely shares the Director-General's opinion that, far from embarking today on new activities, our Organization must concentrate more and more on finding little bylittle a satisfactory solution to the problems it has to face, and thus show the world completed achievements in restricted fields instead of general assertions and vague endeavours. I already expressed this opinion in Beirut. I remarked that, in my opinion, Unesco’s major enemies were Utopia and “red tape”. I am glad to recognize M. Torres Bodet’s efforts to avoid both those dangers, and to rid the Organization of any failings due to them. World public opinion will judge us on our achievements; these first years have been years of exploration and research, enabling us to acquire a correct notion of the most pressing needs. We must now meet some of those needs concretely, before turning to others, quite as deserving, but which can only be satisfied in time, and as circumstances may allow. In this matter I would like to stress the necessity we are under, in my opinion, not to take any decisions concerning the programme before examining their implications on the budget. It would be vain to will the end without providing the necessary means, and confusion might follow which it is important to avoid. The plan for technical assistance, prompted by President Truman’s generous impulse, opens new channels for our work by letting us take our part in the scheme evolved by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. We are faced here with an expansion of our original task. It is very important that we should do what is asked of us, for technical assistance that took no account of the human conditions that make up Unesco’s ideal would be incomplete and probably short- lived. We must also remember that the assistance plan is only an adjunct to the programme, which latter is dictated by the fundamental aims of our Organization. Let us not forget that the problems of mass education are in the last resort problems of culture and that this culture has always a humanistic origin, even when of scientific nature; it would be of no use to teach the masses how to read and write if there were not a number of intellectually developed people to teach them, above all, how to think. I am right in thinking that this is the meaning of the symbolic tribute paid by Unesco to those two great spiritual masters, Chopin and Goethe. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian delegation firmly believes that we are on the right path. The PRESIDENT — The next meeting will be at
3 o’clock this afternoon under the chairmanship of H.E. Shafik Ghorbal Bey, one of the Vice- Presidents of the Conference. I would remind members of the Finance Committee of the Executive Board, of the meeting at 5.30 p.m. in the lounge of the Board. The following del- egations have asked to speak in the debate this afternoon: Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Iran, Israel, Liberia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, Philippines, Poland, South Africa, Syria and    Turkey. That makes fifteen speakers. The list of speakers will be closed immediately after this meeting rises, so that if any other delegation wishes its name to be included, would they please inform the Secretariat immediately. If speakers are able to keep their remarks to the time limit suggested, we have every hope of completing the discussion on the Director-General's Report by the end of the afternoon. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. FIFTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 21 September 1949 at 3.20 p.m. CONTENTS
12. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation): Speeches by delegates of the Netherlands, the Philippines, Canada, Israel, Australia, China, Syria, Iran, Poland, Liberia, New Zealand, Turkey and the Union of South Africa 88 President: H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL Bey (Egypt).
12. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). The PRESIDENT — The meeting is open: I call upon the delegate of the Netherlands. Mr. RUTTEN (Netherlands) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, in the development of the cultural life of mankind, there are some surprising sudden changes which open up perspectives full of pro- mise but also cause grave concern. The great discoveries in science very often start a new trend in human activities. I am thinking, for example, of the year 1628 when William Harvey's important treatrise “Exercitatio anatomica de motu cordis et sanguinis in animalibus” was published. This work is universally regarded as the first complete account of the blood circulatory system. I have no needs to go further into the influence of this discovery. Not only did it give a tremendous impetus to medical science; it underlies the whole concept of man as an organic structural entity. Moreover, several contemporaries bore witness to the immense importance of this discovery; Des- cartes, for one, was deeply influenced by it. A similar discovery is looming on the horizon today, but this timeit is a matter of understanding the organic structure of our world, its rich and varied spiritual substance. The great discovery of this century concerns the flow, not of blood, but of ideas. If our world wishes to function nor-
88 mally especially in such essential fields as culture, there must be no barriers to this circulation. None the less, it is necessary for a sound heart to pump the blood through the arterial system. Would it be too great a presumption to claim that, in cultural matters, Unesco is best qualified to carry out the function of the heart? I do not think so. Precisely by aiming thus high, Unesco will be able to perform the structural function so urgently needed in the world today. Incidentally, Unesco has already given signs of its intention to carry out this task to good effect. In the Netherlands, its work has received much criticism which has not been completely silenced. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that there is a growing belief in Unesco. In particular, the tendency to concentrate the programme meets with the whole-hearted approval of the Nether- lands Government and is arousing increasing in- terest on the part of our people. We expect Unesco to guard against facile optimism and to strive for visible, practical results. A healthy blood circulation may help to heal the diseased parts of a body and in this connexion, Unesco’s activities regarding Japan and Germany deserve our full attention. My country has always taken an interest in Unesco’s work, including that in Ger- many, on account of its own work in that field. Anyone embarking on such an undertaking with- out due consideration, without full appreciation of its spiritual difficulties, is in danger of failing