Serbie, that is, not the entrance in front of the Museum of Contemporary Art, but the entrance in the Avenue Pierre de Serbie. All delegates are invited to be present, or to enter the exhibition at 11.30 a.m. following the entry of the Minister representing the President of the Republic. The Director-General hopes that there will be a large attendance at the opening ceremony.
1 have received, on this occasion, from Dr. H. B. Evatt, the Australian Deputy Prime Minister, and President of the United Nations Assembly in Paris last year which adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Resolution which requested Unesco and other Specialized Agencies to propagate this Declaration, a message which, with your permission, I would like to read and which has already been distributed as a document of the Conference, No. 4C/D/1. This is Dr. Evatt’s message: I had the privilege to be President of the General Assembly which adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Paris last year. I believe this Declaration will stand as a lasting monument to the United Nations and to the great city of Paris, especially having regard to its historic association with many past struggles for the liberation of the human spirit. The Declaration was a solemn pronouncement by governments, that power exercised by governments is to be used by them, in trust, for the benefit of those they govern. It is my fervent hope that the efforts of the United Nations will be as successful in propounding a Co- venant and measures of implementation as it was in propounding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I commend the United Nations Educational, Scien- tific and Cultural Organization for spreading know- ledge of and respect for the lofty principles of the Declaration of Human Rights. I will nowclose this meeting, and invite parti- cularly the Vice-Presidents and members of the General Committee, together with the heads of delegations, to be sure of being at the Musée Galliéra at 11.15 sharp. The meeting rose at 10.50 a.m. ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949 at 11 a.m. CONTENTS
20. Election of six members of the Executive Board
21. Decision on the place of the Fifth Session of the General Conference, on the Report of the Executive Board . President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia).
20. Election of six members of the Ex- ecutive Board. The PRESIDENT. — Thefirst item on the Agenda is the election of members of the Executive Board. I invite the Secretary of the Conference to read the relevant Rules of Procedure. The SECRETARY read Rules 95, 96, 97, 30, 87 and 89 of the Rules of Procedure. The PRESIDENT — The Nominations Committee has met and has considered this matter, I call on Mr. Allen, Chairman of the Nominations Commit- tee, to present the Committee’s Report. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Amer- ica) — Mr. President, I have the honour to sub- mit the Report of the Nomination Committee, which held its third meeting yesterday, 30 Sep- tember, to consider nominations for the seats of the Executive Board to be filled at the present session of the General Conference. In its deliberations the Committee took due note of the Report of the Procedure Committee approved yesterday by the General Conference in plenary ses- sion, concerning the eligibility for re-election of Board members whose mandate had expired, and the concurrence of the term of office of the members of the Executive Board and the ordinary sessions of the General Conference. In this latter respect, the    Committee took due note that, pending an amend- ment to the Constitution, the members elected at this year’s session of the General Conference would take office on 23 November, which is the date on which the mandate of the members elected three years ago, will expire. Realizing that this decision was in contradiction with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, which pro- vides that the term of office of each member shall begin immediately on his election and shall end on the day of election of the member for the subsequent term, the Committee decided to submit the following draft resolution to the General Conference for its consideration: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, In view of Rules 97 and 104 of its Rules of Proce- dure, WHEREAs the proposed amendment to Article V of the Constitution cannot be adopted until the next session, WHFREAS Rule 97 of its Rules of Procedure con- tradicts Article V of its Constitution, PROVISIONALLY SUSPENDS the application of Rule 97 of its Rules of Procedure. The Nominations Committee received a communi- cation from the Chairman of the Executive Board to the effect that Dr. George Stoddard of the United States would not stand for re-election. A similar communication was received from the Head of the Turkish delegation with regard to Resat Nuri Guntekin. In consequence, the Committee submits to the Gen- eral Conference the following nominations to fill the seats of the six members of the Executive Board whose term of office will expire on 23 November 1949. These nominations are submitted in alphabetical order: Prof. PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Mr. LUTHER Evans (United States of America) H. E. Dr. PARRA Púrez (France) Mr. RoGER SEypoux (France) Prof. ALF SOMMERFELT (Norway) Mr. Kupst Tecer (Turkey) The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the Report of the Nominations Committee for which I thank the Chairman, Mr. Allen. The Report contains first of all a draft resolution which I think I should put to the Conference before proceeding with the election. The resolution reads: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, In view of the Rules 97 and 104 of the Rules of Pro- cedure of the General Conference, Wuarreas the proposed amendment to Article V of the Constitution cannot be adopted until the next session, WHEREAs Rule 97 of its Rules of Procedure con- tradicts Article V of the Constitution, PROVISIONALLY SUSPENDS the application of Rule 97 of its Rules of Procedure. This is intended to permit the retiring members of the Executive Board to complete their full term of three years, in accordance with the Constitu- tion. The full term of three years will not end until the 23 November, it will not end today on the election of the new members. New members of the Board will take office only on 23 November when the retiring members complete their statu- tory period. This is to modify our Rules of Procedure so that they will in fact conform this year to the provision of the Constitution; it is for that reason that we are asked to adopt this Resolution. I would ask the Conference if there is any objec- tion to my declaring this resolution adopted? Does anybody wish to speak? I hear no objection and declare this resolution adopted. That means that the term of office will run the full three years, as provided in the Constitution and the election to which we now proceed is for new members of the Executive Board to take their position on the Board on 23 November of this year. We proceed now with the election. On page 104 in the Journal for this morning, you will find the names of the six persons, mem- bers of delegations of the Conference, whose names are submitted, with the recommendation of the Nominations Committee. These names are: Prof. PauLo DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Mr. Lurser Evans (United States of America) H.E. Dr. C. Parra Pérez (Venezuela) Mr. Rocer Seypoux (France) Prof. ALF SOMMERFELT (Norway) Мг. Коты Tecer (Turkey) We are required to proceed to a ballot, but before taking the ballot in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Conference whether anybody wishes to speak. The vote can be taken only on the candidates proposed by the Nomi- nations Committee, or candidates nominated at this session by two delegations, and these candi- dates must be nominated before the ballot. Writing on the ballot paper the names of candi- dates who have not been nominated will have no influence at all. If any nominations additional to those proposed by the Nominations Committee are to be made, this is the moment, and they must be proposed by two delegations. I call on the delegation of Poland. Mr. Przemyslaw OGRODZINSKI (Poland) — [Translation from the French] On behalf of the delegations of Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland, I propose Mr. Jan Boor, member of the delegation of Czechoslovakia. Mr. Jan Boor, who also represented Czechoslo- vakia at the General Conference in Mexico City, is a Doctor of Philosophy, a writer, and the Secre- tary-General to one of the largest publishing firms    in Slovakia. T believe that Mr. Jan Boor's candi- dature is entirely in line with Article VA, para- graph 2, of the Constitution, both as regards the candidate's personal qualifications and the provi- sion “it shall also have regard to the diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical distribution”. As two representatives of the Eastern European cultures, a Pole and a Czech, sat on the Executive Board a year ago, I feel that a return to this pro- portion of representation would be very desirable, in the light of Article V of the Constitution. The PRESIDENT — Does anybody second this? I take it then that the Polish delegate has spoken on behalf of three delegations and the nomination therefore is in order. Prof. Jean PIAGET (Switzerland) — [Trans- lation from the French] We, for our part, are of the opinion that the Conference should give serious consideration to the Czechoslovak candi- dature. Unesco’s object is universality; it wishes to achieve, as far as possible, the spiritual, intel- lectual and moral unity of man. We are here faced with two different ideologies. Neither I nor you, gentlemen, candidly believe that Unesco will be able to bring about complete mutual under- standing between these two ideologies; this ses- sion has once again shown us the gulf that divides them; but we believe that one of Unesco’s duties is to give each the fullest possible information about, or at least knowledge of, the other. Accord- ingly, we believe that if Unesco is to fulfil its essentially technical and non-political mission, it must rise above all political issues and do its utmost to promote mutual information, as a pre- Jude to the mutual understanding we all desire. The PRESIDENT — I call on Mr. delegate of France. Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I need not apologize for coming straight to my point without any flowery prelude. It is the opinion of the French delegation that the matter on which we are to vote must be considered calmly and in a spirit of international co-operation; the French delegation thinks that we must above all avoid drawing any political conclusions from the results of the vote we are to take. As the honourable delegate of Switzerland remarked, we believe that in any Specialized Agency, and in Unesco more than in any other organization, the various nations must co-operate, because we believe that it is through cultural ties that we can best ensure a human collaboration between the different peoples. In a few moments, some of you will vote for Mr. Boor for arithmetical, or rather for moral reasons, prompted by the fact that Central and Senghor, Eastern Europe form an important cultural centre. Others will be guided solely by arithmetical rea- sons and will consider that Central and Eastern Europe are represented at this Conference by three delegations. Whatever the motive for the vote, I would again stress that no political conclusions should be drawn from it. We believe that, whatever the result of the vote may be, we must remain true to the spirit of Unesco—a spirit of brotherly co- operation. The PRESIDENT — Does anybody else wish to speak? Then we shall proceed to the vote. There is a procedural question which arose at Beirut and was discussed in the Nominations Committee, namely, as to whether a ballot must carry the full six names in order to be valid, or whether a delegate may vote for less than six candidates. This matter was discussed rather thoroughly in the Nomi- nations Committee, and the Nominations Commit- tee decided that it would be possible for delegates to place on their ballot paper less than six names, if they so desired. I do not propose to go over the debate and the views expressed on the two sides of the matter, but that was the decision taken by a majority vote. Unless there is any proposal to the contrary, I take it that the plenary session will follow the same procedure as the Nominations Committee and will accept as valid those papers that may contain less than six names. On the other hand, of course, a paper containing no names will not be counted as a vote cast, and a paper containing more more than six names will not be counted as a vote, it will be declared invalid. Delegates are, therefore, invited to write on the ballot papers in front of them, the six names, or not more than six names, of the persons for whom they wish to vote. The spelling of the six names can be found in today’s Journal and the delegate of Czechoslovakia, whose name has been proposed, is spelt Dr. Boor. Ballot papers must not be signed. TI say this, because apparently there are variations in procedure in different countries, and it has happened at previous Conferences that a ballot paper has been signed and it has had to be declared invalid. So it is most important that you do not sign your ballot papers. You merely write on it the names of six persons, not States; we are not electing States, but persons. You write down the names of six persons, not more than six per- sons, from within the list of seven. The list of seven consists of the six proposed and notified pre- viously, whose names appear in the Journal today, and the seventh on that list is Dr. Boor. Now is there any question or doubt regarding the proce- dure in voting? You will be asked to hand your       ballot paper to the scrutineers, and I would ask Miss Pedersen from Denmark and Mr. Senghor from France if they would be so good as to act as scrutineers and to supervise the collection and counting of the votes, the moment after the ballots have been handed in. There is just one other point. If a mistake is made, and you spoil your ballot paper, that is, if by mistake you sign your paper, ask for a new ballot paper and it will be supplied to you. Secondly, if a mistake is made and a name is included which is not on the list of seven candi- dates, that particular name will be disregarded. But the names that are written correctly will be counted, and the vote as a whole will not be declared invalid just because there is one error, but if the error takes the form of leaving on the name of your delegation, or your own name as leader of the delegation, the whole vote will be declared invalid, the paper will not be counted at all but will be ignored. Now I will ask the two scrutineers to supervise the collection of the papers by members of the Secretariat. We will call members of delegations to come to the box and to deposit their ballot papers. I ask the Secretary to call the roll. Is Canada ready to deposit its ballot? Let us proceed with the next name on the list, and Canada will be called at the end. Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) names of Member States. The PRESIDENT — There were six absentees; Saudi Arabia, Argentine, Haiti, Honduras, the Dominican Republic and El Salvador. Forty-four votes were collected. I would like to propose to the Conference, with a view to saving time, that we request the two scrutineers to undertake the count and not to read out each vote as they check it. called out the
21. Decision on the place of the Fifth Session of the General Conference, on the Report of the Executive Board. The PRESIDENT — If you agree to that, we can then take up the next point which will not be a lengthy one, namely, the place where the Fifth Conference is to take place, and deal with it. When that has been dealt with, the result of the vote will be available. Tt is not the practice of the United Nations to read out each ballot paper, which has the virtual effect of inviting every delegation to serve as scrutineer and to account each vote as it is announced. However, if there are any objections to the procedure I propose, I would not wish to press it. I suggest it purely With a view to saving the time of the Conference. Is there any objection to the procedure I propose? Well, the result of the vote will be announced in a few minutes after the completion of the next item on the agenda. The next item on the Agendais the report of the Chairman of the Executive Board on behalf of the Board relating to the site of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. I call on Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — Mr. President, document 4C/12 contains some information on the proposal of the Executive Board. The General Conference, during its ordinary session, shall fix the seat of the next session. That is the Rule of Procedure. In accordance with that Rules, the Executive Board proposes to the General Conference that Florence, in Italy, be chosen as the seat of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. This is in pursuance of the Resolution taken at the last General Conference at Beirut—the third Session actually said: The Conference took note with gratitude of the Italian Government’s invitation for the Fifth Session of the General Conference to be held at Tlorence and re- commended that the Fourth Session of the Conference accept that invitation which had met with the general approval of the delegations at Beirut. So this proposal of the Executive Board has also the support of the last General Conference. The allocation of the responsibilities and costs to the inviting country and to the Organization were worked out in the document itself. Therefore it will be a matter of great pleasure to us all that Florence, which reflects the greatness of Italian culture as well as the greatness of mediaeval cul- ture, should be chosen as the seat for the next Conference. I hope this Conference will accept it by acclamation. The PRESIDENT — I call on our Vice-Presi- dent, Count Jacini, Head of the Italian Delegation. H.E. Count JACINI (Italy) —- [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is with deep emotion, reflected in the tremor of my speech, that I thank you on my own behalf and on behalf of the Italian delegation that I have the honour of leading, and even more, in the name of Italy, for the choice you have just made. I could tell you how eagerly Florence is looking forward to receiving you as distinguished guests, but I will not, as I believe that Unesco can be nobody’s guest, as it is at home in all countries where thought, art and science flourish. You will therefore feel at home in Florence. The beauties   of nature and art, and the treasures of. Italy's three-thousand-year-old civilization are yours as much as ours. Our only privilege is to be their guardians, and as such we open wide to you the gates of ourcity, the roads of our country. We are most anxious that you should have a setting worthy of you in our ancient city of Florence. The Conference will open at the Palazzo Vecchio, a relic of the famous Seigniory and the old Floren- tine Republic. It will continue in the Grand Ducal Palace, the Palace of the Medicis, close to the gal- leries sheltering the immortal Raphael madonnas with their grave sweetness, and the ethereal charm of Botticelli’s maidens. We shall do our best to bring you closer not only to our artistic past but also to modern work-a-day Italy, bent on recon- struction and revival. Unesco, strengthened byits Director-General and putting fresh heart into the task you have set it, will turn with sympathy to the patient, hard- working people of Italy, intent on freedom and peace. This people will greet you with its eternal smile, changing from the mysterious expression of the statues adorning the old Etruscan sarco- phagi to the smile of the craftsmen, workers and artists, so much more frank and open. We shall continue with our past endeavours to increase Italy's understanding of Unesco. In this respect, the Florence Conference will provide extremely useful propaganda. As Italy acquires a fuller understanding of Unesco, we hope that the Organ- ization will be more anxious to help the Italian people, whose one desire is peace and liberty. In this spirit of sincere brotherhood, I thank you, as an Italian, a European, and a citizen of the world, and look forward to our next meeting. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has adop- ted ' by acclamation the proposal of the Executive Board that we would accept the invitation of the Italian Government to hold our Fifth Session in Florence, and we have heard with great emotion and very deep satisfaction the generous terms in which the leader of the Italian delegation has spoken to us of the welcome that Unesco will receive in Italy. On behalf of the Conference I de- sire to thank our friend, Count Jacini, for the very moving statement that he has just made, and also to thank in advance his Government for the gen- erosity of their offer to Unesco for its Fifth Con- ference. The count of the votes has not yet been com- pleted but I wish to call on the Chairman of the Board to say a word to the Conference. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — Mr. President, I am speaking, not because the
1. In final form: Resolution 0.8. count is not yet completed, but because I wish to take this opportunity of expressing our grati- tude to the two retiring members of the Executive Board, Mr. Stoddard and Mr. Guntekin. Neither of them is a candidate for re-election, therefore there is no chance of their being returned, but both of them served the Executive Board and served this Organization with great zeal and enthu- siasm and their work has been very much ap- preciated by us. They did not behave there as nationals of their particular country, but as “citi- zens of the world”, to use the term that Count Jacini has just mentioned. They adopted a broad- minded, detached and open attitude on all matters which came up before the Executive Board and I should like to express in open Conference how much we will miss them, though we shall wel- come their successors with equal enthusiasm. I should like to suggest that we record an apprecia- tion of their very valuable services. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the statement of the Chairman of the Executive Board and his proposal that we should record the appreciation of the General Conference of the valuable services of Resat Nuri Guntekin, the retiring Turkish member of the Board, and of Dr. Stoddard, the retiring United States member of the Board, and the Chairman of the Board has just reminded me that I should not refer to Dr. Stoddard as the United States member, nor to Mr. Guntekin as the Turkish member of the Board; but I used those terms merely as adjectives describing the nationality of the gentlemen con- cerned and the delegations from which they were originally drawn. As a member of the Board my- self since its foundation, T would just like to add my own support to what Sir Sarvepalli Radha- krishnan has said, and to say that both these gentlemen have been held in the highest esteem by all their colleagues and we have felt that each in his own way has made an important contribution to the work of the Board. Resat Nuri Guntekin has been a member of the Board since its inception. Dr. Stoddard, although a member of the Board for only one year, has been associated with the Organization since its inception and both of them have made very distinct contributions, which, while adopting the universal viewpoint of Unesco, have necessarily reflected the geographical and cultural regions from which they have come. I am sure the Conference is very grateful for the service they have rendered and regrets that it has not been possible for them to present themselves for candidature again. I call on the Director-General. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] 1 could not hope to emulate the tri- bute the Conference has just paid to two members     of the Executive Board. But I should like to take this opportunity of saying how much Unesco’s work, at least that of the Secretariat, is guided by the Executive Board. I myself feel I must take every opportunity of establishing contact with all members of the Board, who are an ever greater source of strength to me. In this spirit I would nowpaytribute once again to the efficiency of the Executive Board as a whole, particularly of the two distinguished members whose term of office has run out: Dr. Stoddard and Mr. Resat Nuri Gun- tekin have always been animated by the spirit of Unesco, the international spirit of understanding for the cultural problems Unesco is endeavouring to facilitate and to solve. I should therefore like to add my vote of gratitude and admiration for the work carried out by Dr. Stoddard and M. Resat Nuri Guntekin. The PRESIDENT — I am sure the leaders of the two delegations, the Turkish and the United States delegations, will have special pleasure in conveying to their colleagues, who are not present al the moment, what was said in the proceedings this morning. I have been asked by Mr. Seydoux to request members of the Sub-Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission to meet in Room 8. If there are any members of the Sub-Committee on the Programme and Budget Commission present here will they please proceed to Room 8. I would drawthe attention of the Conference to a slight change in the arrangements for the visit to the International Centre of Educational Studies, which the Journal announces for 3 o'clock this afternoon. This visit will begin at 4 instead of
3 o'clock. Those who wish to visit the Interna- tional Centre will leave Unesco House at 4 o'clock this afternoon. The following is the result of the vote for the election of the members of the Executive Board: Votes cast: 44. Majority necessaryfor an election:
21 Mr. Seydoux : 43 Mr. Sommerfelt : 42 Mr. Carneiro TA Mr. Evans 738 Mr. Parra Pérez : 37 Mr. Tecer 134 Mr. Boor = 18 | therefore declare elected: Mr. Mr. Sommerfelt, Mr. Carneiro, Mr. Evans, Mr. Parra Pérez, Mr. Tecer. These members are elected to serve a period of three years, the exact definition of what is a year, whether it is a calendar year or a working year, to be defined in the light of the proposed amendment to the Constitution; but I can assure you all it will be a working three years whatever be the definition adopted. Il have muchpleasure in declaring these six members elected. The next plenary meeting will be on Tuesday morning, when we shall deal with the reports of the Administrative Commission and of the Official and External Relations Commission. Seydoux, The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.