SEVENTH MEETING Monday, 26 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 2. Education (continuation). Seclion 7. (Continuation) RESOLUTION 2.74 tinuation). The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that it had to discuss a proposal made at the previous meeting by the delegation of the United States of America:
1. That the title of resolution 2.74 adopted at Beirut (‘“War-Handicapped Children”) should be retained instead of the newtitle suggested by the Executive Board (“Handicapped Children”);
2. That the words: “including those handi- capped by reason of war” (in the last line of item
2.741) should be deleted;
3. That the new item 2.742 should remain un- changed. (Handicapped Children) (con- Mr. WATKINS (Canada) supported the United States motion and indicated that the word “handi- capped”, instead of “war-handicapped”, gave the project too much extension. Dr. BEEBY(Assistant Director-General) pointed out that, as far as behaviour problems were con- cerned, it was impossible to separate “war-handi- capped” children from “handicapped” children generally speaking; from a technical point of view, Unesco could not confine its activities to one type of handicapped children. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) emphasized that there were vast areas in the world where war-handicapped children were non- existent. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that nevertheless there were large over- lapping areas, and suggested that the Director- General should be instructed to direct the activities of Unesco in this field in such a way as to include, predominantly, war-handicapped children. The CHAIRMAN asked whether the United States delegation was in agreement with the interpreta- tion of its proposal: the General Conference at Florence would take a final decision on the ques-
282 tion but, in the meantime, the proposed amend- ments would not prevent the Secretariat from considering the problem as a whole, although its activities were to be confined to war-handicapped children. Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) agreed with that interpretation. Sir James SHELLEY (New Zealand) suggested that the phrase “handicapped children” should be maintained, and that it should be the Director- General’s task to see that Unesco’s activities were concerned primarily with war-handicapped chil- dren. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that the Secretariat of Unesco had been requested by the United Nations to co-operate in the problem of juvenile delinquency. He stated that a certain amount of co-operation had been afforded in this matter in relation to war-handi- capped children, but that this co-operation was still insufficient. He further indicated that, with- in the present budgetary limitations, it was not possible for Unesco to increase its activity in this field. Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) supported the United States proposal, as he agreed that this type of activity should not be given too great an ex- pansion at this time. He nevertheless agreed that it was not possible, under the present provisions, to tackle the problem of handicapped children in general. He suggested that the proposals in the amended resolutions 2.741 and 2.742 should be maintained, and that the Director-General should be instructed to limit the activities of Unesco in this field to war-handicapped children as far as was technically possible. Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) was willing to agree with the delegate of the United Kingdom, on the understanding that the whole matter would be considered by the Fifth Session of the General Conference. It was decided to adopt the wording suggested by the Executive Board (document 4C/5 rev., page 14, right-hand column), with a recommen- dation that the Director-General should place the whole problem before the Florence Conference '.
1. In final form: Resolutions 2.531 and 2.532.    Section 8. Recommendations to the Director- General The Section, in which there were no proposed amendments and which involved no request for funds, was adopted without change. ' Before the end of discussion on Chapter 2, Mr. ABRAHAM (France) wished to be sure that the Commission had taken a formal decision on the amendments submitted by the French delega- tion at the previous meeting, which he did not think was clear from the discussions. The CHAIRMAN replied that the amendments relating to items 2.53, 2.71, 2.711 and 2.714 had been adopted, subject to a change in the drafting of item 2.711. With regard to item 2.0222, as the Australian delegation’s proposal (seconded by the French delegation) had not been embodied in a document, it had been referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The text pre- pared by the Sub-Committee, taking account of the proposals put forward, would be submitted to the Commission for fresh consideration. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) was satisfied with the information given. He wished to tell Dr. Beeby, the Assistant Director-General, how particularly sorry the French delegation would be when he left; they had been constantly impressed by the energy, intelligence and generous feeling which he had shown throughout his service with Unesco. After consulting the Commission, the CHAIR- MAN observed that there were no important bud- getary proposals affecting the Education pro- gramme. He asked that, in future, details of budgetary proposals should be referred im- mediately to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee, only the general gist being brought to the notice of the Programme and Budget Com- mission. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), referring to the procedure outlined by the Chairman during the morning’s meeting, asked whether he had been correct in understanding that, during the full meetings of the Programme and Budget Com- mission, only points of principle should be dis- cussed and that delegations should refrain from bringing up points of detail which were to be examined by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee, which would report to the full Com- mission. The CHAIRMAN confirmed Sir John Maud's interpretation. It would in fact be physically im- possible for the Commission to carry out its ex- amination of the programme and budget in the scheduled number of meetings, unless it confined
1. In final form: Resolutions 2.81 to 2.834.
83 itself to general questions. The Chairman there- fore proposed that detailed budgetary points should be submitted to the Sub-Committee for pre- liminary consideration, the conclusions of the Sub-Committee being submitted to the Commis- sion for final decision. It was understood that delegations would be entirely free to raise in the Sub-Committee any questions they might wish to receive attention. That procedure was approved. Chapter 3. Natural Sciences Section 1. Field Science Co-operation Offices Dr. WANG Te Yio (China) expressed his delega- tion’s gratitude to Unesco for the work done by the Field Science Co-operation Office at Nanking. Nevertheless, in view of the vast size of China, the Chinese delegation would like two new offices to be established, one in Peiping (for Nothern China) and the other in Canton (for Southern China). The delegation also wished to draw the Secretariat's attention to the fact that, as China's currency had once more become stable, the special allowance to officials attached to the Shanghai Office was no longer necessary. Sir David BRUNT (United Kingdom) stressed the importance of Field Science Co-operation Offices, but thought nevertheless that the increase estimated for this project represented an amount which could not be spent in the proposed time. He therefore recommended a cut of $36,000. Mr. SAGLAM (Turkey) said that his Government was following the useful work of the Middle East Field Science Co-operation Office in Cairo with the greatest interest. Mr. MUSHINE (Israel) stated that his delegation was fully conscious of its responsibilities and anxious to contribute in the field of science-co- operation. He hoped that scientists from Israel would have free access to the Middle East Science Co-operation Office so that exchanges of informa- tion and material could be facilitated. The CHAIRMAN mentioned that, as the amend- ment submitted by the United Kingdom delega- tion dealt with a budgetary matter, it would be referred for consideration to the Sub-Committee, in accordance with the procedure which the Com- mission had just. adopted. With regard to the Chinese delegation’s request for the establishment of new Offices, the Secretariat would have to give its opinion on the feasibility of such a develop- ment. Professor AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) observing that, as the matter stood, the budget estimates did not provide for any increase       in the number of offices proposed, Dr. WANG Te Yio (China) asked that the possibility of ex- panding the staff of the Nanking Office should be considered. The CHAIRMAN said that that proposal, which involved an increase or adjustment in the budget, would be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordina- tion Sub-Committee for examination. With regard to the request made by the delega- tion of Israel, Professor AUGER (Head, Depart- ment of Natural Sciences) stated that the services of the Middle East Science Co-operation Office would be extended to Israel. Section 2. World Centre of Scientific Liaison The Executive Board's proposed amendment (doc- ument 4C/5 rev., page 16, right-hand column) was adopted. * Section 3. Scientific Literature Mr. GROSS (United States of America), referring to the proposal submitted by the United States delegation concerning the revision of programme resolution 3.32 (document 4C/29), stated that the purpose of this amendment was to clarify the form of collaboration prescibed in this field and to indicate that the abstracts should be of an essen- tially practical nature. He stated that the work achieved by the Secretariat was excellent, but sug- gested that it should concentrate on a small number of fields and enter newfields slowly and only after careful consideration. The amendment to item 3.32 proposed by the United States delegation was adopted. * The new wording of item 3.33, proposed by the Executive Board (document 4C/5 rev. - Add. and Corr.), was adopted. * Having regard to those two decisions, the word- ing proposed by the Executive Board (document
4C/5 rev., pages 16 and 17, right-hand column) was adopted. * Section 4. Co-operation with Non-Governmental Organizations Sir David BRUNT (United Kingdom), referring to the proposed new resolution 3.422 concerning an International Council of Engineering Sciences, thought that some account should be taken of the work achieved by the Conference of Engineers which had recently met in London. He thought it was very important that a council of this kind should be truly international and, feeling that this was not possible at the moment, he hoped that
1. In final form:
2. In final form: Resolution 3.32.
3. In final form: Resolutions 3.33 to 3.333.
4. In final form: Resolutions 3.31 to 3.34. Resolutions 3.21 and 3.22.
284 this matter could be postponed for further con- sideration by a later session. Mr. PERRIN (France) stressed the difficulty of international co-operation in the engineering sciences. Such co-operation was, however, essen- tial unless powerful private interests, which were often contrary to the general interest, were to carry the day in that field. The French delegation therefore asked for the retention of item 3.422; it wished indeed that the Director-General should be recommendedto go further than the too limited objects advocated by the experts. Mr. GROSS (United States of America) agreed that this matter needed further examination, in co-operation with FAO and WHO and with the different Member Governments which would re- port the results of their study to the Secretariat. He also indicated that, in order to avoid com- plications, the respective róles of WHO and FAO should be made quite clear. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) supported the views of the United Kingdom and United States delega- tions, and stated the importance of referring the matter to the Governments and appropriate bodies for their consideration. Professor AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out to the United Kingdom del- egation that the London Conference included only national engineering associations, whereas the Conference mentioned in item 3.422 would aim at co-ordinating the work of international engin- eering organizations already in existence. Such contact had been recognized as necessary by the Committee of Experts which met in Unesco House in July 1949, and there was no danger that the proposed Conference would duplicate the work of the London Conference. The Executive Board's proposed item 3.422 (doc- ument 4C/5 rev., page 17, right-hand column) was adopted by 15 votes to 9, subject to a drafting amendment which did not affect the substance of the programme. ° Section 5. Conservation of Natural Resources and the Protection of Nature Mr. CUMMINS (Australia), speaking on programme resolution 3.51, suggested that, for budgetary purposes, this matter should also come under the heading “Popularization of Science” (3.9). He felt that there was a lack of popular scientific infor- mation in this field and that it should be given publicity. Mr. PERRIN (France) supported the Australian proposal and asked that the International Union
5. In final form: Resolution 3.922.        for the Protection of Nature should make use of the material already collected by the International Office for the Protection of Nature. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) stated that FAO and Unesco were both interested in the conservation of natural resources and that the two Agencies should co-operate in this field. Professor AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) said that the Secretariat was in agree- ment with the Australian delegation’s proposals. He assured the French delegation that the material collected by the International Office for the Pro- tection of Nature would be widely utilized and, in that connexion, mentioned that the purpose of one of the contracts made by the Organization the previous year was to secure the classification of that material. He also assured the United States delegation that the Secretariat’s work in that field was being carried out in consultation with the United Nations and FAO. The Australian delegation’s proposal, being accepted by the Secretariat, was referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, and Section 5 as a whole was adopted. * Section 6. International Institute of the Hylean Amazon Mme TORRES (Brazil), representing the Interim Commission of the International Institute of the Hylean Amazon, gave an account of the work of that organization. Under the provisions of its Constitution, five ratifications were required; to date, three States had ratified the Constitution, and Brazil’s ratification was held up by parlia- mentary formalities alone. The Interim Commis- sion had, however, already secured some tangible results. As there were no remarks on that Section, it was adopted. ? Section 7. International Institute of the Arid Zone Section 8. International Computation Centre Mr. GROSS (United States of America) called the attention of the meeting to documents 4C/27 and
4C/28 which contained amendments submitted by the United States delegation concerning an Inter- national Institute of the Arid Zone and the pro- posed International Computation Centre. He suggested that the establishment of these institutes should be referred to another session of the General Conference, and that in the mean- time Member Governments should be requested to give their advice.
1. In final form: Resolution 3.4.
2. In final form: Resolution 3.5.
285 Sir David BRUNT (United Kingdom) supported the views of the United States delegation and stated that it was embarrassing to consider re- solutions based on the work of experts when the reports of these experts had not been communi- cated to the Governments. He assumed that the fact of voting in favour of the proposed resolution
3.7 was equivalent to voting for the immediate setting up of an International Institute of the Arid Zone, and suggested that the wording should be revised; he added that this suggestion also applied to resolution 3.8. Professor AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) mentioned, in connexion with the Inter- national Computation Centre, that the Frenchtitle was inaccurate and that it would be preferable to speak of a “Centre international de mathématiques appliquées”. Furthermore, at a meeting of the United Nations Committee of Experts on Inter- national Laboratories with specialists from Unesco, it had been decided that the highest priority should be given to the establishment of such a centre. Item 3.82, which was no longer required, should therefore be deleted. The CHAIRMAN observed that the two amend- ments put forward by the delegation of the United States of America (documents 4C/27 and 4C/28) were inspired by the same idea; he therefore pro- posed that the two documents should be submitted to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee to be recast. Professor FANTAPPIE (Italy) thought it diffi- cult to treat the two questions together. The scheme relating to the Arid Zone was very com- plicated and required minute study, while that relating to the Computation Centre could be per- fected in a much shorter time. In the circum- stances, he supported the proposal in document
4C/28, subject to the following amendment to paragraph 2: “to submit a report to the General Conference in 1950”. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) asked whether the situation regarding the International Computa- tion Centre had changed in such a way that the reports requested from the Member States had become unnecessary, or whether reports should still be communicated before the end of November
1949. Professor AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that the reports were still necessary. Subject to the drafting amendments to be made, Sections 7 and 8 were adopted. 3
3. In final form: Resolutions 3.6 and 3.7. — E N     It was agreed that the Italian amendment would be taken into consideration in the new draft which was to be prepared by the Secretariat and sub- mitted to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee. Section 9. Mr. GROSS (United States of America) wondered whether the Secretariat had not been too ambitious with regard to the proposed activities in the field of popularization of science. He suggested a re- Popularization of Science duction in budget amounting to $20,000. Sir David BRUNT (United Kingdom) supported this suggestion. Mr. PERRIN (France) said that the French delegation could not in any way approve the re- duction proposed by the United States delegation, for it did not believe that the difficulties inherent on the problem should result in a reduction of the appropriation for that Section. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) supported the French delegation’s attitude and said that Switzerland vote in favour of maintaining the sums appropriated. However, he would like the word “vulgarization” in the French version to be altered, as it seemed to him to be depreciatory. It was not a question of merely making science popular, but of trying to spread the scientific attitude among the general public and thus encouraging in the ordinary people an objective spirit which was lacking at the moment. Mr. Piaget therefore asked that the title of the project would be altered to make it clear that it was not concerned with a “short cut to science”. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark), speaking on the proposed resolution 3.93, indicated that no men- tion had been made of the work accomplished by the Committee of the International Council of Scientific Unions. He suggested that there should be some co-operation between Unesco and ICSU, and that Unesco might concentrate on the social implications of science, but that in any case the respective tasks should be made quite clear. He also suggested that the proposed resolution 3.93 should not come under the heading “Populariza- tion of Science”. Professor AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) answered that Unesco was making use of the work of ICSU’s Committee on Social Re- lations. The reason why the Committee did not receive a special grant was that the International Council of Scientific Unions received one covering the whole of its activities. The CHAIRMAN proposed that, as no objection had been raised to the substance of the matters discussed, drafting and budgetary questions con- cerning Chapter 3 (Natural Sciences) should be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee. Agreed. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) expressed his delega- tion’s concern at the transference of the scientific history to the Department of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. He was afraid that the trans- fer might denote a lessening of the interest of the Department of Natural Sciences in the question. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL gave an assurance that the change in no way represented a lessening of interest. There was full collaboration between the various departments in Unesco and he person- ally saw no objection, if the Commission thought fit, to the addition of a paragraph to resolution 5.7, specifying the need for co-operation with the other departments concerned. Chapter 4. Social Sciences Section I. International Social Sciences Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) paid tribute to the patient and effective work accomplished by the Secretariat in the field of Social Sciences, particularly concerning international organization in the Social Sciences. He nevertheless wondered whether the increase in the activities planned for
1950 was on the right scale and in the right direc- tion. The figure proposed by the Executive Board was not in any sense too large a total if the pro- jects were of an essentially practical nature. He pointed out, however, that the obligations in 1948 were higher than the estimates for 1949, and stressed the wisdom of the Director-General who had not over-spent the amounts allotted. An in- crease in the Budget and in the work in 1950 were desirable, but the pace implied by an increase of
60 per cent was too great. This was not the time or place to make any detailed proposals, which should be a matter for the consideration of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee; but, as an indication of the kind of reduction suggested by the United Kingdom delegation, Sir John stated that, in his view, the amount of $100,000 to be spent on experts and consultants was too large and that the same remark applied to the amount of $85,000 estimated for printing. Speaking on programme resolution 4.1, Sir John doubted whether it would be advisable to abandon the gradual and empirical method used in 1948. Regarding the proposed lectureships, he stressed that this was a new experiment and that, for the first year, one or two might be sufficient. He thought that the idea of a bulletin was excellent if it were confined to facts relating to time, place and subject of conferences. Organization in the     Mr. LE BRAS (France) was glad of the im- portance attributed to the social sciences in Unes- co’s programme and hoped that an International Council for the Social Sciences would be set up, similar to that established to deal with Philo- sophy and Humanistic Studies. Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Sciences) was very sorry that he could not en- dorse the proposals made by the United Kingdom delegate. The increase in the budget of his Depart- ment was due to the fact that it was, for practical purposes, a new department of the Secretariat, which would have to undertake entirely new activities. In the field of international co-oper- ation, in particular, the Secretariat would have to see about providing services, in 1950, for five international organizations which had either just been or were about to be established. No change in the budget could be considered unless part of the suggested programme was to be abandoned. The Secretariat had in mind the establishment of the International Council for which the French delegation had asked, but action would be pre- mature in the existing state of international co- operation. Mr.TABBAH (Lebanon) read out the Lebanese delegation’s proposal regarding the teaching of law (document 4C/23). Dr. FOSSI (Italy) seconded the proposal. Mr. DUNN (United States of America) expressed his sympathy with the general purpose of the resolution of the delegation of Lebanon. He nevertheless emphasized the difficulties which would be encountered in reorganizing the teaching of law in the United States. He suggested that this matter should be referred to the Executive Board and the National Commissions for their consideration, and brought up at the Fifth Sesssion of the General Conference. Mr. TABBAH (Lebanon) had no objection to referring consideration of his delegation’s draft resolution to the Florence Conference, but he would like to know whether the idea underlying the proposal was approved by the Commission. Mr. LE BRAS (France) thought there could be no objection in principle, if it was understood that the teaching of law should always be related to principles of morality and was not merely a form of technical instruction. He himself supported the United States delegation’s proposal. The CHAIRMAN stated that the proposal was accepted by the Commission and referred to the Secretariat and National Commissions for further consideration and submission to the Fifth Session of the General Conference.
287 Mr. CAIN (France) recalled that the British delegation had raised certain budgetary matters in connexion with Section 1, which were to be sub- mitted to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee, and asked that the proposed appro- priations for item 4.13 (Abstracting Services), the importance of which he stressed, should be kept unchanged. He also asked for the deletion of the adjective “suitable” describing those services, as it seemed to him to be superfluous. In the light of those observations, Section 1, as recommended by the Executive Board (doc- ument 4C/5 rev., page 19, right-hand column) was adopted as a whole. * Section 2. Dissemination of Scientific Facts concerning Race The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the Executive Board's proposal (document 4C/5 rev., page 20. right-hand column) was the subject of an amend- ment suggested by the French delegation (doc- ument 4C/32) recommending that the heading 4.2 and item 4.21 should be modified by the insertion of the idea of “study” as well as “dissemination”. Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Sciences) said that the Secretariat agreed with the French delegation about the value of such a study of scientific facts concerning race. How- ever, for budgetary reasons, it had been thought advisable to divide up the work and to proceed immediately with the dissemination of the avail- able facts. It was proposed that further study should be carried out after the Florence Confer- ence, if the budget for that work was then adopted. The DIRECTOR-GENERALalso emphasized that the addition of a newactivity to the Social Sciences programme would compel him to make changes in the budget. He pointed out to Sir John Maud that the growth of the Department was not fortuitous but was the result of the work which had been done in the field in question in the last few months. The request for $16,000 under the heading of “Fees” was explained by the fact that the Secretariat had to secure the services of experts who could not be employed on the regular staff owing to the staff restrictions imposed by the Third Session of the General Conference. If the Conference refused to grant the money for that purpose and likewise opposed the recruitment of additional staff, the Organization would be left with no means of action. The publication of the International Social Sciences Bulletin was also essential, if the resolu- tion adopted in Beirut was not to remain a dead letter.
1. In final form: Resolutions 4.11 to 4.13.    In conclusion, the Director-General asked the Commission not to oppose, for financial reasons, Unesco's development in the field of the social sciences, which was so important and had hitherto been so seriously neglected. Dr. AWAD Bey (Egypt), speaking on the French amendment to the proposed resolution 4.21, cri- ticized the word study which added a new and unnecessary element to the project. He stressed then extent of anthropological studies in the past, and thought that the primary task should be one of diffusion of scientific information. He sug- gested that the phrase “questions of race” was preferable to “problems of race”, since this prob- lem only existed in a small number of distorted minds. He therefore stated his preference for the original drafting of resolutions 4.21, 4.22 and 4.23, provided that the word “problems” was elimi- nated. Mr. MARROU (France) explained that the French amendment was designed to secure not study but investigation of scientific facts, which ought logically to come before the dissemination of such facts. He did not think that the two activities (which would not be undertaken con- currently, but in succession) would involve twice as much drain on the budget. Mr. LE BRAS (France), while agreeing that the dissemination of scientific facts already available would be extremely useful, emphasized that it was a matter of urgency to study races which were in danger of becoming extinct. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) stated that, in the light of the remarks of the Head of the Department of Social Sciences, he felt that it was essential to convene an assembly of experts which would advise on the best way for Unesco to act in this field. He thought that the question of race was of great importance, but that it was unwise to provide for the publication of ten pamphlets on this subject in 1950, and that it was important to await the report of the experts to decide on the priority order of collection of facts, research work and dissemination. The CHAIRMAN proposed that, as the question involved the budget, it should be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee before submission to the Commission for final decision. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that, as the question stood, the Sub-Committee could not con- sider it. Furthermore, he would be sorry if, for budgetary reasons, the dissemination of important material already collected, which the United Nations Economic and Social Council had asked should be published, was delayed. A Committee of Experts was to meet for that purpose the fol- lowing December, and it would be possible to publish the documents before the Fifth Session of the General Conference. In the circumstances, Mr. MARROU (France) said that the French delegation would withdraw its amendment, provided that the Secretariat was recommended to undertake the necessary research (concurrently with the dissemination of the scien- tific facts) as soon as financial resources were made available. The text of Section 2 proposed by the Executive Board (document 4C/5 rev., page 20, right-hand column) was adopted as a whole. * The meeting rose at 7 p.m.
1. In final form: Resolutions 4.21 to 4.23.