SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE JOINT COMMISSION—PROGRAMME AND BUDGET AND OFFICIAL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS FIRST MEETING Saturday, 24 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Pauro ne BERREDO Carneiro (Brazil) Election of the Chairman. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) nominated Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro for the Office of Chair- man of the Joint Commission. Professor Carneiro was elected by acclamation. Item 8 A (1) of the Agenda: Report of the Director-General on the Activities of the Organization in Germany during 1949 and Policy to be adopted in 1950 (documents 4C/ OXR/16 and 4C/OXR/16-Addendum). The CHAIRMAN explained that, in document 4C/ OXR/16, any changes made to the texts in the right-hand column (activities voted for 1949 by the Third Session of the General Conference) were underlined in the texts in the left-hand column (proposed activities for 1950). Document 4C/ OXR/16-Addendum, based on the recommenda- tions of the Committee of Experts, completed the programme submitted to the Conference. The list of members of the Committee of Experts gave the names of who had approved the recommenda- tions appearing in the Addendum and of those who had abstained from voting. Mr. FLEISCHMANN (Czechoslovakia) proposed, on behalf of his delegation, the withdrawal of Item 8 A (1) from the Agenda. This proposal was put to the vote and rejected. Mr. OGRODZINSKI (Poland) stressed Poland’s desire for the “cultural rebirth” of Germany. It paid tribute to Germany’s cultural and scientific traditions, which were distinguished by the names of Goethe, Leibnitz, Heine, Beethoven, Diirer, Einstein, etc. It would be only too glad to under-
413 stand and assist a peaceable neighbour if Unesco, through its cultural mission, succeeded in re- awakening a peaceful spirit in Germany. But Mr. Ogrodzinski thought that Unesco’s present activities in Germany were not calculated to achieve the aim it had set itself. The denazi- fication campaign had failed and the spirit of revenge had continued to make headway. The demagogic fanaticism which had marked the elec- toral campaign was sufficient proof. The same Hitlerites—the murderers of Czechs, Poles, French- men and rebel German generals—were at the fore- front of political and social life. The monuments raised to the victims of Hitlerism were daily defiled with impunity. In such circumstances, Unesco’s campaign was futile. It was a pity that the work had begun just at the time when the failure of the denazification campaign was becom- ing apparent. Unesco had embarked on a task which it thought easy, but which would finally ruin its prestige if it adhered to its present policy. Mr. Victor Mencel, the Polish expert, had clearly defined the four principles which should guide Unesco’s activities in Germany (document 4C/ OXR/16, pages 4-5). It was obvious that, in the absence of unity and uniform control, there could be no denazification or cultural collaboration be- tween Germanyand the rest of the world; further- more, it was necessary for the Germans themselves to finance the cultural campaign in Germany (but the danger then was that Western Germany might take a lead in political and cultural affairs, which would result in the re-emergence of Hitlerism); lastly, Unesco would not be helping denazification by securing the co-operation of so-called anti-Nazi elements, but only encouraging Hitler's erstwhile followers to rear their heads again. The establish-   ment of the puppet State of Western Germany, far from creating an atmosphere favourable to Unes- co’s work, would lead to the exploitation of dif- ferences of opinion for the purpose of revenge. The rift would be only widened by the activities proposed under resolutions 1.4 and 2 (document
4C/OXR/16, pages 7-8). Similarly, if the pro- visions of item 2.13 (ibid., page 10) were applied, there was no guarantee that the experiments car- ried out on living Polish girls held prisoner in Ravensbriick would not be used. Moreover, if the survey provided for under resolution 5.5 (ibid., page 12) were carried out, aggressive nationalism would be as strong as ever. As for resolutions 8.1 and 8.2 (document 4C/OXR/16-Addendum, page
3), they were only too liable to lead to the revival of Nazi sham-culture. The Polish delegation therefore could not vote for this programme, and thought that Unesco’s activities in Germany should come to an end. Some delegates might perhaps think that Unesco should try to do what it could in Germany and that to discontinue its work would be to betray the forces of peaceful democracy. The Polish del- egation would reply that, though it believed in the existence of German pacifists bent on the re- birth of culture, it thought that they would be assisted more effectively” if Unesco ceased colla- borating with Western Germany and its puppet leaders. If it refused to co-operate with Herr Heuss and Herr Adenauer, whose names were linked with the aggression against Poland, Czecho- slovakia and Austria, it would be a warning to the Germans that only peaceful methods could win them a place in the comity of nations. Unes- co could not work to any good purpose in Germany until the four Occupying Powers had again come to an understanding. Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) declared that no country, next to Poland, had suffered as much at the hands of the Germans as the Netherlands had. The general opinion in his country was that it was absolutely necessary to re-educate the German people and that it was Unesco’s task to do so. At Mexico City in 1947 and at Beirut in 1948, the Netherlands delegation had complained that action in that respect had not been sufficient; the Nether- lands had tried to have a direct influence on Ger- man youth through the medium of work camps and by the creation of a Co-ordinating Committee entrusted with the task of promoting love of peace and better understanding. After studying doc- ument 4C/OXR/16, Dr. Kruyt was happy to note that Unesco’s action had now greatly improved in quality and increased in volume. He was very pleased with the Director-General’s report and convinced that the Committee of Experts had taken sound decisions which pointed out the right road
414 to follow. Unesco’s task in Germany would be very difficult, conditions in that country were still small, but the Netherlands delegation was satisfied with the work done in 1949, and wished to approve the Director-General's report. Count JACINI (Italy) would admit, for the sake of argument, that the Polish delegate's pessimistic account of the spiritual state of Western Germany was correct. He had all the more regard for the feelings of the Polish and Czechoslovak delegations as their countries had suffered the most at the hands of the Nazis. But he objected that Mr. Ogrodzinski had not shown how Unesco's work would be hampered in Germany. His argu- ments were purely hypothetical. Count Jacini, for his part, felt that Unesco's activity would have only the consequences implied by its programme. Even if the situation described by the delegate of Poland were true (and Count Jacini took a dif- ferent view), Unesco’s work would still serve a useful purpose. Count Jacini therefore endorsed the recommendation of the Netherlands delegate. Mr. ZUTTER (Switzerland) stressed that his country was keenly interested in Unesco’s work in Germany. Switzerland had close ties with Ger- many, not merely by reason of the common fron- tier, but also because, throughout a large area of Switzerland, the written language was the same as in Germany. That language had for centuries been the vehicle for principles ideas and master- pieces which had enabled the Swiss to grasp clear- ly the true mentality of their northern neighbours. In the heyday of German culture, Switzerland had drawn largely upon it, as was evidenced by the Swiss devotion to the great works of German liter- ature. Such considerations accounted for Switzer- land’s desire to play its part in Unesco’s campaign in Germany. It could help in the following ways: (a) Make available libraries, universities, schools, seminars, educational establishments, scientific, educational and cultural publications written in German, documentary films, and scripts for broadcasts; (b) Encourage the exchange of publications, reports and information of the same nature be- tween Switzerland and Germany; (с) Co-operate with national and international organizations in working out means of solving the problem of handicapped children, and seek homes for refugees, a question that affected Switzerland in various ways (as a neighbouring country and a member of the IRO) quite apart from the humanitarian problem involved; (d) Embark on or continue work for the ex- change of students, teachers and welfare workers,       for the establishment of international work camps and children’s communities, and for the training of leaders to carry out the various parts of Unesco’s programme. Switzerland had various private organizations or associations that could be entrusted with the ex- ecution of particular items of the programme, in collaboration with the National Commission or more particularly with its branches. The Federal Political Department was taking a special interest in the question and was prepared to give its full support. Dr. NIEBUHR (United States of America) stressed that the core of the Polish delegation’s objections was that no work could be accomplished without Four Power accord. It should be re- membered that the Director-General had sought Four Power support, but had received no answer to some of his letters. Unesco, indeed the whole world, was seeking to help a very sick nation and Dr. Niebuhr advocated the usual therapeutic method of turning to the residual health of the patient. It was monstrous to suggest that Unes- co’s programme could aid the rebirth of nation- alism in Germany; none of its activities was in any way likely to do that. It was obvious that Unesco’s aims was the democratic education of the German people and, therefore, Dr. Niebuhr moved that the programme, as outlined in the Director-General's report and amended by the re- solutions of the Executive Board, be adopted. The programme was a minimum because the funds available were small; but it was possible to in- crease it by the exchange of persons, international conferences, which would draw Germans into the European community, etc.— activities which had already been initiated by Unesco. The speaker was convinced there was no purpose for which Unesco’s could be more usefully applied than the restoration to health of a sick nation. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) sec- onded Dr. Niebuhr's motion. He recalled that the proposal before the Joint Commission was to ex- tend the scope of the work which Unesco had initiated in 1947 and continued in 1948. The gen- eral wish to extend also the area of Unesco’s action had been repeatedly emphasized, and it was not Unesco’s fault if the wish had not become a real- ity. In the speaker’s opinion, the re-education of the German people depended on the re-education of the Occupying Powers. Unesco had been doing its very best to overcome the existing obstacles, to break down the barriers and teach German youth to follow Goethe and Kant; the good work had begun and must be continued. Miss PEDERSEN (Denmark) wished to support Dr. Kruyt's statement. Danish women's organiza- tions had been for two years in close contact with German women's democratic organizations who represented 65 per cent of the electorate. Every one would understand the importance of Unesco's co-operation with those women, an importance which transcended the question of who was Pre- sident of the new German State. The difficulties which faced Unesco were by no means insuper- able, and the Danish delegation wished to state its strong approval of the recommendations which had been laid before the Commission. Dr. VEJARANO (Colombia) felt that Unesco's action in Germany was a vital matter. He could not believe that the German people—who had con- tributed so much to world culture and science— could be impervious to that action. He stressed that the democratic neighbours of Germany were in favour of the programme and approved the Director-General's report; the Colombian delega- tion agreed with them, because it was for world democracy and against all campaigns of revenge. It was Unesco's duty to help the women mentioned by the Danish delegate and all those in Germany who were ready to accept the good word; there- fore, the Colombian delegation supported without reserve Unesco's action in Germany and approved the Director-General's report. Mr. FLEISCHMANN (Czechoslovakia), on behalf of his delegation, whole-heartedly supported the Polish delegate, thoughhe appreciated the remarks made by the otherdelegates; however, he did not believe that their dream could become a reality. The situation in Germany had changed since the days of the Mexico City Conference. The first results of the Bonn Constitution had revealed the true intellectual complexion of Germany. The Western press did not note all the incidents it should; however, on 23 September 1949, Le Monde had published on its second page a con- vincing article regarding the attitude of Herr Adenauer and his self-styled Bonn Government. If Unesco refused for the time being to collaborate with Germany, it would be helping more effective- ly towards its pacification. Unesco’s activities in Western Germany would constitute an ipso facto recognition of the artificial Government of West- ern Germany by Unesco and accordingly an en- couragement to it. Czechoslovakia was not refus- ing to pardon Germany (this was proved by the history of the relations between Germany and Czechoslovakia and the tolerance of the pre-war Czech authorities towards the German minorities, which nevertheless betrayed the Czechoslovak State and were expelled with the approval of the entire world). Mr. Fleischmann recalled that, during the meeting of the Committee of Experts on which   the Director-General had asked him to serve, all had agreed (as brought out in the report by Dr. Thompson, of the Secretariat) that the situa- tion in Germany was “fluid” and had changed since the days of the Mexico City and Beirut Con- ferences. Mr. Fleischmann therefore appealed to Unesco nd to hasten events, as if they were faced with a world catastrophy, and to discontinue its work in Germany. The matter should be referred to the Fifth Session of the General Conference; until further notice, all the decisions regarding Germany should be worked out subject to agreement with the four Powers. Mr. Fleischmann was surprised that Unesco was taking decisions without referring to the United Nations, the Economic and Social Council, and the Occupying Powers. He asked the representative of the World Federation of United Nations Associations, whom the Director- General had invited to the Conference as an ob- server, to give his opinion on the matter. Mr. Fleischmann concluded with a renewed request for the withdrawal of Item 8 A (1) from the Agenda. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) approved the prin- ciples guiding Unesco's work in Germany. He referred to the opinion expressed by the delegate of the Netherlands (a suggestion put forward in
1946 regarding the advisability of Unesco’s col- laborating in the denazification campaign). He approved the programme proposed by the Director-General, but suggested a slight addition to the text. No mention had been made of the important contribution that could be made by youth movement leaders who, in the Netherlands, enjoyed the confidence of the people. He there- fore suggested: (a) amending resolution 1 (document 4C/OXR/
16, page 7) to read as follows: To distribute to interested groups in Germany, and especially to educators and youth group leaders, the documents, publications and other materials of Unesco, and to make known the aims and achieve- ments of the Organization by all appropriate means; (b) amending resolution 9.1 (document 4C/OXR/
16-Addendum, page 3) as follows: In order to ensure the greatest possible effectiveness of Unesco’s action in Germany, it is recommended that, within the framework of the above programme, highest priority should be given to those projects directly designed to influence public opinion towards à spirit of peace and international understanding. In this respect, special emphasis should be placed on press, film and radio, particularly in their use in the formation of youth and the training of teachers and youth group leaders. Mr. OGRODZINSKI (Poland) observed that del- egates had not denied the existence of the militar- ism that reigned, and were increasing, in Ger- many. He agreed with the Italian delegate that in Western Germany there was a degree of polit- ical liberty that was exploited by the friends of Nazism and was unknown in Poland itself. It would have been better to abide by the Control Council’s decision, which would have saved Unes- co from reaping the results of the unsuccessful denazification campaign. Mr. Ogrodzinski went on to remark that Unesco had not waited for unanimous agreement before setting to work in Germany. As for the question of pardoning Ger- many, it took second place to the re-education of the German people along lines laid down by agree- ment between the four Powers and in accordance with the Potsdam decisions. Mr. PERRIN (France) realized the gravity of the problem. The French delegation thought it only right to take account of the feelings of Ger- many’s neighbours and the victims of Hitlerism (particularly Poland). It agreed with the Polish delegation on many points, and notably the fol- lowing: (1) Unesco’s work in Germany should aim at encouraging the rebirth of German human- ism and respecting its outstanding literary and musical traditions; (2) peace was the highest blessing for Germany and for the rest of the world, and Germany should be able to return to the com- munity of nations and strive to eradicate the seeds of Nazism from the minds of its youth. Mr. Perrin however disagreed with the Polish delegate’s view that Unesco was unable to achieve such a purpose in Germany. Its work remained possible even under existing political conditions, and it was not necessary to wait for agreement between the Occupying Powers. Mr. Perrin thought Unesco’s activities should be extended to the whole of Germany, beginning with the zone open to its influence. Unesco should therefore continue its work along the lines indicated, without there being any fear of its covering up acts prompted by fanatical na- tionalism. But it would be advisable to introduce into the resolution submitted a safety clause indicating the necessary conditions for Unesco's work in Germany; on 15 June 1949, the Executive Board had drafted a very clear clause to that effect. It would read as follows: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, Havinc examined the report of the Director-General on the activities developed by Unesco in Germany in 1949 in implementation of the resolution adopted by the General Conference at its Third Session, Having considered the recommendations of the Expert Committee set up by the Director-General to advise him on Unesco's work in Germany, ConFIRMSsits previous decision concerning the action of Unesco in Germany, but wishesto underline that
416       this action can only succeed and continue, if the interested German circles, particularly educators and those who are responsible for informing public opi- nion, abstain from all campaigns and polemics con- trary to the principles of the Organization, but on the contrary attempt to create the atmosphere of mutual understanding necessary for the development of this action; Decipes that the Director-General, acting in agreement and in co-operation with the appropriate allied authorities in Germany, is instructed to extend to Germany the following activities of Unesco within the framework of the Organization’s general pro- gramme for 1950. The French delegation thought that such a re- solution would meet the requirements of Poland and Czechoslovakia, who were alarmed at the ris- ing tide of nationalism in Germany. It was for the Executive Board to persevere in or to suspend Unesco’s work. Mr. GYALMOS (Hungary) agreed that progres- sive education for democracy was indispensable in Germany. However, conditions in that coun- try, its way of life, the degree of denazification— of minds as well as of institutions—and its genuine desire for democracy must be taken into consider- action before any action was undertaken. Unesco should also consider the question of German unity which was the fundamental condition of peace and human progress. Hungary wanted guarantees that all German aggressively nationalistic ideas had been destroyed, because it had suffered for hun- dreds of years under German oppression and lost, in the last war, 600,000 of its nine and a half million inhabitants. It was a fact that German nationalism still existed and, therefore, the Hun- garian delegation did not think Unesco’s action opportune and supported the Polish motion. Mr. ENNALS (World Federation of United Na- tions Associations) stated that the members of the Federation were anxious that the work of the United Nations should be understood all over the world. They were however unanimous in wish- ing for caution in dealing with Germany and had created a special Committee on Germany consist- ing of representatives of the United Nations Asso- ciations of the countries that were neighbours of Germany. The Federation thought the moment was premature for the setting up of a German United Nations Association which might become the vehicle for German nationalism, as had been the case of the German League of Nations Society before the war. WFUNA had decided that the most important thing, at the present moment, was to encourage the dissemination in Germany of in- formation about the United Nations, and it colla- borated to that end with the Information Depart- ment of the United Nations. The speaker said the World Federation, by adopting an agreed policy
417 on Germany, had avoided disrupting the unity of the Federation, and hoped that Unesco would also find it possible to reach an agreed solution on this question. Mr. OPRECHT (Switzerland), as a national of German-speaking Switzerland, agreed with the Polish and Czechoslovak delegates that German problems were of vital interest; but he was sur- prised that there was any question of “giving in”. Redoubled efforts, on the contrary, were needed to rid Germany of Nazism. It was an essential condition for world peace. Mr BIRECKI (Poland), speaking under Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, thanked delegates for the tribute paid to his country. He wished to explain that, though his delegation was asking for Unesco to discontinue its activities in Germany, it did not deny the value of collaboration with that country; but the question was, with what kind of Germany? certainly not with the leaders of its present Government. With one exception, more or less, none of the speakers had stressed the existence of freedom in Western Germany, which was regrettable under existing circum- stances. The Director-General, during his stay in Germany, had considered it only from the point of view of its desire to set up a Constitution. When the Mexico City resolutions had been adop- ted, there had only been the Inter-Allied Control Commission in Berlin. He was putting forward not a formal objection, but an argument vital to the prestige and security of Unesco itself. Some who had defended denazification had also defended the death ovens; and some publications vindicat- ing Nazism had been published under the very eyes of the Occupying Authorities. There was no denazification and, though it might seem para- doxical, it would be constructive more for Unesco to give up its activities in Germany. Official Ger- many should be told: “You may not take your place in the comity of nations until you adopt another tone”. The French delegation had submitted an amend- ment invoking the necessity of favourable condi- tions. Such conditions did not exist, as was proved by the articles published the week before (but not in the English and American press) and the incidents at the Reichstag meeting. Until Germany was under the unified control of the four Occupying Powers, Unesco’s activities there would remain impossible. Action should have been taken through the United Nations. Unesco was now advocating not re-education, but collaboration. Poland opposed such a move. If the work were continued, it would mean weaken- ing Unesco’s position as a world-wide organiza- tion.            Dr. NIEBUHR (United States of America) moved the approval of the Director-General’s report (doc- uments 4C/OXR/ES and Addendum) including the amendments presented by the French and Belgian delegations At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, the delegates of Poland and Czechoslovakia agreed to combine their proposals for the withdrawal of Item 8 A (1) from the Agenda of the General Conference. He called for a vote on the proposals put for- ward by:
1. The delegates of Poland and Czechoslovakia;
2. The delegate of France;
3. The proposal of the Polish and Czechoslovak delegates was rejected by 25 votes to 3, with
2 abstentions. The French proposal was adopted by 14 votes to 2, with 9 abstentions. The proposal of the United States of America (approval of the programme presented by the Director-General) was adopted by 19 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions. Documents 4C/OXR/16 and 4C/OXR/16-Adden- dum were adopted with the amendments proposed by the French and Belgian delegations. * The delegate of the United States of America. The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m. SECOND MEETING Saturday, 24 September 1949, at 3.45 p.m. Chairman: Mr. PauLo DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Statement by the Director-General on the Budget Estimates revised in the light of the recent currency devaluations. The CHAIRMAN called on the Director-General to speak on the Budget Estimates revised in the light of the recent currency devaluations. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL made the following statement: When [ had the houour to submit to you the Draft Budget for 1950, IT told you that the competent ser- vices of the Secretariat had immediately begun to study the possible effects of the recent devaluations on our estimated expenditure for next year. I have duly consulted the Executive Board in this matter . In full agreement with the Finance Committee of the Board, the categories of expenditure liable to be modified have been defined and a basis found for calculating these changes. With the Executive Board's full agreement T am today presenting to you the results of these calculations. Once again T should like to thank the Board for its valuable assistance. Owing to its help, T am in a position to make the statement today which I had promised you for Mon- day. The investigations carried out by the Secretariat show that a reduction of $575,000 may be made to the total budget figure now under discussion, thus bringing it to $8,172,000, instead of $8,748,000. The document which will be distributed to you on Monday shows how this reduction will be distributed
418 between the main categories of expenditure, as fol- lows (I merely summarize the main items): Chapter I — Conferences and Meetings: reduction of, approximately . . 8 8,000 Chapter IT — Personnel: reduction of approximately . . $ 65,000 Chapter IIT — Other Remunerations to Personnel: reduction of, approximately $ 292,000 Chapter IV — Travel: reduction of ap- proximately .$ 15,000 Chapter V — Grants and Contracts: re- duction of, approximately ‚ $ 52,000 Chapter VI — Contractual Printing: re- duction of, approximately . 8 53,000 Chapter VII — Common Services: reduc- tion of, approximately . $ 80,000 Chapter VIII — Permanent Equipments: reduction of, approximately . . 8 9,000 To make it clear what these figures mean, I should like to draw your attention to the following points:
1. However carefully the calculations were made, these figures are still only rough approximations and may be altered by factors beyond our control. In particular, certain expenditures, such as remuneration to staff, raise problems which are common to the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies and, as such, there will be frequent consultations regarding them with the Secretariat at Lake Success. Even before the close of this session of the General
1 In final form: Resolutions 35 to 35.39.