of the Official and External Relations and Pro- gramme and Budget Commissions to discuss Ger- man and Japanese questions. The Procedure Com- mittee would also meet in the morning and in the afternoon. There would be a meeting of the potential speakers (at the evening symposia) at
4 p.m., and another next day at the same time. The Programme and Budget Commission would decide itself as to the meetings of its Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Date of the meeting of the Nominations Com- mittee and of the plenary meeting for the election of the new members of the Exe- cutive Board. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Nominations Committee might meet on Friday 30 September in the afternoon, and the election take place on Satur day. In the General Committee agreed, the Journal of the Conference would publish a full list of the members of the Executive Board in order to facili- tate the choice of candidates, while respecting the principle of adequate geographical representation. He recalled that, according to Rule of Proce- dure 95, the only candidates to be considered at the plenary meeting were those nominated either by the Nominations Committee or by two delega- tions before the ballot. The procedure outlined by the Chairman was adopted. The meeting rose at 11 a.m. FOURTH MEETING Saturday, 24 September 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Dr. E. Ronan WALKER (Australia) Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN stated that the organization of work for Monday, 26 September, required discus- sion. Present arrangements were for meetings on Monday morning of the Official and External Rela- tions Commission, the Programme and Budget Commission, and the Administrative Commission. On Monday afternoon, the Programme and Budget Commission would meet again. For Tuesday,
27 September 1949, no meeting was scheduled for the Programme and Budget Commission, but he believed it necessary to provide one, as this Com- mission was planning to make a report to the General Conference on the rôle of Unesco in Technical Assistance for Economic Development, in addition to its report on the Programme and Budget in general. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) expressed the opinion that the General Committee, in organ- izing the work of the General Conference, should ask itself two questions: (1) Is it satisfied with the rate of progress of the work? (2) Is it satisfied with the way in which the work is being done? In regard to the second of these two questions, he believed that the details of the Budget were not being examined with sufficient care. In order to make an effective study of each item and of the expenditure involved, he thought that it would have been wise to use the method which had worked out so well at the sessions of the General Conference in Mexico City and in Beirut, and wished to propose that such a procedure might still be adopted. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) recalled that some members of his delegation had raised the same question, and that it would, perhaps, have been best to follow the Beirut procedure. With that in view, he believed that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission should be given sufficient powers, and the opportunity, to put together a working plan as the general work of the Conference proceeded. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) strongly suported the suggestions of Mr. Hardman, but believed that the problem might be solved as the work proceeded along its present lines. In this connexion, he reviewed the schedule of meetings for the following Monday. The CHAIRMAN referred to some instances of voting which he had observed, in which the small
230   and close vote led to the assumption that some of the delegates had not fully understood the item on which they were voting. He stated that some preoccupation had been felt among the members of the Australian delegation that there might be little opportunity to get serious consideration of their proposals. He suggested that, if this feeling should become widespread among the delegations and if such an impression should be given to the Member States, it could have a serious effect on the work of the Organization. He felt that there was a tendency to push along some parts of the Budget without adequate opportunity to examine them in detail. The Chairman then reminded the Committee that it had before it two proposals: (1) the pro- posal of Mr. Hardman that a system similar to that used in the two preceding sessions be adopted, and (2) the proposal of Mr. Allen that larger powers be given to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Calling attention to the fact that the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Com- mission was not present, because of the simulta- neous meeting of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee just referred to, and that the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission would take up, on the same day, the question of the extension of Unesco’s work to Germany and Japan including budget provisions for the same, he asked the Com- mittee if it desired to make a decision in regard to the two proposals before it, or if, instead, he should ask the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission to consider this problem of work organization and to be present without fail at the next meeting of the General Committee. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) favoured the latter method. He made it clear that, in raising that question, he had not implied any criticism of the Secretariat. The General Committee had decided previously to adopt the procedure which was being followed, although he did not believe it was working well. He suggested that the Director- General should give thought to the matter and make a statement to the Committee at its next meeting, with his suggestions. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) endorsed the position taken by Mr. Hardman. Agreed. Mr. SEYDOUX (France) thought that, as the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission was holding its first meeting only that morning, it would be too early to take an immediate decision and con- demn the new system before being in a position to assess the results of its operation. The CHAIRMANstated that this question would be put on the agenda of the next meeting of the General Committee. This would enable him to confer with the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, and the Committee would also be able to see the results of the work of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee and of the dis- cussion of the proposed work in Germany and Japan by the Programme and Budget Commission, thus permitting a better discussion of the problem at its next meeting and avoiding a premature decision. He then announced that meetings of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, on both morning and afternoon of Tuesday, 27 September, would be added to the time-table. Organization of the General Discussion (con- tinuation). The CHAIRMAN stated that, at the meeting of prospective speakers held on the previous after- noon, a sub-committee of seven members had been established to work out the procedure for the public debate. The establishment of this sub- committee was the only definite decision made at the meeting of the speakers, as they had found among themselves many different opinions in regard to the preferred method of conducting the debate and in regard to the various objectives of most interest to the different countries. It was felt that all Member States. who wished to offer speakers should be allowed to do so. One other speaker had withdrawn, representing Pakistan, but the list stood at that time at twenty-seven prospec- tive speakers. The Chairman stated that the sub- committee of seven members was to meet that morning at 10.30. There had been general agree- ment that the public meetings should not last for more than two and a half hours, and two pro- cedures had been suggested: (1) to have one opening speaker, followed by others who would make shorter speeches in the way of commentand debate; (2) to have all speeches printed and to have the group select one, in each case, to be followed by a round-table discussion. Many of the prospective speakers felt, however, that there would be considerable disappointment in their respective countries if their speeches were only printed and not delivered at the public meetings on the General Conference of Unesco. It was pointed out in this connexion that, in some cases, the speakers from the respective countries might be better known to the public in their countries and regions than some of the international cel- ebrities who were scheduled to speak. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) believed that the round table discussion procedure, which apparently had been dropped from consideration, would be quite successful from the public stand- point, if it could be used. He suggested that the Department of Mass Communications or that of        Public Information might make some experiments along that line during the next few months, and believed that a technique worth trying might be developed. He proposed that the Director-General should see what could be done in that connexion. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the Department of Mass Communications had already gone into the problem and that three meetings of the “round-table” type had already been held on different occasions in Paris to disseminate Unesco's ideas. But the problem of language was a most important one for the success of the technique. Unesco now had sufficient experience to steer clear of the same difficulties in future. The idea put forward in Beirut by the French delegation was in essence excellent and was worth adopting in future. It might even be well to let it take the form of a symposium quite unconnected with the Conference and its Agenda (even held at a differ- ent place and date) so as to overcome some of the difficulties associated with the choice of speakers. The Conference could submit to the Director- General a list of subjects and candidates for the organization of one or two symposia during the year, not necessarily in Paris, in order to give Unesco a kind of permanent publicity. One such symposium should also be organized during the Conference; the Executive Board would have the responsibility of choosing the theme for the discussion and preparing a list of six or seven outstanding speakers, who would represent all parts of the world; a systemof rotation would be adopted for the following Conferences. The difficulties raised by the organization of such discussions for the General Conference itself, Unesco’s highest authority, naturally placed the Director-General in a most awkward position; it would be easy for him to offend people and he had quickly realized that he was in a dilemma. But he urged the possibility of acting on the French proposal to organize one or two symposia a year: one remini- scent of the discussions of the International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, to be organ- ized by the Secretariat in collaboration with the Executive Board and held during the year, each time in a different place; the other would be organized at each Conference by that body itself. The Director-General was not sure that the dis- cussion of the question was strictly within the General Committee's competence, but he empha- sized that some decision had to be taken. He thanked the President of the Conference for the efforts he had made to clarify the situation; he was inclined to think that the best solution in the present case was to suggest to the groupof speakers that they should appoint, for each of the proposed meetings, three speakers who would give a long address to open the debate; the other speakers
232 would then read their speeches at their own risk, for if they did not voluntarily accept the idea of co-operation, in their desire for personal success, they would be punished for their lack of modesty by seeing a bored public leave the hall. The CHAIRMAN stated that the General Com- mittee would discuss that entire question later. In the meantime, it would be deferred to the Sub- Committee of Seven at its meeting on that morning. Request from the National Peace Commis- sion of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The CHAIRMAN requested the Secretary to read a communication which had been received from the National Peace Commission of the Republic of Azerbaijan, requesting the admission of their representative as an Observer at the General Con- ference. The SECRETARYread the letter, dated 23 Sep- tember 1949, which had been sent to the President of the Conference by the plenipotentiary repre- sentative in Paris of the Republic Azerbaijan, supporting the request for a representative of that country to be admitted to the Conference as an Observer. A copy of a letter addressed on 3 De- sember 1948 to the Secretary-General of the United Nations was attached to the application of the Republic of Azerbaijan together with a copy of a memorandum on the situation of the Republic. The CHAIRMAN pointed out, for the information of the Committee, that this request did not appear to fall within the categories of Observers repre- senting Non-Member States (Rule 6, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure) nor of Observers representing international non-governmental or semi-governmental organizations (Rule 7). Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) requested information as to where the communication came from and by whom it was signed. The SECRETARY stated that the letter was from the Peace Delegation of the Republic of Azerbaijan
(6, rue Rennequin, Paris) and that it was signed by the plenipotentiary delegate of that Republic in Paris. The CHAIRMAN stated that the communication had been addressed to the President of the Gen- eral Conference and, as such, he had brought it before the General Committee. He stated that he did not see how the Committee could take any action on the communication, but would receive any proposals. If there were none, he would proceed to the next item of the Agenda.       International Federation of Children’s Com- munities. At the request of Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico), the SECRETARYexplained that, while the Official and External Relations Commission was considering the list of non-governmental organizations ad- mitted that year to consultative status, the French delegation had called for reconstruction of the application of the International Federation of Children’s Communities, which had not been granted. The French delegation had suggested that the Commission should ask the Executive Board to reconsider the question, if possible before the close of the present session of the Conference. But the Commission had thought it was not entitled to apply directly to the Board and that it was for the General Committee to communicate the matter. Count JACINI (Italy) mentioned that the same question had been dealt with by the Programme and Budget Commission and that it would be advisable to combine the proposals of the two Commissions. The CHAIRMAN preferred to defer the discus- sion of this subject to the next meeting, in order that the debate, if there was to be one, might better represent all points of view. He stated there- fore that it would be placed on the Agenda for Monday, 26 September. The Chairman then announced that the Finance Committee would report to the Executive Board, at 2.39 that afternoon, on the possible effects of the revaluation of national currencies on the Bud- get, and that the Director-General would also give thought to that matter and would report to the joint meeting of the Official and External Rela- tions Commission and of the Programme and Budget Commission. The meeting rose at 10.40 a.m. FIFTH MEETING Monday, 26 September 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Organization of the work of the session (continuation). Work of the Programme and Budget Commission and of its Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Mr. CAIN (France) said that the Conference was now at the beginning of its second week, and that the work of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion was not progressing. He wondered whether the General Committee could not organize the work of that Commission in advance. It would seem that last week, and due to the procedure laid down for the Commission, an unavoidable amount of time was lost and, despite the exceptional authority of the Chairman, other questions raised. If a calendar of work were laid down, and the Chairman given powers that no one could contest to organize the discussion, Mr. Cain thought that progress would be quicker, and he made this a formal proposition to the Committee. The CHAIRMAN said that the question was a difficult one. On the one hand, it was felt they were not progressing sufficiently rapidly, and on Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia) the other there was a feeling in some delegations that insufficient time was allowed for going into the substance of questions on the Agenda, and that there had not been a real discussion of some of the chapters of the Budget. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America), com- menting on the French delegation’s proposal, thought it somewhat dangerous, as a precedent, to place the power of controlling the debate in the hands of the Chairman. They were extremely fortunate in the present Chairman of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, but a precedent should not be created. He rather thought that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee would be a better group to be given the responsibility for making arrangements to expedite the calendar of work. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought the question raised by the French delegation was obviously one that required consideration, but the really urgent matter was, as he had urged at a previous meeting of the General Committee, to tighten up the present procedure in discussion of