TWELFTH MEETING Wednesday, 5 October 1949 at 10 a.m. Chairman br Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN indicated that the Programme and Budget Commission, which still had a little work before it, would meet at 10.30 a.m. for about half an hour. A short meeting of the Nominations Committee would then take place, followed by a plenary meeting, shortly after 11, to elect the members of the Headquarters Commission, adopt the Procedure Committee's supplementary report and consider the Technical Assistance report of the Programme and Budget Commission, whose full report would be ready for discussion at noon. Thus the work of the Conference could be com- pleted that afternoon, including the final vote on the Programme and Budget, Mr. Hardman's resolution concerning the death of the Mexican painter Orozco and Mr. Allen’s regarding the “Genocide Convention”. The Chairman recalled that the Report of the Official and External Rela- tions Commission contained a resolution—adopted by the Conference the day before—which invited the Member States to complete their reports for the Fifth Session of the Conference. At the request of Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium), it was decided to hold the plenary meeting, fixed for the afternoon, half an hour earlier, so as to enable delegations from countries bordering on France to reach their homes by evening. The meeting would therefore be held at 3 o'clock instead of 3.30. In reply to a question by Mr. ALLEN (United States of America), the CHAIRMAN agreed that the two resolutions could be taken as the first business of the morning’s plenary meeting. The formal amendment of the Constitution (to deprive ’ Member States of their right to vote when they were two years in arrears with their contributions) would be proposed to the Conference after the vote on the Budget. The President would then deliver the final address, which would include an expres- sion of thanks to France for its continuing help to Unesco. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested tentatively that it might be a good precedent for a “business” Conference not to pass a formal resolu- tion of thanks. With regard to a previous point raised by the Chairman, he informed the Com- mittee that the United Kingdom delegation had
250 RonALD WALKER (Australia) intended to refer to the death of Orozco without moving any resolution in the matter. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL shared Sir John Maud’ views and explained that it was precisely because the present session was a “business” Con- ference that he did notthink it necessary to speak at the closing meeting. However, he felt that it would be appropriate for the President in his speech to thank the French Government for the facilities France had granted for the Exhibition on Human Rights for organizing Unesco’s concert in honour of Chopin. With regard to the point, it would be necessary to thank:
1. The French Government for the assistance it had given Unesco in the preparation of the Exhi- bition on Human Rights; The City of Paris for placing Musée Galliera at Unesco’s disposal;
3 The French National Commission and President Mr. Cassin, Mr. Julien Cain Mr. Georges Salles;
4. The Governments which had contributed to the Exhibition by sending important documents. The CHAIRMAN was in full agreement the Director-General’s suggestions. Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium) thought it would also be fitting for one of the delegates to thank the President for his skilful conduct of the session. That opinion was shared by Mr. CAIN (France), who wished the vote of thanks to be extended to the Secretariat as a whole (the work of which had been remarkably satisfactory in comparison with its performance at the First Session of the General Conference held in Paris in 1946), and also to the Director-General. The CHAIRMAN announced that he fully intended thankingthe Secretariat and the Director- General in his final speech, but he asked that the Conference should avoid having too many votes of thanks, so as not to prolong the closing meeting indefinitely. Mr.
2. its and with CAIN (France) then suggested that the French representative should be responsible for all votes of thanks. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed that the          representative or one of the delegations should thank the President for the skill with which he had performed his task, since the President in his closing speech was to express all the necessary votes of thanks to the various governments, official bodies or leading individuals. The CHAIRMAN General. Afghan agreed with the Director- He suggested that the proposal of the delegation, concerning materials of ت ج ا ب ح Unesco’s Human Rights Exhibition (document
4C/56), should be referred to the Director- General with the request to report on it to the next session of the Executive Board. The Chair- man thanked the members of the General Com- mittee for their unfailing attendance and valuable guidance. The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.