working language and publish its documents in Spanish, as well as in English and French. The CHAIRMAN recalled that the hour was late, and asked the Mexican delegate if he would agree to bring his proposal up at the next meeting of the Procedure Committee. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) re- minded the Committee that the General Com- mittee was the only body competent to introduce new items into the Agenda. The CHAIRMAN assured the Mexican delegate that, as far as the Rules allowed, his right to raise the matter again would be thoroughly re- spected. The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. THIRD MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Dr. J. C. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) The CHAIRMAN,seeing that there was not a quo- rum and in view of the late hour, suggested that Rule 69, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure should apply and the quorum be waived in order to begin the work immediately. Amendment to Rules 52 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure. Dr. RUIZ ESPARZA (Mexico) wished to make certain important proposals for the amendment of Rules 52 and 55; as these needed a quorum for decision, he requested that the meeting be ad- journed until the afternoon. The CHAIRMAN could not give the delegate of Mexico complete assurance that he would be heard; however, he would do his best to see that the amendments were taken into account. The Committee should now proceed immediately with the work in hand as the time at its disposal was very limited. Dr. RUIZ ESPARZA (Mexico) agreed with the Chairman that the quorum rule should be waived. He asked that the question he wished to raise, which was of the greatest importance to the Latin American countries, should be examined at a later meeting at which the majority of the Committee's members would be present; most of them had not been informed in time of the present meeting. He did not think that there were any legal obstacles to the holding of an additional meeting. The CHAIRMAN stated that, in spite of the enormous practical difficulties in calling another meeting, a further meeting of the Committee
463 would be held that afternoon from 3 to 4 p.m. Would this satisfy the delegate of Mexico? Dr. RUIZ ESPARZA (Mexico) emphasized that his request was perfectly in order, since it was based on the assurance given by the Chairman at the second meeting of the Committee that the Mexican delegation’s proposals would be carefully examined. The discussion would only be valid if a sufficient number of members were present to enable a really authoritative decision to be taken. He pointed out that, as far as he was aware, none of the Rules of Procedure prevented the Chairman of the Committee from convening a new meeting to allow of the discussion, with a proper quorum, of the Mexican proposals concerning working languages. The Mexican delegation had no wish to delay the consideration of the items on the Agenda, but it desired that its request should be fully admitted and not simply received with expressions of sympathy. Dr. BRULL (Cuba) supported the Mexican re- quest for an adjournment of the meeting. Dr. PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela) said that the Mexican delegate was quite justified in asking that his proposals should be examined at a later meeting. The CHAIRMAN repeated that a meeting would be held in the afternoon, and that he was bound by Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure to comply with the delegate of Mexico's request. Mr. JAY (Canada) pointed out that the delegate of Mexico had theright to bring up any items he   chose for discussion at the General Conference. The General Conference had the power to take a decision on any proposals he might make; this Committee, however, could do no more than to propose that the Mexican proposals be discussed at the General Conference. Dr. SABA (Secretariat) observed that the Com- mittee’s Agenda was now short and consisted merely in the discussion of the report of the Pro- cedure Committee (document 4C/PRO/8). Item 8 of the Agenda of the Committee provided for the consideration of “Other Business”. The Mexican delegation’s proposals came under Item 8, which would be examined at the next meeting, if the Committee had completed its examination of the questions set down for the present meeting. Report of the Procedure Committee (doc- ument 4C/PRO/8. Mr. MANSFIELD (United States of America), Rap- porteur of the Committee, read his Report (doc- ument 4C/PRO/8). Part I. Part I of the Report did not call for any comment and was adopted. Part III. As regards Part III, Professor EUSTATHIADES (Greece) wished to propose two slight amend- ments:
1. In the second line of paragraph 2, to replace the words “American, Australian and Canadian delegations” by the word “American, Australian, Canadian and Greek delegation’;
2. In paragraph 4 of the French text of the resolution, to replace the words “tous pouvoirs nécessaires seraient délégués au Conseil exécutif” by the words “le Conseil exécutif prendra toutes mesures nécessaires’, so as to bring the French text into conformity with the English text. The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that it must formally approve any amendment to the Rules of Procedure before it went to the General Conference. Mr. Jay (Canada) said that, while he agreed entirely with the wording of the document before them, he wished it to be quite clear that any question of interpretation would be referred to the International Court of Justice and that it was up to the General Conference to decide when such action should be taken. Professor EUSTATHIADES(Greece) thought that the General Conference could itself take the initiative of referring a matter to the International Court of Justice, and that any member of the Committee could make a recommendation to the Conference to that effect. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) agreed with Professor Eustathiades and asked that the point made by the delegate of Canada should be clearly recorded. Part HI of the Report was adopted. Part II. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the wording of Part II was that on which the Committee had agreed. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) noted a typing error which had occured in sub- paragraph (a) of the resolution: reference should be to Article V of the Constitution, and not to Article IV. He then proposed that the words: “for three working years” in the fifth line of the same sub-paragraph be deleted, as he felt that they were redundant. However, he would like the Secretariat’s views on that point. Dr. SABA (Secretariat) said that, if the words “three working years” were deleted, there would be nothing to indicate that the term of office was a term of three years. In case the General Conference did not meet every year, the way should be left open for taking all the necessary measures. Although the words “three working years” seemed to be a repetition, this was not the case, since they were intended to fix the term of office of members of the Executives Board. Mr. JAY (Canada) agreed with the delegate of the United States providing, however, that the last three lines of the text were retained. The reason for this was that he had heard there was a move to convene the General Conference every two years and, as this would cause members to be in office for a six-year period, a change would have to be made in the Constitution. Mr. NICHOLAS (Australia) pointed out that reference to the term of office of members of the Executive Board was contained at the foot of page 2 and then again in sub-paragraph (a). In this connexion, he suggested that the words “for three working years” in the fifth line of sub-paragraph (a) be changed to “three working periods”. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the modifi- cation proposed by the delegate of Australia was substantially the same as that proposed by the delegate of Canada.              Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) expressed his agreement with the point raised by the del- egates of Canada and Australia, and proposed that the word “annual” be inserted in front of “General Conference” in the sixth and seventh lines of sub-paragraph (a). The text would then read: . from the close of the session of the annual Gen- eral Conference at which they are elected until the close of the third ordinary session of the annual General Conference following that election. Professor EUSTATHIADES (Greece) saw no objection to the amendment of the paragraph under discussion on the lines proposed by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Nor did he think there was any need to dwell upon the objection raised by the Canadian delegate, since the amendments made by the Procedure Com- mittee concerned a text which was governed by the provision of the present Constitution. If it were decided to make such an important amend- ment to the Constitution as that mentioned by the Canadian delegate, it would of course also be necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure. Dr. BRULL (Cuba) asked whether they should not provide a special clause for maintaining in office retiring members when new members of the Executive Board were unable to enter into office immediately after the close of the session of the General Conference. Mr. JAY (Canada) felt that the point which the delegate of Cuba had just raised could be disregarded, for members of the Executive Board could have alternates sitting for them and thus, in effect, the members would be sitting for their whole term of office. The CHAIRMAN remarked that the point raised by the delegate of Cuba was already covered by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) wished it to be made quite clear that the modifi- cations which had just been suggested to sub- paragraph (a) were not intended to replace the whole of the sentence of paragraph 3. Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) wished to know whether “three working years” meant “three financial years”. Dr. SABA (Secretariat) pointed out that the amendment proposed to the Committee was based on an annual meeting of the General Conference, which was the rule established by the present Constitution. The point of the amendment was that members of the Executive Board would be enabled to participate in three complete sessions of the General Conference. The term of office should therefore begin at the close of the session of the General Conference at which the new members were appointed, and end at the close of the third session after that appointment. He thought that it would be better to retain the word “years” which was in harmony with the spirit of the rule of the annual holding of the Conference. Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) agreed on the principle; in practice, however, the periods were “financial years”. Dr. SABA (Secretariat) admitted that the shift- ing of the date of the General Conference from the Autumn to the Spring created a special situation during the present year. Thatsituation did not, however, in any way change the principle of the annual holding of the Conference, which still remained the general rule. After a few remarks on drafting points, the whole of the report 4C/PRO/8 was unanimously adopted *. The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m. FOURTH MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Dr. J. C. BeacLenoLE (New Zealand) Amendment to Rules 52 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure (continued). The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that the Mexican delegation wished to have discussed,
465 under the heading “Other Business”, amendments to Rules 52 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure. The chairman had gone carefully into the Rules
1. In final form: document 4C/Resolutions, Section V.