The CHAIRMAN announced the following organ- ization of work: The Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee would meet that afternoon at
3 p.m. (instead of 3.30 p.m.); the Official and External Relations Commission would meet as scheduled at 3.30 p.m., and at 5 p.m. it would resolve itself into Joint Commission with the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, to consider only the question of the word “Allied”. The plenary meeting of the General Conference on the follow- ing morning would consider reports from the Official and External Relations Commission and the Programme and Budget Commission, the latter to receive the report of its Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee. The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m. ELEVENTH MEETING Tuesday, 4 October 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Report of the Procedure Committee. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand), Chairman of the Procedure Committee, reported that his Com- mittee had discussed two matters: (1) points of procedure, including a discrepancy between certain Rules; (2) the question of the use of Spanish as an additional working language of the General Conference. On the first question, the Committee decided to refer certain matters of procedure to the Secretariat, hoping that they may be clarified by the time of the Fifth Session of the General Confer- ence; some of these points would be included in the Report of the Procedure Committee to the Con- ference in plenary meeting. On the second ques- tion, the Committee examined the proposals of the delegation of Mexico, Dr. Beaglehole requested the Mexican delegation, and any other delegations interested, to take all necessary measure for com- plete examination of this question by the Director- General, and to have it included on the Agenda of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN stated that the Report of the Procedure Committee would come before the plenary meeting on the following morning. Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN announced a plenary meeting for
10.30 Tuesday morning, at which the amendment proposed by the delegations of Poland, Czechoslo- vakia and Hungary (document 4C/54) would be presented, and also an amendment of the Brazi-
249 Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia) lian delegation. The Programme and Budget Commission, meeting at 3 p.m., would receive the report of its Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee and prepare its own report for the plenary meeting on the following morning. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that he had asked the Chairman of the Executive Board to arrange for a short private meeting of the Board at
3 p.m. to consider certain nominations. As the session of the Board, originally planned to follow the close of the Conference would not be held, one or two outstanding questions could be dealt with at a short public meeting which would follow the private meeting. The Director-General's reason for mentioning the matter was that the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, which would be sitting in the afternoon, was at the same time a member of the Executive Board. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested that the Programme and Budget Commission should meet at 3.30 p.m., instead of 3, in order to avoid overlapping too seriously with the meeting of the Executive Board. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN announced that two plenary meetings of the General Conference would be held on Wednesday, 5 October; at the morning meet- ing, a report on the Technical Assistance Plan for Economic Development would be presented, besides the Report of the Procedure Committee; at the afternoon meeting, the vote on the Budget would be taken. The meeting rose at 10 a.m.