3 p.m.: Meeting of the Nominations Committee to consider nominations for vacancies on the Executive Board. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was afraid that the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion could not foresee its work being completed that day, for the question of publications still had to be discussed. The Chairman of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee had asked the Commission to conclude its discussion of Item 9 (budget ceiling): in that event, the Technical Assistance Scheme could be taken up that day. The CHAIRMAN said it had been understood that the consideration of the Technical Assistance Programme could begin either toward the end of the morning or at the afternoon meeting. Letter from the President of the World Countrywomen’s Association. Mr. de BLONAY (Secretariat) read a letter from the President of the World Countrywomen's Association, asking Unesco to consider the ques- tion of an international language. The CHAIRMAN noted that request, adding that the problem of a common language was one which interested both the Secretariat and the Executive Board, in view of its repercussions on inter- national understanding. The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m. NINTH MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Dr. E. Mr. Evatt's Message to the General Confer- ence. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, much moved by Mr. Evatt’s inspiring message to the Conference, asked the President to reply to him, expressing his deep gratitude. Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN stated that, on behalf of the Gen- eral Committee, he had authorized the inclusion, on the agenda of the plenary meeting, of the elec- tion of the members of the Executive Board and of the discussion on the seat of the Fifth Session of the General Conference in order that Count Jacini, who was to leave during the week-end, should be informed of the final decision. In reply to a question put forward by Mr. ALLEN (United States of America), the CHAIRMAN stated that, according to Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, it was the General Conference’s re- sponsibility, and not the Executive Board's, to make a final decision on the site of a future ses- sion of the General Conference. He reminded the members that, in Beirut, a resolution had been passed recommending that the invitation extended by the Italian Government should be accepted, but RonALD WALKER (Australia) that the present Conference would make a formal decision. He suggested that there should be no plenary meeting on Monday morning, 3 October, but that the Programme and Budget Commission should meet instead. He further proposed that the Reports of the Administrative Commission and of the Official and External Relations Commission should be submitted on Tuesday, 4 October. He also stated that, having been asked whether the General Conference would terminate on Wednes- day according to schedule, he had replied in the affirmative. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark), Chairman of the Credentials Committee, reminded the Committee that it was necessary that the Credentials Committee should meet before the end of the Session. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Credentials Committee should assemble on Monday afternoon. Agreed. International Federation of Children’s Com- munities (continuation). The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Chairman of the Executive Board in reply to a request for consultative status by the International Federation of Children’s Communities. It was made clear that the Executive Board did not recommend that      T E T sa o P M . co s T E ج ج  ح consultative status be granted immediately and advised that the decision should be postponed until it was proved, in the light of further experience, that the work of the Federation was of a truly international nature. The Federation was assured that Unesco would continue to grant its moral support and financial help as far as was possible. Use of the Spanish language during the ses- sions of the General Conference. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand), Chairman of the Procedure Committee, gave an account of the proceeding during the fourth meeting of the Pro- cedure Committee and indicated the controversy which had arisen from conflicting interpretations of different rules of procedure which, according to a certain number of delegates, did not autorize the discussion on the Mexican proposal at this stage. He reminded the Committee that the Mexican delegation had moved an amendment to Rules 52 and 55. The Mexican delegation had referred to a speech made at the first plenary meeting in which they had announced their intention of moving a modification of the Rules of Procedure and, since no objection had been raised at the time, they had considered that it was in order to bring up the matter at a meeting of the Procedure Committee. Dr. Beaglehole had ruled that the Committee could examine the question under “Other Business” and the representatives of the Secretariat had agreed with him on that point. He also said that he had stressed that he could give no assurance that the item would be put on the Agenda of the General Conference. He stated that, at this stage of the discussion, the delegate of Canada had raised a point of order referring to Rules 48 and 73 which he interpreted as forbidding the discussion on this matter by the Procedure Committee. Dr. Beagle- hole gave a ruling that the interpretation of the delegate of Canada was not correct and that he had asked for a vote which resulted in an equal distribution of votes, namely, eleven in favour of the discussion and eleven against. He then applied Rule 90 and adjourned the meeting, since no other items were included on the agenda of that meeting. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) personally thought that the question was very simple. The Mexican delegation has asked the Secretary of the Confer- ence at the beginning of the first plenary meeting what procedure should be adopted for including that question on the Agenda of the Conference. He had been informed that it should be laid before the Procedure Committee and, when the Agenda was being adopted, the Mexican delegation had therefore made a reservation; as no objection was raised, it had concluded that the Agenda had been adopted, including that item. When the Mexican delegate on the Procedure Committee had enquired under what item of the Agenda its draft amendment should be submitted, he had been told that it was under Item 9 (Other Business), and he had duly presented the draft amendment to Rules 52 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure under that item. After a lengthy dis- cussion, the Chairman of the Committee had decided that the Rules allowed for discussion of that matter; but as 11 votes were cast in favour and 11 against, the Committee had had to adjourn and a fresh vote was to be taken that morning. Mr. Castro Leal thought it preferable for the Gen- eral Committee to authorize the Procedure Com- mittee to study the procedure and not the substance of the question, without it being necessary to call for a vote. All the arguments for both sides of the question could be put forward during that discussion. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) thought it pos- sible to find a way of avoiding at the General Con- ference a discussion which had so strong an emo- tional background. He suggested that the Exe- cutive Board should be asked to study this matter and submit a solution to the next session of the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN regretted that the Mexican delegation had been led to think that the right procedure was to raise the matter at this late stage of the proceedings of the General Conference without having specified the exact nature of the modification it proposed to move. He suggested that the question of procedure was subsidiary; the only real problem was to determine whether the Mexican proposal was a so-called new item, and it was clear that it involved budgetary expenditure. Referring to Rule 36, which describes the func- tions of the General Committee, he stated that any new item would have to be considered by the General Committee which would report on the matter. He stressed the importance of the sub- stance of this matter, as opposed to the question of procedure, and stated that a minor change in the Rules of Procedure regarding the internal working of the Conference and entailing no budgetary expenditure would not constitute a new item. On the other hand, any proposal which could be de- scribed as a new item with budgetary implications could only be examined after the appropriate organs had been consulted. Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium) thought the Danish delegate’s proposal extremely sensible. There were two quite distinct questions, and a decision regarding procedure did not necessarily entail a decision on substance. He admitted that some
44     doubt might arise over the matter of procedure. If a newproposal involving budgetary implications were submitted, the Conference would naturally need to have full details; in the case in question, it would be caught unawares and it would be diffi- cult for it to arrive at decision in the few days still remaining. The Belgian delegation had no rooted objection to the Mexican request and even considered it favourably; but it would urge the Mexican del- egation to fall in with Professor Nielsen's sug- gestion (deferring any decision until the General Conference in Florence), so as to avoid the ques- tion of procedure. It would be a pity to waste valuable time over a matter of procedure, when it was the question of principle with which the Mexican and all other delegations were concerned. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had been about to ask the Mexican delegate to abide by the procedure suggested by the Danish delegate, to the effect that the Executive Board be requested to consider the budgetary implications of the question; as the Board prepared the Agenda of the Conference, it could include that item on the Fifth Session’s Agenda. The Director-General called on the Secretary of the Conference to furnish a full explanation of the origin of the misunderstanding. Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the Confer- ence) reported that before the first plenary meeting, the Mexican delegate had asked him whether it would be possible to include a new item on the Agenda and he had told him that he was free to do so when the adoption of the Agenda (Item 6) came up for discussion. Mr. Castro Leal had then made reservations, but had not made it known exactly what item he wished to place on the Agenda. If he had done so, the General Con- ference could have taken a vote on his proposal, in accordance with Rule 14. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) realized the diffi- culty of finding a solution to the question of principle at that late hour and admitted that the logical way out would be to defer the question until the Fifth Session. However, he thought that the problem of procedure could be settled if the General Committee asked the Procedure Commit- tee to consider the question. In the process, the Committee would see if it had budgetary implica- tions and, if so, it would probably adopt the solution advocated by the Danish delegate and supported by the Belgian delegate. The precise question raised by the Mexican delegation related to an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, without specifying which Rule should be amended. In conclusion, Mr. Castro Leal stated that the Gen- eral Committee should ask the Procedure Com- mittee to come to a decision, regardless of the Rules invoked at the present meeting; the matter of procedure could be settled by that means. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the General Committee recommend that provision should be made for the next session of the General Confer- ence to clarify the description of a “new item”, and that it be stated that the announcement of an intention to modify the Rules of Procedure should bear on a precise iem. He further stated that any proposal involving budgetary expenditure should be deferred not only to the Procedure Committee, but also to the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. He suggested that it would be extremely difficult, at this time, to examine the possibility of taking such a sum as $50,000 off the Programme, the ceiling of which had already been fixed, in order to implement a newproject. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) stated that, although the United States delegation would find itself obliged to oppose the Mexican resolution substantively, it considered that discussion should be allowed. The CHAIRMAN stated that this was not the time and place to embark on a discussion on procedure, and that Dr. Beaglehole should be invited to report to the Procedure Committee on the discussion which had just taken place. Tribute to Orozco. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked at what moment it would be possible for the United King- dom delegation to move the adoption by the Gen- eral Conference of a resolution expressing the sense of loss caused by the death of the Mexican painter Orozco. Speaking as a Mexican, the DIRECTOR- GENERAL thanked the United Kingdom delegation for its generous proposal; he thought that the last plenary meeting would be the most suitable time for submitting it. The meeting rose at 17 a.m.