SIXTH PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 22 September 1949 at 9.50 a.m. CONTENTS
13. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation) Speeches by delegates of Austria, Ecuador, Peru and the Director-General President: Dr. E. RoNnaLp WALKER (Australia).
13. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). The PRESIDENT — We resumethe discussion on the Director-General's Report on the activities of the Organization for the past year. The next speaker is Dr. Hermann Zeissl of Austria. Dr. Hermann ZEISSL (Austria) — Mr. Presi- dent, fellow delegates. As the debate on the Report of the Director-General is nearing its end, and as so much has already been said by the distinguished participants—with such brilliancy, clearness of purpose and power of persuasion— there is not muchleft for the late comer to say. I shall not therefore encroach unduly on the Conference's precious time. I feel, however, imposed upon myself the welcome duty to join, on behalf of the Austrian delegation and on behalf of my country, the ranks of those who have duly praised the Report of our distinguished Director- General and the moving speech by which he sub- mitted it to the General Conference. This Report and this speech are, if I may say so, the handiwork of a great administrator, of a fertile and scholarly mind, and of a heart which beats fervently for the highest ideals of humanity. His idealism however, is tinged with realism and experience—which do not let him lose the firm ground of facts and figures under his feet, or let him forget to take into account human frail- ties and the limitations of human endeavour, obstacles which obsess anyone who has chosen the hard way per aspera ad astra. We were particularly happy to realize how much the Director-General is aware of the desir- ability, nay, the urgent necessity of concentrating our endeavours, the endeavours of this Organi- zation, to a limited number of clear-cut projects which really aim at the hard core of our great problem—to secure peace through education, science and culture—and which promise visible results at a time not too far distant. I apologize for now going into some details of the Report. There is the recommendation of the TICER Conference, the Conference of the Tempor- ary International Committee for Educational Reconstruction, to federate non-governmental bodies at the national level under the auspices of TICER. Our provisional National Commission has tried to do this, but we cannot feel that the experiment has been a success. There is the dif- ficulty of choosing the organizations which are competent to participate, and of duly limiting their number; when this difficulty had been over- come, we could not help feeling that it was an obvious case of over-organization and that the activities of this unwieldy body would overlap with other agencies already in the field. We believe that the National Commission, or one of their sub- Committees set up for this purpose, could suffi- ciently cope with the problems in question and could easily keep up permanent contact with the TICER centre, and, as the necessity arose, with the individual non-governmental agencies which are competent for dealing with a specific prob- lem. As you know, Austria is on the list of the war- devastated countries. It is our ardent desire to acknowledge before this world-wide audience the generous help which has been extended to us by Unesco. We should, however, like to raise one or two points of detail, which, if put right, would make our common task somewhat easier. I wonder whether it is not possible to limit the number of forms to be filled in? I confess that we—and I expect also the administrations of other countries—have at times considerable diffi- culty in placating the various universities, acad- emies, and institutions of all kinds which feel sometimes discouraged and frustrated because of the number of not always fully relevant forms which they are supposed to fill in, while the prac- tical results of such activity are sometimes far afield.    We should be grateful also if arrangements could be made to permit a freer choice of the sources from which the scientific equipment provided by Unesco is drawn. As things are now, equipment is often delivered from very great dis- tances and could be obtained much more quickly and economically from less distant sources. Spare parts are often provided which do not fit the machinery for which they are intended, because the machinery has come from another source, and so on. I submit therefore the suggestion to grant to the governments of devastated countries, or to National Commissions, the liberty of buying scien- tific equipment under the auspices of Unesco from the most convenient place. I should like to state how highly it was appre- ciated by my Government that the Department of Reconstruction sent one of its officers to Vienna. We had a most fruitful exchange of opinions with her and were grateful for her helpful attitude. As regards International Work Camps and Children’s Communities, mentioned in the Direc- tor-General’s Report, the idea of an International Work Camp is warmly welcomed in Austria, while the plans for the establishment of Children’s Communities are met with some reserve. There is no doubt that there are categories and types of children, the children of displaced persons, orphans and other victims of the war, who can be educated and educate themselves in such camps with the greatest profit to themselves, but an undue extension of the scheme would not in our view be desirable, and could be fraught with dangers. There should be no interference with family education—even families of adoption—and the primary rights of parents should be respected whenever possible. We are most grateful for the invitation extended to the Austrian Minister of Education for a representative to attend the meetings of an Expert Commission dealing with rehabilitation and reconstruction, and we endorse and support the resolutions of this Committee printed on page 28 of the Report. The emphasis laid by the Report of the Director- General on adult education is most welcome. There is much to be said for the sometimes iron- ically quoted concept of education as a non- ending process from the cradle to the grave. I think adult education is destined to play, in the more highly developed communities, the role played by fundamental education in more back- ward societies. There are many intellectual, artistic and moral achievements which are not yet accessible to the normally developed pupil but only to the maturer mind of the adult. Sir Richard Livingstone once pointed out that education for citizenship should be made almost completely a monopoly of adult education. The report of the International Conference on Adult Education held in Denmark has been studied with the greatest interest by all concerned, and the project of following up the results with an international seminar for tutors and leaders in adult education, to be held in the summer of 1950, is most heartily welcomed by the competent authorities of our country. We had great pleasure in discussing the preparations with a member of the Secretariat who was sent to Vienna for this purpose. We were gratified to note from the Report of the Director-General that, in consequence of the Austrian resolution adopted at the General Con- ference at Beirut, the question of a universal standard of musical pitch is being studied by an expert engaged for this purpose by Unesco. This question has evoked surprising interest in the international press, strong enough to induce even the London Punch to deal with the matter in appropriate verses, and it gave me the change of getting to know some distinguished representa- tives of the American press. The remarks in the report on the question of the free flow of information give me the opportunity of drawing the attention of the General Conference to an important problem which I shall have the priv- ilege to raise later in detail to the competent Commission. It is the question of the access of Austrian books to the German market. The econ- omic existence of the Austrian publishers, and thus the independence of Austrian authors and Austrian intellectual life from the monopoly of Leipzig and the German publishers, depends indeed on this access. It is incompatible with the declared desire to promote and protect Austrian sovereignty and independence to mainlain regu- lations which undermine the material basis for the independence of Austrian intellectual life. I should like to mention also in connexion with the problem of the free flow of information, that the agreement to facilitate the international circulation of visual and auditory materials will be submitted to Parliament in due time. The Austrian National Commission is about to be established in October, in such a way as to command the support and interest in all walks of life. The generous invitation of Unesco to send the Secretary of the reformed Austrian Commis- sion to Paris to study Unesco's organization will be accepted as soon as he is appointed. May I conclude my somewhat haphazard remarks on the Director-General's Report with a more general observation? We cannot help wondering whether there is a proper equilibrium between the efforts of our    Organization in the field of natural and social sciences and in the field of philosophy and the humanities, of arts and of letters. As regards the humanities, the Geisleswissenschaften as we call them, the autonomyof their methods has been definitely established by the theory of knowledge. I may remind you of the relevant words of Dilthey and Rickert. We shall not be equal to our task of securing the peace of the world through education, science and culture if we should fail to give them their proper place within the system of our projects. Fellow delegates, if I have ventured to utter one or two criticisms, I hasten to emphasize that I am fully aware of the youth of our Organization, a youngster not yet in his teens and, in my opinion, a youngster of great promise. No doubt this pro- mise will be fulfilled, if none of us fail in unstinting devotion, enthusiasm and vigilance. The PRESIDENT — I call upon His Excellency Mr. Gonzalo Zaldumbide, delegate of Ecuador. H.E. Mr. Gonzalo ZALDUMBIDE (Ecuador) — [Translation from the Spanish] The President, Mr. Director-General, as I have only recently arrived at Unesco House and this is my first con- tact with the Organization, I have felt very loth to comment on the Director-General’s Report. For, whether to praise or to blame it, I lacked the authority which comes only from experience, the experience of those who have followed Unesco from the beginning along the rough roads into the open plains beyond. Such comments have been made by people better qualified than myself. I merely wish to speak now of my personal experience as a newcomer. When I first came into contact with the imposing mechanism of Unesco House, which is already functioning surely and harmoniously, I found difficulty in making myself familiar with the various aspects of the Organization, and I had the same experience as many others: I was confronted with a mass of documents, all of them interesting, practical and pertinent, and very well drafted, but mainly for those who are already inside the Organization and who know what they have to do. I felt I wanted to climb up a tower, as it were, to get a general view of the whole and to understand the spirit animating Unesco. So I decided to turn to the best source, namely, to the series of fine speeches made by the Director-General at different times and in dif- ferent places on the various aspects of the Organ- ization. I derived a rare profit from my reading. I became aware of the goals to be reached, the paths leading to them, and the difficulties that can be overcome by virtue of energy, conviction and dis- cussion. I thought to myself that many of those interested in these matters, many of the sceptics and many of those who know Unesco only through its varied activities throughout the world, would have the same feeling of confusion and dissipation of effort that I myself had had. This would not happen if they were given a message, based not much on clarity and conviction, as on the happy gift of giving shape, solidity and consistency to things which appear to us laymen vague and diffuse. In view of the already existing fund of applied ideas, living ideas, ideas in the process of being realized, I thought how useful it would be for the uninformed, if there were a kind of catechism or vademecum (for we are concerned with pro- paganda and dissemination) illustrating the aims and ideals of Unesco; if, in other words, this series of messages, speeches and articles composed with such talent and conviction by our Director- General were known before the diversity of the Organization’s work. They are masterly efforts, animated by an ex- ceptional mind and by a kind of prescience. I beg of you not to consider my eulogy as indicating the pride and admiration inspired by one Amer- ican in another, justified though these feelings would be in the present case. The Director- General, besides being a true and highly dis- tinguished American, is also by his culture a European. It might even be said that he is the precursor of European man, who in his turn will soon be making way for the universal man. He heralds the “citizen of Unesco”, the ultimate “citizen of the world”. Under his impulsion, much work has already been done; a large part of the road has already been covered. However, an even brighter prospect is held out for our America, in the form of tech- nical help. The countries of America, so rich in possibilities, do not know where to begin. Scien- tific help and technical help are perhaps more important than economic help; but such scien- tific and technical help coming from Unesco will be of the best possible kind. Science will be guided by a Conscience. It will have a disin- terested aim, signifying that there can be no material progress based only on what is material. In all material progress there is a spiritual element which raises it to a higher plane. What I have just said merely adds to the praise already given by other delegations to the work accomplished by Unesco. But the Government and the people of Ecuador, and the Ecuadorian National Commission for Unesco, would not have forgiven me if I had omitted to express their solidarity with Unesco and their faith in its future under the leadership of our Director-General.      The PRESIDENT — I call upon His Excellency Mr. Garcia, Head of the Peruvian Delegation. H.E. Mr. GARCIA (Peru) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow delegates, yesterday Dr. Carlos Neuhaus asked to say a few words, but he has been obliged to leave Paris for a few days and I am to address the Conference in his place. I will not speak of the need of implanting the love of peace in the hearts of men. Several speakers have already done so with great eloquence. Nor do I need, as representative of one of the countries of Latin America, to give proof of the peaceful sentiments which mark the relations between the various countries of South America. During the last 60 years, there has been formed in America ‘a whole system of international conventions and treaties for settling international disputes accord- ing to law. These treaties have not remained mere scraps of paper but have become part of the tradition of the American countries. The most serious conflicts between the Latin American countries have mostly been solved by legal means. Our American organization is based essentially on absolute respect for the independance of the coun- tries forming part of it, a respect which prohibits all intervention in the internal affairs of states. This is the source of that pan-American or inter- American solidarity with which you are familiar. We are deeply gratified and, if I may say so, a little proud at having thus contributed to the legal organization of the world and to interna- tional peace. I am addressing this assembly in order to express the satisfaction with which my Govern- ment welcomes the activities of Unesco in a field that concerns Peru. Under the auspices of Unesco there has been established in the Hylean Amazon an organization to find means of developing the enormous Amazon region, whose fuller exploitation cannot fail to contribute to the welfare of humanity. Unesco has also encouraged the science of high altitude biology, a problem interesting many countries of Latin America. The plateaux of the Andes are the home of the greater part of the population of Peru and Bolivia and of a large proportion of the population of Ecuador. A Peruvian scientist, Dr. Carlos Monge, has been engaged on research work on the biology of altitude and its influence on organisms. He has devoted his whole life to this research. Unesco has agreed to sponsor this work, and in a few weeks a conference will be held in Lima at which scientists from all countries will be able to com- pare the results of their researches. It is a pleasure as well as a duty for the Peruvian delegation to express the gratitude of its Govern- ment for these enterprises. The Peruvian de- legation is aware that Unesco was not born per- fect. It is a new growth and is still feeling its way. All human institutions are liable to err, but it is our duty to make constructive criticism, to work hard to make the Organization more effec- tive and to give it all our support. A Programme and Budget Sub-Commission has been appointed to decide on the future programme of the Organization, having due regard for the means at its disposal. The Peruvian delegation wishes to express at once its complete confidence in the Director-General, Mr. Torres Bodet, who will carry through this programme to success with the skill and the enthusiasm he has shown hitherto. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Gentlemen, I must admit that I am a little embarrassed. I do not know whether I have deserved all the praise and congratulations which have been showered upon me by such distinguished people, with a generosity which has moved me deeply. I should like to thank you from the bottom of my heart. I am particularly glad that the Secretariat as a body has not been overlooked in these praises and I should like to pay tribute to its members today. I find the greatest encouragement in the satisfaction which you have been so kind as to express on the work carried out in the last few months, and in the confidence of which you have assured me for the future. I am sorry that I cannot thank individually and by name each one of you who has expressed that confidence and satisfaction in such moving terms. But I must say how pleased I was that all, or almost all speakers were agreed on one point: that Unesco is under way, and that all that is needed for the Organization to develop is that the necessary means should be provided, for that is, in fact, the question at issue at this Conference. I will set your minds at rest, for a start. This is not another speech; after the thirty-seven addresses you have heard in the course of this debate, it would not be desirable for me to take up more of your valuable time. If it is not a speech, neither is it a defence of my Report. You have been so kind that there is no need for me to adopt a defensive attitude, but instead I must explain to you the reason for the anxieties voiced in critical comments during this debate. These criticisms were directed chiefly towards three shortcomings and two excesses. First, let us take the shortcomings. We are told we have not achieved enough concrete results. It has been said that we have done very little with regard to reconstruction, that our efforts to ensure the free circulation of printed matter,    audio-visual material and scientific equipment have not gone far enough; that, generally speaking —and this is a more serious matter—our work in education, science and culture has not caught the imagination of the peoples who desire peace, the ultimate ideal of Unesco as a whole. Secondly, we are not modest enough. Although our pro- gramme has been cut down by the Executive Board, on my suggestion, you think it is still too large. Priorities might be established more strictly. Nowfor the excesses: firstly, too many speeches, too many publications, too many questionnaires, too many roneoed documents. As I say this, I notice that, when all is said and done, this excess is really another shortcoming. May I put it this way: not enough brevity. There is another ex- cess: too many meetings and committees, too many fees for consultants or temporary staff. Now, gentlemen, you are in a position to remedy all these failings, or at least to minimize them, by giving the Secretariat increased resources. When I say increased resources. I am not thinking ex- clusively of my financial requests to you, but of the margin of discretion and time which the Secretariat does not at present enjoy. Howindeed can we give emergency aid to war-devastated countries on the wide scale desired by certain delegations, if we in the Secretariat have to observe a ceiling of $175,000. There are many ceilings in Unesco. Too often it seems to me that there are nothing but ceilings. How can we make the free flow of scientific material a reality if the Secretariat has nothing but mere recommend- ations and pious hopes to go on in its nego- tiations? We are reproached with talking too much; but what are these recommendations, and words which disturb the peoples because they produce no results? How can the Secretariat decide to make further cuts in a programme which is not the work of the Director-General but of the Conference itself, and for the execution of which the Executive Board is, constitutionally, re- sponsible? How can we be brief when our only means of influencing more or less theoretical National Commissions directly is to write to them, to give them information and to ask them questions? I am well aware that we might be more suc- cinct, I have promised that we shall try to be increasingly so in future; but conversation must begin, for there is always a danger that a mono- logue may seem too long. Secondly, to be brief demands a greater effort and, gentlemen, I must repeat that greater effort, in every one of Unesco’s divisions, means more staff. If we had enough editors, as our English friends call them, our publications would no doubt
111 gain in clarity, efficacy and, I believe, also in brevity. How can we reduce the number of meetings of experts, when we have to have their opinions, unless we are prepared to go on working in the darkness, or almost darkness, in which we are left by the silence of the National Commissions? And how can we reduce the burden of short-term con- tracts on the budget, when we have much to do and a small staff? I know that an easy answer can be given to all these questions. Instead of asking for resources appropriate to secure the aims of the Programme, the Programme can be brought down to the level of the resources. But, I would point out that the Programme of which you complain is not my programme; I had it from you in Beirut, still warm with the enthusiasm of your discussions. It is therefore your own work that you want to reduce. You are certainly entitled to do so but, gentlemen, I beg you to think carefully before you do it, and not to allow yourselves to be guided solely by financial considerations. Do not let the currency devaluation which, in certain countries, has coincided with this Session of the Conference, be a sign of the devaluation of Unesco. It is not easy, as I can tell you from experience, to establish a priority programme. The priorities I suggested to the Board may seem to you to be modest. In my opinion, they are very consi- derable. When I arrived in Paris, at the end of December 1948, after the Beirut Conference, a friend said to me; “Be careful, be careful about the Programme you have been given. There is a danger in it that of exposing Unesco to fresh tri- bulations resulting from intellectual obesity. It is too ambitious, and there are too many projects in it. In particular, the resources available are very small.” Perhaps that opinion was not entirely free from malice. But, all in all, it was clearsighted. Well, gentlemen, what did I do? As far as my limited authority and means allowed, I have tried to give this Programme a slimming course. The programme you will have to discuss when you consider the budget is a very much more slender programme than that which you yourselves, or your predecessors, adopted in Beirut. It has grown slimmer by walking, for walking is excellent exercice for the health. But a sudden revision of the Programme, which might be brought about by an assembly with a very short time in which to work, might mean much more than reduction: it might mean amputation. And I think it is my duty to point out to you, gentle- men, that a Unesco, mutilated by amputation just at the moment when the Organization was       beginning to stride out, is probably not what the peoples expect from you. I agree with the delegate of the United Kingdom that the axe should be laid to dead wood; but that does not mean that we can cut out anything essential from the Programme or reduce the num- ber of staff. On the contrary, as Mr. Brull, the Delegate of Cuba, said, it means a constant effort of co-ordination to adapt the means and the ends to one another, that is to say to concentrate all our resources, increasing them when necessary, upon specific objects in a co-ordinated plan, in order to secure decisive results. The concentra- tion method is the opposite of the amputation method. Concentration, viewed in this light, is, we think, the only means of achieving the quick prac- tical results which Mr. Hardman wants. May I remind him of some of the things he said in Beirut last year. Did he not say—and I entirely agree with what he said— Contrary to the views of some critics, and indeed in contradiction to some views of our own, we now agree with the Director-General (it was not myself) that it is impossible for an Organization such as this to concentrate all its activities on one or two subjects. If anyone is inclined to disagree, let him tell us how we could convince any specialist in anyfield of human endeavour, that his speciality is less important to mankind than any other. We are all proud of our jobs, in whatever field we work, and Unesco should, in as wide a field as possible, represent the enthu- siasms and the abilities of those specialists.
1 endorse those remarks by the delegate of the United Kingdom, and I also adopt the happy ex- pression he used when he said, in Beirut: If T may express it in a phrase, I hope a vivid phrase, we fear the ratio of brake-power to engine-power is unnecessarily high. Well, gentlemen, it is now for you to decide. For a powerful Unesco, do you want engine-power or a budgetary brake? That is what you have to say. Let me make myself clear. I know that you are now discussing the Report; but the Report is not a document which stands alone. With it, I have submitted to you my draft Budget. That is all the Constitution authorizes me to do. The Director-General does not draw up the pro- gramme. Strictly speaking, he does not even carry it out. As its name indicates, the Executive Board is responsible for the execution of the pro- gramme. What then is the Director-General? He is a mere administrator and it is his business to suggest the Budget for the administration. But, when I propose the Budget, I do, in effect, pro- pose a priority programme. When I ask you for funds, I am asking for funds to pay for work and, in this way, I am in a position to define the priority programme I have in mind as part of the continuing scheme on which the Conference decided at Beirut. What did I tell you in this other document? Allow me to quote a paragraph: The kind of concentration I favour is far different from this method of more amputation. It consists in concentrating on the execution of essential reso- lutions and, to that end, increasing the resources required for their accomplishment, without lightly abandoning fields where we shall one day be called on to take more effective action. Under this proce- dure certain resolutions are not struck out, but are given lower urgency ratings. It is in this spirit that I have prepared the proposed Budget for 1950. Myreason for referring to the Budget, gentlemen, is that this discussion on the Report is, after all, merely a preliminary to the discussion which is to follow on the Budget. I want to make it clear that I have in no way under-estimated the objections which may be raised, I am aware of the heavy international obligations which burden the finances of Unesco’s Member States. In asking them for higher contribution I do not forget that in several countries public opinion is against any increase in the obligations. That is, alas, the most disturbing sign of the age of transition in which we are living. We have conceived and proclaimed a doctrine of constructive universalism. But to achieve it, we have a choice between force which, so far from meeting our real desires, would bring the destruction of civilization, or the free consent to sacrifices called for under the system of strong and courageous International Organizations of which the San Francisco Charter gave us hope. Between such choices, is hesitation possible? Nevertheless, when the institutions are in being, there is surely a danger of jeopardizing their value by too frequent changes in their administrative structure, by setting a ceiling for their staffs, or by keeping their resources to a minimum figure which, while precluding the development of con- crete work, not only does not check, but even favours, bureaucratic routine for lack of means of making contact with reality. The kind of concentration we all desire presup- poses some system of co-ordination. The code of policies we have suggested to you are a first ten- tative move in this direction. As the American delegation has suggested, we should be only too glad to reduce their number so as to bring out the principles governing the co-ordination of our work more clearly and more forcibly. This does not mean the formulation of ideals       for the distant future but a sound preparation for immediate result. These discussions have shown that Unesco should be, according to H.E. Ghorbal Bey's excel- lent definition, “a society, a co-operative of friends and not a Bank from which each tries to seek his own profit”. One speaker, Mr. Carneiro, referred to “fear of isolation”. As a shrewd psychologist, he had no doubt realized the temptations to which I must have been a prey at certain moments. If I have felt any such temptation, this Conference has saved me from it. Nevertheless, we still do not feel that every Member State is actively engaged on the execution of each item of the Programme. “In the beginning was the Word”, it has been writ- ten, and, to save us from degenerating into a reliance on words alone, “in the beginning was Action ”. Unesco’s words must be deeds. But the Secretariat cannot act unaided. It is for you gentlemen, to ensure that the words uttered in the General Conference, which the Secretariat endeavours to translate into action, become a living force and lead to real achievements. At the beginning of this discussion, I referred to twentieth-century man. Apparently my speech was broadcast, for yesterday I received from Brus- sels a letter; I shall not disclose the name of the sender, whom I do not even know, but he writes in the followings terms (I read you his letter as it might have been written by a man in any country): I should like to tell you how moved I was to listen yesterday to the broadcast of the speech you made to the Fourth General Conference. Yes, you are right: there is a presence, a power governing us all as the half-century draws to a close: it is twentieth-century man. It is a concept which has frequently been discussed and defined, with anxious solicitude, courage and despair. But little has been done for this man except to depreciate all his values, all his beliefs and, as you have felt in your travels, he does not realize in his distress that there exists in the world a collective centre, a heart and a brain which are working not merely to define his needs but to ensure him the means of well-being. It is not boastful propaganda to make him familiar with Unesco’s aims; it is a way of holding out hope for him. Are we to be prevented from holding out hope? Do we wish to hold up Unesco’s development in its fourth year of existence at the very moment when it is becoming firmly established, when it is beginning to give tangible signs of its resolve and of successful achievement by deferring further progress to a later date? Or do we wish to push ahead with yet more energy and larger resources?
1 40 not hesitate to state my conviction that if we defer progress to later, it will be too late. We shall have foundered in apathies. Life is a constant effort. He who does not go forward drops back; he who drops back is lost. There can be no hesitation between a great and a little Unesco, between a Unesco which stands still and a dynamic Unesco, especially at this early stage in its history, this moment in the world’s history. Unesco must be a great force or nothing. Our Constitution commits us to greatness. Gentle- men, you no doubt realize this as clearly as I do and I hope in all earnestness that your discussions will make this clear beyond a doubt. The PRESIDENT — Fellow-delegates, the reply by the Director-General brings to a conclusion the general debate on the Report of Unesco’s activities during the past year. Our next step will be to adjourn the plenary session in order that the Commissions which are called for this morning may resume their work. I think it is very appro- priate that we should have had this inspiring con- clusion of our general debate before turning to the detailed study of the problems facing our several Commissions this morning. The Commission on the Programme and Budget will meet in this room immediately after the ad- journment of the plenary session. The Commis- sion on Official and External Relations is meeting in Room 11. This afternoon both Commissions will continue at 4 o’clock in the same rooms. 1 would draw the attention of delegates to the im- portant announcements which are made each day in the Journal of the Conference, a bilingual pub- lication whose purpose is to keep delegates in- formed of forthcoming arrangements as well as of the main happenings of the previous day. In particular, I wish to draw attention to an announce- ment under Paragraph 5, on page 37, of today’s Journal, relating to the general debate—the public debate—to be held next week on a very important subject. The General Committee of the Conference decided yesterday that the delegates who are to speak in the course of this general public debate will hold two informal meetings in Room 10, on 23 and 24 September, that is, tomorrow and the day after, at 4 o'clock. You will find a list of additional speakers; if there are any alterations in the list or additions to the list, they should be made as soon as possible, as the list of speakers for this debate will be closed tomorrow at noon. It is absolutely essential that a decision be reached by tomorrow noon as to how many speakers are to take part in this debate, because we desire to organize the procedure of the debate, extending over three evenings, so that it will be able to exercise the widest possible in- fluence and attract the greatest posible public     attention to Unesco and the important questions that are to be discussed. So I would remind you that, if your delegation desires to submit the name of a speaker for that debate it must be sent in by tomorrow at 12 noon, and that the speakers are invited to a meeting tomorrow at 4 o'clock, with a view to discussing among themselves the best way of organizing the debate. The Meeting rose at 10.55 a.m. SEVENTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 27 September at 9.25 p.m. CONTENTS Discussion of the general subject : “What are the duties of the State in regard to education, science and culture for the purpose of ensuring a better understanding between peoples, and what practical steps should it take in order to discharge these duties?” Speakers: Mr. Bidault, Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr, Prof. E. Zérega Fombona, Prof. Ozorio de Almeida, Prof. Giuseppe Vedovato, Dr. J. C. Beaglehole, Mr. Jamal Farra and Dr. Mariano de Los Santos President:
14. Discussion of the general subject. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Your Excellencies, ladies and gentle- men, we are continuing, in public meeting, our discussions in the General Conference of Unesco. As you know, we have spent several days debating financial matters and questions concerning Unesco’s Programme. This evening, we are embarking on a most important subject and we are anxious to bring our discussions to the notice of the general public; I extend a welcome to all of you who have done us the honour of coming to attend our debate tonight. We are going to discuss together the following subject: “What are the duties of the State in regard to education, science and culture for the purpose of ensuring a better understanding between peoples, and what practical steps should it take in order to discharge these duties?” We shall continue this discussion tomorrow evening and the following evening in this hall. The Director-General of Unesco invited each of the Member States of the Organization to choose a speaker from their delegation to take part in this debate. This evening, I have beside me several speakers nominated by delegations and I have to inform you that we shall follow practically the Dr. E. RonaLp WALKER (Australia). same procedure every night. First of all, I shall call on three speakers to open the discussion, talking for approximately twenty minutes each. The discussion will then be carried on by other speakers, whose remarks will be shorter, lasting only ten or fifteen minutes. The speakers this evening are: M. Georges Bidault (France), Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr (United States of America) and Professor Zérega Fombona (Venezuela). The following will take part in the discussion: Professor Ozorio de Almeida (Brazil), Professor Giuseppe Vedovato (Italy), Dr. Beaglehole (New Zealand), M. Jamal Farra (Syria) and Dr. Los Santos (Philippines). The duties of the President, ladies and gentle- men, include introducing the speakers to the audience. For our first speaker this evening, M. Georges Bidault, any introduction from me to a French and internalional audience is entirely unnecessary. I shall mention only that one of M. Bidault’s titles which is relevant on the pre- sent occasion—that of Head of the French dele- gation to the General Conference of Unesco. Mr. BIDAULT (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, any good examination candidate should, 1 believe, begin by reading the terms of the prob- lem set. Unfortunately, Mr. President, you have