Dr. NIEBUHR (United States of America) moved the approval of the Director-General’s report (doc- uments 4C/OXR/ES and Addendum) including the amendments presented by the French and Belgian delegations At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, the delegates of Poland and Czechoslovakia agreed to combine their proposals for the withdrawal of Item 8 A (1) from the Agenda of the General Conference. He called for a vote on the proposals put for- ward by:
1. The delegates of Poland and Czechoslovakia;
2. The delegate of France;
3. The proposal of the Polish and Czechoslovak delegates was rejected by 25 votes to 3, with
2 abstentions. The French proposal was adopted by 14 votes to 2, with 9 abstentions. The proposal of the United States of America (approval of the programme presented by the Director-General) was adopted by 19 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions. Documents 4C/OXR/16 and 4C/OXR/16-Adden- dum were adopted with the amendments proposed by the French and Belgian delegations. * The delegate of the United States of America. The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m. SECOND MEETING Saturday, 24 September 1949, at 3.45 p.m. Chairman: Mr. PauLo DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Statement by the Director-General on the Budget Estimates revised in the light of the recent currency devaluations. The CHAIRMAN called on the Director-General to speak on the Budget Estimates revised in the light of the recent currency devaluations. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL made the following statement: When [ had the houour to submit to you the Draft Budget for 1950, IT told you that the competent ser- vices of the Secretariat had immediately begun to study the possible effects of the recent devaluations on our estimated expenditure for next year. I have duly consulted the Executive Board in this matter . In full agreement with the Finance Committee of the Board, the categories of expenditure liable to be modified have been defined and a basis found for calculating these changes. With the Executive Board's full agreement T am today presenting to you the results of these calculations. Once again T should like to thank the Board for its valuable assistance. Owing to its help, T am in a position to make the statement today which I had promised you for Mon- day. The investigations carried out by the Secretariat show that a reduction of $575,000 may be made to the total budget figure now under discussion, thus bringing it to $8,172,000, instead of $8,748,000. The document which will be distributed to you on Monday shows how this reduction will be distributed
418 between the main categories of expenditure, as fol- lows (I merely summarize the main items): Chapter I — Conferences and Meetings: reduction of, approximately . . 8 8,000 Chapter IT — Personnel: reduction of approximately . . $ 65,000 Chapter IIT — Other Remunerations to Personnel: reduction of, approximately $ 292,000 Chapter IV — Travel: reduction of ap- proximately .$ 15,000 Chapter V — Grants and Contracts: re- duction of, approximately ‚ $ 52,000 Chapter VI — Contractual Printing: re- duction of, approximately . 8 53,000 Chapter VII — Common Services: reduc- tion of, approximately . $ 80,000 Chapter VIII — Permanent Equipments: reduction of, approximately . . 8 9,000 To make it clear what these figures mean, I should like to draw your attention to the following points:
1. However carefully the calculations were made, these figures are still only rough approximations and may be altered by factors beyond our control. In particular, certain expenditures, such as remuneration to staff, raise problems which are common to the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies and, as such, there will be frequent consultations regarding them with the Secretariat at Lake Success. Even before the close of this session of the General
1 In final form: Resolutions 35 to 35.39.       Conference, I may have to alter some of the revised estimates I have just announced.
2. Some of the expenses, such as the rent of Unesco House, which was fixed in French francs, are auto- matically altered, but there will still be an element of uncertainty about most of them, for they will depend on the movement of prices next year in coun- tries whose currencies have recently been devalued. In my opinion, it is therefore essential for the General Conference, when taking note of these revised estimates, to allow us some safeguard, enabling us, if need be, to ask the next session in May 1950 for additional appropriations, in accordance with an amendment I should like to make to Regulation 2 of the Financial Regulations. In our calculations, we thought it wise to allow a margin against a rise in prices. I can say already that, on the basis of the revision just made, a rise in prices of more than 10 per cent would necessitate recourse to additional appropriations.
3. The revisions in question do not in any way affect the structure of the Draft Budget 1 have sub- mitted to you. The devaluations do not modify the Budget in relation to the Programme, but only the sum of dollars needed for the execution of work proposed under certain headings. The discussion will therefore proceed on the basis of the documents you have before you (4C/6 and 4C/6-Amendments). Nevertheless, the fact that the total budget figure is reduced by $575,000 and that the increase over the 1949 Budget is thus reduced from $968,000 to $393,000 should, I think, allay certain fears. For basic general reasons which I have already several times explained to you quite frankly, I earnestly hope that this reassurance will facilitate a speedy and unanimous approval for those parts of the Draft Budget still under discussion. Item 8 B (1) : Report of the Director-General on the Activities of the Organization in Japan during 1949 and Policy to be adopted in
1950 (documents 4C/OXR/17 and 4C/OXR/17- Add.). The CHAIRMAN announced that Dr. W. K. Bunce, an observer of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan, was present and he called on him to speak, in his capacity both as observer of SCAP and as Chairman of the Expert Committee on Japanese questions. Dr. BUNCE (SCAP) said he would confine him- self to three points: the nature of the occupation of Japan; some comments on the general situation there, and on Unesco’s activities in Japan. As the meeting was probably aware, the policy- making body for the occupation of Japan was the so-called Far Eastern Commission, composed of eleven different nations, sitting in Washington. In Japan, implementing the policies of the Far Eastern Commission as they are transmitted through the Department of the Army of the United States Government, is the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers (SCAP). The Far Eastern Commission had permitted to the United States Government a considerable measure of discretion in the implementation of its policy. Further, the Department of the Army had also permitted to SCAP considerable discretion in its implementa- tion With regard to the second point, the funda- mental economic problems of the past still re- mained, but in an increased form. The old prob- lem of too many people and too little land had become more difficult. The population of Japan had increased from some seventy million in 1939, to over eighty million in 1949. Because of thé changes which had taken place in Asia, Japan was now largely cut off from that continent, both as a source of supply and as an area to which its goods could be sold. The loss of the old Japanese Empire and other territory, and the reduction of the area in which Japan was permitted fishing rights, had still further accentuated the economic difficulties. Other revolutionary changes had taken place in many aspects of Japan’s economic, political and social life since the beginning of the Occupation, e.g. a new civil and criminal code and educational system, together with a new Constitution embodying complete equality of the sexes as well as the basic human rights, a unique Article outlawing war as an instrument of national policy, and prohibiting the Army, Navy and Air Forces. ‘The question might legitimately be raised as to the depth of penetration of the changes into the Japanese mentality, and no conclusive answer could be given at the present time. Dr. Bunce considered, however, than there was real reason for hope, and ample evidence that the Japanese would not lightly give up their new fundamental liberties. There was still a big task of re-orienta- tion to be done, in which Unesco could play an important part. Japanese interest in Unesco was widespread, and dated back to the time, early in
1946, when the United States Education Commis- sion to Japan suggested the possible future use- fulness of Unesco activities in the re-orientation of its own programme. During the past year, the Japanese Government had manifested a very real interest in Unesco and there were nowthree dif- ferent governmental agencies concerned with Unesco; that interest could of course be attributed to various factors in which there was a mingling of self-interest and idealism. But there had also been from the beginning a great deal of interest of a more selfless nature. Dr. Bunce thought it fair to say, however, that the first glow of enthu- siasm for Unesco had begun to diminish. From now on, the Japanese people would probably look       with some scepticism upon what Unesco could do for their country. Perhaps that was a good thing, and they would take a more realistic atti- tude of what an Organization like Unesco could do. He thought it essential that the Unesco Office in Japan should be enlarged, and given an increased budget. Dr. WANG Te Yio (China) said that the Chinese delegation had been favourable to Unesco’s acti- vities in Japan in 1949, and that today it approved the report for 1950. China, which had been suffering from the Japanese invasion since 1936, realized that the blame rested with the militarists who had led the Japanese people. They were now controlled by the Occupying Powers, who were trying to re-educate the nation. As the results obtained to date had been rather superficial, Unesco should make every possible effort to extend its action, and it would be highly desirable for it to assist the campaign of re-education. When the purging process had been completed, not only China but the whole world would feel much more confident of peace. The Chinese wished to col- laborate with Japanese intellectuals; however, it should not be forgotten that there were always imperialists in Japan—a further reason for Unesco to extend its activities there. The speaker con- cluded by expressing his whole-hearted approval of the Director-General’s report. Dr. STODDARD (United States of America), though not speaking for any delegation or as a member of the Executive Board, wished to re- assure Dr. Bunce that he had never heard, in the Board or in any delegation, a suggestion that the work of Unesco in Japan be reduced. The resolu- tion before the Commission was intended to extend Unesco’s activities and interest. No voice had been raised against the idea of inviting an observer from SCAP, so that Dr. Bunce could feel, and his colleagues too, that not only was he com- pletely welcome at the Conference, but that the work they were doing was appreciated. The United States delegation endorsed the resolution presented in document 4C/OXR/17. Mr. SEBASTIÁN (Philippines) hoped that the Conference would weigh carefully the point of view advanced by his delegation, which was in favour of anything calculated to further the ends of Unesco, but was opposed to any step in regard to Japan being taken until a Peace Treaty had been concluded. They were particularly opposed to paragraph 6 in resolution I (document 4C/ OXR/17 - Add., page 2). A somewhat similar resolution had been approved at Beirut (document
3C/110, vol. II, page 69). The Philippine del- egation’s opposition was based not merely on sen- timental reasons, but on fundamental grounds.
420 Everyone knew that the Filipino people had suf- fered greatly at the hands of the Japanese. His nation was willing to forgive and forget; it was willing to help Japan in its new way of life, and favoured the sending to that country of books, pamphlets and publications to make known to its people the aims as well as the work of Unesco; they would help Japanese handicapped children to receive the same benefits as similar children in other countries. They did not object to de- serving Japanese citizens receiving grants. But the Philippine delegation opposed Japanese par- ticipation in international affairs, at least for the present. Mr. Sebastián did not believe that Japan was prepared yet to participate with peace-loving States in international conferences. Dr. Bunce's speech had given him the impression that, in spite of Unesco’s progress in Japan, he was not yet in a position to say whether the Japanese had been sufficiently educated in a new way of life. Mr. Sebastián was afraid that over-zealousness and impatience to admit Japan into Unesco's orbit might lose the Organization the chance of demo- cratizing Japan, whose nationalistic tendencies were too well known to be ignored. The Phi- lippine delegation therefore proposed that para- graph 6 of resolution I (document 4C/OXR/17 - Add., page 2) be suppressed. It did not oppose the rest of the resolution. Mr. NELSON (Australia) thought it apparent, from the general tenor of the discussion, that there was agreement as to the wisdom and appropriate- ness of the Executive Board’s draft resolution in documents 4C/OXR/17 and Addendum. The Australian delegation favoured the resolution as a whole; but it supported the general position of the Philippine delegation in their contention that the General Conference should not take any action which would seem to give international status to Japanese nationals prior to the conclusion of a Peace Treaty with Japan. He stressed also, in regard to the proposed paragraph 6 of the resolu- tion, that it was possible that many delegates were not fullv informed of the attitude of their governments towards it, as the document con- taining it had been circulated only on 22 Sep- tember. Mr. Nelson wondered whether the Phi- lippine delegation would agree to the inclusion of item 6, as it appeared in the 1949 resolution (document 3C/110, vol. IT, page 69), in the place of the proposed paragraph 6 in document 4C/ OXR/17 - Addendum. Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) thanked the Australian delegate for supporting his delegation, which did not object to the substitution of the former item 6 for the paragraph 6 in the Adden- dum, provided that only the first paragraph of former item 6 was included.       Dr. STODDARD (United States of America) thought everyone could understand the psycho- logical situation of the Philippines, and also that of China. The recent history of the United States in respect to Japan had been, too, extremely un- fortunate. But the problem was somehow to devise through Unesco a way of getting back those recalcitrant or criminal governments to the world of civilized affairs, and not to reopen old wounds. Japan’s new government was not related idealistic- ally or politically to the old one, and the assump- tion was that those people could be brought to the ways of peace and democratic progress. The question was not one of determining the inter- national status of Japan, but of bringing certain groups in Japan into some kind of helpful relation- ship with the programme and purpose of Unesco. The whole question of peace treaties etc. was com- pletely outside Unesco’s competence. Dr. Stod- dard did not think that the immediate question of having Japanese nationals at Unesco confer- ences was one of tremendous importance. If the Philippine delegation felt that that was an im- proper extension of Unesco’s relations with Japan, Dr. Stoddard felt that for the present, and until the question was raised at the Fifth Session of the General Conference, the best thing to do would be to restore former item 6. He would suggest that a vote be taken on the new resolution; if it were lost, presumably they reverted to the 1949 resolution. The proposal of the Philippine delegation for the deletion of paragraph 6 in document 4C/OXR/
17 - Add. and its replacement by former item 6 in document 3C/110/Vol. II, page 69, was rejected by 15 votes to 4. Paragraph 6 in document 4C/OXR/17 - Add. (page 2) was therefore adopted. * Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada), on a point of order, asked whether the appropriate allied body was SCAP. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) replied that SCAP was in fact consi- dered the competent allied authority. The whole resolution (document 4C/OXR/17, page 3-9) was put to the vote and adopted by
31 votes to 1. The CHAIRMAN submitted for consideration the two draft amendments proposed at the end of doc- ument 4C/OXR/17 - Add.; they referred to para- graphs 2.4 and 5 of the resolution given in doc- ument 4C/OXR/17. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) referred to the
1. In final form: Resolution 36.16.
2. In final form: Resolution 36. proposed amendment to paragraph 5: was not the reference to “fees”, and not to “grants-in-aid”? The CHAIRMAN said that the correct wording was “fees”. In connexion with the proposed amendment to paragraph 2.4, Mr. NELSON (Australia) asked what would be the effect of the deletion of the words “provided no hard currency funds of Unesco are thus obligated”. The Executive Board must have included that clause for a good reason. He asked the question in the absence of any precise information as to what the demands were likely to be. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) said that the Secretariat was not yet in possession of the final figures, which were still under consideration. The Director-General would see that expenditure in hard currency was con- trolled and reduced as far as possible. The amendments to paragraphs 2.4 and 5 (doc- ument 4C/OXR/17 - Add., page 2) were put to the vote and adopted. * The budget estimates for Japan (4C/OXR/16, Annex I) were also adopted. It was decided to refer resolution II in document
4C/OXR/16 - Addendum (page 3) to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. Item 4 A of the Agenda: Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere (document 4C/OXR/
2). The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the last para- graph on page 8 of document 4C/OXR/2. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that he had approached the Cuban Government in order to obtain assurances regarding the privileges and im- munities for Unesco’s Regional Office at Havana. The reply he had received was entirely satisfactory. He reminded the meeting that he had consulted the Organization of American States on the sub- ject (document 4C/OXR/2, page 1). The Ex- ecutive Board had also gone into the question and had decided to set up a committee consisting of some of its own members and a few members of the Secretariat to carry through the negotiations with the Organization of American States. The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the requested appropriation of $58,572. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that it would be advisable to leave some margin as re- gards the sum appropriated. The Budget Estimates
3. In final form: Resolutions 36.123 and 36.15.       gave the figure of $46,607, whereas the document submitted to the Commission mentioned a sum of $58,572. As that question was to be considered by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission, it would not be appropriate for the Joint Commis- sion to approve an exact sum. Dr. BRULL (Cuba) said that all they had at the moment was a skeleton centre. It was the Organization's first step towards the establishment of a working instrument in the Western Hemi- sphere. He drew the attention of delegates, in particular the American delegates, to the fact that they were considering minimumconditions. The Cuban Government had offered to make certain premises and funds available for the Regional Office. It might be stated that the funds re- quested were the absolute minimumfor beginning the work. At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was decided to refer the matter to the Drafting and Co-ordina- tion Sub-Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if, in that case, there was to be no general discussion on the subject of this very important new develop- ment until the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee had reviewed it. He thought it worth while, however, to consider in somewhat more detail exactly what Unesco was doing and what benefits might be expected. Unesco would wish to know what benefit it was receiving from the Regional Office and that, of course, was a matter which would have to wait until the Regional Office had had time to get to work. Secondly, Mr. Cowell hoped that the indepen- dent territories for which the United Kingdom was responsible in that area would be able to parti- cipate in the work of the Regional Office if, in fact, the governmentsofthoseterritories expressed such a wish. Evidence of worth-while results from the Regional Office would be the willing- ness of various countries in the area to see that it was as far as possible self-supporting. He thought that would be a fair test of the intensity of the desire to co-operate with Unesco, of which the new Office was supposed to be a manifestation. At the present juncture of the economic affairs of the world, the question of local help was par- ticularly important for Unesco, in no small measure because those western regions of the world were the ones where hard currencies came from. The CHAIRMAN observed that, as there were no further speakers on the subject, the discussion was closed. The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m. THIRD MEETING Monday, 3 October 1949, at 5 p.m. Chairman: Draft Report of the Official and External Relations Commission and of the Joint Com- mission—Programme and Budget and Official and External Relations (document 4C/OXR/
23). Mr. CHARPENTIER (Canada), Rapporteur of the Joint Commission, indicated that the points which remained to be discussed in document 4C/OXR/23 were item 4.A (Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere) and item 8 (Activities of Unesco in Germany and Japan).
4 A. Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere (Page 2). Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) reminded the Commission
429X Mr. PAuLO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) that his Government was providing premises for the Office and a sum of $10,000 for the initial expenses. He moved that the words “in Havana” be inserted in the first paragraph ofthe resolution. In reply to a question raised by Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the Havana Office had not yet been officially estab- lished, but that all necessary steps for that purpose had been taken by the Secretariat. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) proposed the follow- ing amendmentto the draft resolution: The General Conference instructs the Director-General to continue in 1950 with activities for the establish- ment of this Office.