delegates in favour of the compilation of a Scien- tific and Cultural History. I was true that such work had always been done by individual scholars, without covering the whole field, but considera- tion should be given to the changes taking place in the development of work in the humanistic sciences, for the field was now much too wide to be covered by one scholar. The Austrian delega- tion also supported the delegate of Switzerland's proposals. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. NINTH MEETING Tuesday, 27 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) later: Mr. Jean Prager (Switzerland) Work of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee and the Budget Ceiling (continua- tion). The CHAIRMAN read out Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, laying down that, if a vote should be equally divided, a second vote should be taken within forty-eight hours after the first vote. He asked if anyone objected to postponing the final vote until the following morning. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) was prepared to agree to the postponement, provided that, in the meantime, the General Committee could offer the Commission constructive suggestions which would enable it to take the vote in full possession of all the relevant facts. The chairman’s proposal was adopted. At the CHAIRMAN's request, Mr. Piaget took the Chair. Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 5. Philosophy and Humanistic Studies (con- tinuation) Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) explained that no budget provision had been made for the preparation of the Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (item 5.7), except for the fees of a few specialists. Mr. DUNN (United States of America) stated that his delegation would withdraw its amend- ments (document 4C/30) to project 5.5 (Compar- ative Study of Cultures).
294 Mr. SHALOM (United Nations), referring to the proposed resolution 5.61, indicated that it resulted from Resolution 275 (III) adopted in April 1949 by the General Assembly of the United Nations, and suggested a modification of the text to the effect that “the Director-General should be in- structed to assist the United Nations in the study of the situation of aboriginal populations in Amer- ica”. He pointed out that his intention in sub- mitting this amendment was to make clear that this action was part of a co-ordinated effort. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL saw no objection to accepting the suggestion made by the United Nations representative, and proposed simplifying the wording of the resolution to read “to assist the United Nations in the study, in collaboration with the Instituto Indigenista Interamericano and interested States...”. Mr. SHALMON (United Nations) agreed with that form of words. Subject to the above observations, the whole of Chapter 5 was adopted. * Chapter 6. Cultural Activities Section 1. Arts RESOLUTIONS 6.11 To 6.136 Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) remarked how necessary it was to preserve the productions of folk and popular arts. Taking music as an example, he stressed how desirable it was that popular music, which was disappearing in the more highly developed countries and degenerating in others underthe influence of “imported” music,
1. In final form: Resolutions 5.1 to 5.6.     should be preserved. He reminded the Commis- sion of the influence exercised by popular music on the great masters of classical music, and said that the best means of preserving cultural works was the sound film. Mr. HANSON (United States of America), speak- ing on the significance of the programme of cul- tural activities as a whole, stressed the importance of the arts as media of communication. Refer- ring to the commemoration of the anniversary of Frederic Chopin, he thought the Commission would agree that Chopin's music was the most eloquent means of expressing the soul of Poland. Similarly, minstrel singers and bards had been the best ambassadors of nations. He regretted that in spite of this, Unesco until recently had madevery little use of the creative arts; although the Organization had endeavoured to help artists, it did not make sufficient use of their creative effort. He expressed a firm belief in the impor- tance of the arts to Unesco. He paid tribute to the work of the Director-General and of Professor Thomas in this field, and hoped that this pro- gramme would be vigorously pursued. He also hoped that the work of the International Theatre Institute would be of an essentially practical nature, and that the International Music Council would contrive to bring together musicians of the different countries of the world and undertake the wider dissemination of records. The Executive Board's proposals regarding item
6.12 and 6.122 (document 4C/5 rev., page 23, right-hand column) were adopted.” Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) stated that he had been asked by the National Commission of the United Kingdom to enquire whether the art magazine, referred to in the proposed amend- ment 6.136, would be intended for experts or for the man in the street. If it was intended for the man in the street, he wondered whether there was not a sufficient number of ordinary art journals already. Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) explained that the international art magazine to be published by Unesco would come out every three months; it would be in several languages and richly illustrated, with some colour reproduc- tions. It would not, however, be published directly by Unesco but by commercial firms in the various linguistic regions of the world. The magazine, which would runto a very large num- ber of copies, was not intended for professional experts or scholars; it would therefore not come into competition with existing publications and
1. In final form: Resolutions 6.121 and 6.123.
295 should represent a new type of magazine, designed to disseminate Unesco's message in the arts. Sir James SHELLEY (New Zealand) stated that this magazine should in no case be an intellectual tabulation of artistic activities. He stressed that a periodical in this field would be of no use if it contained no indication of the relation of the creative artist to the contemporary common people for whom the works were intended. Further, any art magazine would be a failure if it aimed merely at handing down to the masses an appreciation of art. He thought that history of art, in so far as it was used by Unesco, should be shown in relation to the life of the contemporary common man. Dr. BUSHBECK (Austria) was afraid that the new magazine would simply add to the numerous publications already available in the artistic world. In order to avoid that pitfall, he was anxious that its international aspect should be emphasized in its contents, and wondered whether it might not be advisable to include in it a “Review of Reviews” which would spread throughout the world a know- ledge of the most interesting articles published in the field in question. As the Polish delegation's amendment (doc- ument 4C/33), and seconded by Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) and Professor PHOTIADES (Greece), was adopted. * The Executive Board's proposals regarding items
6.131, 6.135 and 6.136 (document 4C/5 rev., page 24, right-hand column) were adopted. * RESOLUTION 6.14 Reproduction of unique objects The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Commission had before it a proposed amendmentto resolution
6.14, put forward by the French delegation (doc- ument 4C/39). Mr. CAIN (France) explained that the resolution had been drafted in consultation with an expert committee of ICOM, in order to simplify the re- solution adopted by the Third Session of the Gen- eral Conference, which had proved impossible to apply in practice. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished the wording of the proposal, which included a recommendation to Member States, to be altered. He emphasized that it was advisable to distinguish, where Member States were concerned, between the “wishes” of the Conference and its “recommendations”, which were far more mandatory in effect. He therefore asked the Frenchdelegation to prepare a newdraft in consultation with the Secretariat.
2. In final form: Resolution 6.137.
3. In final form: Resolutions 6.131, 6.135 and 6,136.        Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) suggested that the English translation wanted redrafting, so that the recommendation to Member States be made very clear. It was decided to refer item 6.14 to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee for recasting. RESOLUTION 6.15 Freedom of the Artist The CHAIRMAN drew attention to a draft resolu- tion proposed byItaly (document 4C/20) concern- ing the preparation of a Charter for Artists. Professor BRANCA (Italy) explained that the draft resolution made no mention of writers be- cause they were already protected by copyright law. If the Commission approved the Italian draft resolution, the following procedure might be adopted: a preliminary document, prepared in consultation with Unesco’s legal adviser, might be submitted for consideration to experts appointed by Governments and National Commissions; a doc- ument, revised in the light of their observations, might be submitted to the Fifth Session of the General Conference in order to frame the Charter for Artists. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not think it would possible to prepare such an important doc- ument in so short a time. Replies were only just beginning to come in to the questionnaires which had been sent to Member States enquiring about the freedom of the artist. It would probably be useful to wait until those replies had been ana- lysed, and then consider the results of the survey in Florence. The Director-General therefore sug- gested that the Italian delegation’s proposal should be referred to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The Ttalian delegation agreed to that suggestion, and it was decided to refer the matter to the Fifth Session. RESOLUTION 6.16 Unesco Awards Mr. CAIN (France), on behalf of the French del- egation, observed that the project seemed to be expensive and difficult to execute. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) was anxious that the awards should be restricted to works which were representative of Unesco's Programme and ideals. Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) explained that resolution 6.16 referred merely to an enquiry regarding the possibility of instituting Unesco awards, and was not concerned with the circumstances in which such awards should be made. A report would be submitted to the Fifth Session of the General Conference, but no steps to carry out the project would be taken until then. Section 2. Letters Count JACINI (Italy) remarked that the amend- ment to resolution 6.21 (International Pool of Literature) proposed by the Italian delegation (document 4C/36) ought not, in his opinion, to entail any new expenditure for the Organization. Indeed, the winding-up of the International Pool of Literature should provide the Secretariat with the necessary funds to assist writers to meet one another, though not to enable international con- ferences to be held; some international organiza- tions, such as the PEN Club, had already provided such opportunities for meeting, and the Italian delegation would like Unesco to give those organ- izations effective assistance. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) sup- ported the amendments of the Italian delegation and asked the reasons for eliminating the Inter- national Pool of Literature. The DIRECTOR-GENERALreplied that Unesco had had to choose between the various means available for assisting writers and making use of literature; it had been decided that translation was the best way of utilizing works of highartistic value. The work of the International Pool of Literature had been taken over by the Mass Com- munication Department, and the change, there- fore, merely meant that efforts would be diverted into a more popular, but also more effective channel. With regard to the Italian delegation’s proposal, the Secretariat would be prepared, with the Com- mission’s approval, to make closer contact with the PEN Club. The Director-General entirely agreed that frequent and regular meetings between writers from all countries would be useful, and he would be glad to be able to arrange a few round-table discussions during the year. He also thought that the idea of a “Review of Reviews”, such as the Austrian delegate had suggested in connexion with item 6.136, could be most usefully applied in the field of philosophy and humanistic studies. It was decided that the Ttalian delegation’s pro- posal should be discussed with the Secretariat be- fore submission to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) endorsed the con- gratulations already extended by the United States delegate to the Head of the Department of Cul- tural Activities. He wished to express the Leban- ese delegation’s gratitude for Unesco’s contribu- tion to the dissemination of Arab culture, which had been achieved, in particular, by means of the International Committee for the translation of the classics that had been set up in Beirut, and the
4 < < a Liaison Office for the Middle East, which was acting as a clearing-house within the Secretariat. Dr. DÍAZ SÁNCHEZ (Venezuela) stressed the importance of Unesco’s task in disseminating works in literature, philosophy, the humanities and the social and natural sciences. He indicated that the projects concerning the translation of great books and copyright would be a great en- couragement to the development of arts through- out the word. He stressed that, although there had been a greater incoming of works of art and literature into America from Europe than vice versa, the American continent had also produced works which should be disseminated in other parts of the world. He hoped that a study of American works would be undertaken, and that Unesco would recommend them to publishers and news- papers of Europe. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) asked for some information regarding the payment by Unesco of fees for the translation of great books (resolution 6.221). Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) specified the steps which the Secretariat proposed to take to associate the Organization with the trans- lation of certain works. The Director-General would approach Member States to discover whe- ther they were prepared to co-operate with Unesco in making a collection of translations of master- pieces representative of their culture. A number of lists of works would then be submitted to go- vernments for consideration. Once the selection of works had been made, translators would be engaged, and the publication and distribution of the books would be carried out by means of con- tracts, on the usual commercial terms, with pub- lishing houses. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) was satisfied with those explanations. All the amendments to Section 2 suggested by the Executive Board (document 4C/5 rev., page 25, right-hand column) were adopted. * Section 3. Museums As the amendment submitted by the Polish del- egation (document 4C/19, resolution 6.321) had not been seconded, it could not be discussed. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that there was a draft amendment to resolution 6.32, submitted by the Italian delegation (document 4C/21 rev.). Professor PELLATI (Italy) said that Unesco’s work should take the form of co-ordinating ex- hibitions of ancient art and stimulating those of
1. In final form: Resolutions 6.21 to 6.222.
9 نا 97 contemporary art. Apart from artists whose re- putation was made, it would be extremely useful to encourage the younger artists whose work was representative of present-day tendencies. Professor CHEN Yuan (China) supported the proposal of the Italian delegation and thought it would be a very useful undertaking. He stressed that this would not only bring people to under- stand contemporary art, but also give them a better understanding of the aims and activities of Unesco. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) pointed out that Unesco had already set up a mechanism which could undertake the task outlined by the Italian delegation. Referring to resolution 6.32, and considering the financial and other arrange- ments made between the International Council of Museums and Unesco, he suggested that ICOM should be requested “to collect and distribute periodically information on exhibitions”. Dr. BUSHBECK (Austria) supported the Italian proposal; but, where exhibitions of ancient art were concerned, he wished to stress the advis- ability of calling in ICOM to co-ordinate displays of art. He also thought that, in spite of the practical difficulties, it was Unesco’s business to sponsor exhibitions of contemporary art even— and indeed particularly—when those exhibitions were likely to be criticized by the general public. Mr. CAIN (France) thought that the Italian delegation’s proposal should be considered in detail at the Fifth Session of the General Confer- ence. He was sure that, until then, ICOM would be able to ensure any necessary co-ordination. Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) pointed out that ICOM could not undertake full responsibility in that field, for that organization, which was entirely non-official, could not inter- vene in case of difficulties between governments. Moreover, he wished to inform the Commission that the effect of the Italian delegation's pfoposal would be to impose greater responsibilities on the Secretariat, with repercussions on the budget. It was decided to defer consideration of the matter until the Fifth Session of the General Con- ference. All the amendment to Section 3 proposed by the Executive Board (document 4C/5 rev., pages 25 and 26, right-hand column) were adopted. ? Section 4. numents Dr. SASSEN (Netherlands) presented the draft re- solution, submitted by the Netherlands delegation, concerning the protection of cultural treasures in Archaeological Sites and Historic Mo-
2. In final form: Resolutions 6.31 to 6.35.     the event of armed conflict (document 4C/PRG/
10). He outlined the history of the draft inter- national convention prepared by the Netherlands between the two world wars, and urged the desir- ability of Unesco’s taking up the scheme. Mr. CAIN (France) supported the Netherlands delegation’s resolution, which he was in favour of extending to cover all types of collections, mu- seums, libraries and archives. Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) mentioned that an international Committee of Experts was to meet in November to consider measures which Unesco might take to ensure the efficient safeguarding of monuments. Resolution 6.42 proposed by the Executive Board provided for the submission of a report on the question to the Fifth Session of the General Con- ference, Professor Thomas thought that the Netherlands proposal might be incorporated in the general report. Dr. SASSEN (Netherlands) saw no objection to the suggested procedure. The Executive Board’s proposal amendment to Section 4 (document 4C/5 rev., page 26, right- hand column) was adopted. Section 5. Libraries and Books As there was no objection to resolutions 6.5111 to 6.51113, they were adopted. * RESOLUTION 6.512 Bibliography and Documentation Mr. CAIN (France) pointed out that the French delegation's amendment to resolution 6.512 (doc- ument 4C/41) was only a recasting of all the pro- posals concerning libraries, and had been prepared in agreement with the Secretariat. Adopted. * RESOLUTION 6.62 Book Coupons Mr. EVANS (United States of America) asked what would be the effect on a possible extension of the book ooupon scheme of the currency devaluations. He asked also whether an extension of this scheme would place a new strain upon the Secretariat in terms of staff. He stated his willingness to have the matter referred to the Drafting and Co-ordina- tion Sub-Committee. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) also thought that this extension would bring a new load on the Secretariat, and suggested that the original proposal should be maintained and that the drafting should be amended to the effect that the Director-General should be instructed to “con- sider the possibility” of extending the scheme.
1. In final form: Resolution 6.42.
2. In final form: Resolutions 6.511 to 6.5113.
3. In final form: Resolutions 6.52 to 6.523. Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) explained that the General Conference had re- quested the Director-General to consider the pos- sibility of extending the book coupon scheme to other materials. He added that, as the Secre- tariat had already embarked on that work, some- thing positive had been done and there could be no fresh burden of work ensuing for the moment. Regarding the changes resulting from the currency devaluations, he mentioned that administrative costs had so far been covered by an additional charge of 5 per cent paid by the purchaser. The seller of the coupons had added another 5 per cent, but the price, plus the 10 per cent increase, had still been advantageous to the purchaser, in view of the dollar rate then used by Unesco. Since the devaluation, the 10 per cent increase made the price too high, and Professor Thomas suggested that the question of revising the scheme should be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee for consideration. He specified that, if the scheme was to go on, Unesco would have to bear additional expenses: three new members of staff would be necessary (one grade 6 official, one grade 4, and one grade 1) which, in addition to printing costs, would represent a further $12,000. Dr. AWAD Bey (Egypt) said that he approved of the extension of the book coupon scheme to other material, but stated his uneasiness as to the commission of 5 per cent charged by Unesco. He stated that this was a unique instance of this practice, and suggested that it would be better if the contribution by Member Governments were slightly increased to meet this expense. Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) replied that the objection would be automatically removed if the Commission decided to grant the additional sums intended to cover obligated ex- penditure for the operation of the Book Coupon Scheme. It was decided to refer the matter to the Draft- ing and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, owing to its effect on the budget. NEw RESOLUTION 6.64 International Council of Librarianship, Documentation and Archives The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the French del- egation had submitted a new resolution 6.64 (doc- ument 4C/40). The proposal was seconded by Dr. SASSEN (Netherlands). Mr. EVANS (United States of America) sug- gested the inclusion of the word “possible” before the word “creation” in the last line but two of the first paragraph of document 4C/40. He wished    lo have an opportunity for studying the creation of an international council of librarianship and asked that the matter should be deferred to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. He paid tribute to the work accomplished by the Director- General, by Dr. Zuckerman and by other persons concerned, on the Book Coupon Scheme, and in- dicated that this was of great help to the librarians and publishers in the United States in their effort to break down the barriers constituted by the so- called dollar problem. He hoped that this scheme might be extended to other material. Having regard to the United States delegation's comments, with which the French delegation agreed, the new resolution 6.64 (document 4C/40) was adopted. * Section 7. Copyright RESOLUTION 6.73 Mr. EVANS (United States of America), speaking on point 6.73 as amended in document 4C/5 rev. - Add. & Corr., stated that his delegation strongly supported this amendment. He stressed the im- portance and difficulty of the problem of provid- ing a minimum of uniformity in the laws and regulations on copyright and he reminded the Commission that it had been impossible, so far, to find a basis for an agreement between the pub- lishers in the United States and the members of the Copyright Union. He thought it was advis- able to abandon the past efforts and to start again on a small scale. He recalled that the formula suggested in July by a British expert did not touch the substance of the controversies but only the procedure. He proposed a consultation of Govern- ments; after which, plans should be prepared and submitted to the Executive Board and the General Conference. He suggested that, in this respect, the word “questionnaire” should be eliminated and replaced by a phrase which would convey that the Governments were being requested to state their approval, or otherwise, regarding the convening of a conference charged with the preparation of a universal convention on copyright. The matter should be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee for consideration. Agreed. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) stressed the primary im- portance of Unesco's task regarding the matter of copyright. He thought that a universal con- vention would be the best means of encouraging the free circulation of ideas and of giving a legal protection to cultural activities. The CHAIRMAN announced that Section 9 (Cultural Conventions) would be discussed at the next meeting. Before closing the discussion, he called on Mr. Mirabeau, of the International Union of Architects, to speak; Mr. Mirabeau was attend- ing the Conference as an observer. Mr. MIRABEAU (International Union of Arch- itects) drew Unesco's attention to the importance of the problems of architecture, town planning and building, which he was surprised did not appear anywhere in the Organization 's Programme. On behalf of the International Union of Architects, he hoped that they would be added to Unesco’s programme. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. TENTH MEETING Wednesday, 28 September 1949, at 11 a.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Work of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee and the Budget Ceiling (continua- tion). The CHAIRMAN announced that the two proposals concerning procedure submitted the previous day by Mr. Piaget (Switzerland) and the General Com- mittee had been withdrawn; there were therefore
1. In final form: Resolution 6.524. no more questions of procedure to be settled and no vote would be necessary. On behalf of the General Committee, he sug- gested that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee should meet at 3 p.m. and that the delegations concerned should inform the Chair- man of the Sub-Committee of the names of the delegates who would attend it. The Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee would consider the