Turkey. That makes fifteen speakers. The list of speakers will be closed immediately after this meeting rises, so that if any other delegation wishes its name to be included, would they please inform the Secretariat immediately. If speakers are able to keep their remarks to the time limit suggested, we have every hope of completing the discussion on the Director-General's Report by the end of the afternoon. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. FIFTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 21 September 1949 at 3.20 p.m. CONTENTS
12. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation): Speeches by delegates of the Netherlands, the Philippines, Canada, Israel, Australia, China, Syria, Iran, Poland, Liberia, New Zealand, Turkey and the Union of South Africa 88 President: H. E. SHAFIK GHORBAL Bey (Egypt).
12. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). The PRESIDENT — The meeting is open: I call upon the delegate of the Netherlands. Mr. RUTTEN (Netherlands) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, in the development of the cultural life of mankind, there are some surprising sudden changes which open up perspectives full of pro- mise but also cause grave concern. The great discoveries in science very often start a new trend in human activities. I am thinking, for example, of the year 1628 when William Harvey's important treatrise “Exercitatio anatomica de motu cordis et sanguinis in animalibus” was published. This work is universally regarded as the first complete account of the blood circulatory system. I have no needs to go further into the influence of this discovery. Not only did it give a tremendous impetus to medical science; it underlies the whole concept of man as an organic structural entity. Moreover, several contemporaries bore witness to the immense importance of this discovery; Des- cartes, for one, was deeply influenced by it. A similar discovery is looming on the horizon today, but this timeit is a matter of understanding the organic structure of our world, its rich and varied spiritual substance. The great discovery of this century concerns the flow, not of blood, but of ideas. If our world wishes to function nor-
88 mally especially in such essential fields as culture, there must be no barriers to this circulation. None the less, it is necessary for a sound heart to pump the blood through the arterial system. Would it be too great a presumption to claim that, in cultural matters, Unesco is best qualified to carry out the function of the heart? I do not think so. Precisely by aiming thus high, Unesco will be able to perform the structural function so urgently needed in the world today. Incidentally, Unesco has already given signs of its intention to carry out this task to good effect. In the Netherlands, its work has received much criticism which has not been completely silenced. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that there is a growing belief in Unesco. In particular, the tendency to concentrate the programme meets with the whole-hearted approval of the Nether- lands Government and is arousing increasing in- terest on the part of our people. We expect Unesco to guard against facile optimism and to strive for visible, practical results. A healthy blood circulation may help to heal the diseased parts of a body and in this connexion, Unesco’s activities regarding Japan and Germany deserve our full attention. My country has always taken an interest in Unesco’s work, including that in Ger- many, on account of its own work in that field. Anyone embarking on such an undertaking with- out due consideration, without full appreciation of its spiritual difficulties, is in danger of failing     miserably. The Government of the Netherlands feels that Unesco’s new projects along these lines are of paramount importance. However, it is important to guard against a cer- tain chauvinism in cultural contacts with other peoples. A cultural entity with too much self- assurance might cause serious harm. It is there- fore highly desirable for each to have a clear un- derstanding of its own cultural limitations. A just appreciation of organic diversity, particularly with regard to different outlooks on life and dif- ferent religious beliefs, is an essential condition of success. I am glad to find that Unesco is paying due attention to the various units making up its Or- ganization. 1 here refer particularly to the work of the National Commissions. The Netherlands Commission has greatly extended its activities over the past year and will, I trust, establish ever closer contacts with the Unesco Secretariat. The movement of ideas is bound up with the movement of persons. Apart from the effective organization of international discussions among experts, the exchange of persons deserves our full attention. I should here like to congratulate Unesco on its work in this field, especially on the satisfactory results it has obtained in awarding fellowships or assisting in their allocation. In conclusion, may I express the hope that Unesco will continue its endeavours to accomplish concrete tasks inspired by a desire for unity and susceptible of bringing about mutual understand- ing between the nations? It will thus become an organic centre to which the people of the Nether- lands, faithful to their old traditions of interna- tional collaboration, will offer their active support. The PRESIDENT — I call upon the delegate of the Philippines. H.E. Proceso E. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates: three years ago I came to this great and beautiful city of Paris, heading the Philippine delegation to the First Gen- eral Conference of Unesco. The world had just emerged then from the most devastating war his- tory has ever known, and everybody was crying for peace, not the peace founded alone on con- venants and treaties between governments, but the peace—real and lasting—based on the moral and spiritual solidarity of mankind. In that confer- ence we talked about peace and resolved that Unesco was a way to peace. I went home after that conference determined to do my part to sup- port Unesco and to persuade my people to give it their moral and material support, so that the world may eventually enjoy the blessings of a lasting peace.
89 The result of my modest efforts took the form of a new law, creating the National Commission for Educational, Scientific and Cultural matters, whose main function was to formulate policies in line with the principles of Unesco and to advise our government on educational, scientific and cul- tural matters. The Commission also serves as a liaison between the Philippine Government and Unesco. From that time on, the interest of my people in Unesco grew by leaps and bounds. Today Unesco constitutes a living symbol of the expectations and hopes of men to attain peace within our lifetime. But, we may ask, have we attained our goal? And if not, how far are we from that goal? Has Unesco succeeded in establishing peace and inter- national understanding? Are we justified in con- tinuing to give our moral and financial support to Unesco? The Director-General’s Report is the best answer to these questions. True, we have not yet reached our goal; in fact we are still far from it. But we are on the right track that leads to peace and international understanding. Those of us who have closely followed the development and growth of Unesco, who are acquainted with the workings of its machinery, and who realize the obstacles and financial difficulties which Unesco had to surmount to carry out its plans, believe that much has been achieved, although much more remains to be done. For the un- initiated, however, the sceptics, the outsiders who only appreciate those achievements that redound to their personal and immediate benefit, Unesco still has to convince them of its real mission. There is no gainsaying the fact that an interna- tional organization like Unesco, supported and maintained by the money of the people of the Member States, is judged by people not only by the noble aims and principles set forth in the Constitution, but also and mainly by its concrete and practical achievements. That is the reason why time and again we have heard it said that the work of Unesco has been confined for the most part to matters that are theoretical rather than practical, and that its efforts have been dif- fused instead of concentrated upon a fewsig- nificant projects, the result of which would be more positive and immediate. It is most reassuring, however, that the Dir- ector-General in his Report recognizes this short- coming and is taking the necessary steps for a radical and methodical concentration of projects so as to make the 1950 programme more concrete, more practical. The Philippine delegation wishes to commend the Director-General for his realistic appraisal of the situation and for his policy of concentrating upon fewer but more significant projects, one which I am sure has the support   and merits the approval of this general confer- ence. This being a business meeting, the Philippine delegation wishes, in a spirit of constructive crit- icism, to offer the following observations and suggestions. First, with respect to educational missions; I heard with great interest the Colombian delegate who spoke this morning and asked for greater efforts in combatting the illiteracy which he claims is rampant in the American countries. The Philippine delegation desires to suggest the further extension of the work of the educational missions, not only to the American countries, but to all Member States which so far have not received the benefit of that service. We suggest that funds be provided for the immediate and effective follow-up of the recommendations of the missions, so that the Member States concerned may be further assisted and guided in the more difficult and more important work that remains after the survey is made, the work of implemen- tation. We recommend that an adequate percen- tage of the budget for each mission be set aside for the follow-up work that may be required, for without such implementation the surveys would be of little practical benefit. Second, Pakistan spoke this morning of their desire to be included in the Secretariat. I think I voice the sentiments of the small Member States when I say that it is our desire also that we be given a larger representation in the upper brackets of the Secretariat, not because we are selfish, but because we want to enable our specialists in various fields to have the much-needed contact with, and inspiration from, their fellow experts from other lands. This increased participation will encourage us still more, and as our experts return from Paris to their respective countries, they will be in a better position to help us im- plement the field work of Unesco. Third, the Philippine delegation wishes to go on record as supporting the trend toward the de- centralization of the work of Unesco by the estab- lishment of regional centres and the assignment thereto of regional specialists. It is obvious that the main work of Unesco is in the field, and if we expect to succeed in our work we must send our men into the field. Many things cannot be done inside an office. As mentioned by the Colom- bian delegate this morning, this is especially true in the fields of fundamental and adult edu- cation. If the Science Department needs a field service, it seems to us that fundamental and adult education are in greater need of such a service. Turning back to the comprehensive Report of the Director-General, the Philippine delegation notes with satisfaction the various achievements
90 accomplished by Unesco since the Director-Gen- eral was elevated to office. Those referring to relief campaigns, especially the educational mis- sions, international seminars, publication of books and pamphlets on international understand- ing, the establishment of field science co-operation offices, the promotion of cultural interchange, in- cluding the granting of awards and fellowships, the work accomplished affecting mass communi- cations, and the recent steps taken by the Dir- ector-General to disseminate the Universal Decla- ration of Human Rights—all these with many others which need not be mentioned here, deserve commendation. Mr. President, allow me to take this opportunity to express the appreciation of the Philippine Gov- ernment and the Filipino people for the many benefits that we have received from Unesco. We are most especially grateful for the sending to our country of the first educational mission headed by Dr. F. W. Reeves. The report of the mission is now being studied in Manila, and no doubt the Director-General will receive soon the approval of the President for the publication of that report. It is our Government's intention to use the re- commendations of this mission as a partial basis for a projected over-all legislation for the reorgan- ization of the Philippine educational system in
1950. I wish also to express the gratitude of our people for the scholarships and fellowships awarded to a number of our citizens. Some of them have returned home and are rendering fruitful service in their chosen fields. The books, book coupons, scientific equipment and supplies, and similar items received through the Department of Re- construction have been distributed and the recipi- ents wish me to express their gratitude for them. It is our hope that in the near future we in the Philippines will be sufficiently rehabilitated to be in a better position to render more adequate ser- vice and give further financial support to Unesco and to other Member States which may need our assistance. We feel that it is only through mu- tual assistance that we get better acquainted, and that only through such acquaintance can the cause of international understanding and peace be pro- moted and enhanced. Let me say just a few words as to whether Unesco deserves continued financial support from its Member States. Unesco is our own creation. Wehave organized it to serve as our instrument in our search for peace and international understand- ing. Much as the Director-General, the Executive Board and the Secretariat would want it, Unesco can only be a success if we, the Member States give it our support, not only financially but also in the execution of the plans drafted by Unesco   which are designed to promote better understand- ing among peoples, which, as I said before, is the basis of a real and lasting peace. On behalf of the Philippine Government, therefore, and in the name of the Philippine delegation, I appeal to each and every delegate here present to give Unesco and the Director-General our unstinted and our loyal support. It has been insinuated here this morning that the Conference should not increase its budget, but should resort to concentration and consolidation of projects and activities. I have no quarrel with the principles enunciated by the delegate from the United Kingdom. In fact I want to support him in the idea of concentrating and consolidating projects for the purpose of economy. But Unesco is a growing concern—it must grow. We have to cover bigger areas, to cover bigger projects, and consequently we may need to increase our budget. I do believe, and the Philippine delegation be- lieves, that we should not tie the hands of the Director-General by not approving a bigger budget simply because we do not want an increase. The Philippine delegation believes that the projects for
1950 should be considerer carefully one by one, and the amount necessary to carry out such projects determined, always, of course, taking econ- omy into consideration. For our part, the Philippine delegation pledges that the Philippine Government will do all and give all that is within our reach, and if necessary we are willing to go to the extent of making greater financial sacrifices in order to make Unesco accomplish its mission. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Canada. Mr. John B. C. WATKINS (Canada) — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President, fellow- delegates, although, as the head of the French delegation emphasized, France is not the inviting power of this Conference, may I take this oppor- tunity of saying what a particular source of satisfaction it is for a Canadian to come to this City of Light, one of the capitals of culture and the capital of a country with which many of my com- patriots are so closely united byties of blood, lan- guage and culture. [Speech continues in English] On behalf of the Canadian delegation, I should like to take this opportunity of endorsing the many eloquent tri- butes that have been so justly paid to the Dir- ector-General. The very moving address which Dr. Torres Bodet delivered on the opening day of our Session, reflecting as it did a rare combi- nation of idealism and practicality, would be an event in the annals of any organization. And I
91 believe that I am speaking for the Government and people of Canada when I say that Unesco is for- tunate indeed to have so able and so dynamic a Director. We are here to discuss the Director-General’s Report for the current year. In the opinion of the Canadian delegation this Report is to be com- mended both as an impressive statement of ac- complishment and as a frank and courageous ad- mission of weaknesses which have not yet been eliminated. The Canadian Government has always en- deavoured to concentrate attention on those func- tions of international organizations which give promise of immediate helpful results. In relation to Unesco activities we believe that it is our duty to urge that Unesco avoid dispersion of the Organ- ization’s energies and resources over too manypro- jects and activities and that it take every means to achieve high standards of administrative effi- ciency and economy. Our Government has, therefore, noted with particular satisfaction that the Director-General is fully conscious of the necessity for establishing an order of priority for the implementation of the programme. In establishing this order of priority it must be borne in mind that all projects con- templated should : (a) Contribute to peace, and (b) Be immediately practicable. We must be realistic. On the one hand, Unesco cannot be expected to take an active part simul- taneously in all aspects of educational, scientific and cultural endeavour. On the other hand, Unesco has no jurisdiction to consider problems of a purely legal character such as the question of the Polish art collection to which the Czecho- slovakian delegate made reference in his speech yesterday. It is to be feared that unless there is a greater degree of “realism” in the Unesco programme and further improvement in the efficiency of the Or- ganization’s operation (including a very consi- derable reduction in overhead), it will become in- creasingly difficult to persuade the public of many countries, including that of Canada, that their Go- vernments should continue to give full support to Unesco. A close examination of the 1950 programme has indicated that, while progress in applying these principles has been substantial, the Director-Gen- eral has not been entirely successful in restraining the somewhat exaggerated enthusiasm of those responsible for formulation and final approval of the Programme for 1950. The mere fact that, at this time of financial stress, the Organization is proposing an increase of more than $1,000,000    in its budget is an indication that financial con- siderations may not have been given as much attention as they would seem to merit. When it is further realized that Unesco is also recom- mending (though on a highly tentative basis), further activities at an additional cost of $6,150,000 (for the first year) under the proposed “UN plan for technical assistance” the increases in the budget assume even more significance. These increases, which are largely attributable to the expansion of certain existing activities and the addition of a few new projects, have been justified by the Director-General as essential for translating past efforts into practical results. They have been approved by the Executive Board as “moderate in relation to the world’s needs in education, science and culture”. Unfortunately, however, needs alone cannot be accepted as the sole criteria for deciding on the extent of the Unesco programme. The world’s capacity to meet these needs must also be taken into account. It is to the task of measuring these needs, and balancing them against available re- sources, that the Conference must bend its full energies and efforts. There are, of course, no simple criteria, finan- cial or otherwise, which can be brought to the performance of this task. Whether it is in the ex- amination of project estimates, salary scales, con- tract awards, or any other of the many expen- ditures under consideration, each delegation will have to apply its own expert judgment and experi- ence in deciding which expenditures are justi- fied and which are not. This will involve the detailed examination of each project within the programme and an impartial assessment of its utility and priority in relation to the cost, not only of other projects within the scope of oper- ations of Unesco, but also of other forms or international activity. In the final analysis the Conference must decide whether the projects al- ready under way and those still to be initiated are really a basic minimum which should be main- tained. It would seem that in the light of the general international situation, it is desirable to effect substantial economies and thereby limit ex- penditures to a figure which can more easily be borne by Member States during 1950. It is with a sincere desire to render the work of our organization at once more efficient and more effective that the foregoing observations have been made. I trust that they will not be taken as a sign of weakening faith in Unesco or its aims. On the contrary, we are encouraged both by the improvements already made in the organization and by the comprehensive grasp of its true func- tions evidenced by the Director-General in his Report. | The PRESIDENT — I call upon the delegate of Israel. Mr. FISCHER (Israel) — [Translation from the French] On the occasion of Israel's joining Unesco, I should like to say how gratified we are to belong to an organization the very existence of which is the first stage towards the effective attainment of those aims it has set itself. In assembling the representatives of Member Nations to discuss and work on non-political problems, Unesco is creating an atmosphere which brings the peoples in every land closer together—an at- mosphere to which we are drawn by our traditions and historic experience. A desire for brotherhood, one of the most deeply-rooted aspirations of the human soul, is inherent in the literature of all the great homes of culture. It would probably be worth com- paring these various methods of expressing one and the same thought, for they would provide an excellent illustration of Unesco’s working methods and striving for synthesis. The voice of the prophets of old Jerusalem— which means literally the City of Peace—has ever found a ready response in the hearts of men. Our act in joining Unesco thus takes on a symbolic meaning and summons us to duties of which we shall strive to be worthy. Furthermore, the close kinship between Unesco’s aspirations and the ideal of universal brotherhood which is the lesson of Isaiah’s vision, entitles us to stand before you with a certain pride. After waging a struggle which at times seemed well-nigh superhuman, Israel, in its newly re- cognized country, has succeeded in enlisting the support of those who, in exile, contributed throughout the world to research in education, culture and science. We can already point to achievements which claim the attention of the civilized world. The speech given two days ago by Dr. Torres Bodet has at the outset set a high tone for this Conference which encourages us to hope, among other things, that the political conflicts still smouldering will be no barrier to mutually pro- fitable contacts between all who, in the Middle East, have subscribed to Unesco’s programme. This Conference will, I have no doubt, see that such working conditions are established as will enable the State of Israel to make an unimpeded contribution to the Regional Office to which its geographic position and cultural origins assign it. For our part, we shall work in a spirit of good will of which I should today like to assure all delegations taking part in this Conference. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Australia.    Mr. Justice H. S. NICHOLAS (Australia) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I desire to make one or two comments to express the views of the Australian delegation at this Conference. My words will be brief because all that could be said about the ideals for which Unesco was estab- lished, has been said more eloquently than I could hope to do, and in detail also many things have been said which represent the views of the Austra- lian delegation. But Australia has a very special position, and for that reason there are one or two comments which we wish to make. Australia is in this special position, that she has never known an invasion, she has never known an enemy on her shores. But, although she has not suffered as other nations have suffered, she has in two world wars lost the flower of her manhood. Therefore, her interest in peace, her interest in the ideals which Unesco was established to foster, is as great as that of any other country here present and her devotion to peace and to the ideals of Unesco is as sincere and as disinterested as that of any other country. We, I think, have made some beginning to further the ideals of Unesco, even outside the scope of the Charter. We have offered, and the offer has been accepted, to countries neighbouring our own shores, fellowships and scholarships, which have brought students to our universities from these countries, and I think my colleagues from the Philippines, and this Conference, will recognize that that has been a worthy work, and a work in the spirit of Unesco. It is a work in the spirit of that portion of Unesco’s task which is to make one nation know another, in the hope and in the belief that when nations do know each other better, at least one of the causes of war will have been removed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Australia has done that and I think that is some testimony to its devotion to the ideals of Unesco and a sure proof that in any criticisms Australia may offer of the Report of the Director-General or of the work of Unesco, they are sincere, and are offered solely with a view to making this instru- ment of peace more effective and efficient. The first thing that I would like to do is to associate myself and the Australian delegation with those speakers who have congratulated the Director-General on the work which he has ac- complished, in the nature of his Report, of the realistic tone which is adopted, in its confessions of weakness and of doubt, as well as in its claim to success. We wish to congratulate him on that, and to congratulate this institution on having a man at its head who has devoted himself so ardently, energetically and sincerely to the work which has been entrusted to him. That is the attitude which Australia would take up whenever it makes any comment on this document. We regard the work of Unesco as of two kinds. It has a long-range policy, it is doing for the future what the United Nations Organization is attempting to do for the present, that is to say, it is removing the causes of war; and it is doing that in two ways—by making nations know each other better, and by removing what may be regarded as danger spots or the focuses of poison from which in the future wars may spring. For both those reasons there are certain portions of the Director- General’s Report to which we desire to give a special welcome. One of those portions is that in which he refers to the visit of himself and his col- leagues to several of the Member States. We wish, and here I speak for the Australian delegation, that the time could be spared for a visit to Austra- lia and the neighbouring countries. In Australia the national co-operating bodies have done great work—they have worked energetically and have associated men of science and men of learning with the work of this institution, and given them a sense that they are co-operating and doing the work for which it is founded. But we feel that one must go a step further than that. One must go to the peoples of these countries. One must stimulate and inform public opinion if that parti- cular cause of war is to be removed. One must go to the people because it is through their crit- icism on governments that wars may be stopped. It is not men of science nor men of learning who prevent wars. It is the people who, by their criticism, restrain governments, and thus wars are prevented. The Report and the speech of the Director- General referred to the difficulties of recruitment and of the nature of the assistance which he needs, and we, if I may say so, heartily agree that it is a very difficult matter to get men who are com- petent for this type of work. They must be men who, as the Director-General has said, have a vocation, and they must have that in addition to the learning and ability which make them able to carry out their vocation. But they must have a vocation in the first place, to further the cause of peace and to let no other cause stand in its way. Then when one comes to the second of the objects that I have mentioned, I should like to associate the Australian delegation with the re- marks that have been made by my colleague, the leader of the Canadian delegation, on certain of the projects of Unesco. We heartily welcome what has been said about the necessity of con- centrating on a few objects. We wish that these objects could be even more definitely and precisely defined, so that at least one cause of criticism of Unesco would be removed. There is a danger    that it should seem that Unesco has decided that it should assist in every worthy cause. Well, that is too much for anybody. Worthy causes are fostered by those who are associated with them. What we would like to see is Unesco concentrating itself on a few causes, and applying the best of its ability to those causes. There is in all coun- tries—as has been mentioned in the Report—some criticism of Unesco. One type of criticism is that which is inspired by the desire for immediate results. That I must refer to as uninformed crit- icism; that criticism is based on a desire to show results before any worthy results could pos- sibly be achieved. But there is another criticism which was referred to by the representative of Canada, and which has to be taken still further and continually into account. And that is that Unesco may be criticized for dissipating its energies and thereby doing nothing efficiently. We wish it to be clearly understood that any criticism we may direct against Unesco is dictated solely by the desire to attain objects which have our country’s sincere devotion, or to perfect the instrument to that object. It is for that reason also that we desire to associate ourselves with crit- icism that has been made or emphasis laid on the difficulties of recruitment, and on the wish that has been expressed that the enterprises which Unesco undertakes should be more clearly defined. It has been said in one of the speeches today that the emissaries of Unesco, its servants, should not be overworked men. However devoted a man may be, or however talented, you do not get the best from him if he is worked to death—if he works on Sunday and every other day. Therefore we wish that the work of these emissaries of Unesco should be cut down, but we also associate our- selves with the wish that it should be cut down by eliminating some of the tasks which have been set before them. Those, Sir, are the criticisms and suggestions which the Australian delegation would offer. We feel that we are doing some work to help Unesco ourselves, by holding se- minars in our country, by inviting students from neighbouring countries to send their sons to our universities and to learn our ways of life in that way. We think we are doing something by en- couraging the spread and dissemination of Austra- lian books, particularly children’s books, in those other countries, so that children of different coun- tries will get to know each other, and that that will be, in the long term, another means of removing the sources of war. But, with all that, we think that there is some room for improvement in Unesco, in two direc- tions, one of which would have the effect of improving public opinion towards Unesco and making it more favourable and sympathetic—and
94 without that sympathy it will do very little. The second is to improve the machinery of Unesco by limiting it to those objects which, in the opinion of the Director-General and his immediate ad- visers, should be given the first priority, in view of the objects which it has to achieve. The PRESIDENT — I call upon the delegate of China. Dr. MEI YI CHI (China) — Mr. President and fellow delegates: having studied carefully the Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization during 1949, and having heard the very impressive speeches by the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General, I wish, on behalf of the Chinese delegation, to make a few brief remarks. The great undertaking of Unesco, as it is set forth in its Constitution, is a vast project for the promotion of international co-operation so that nations and peoples by working together may acquire more and more mutual understanding, mutual appreciation and mutual respect which are essential factors for the attainment of world peace and good will. Whether it be measures of tem- porary assistance such as relief or reconstruction, or undertakings of a more permanent nature such as projects in the cultural and scientific fields, the object is first to help those countries which have suffered from devastation by war or as a result of under-development to get on their feet, so that they may gradually be able to contribute their share or shoulder their responsibility in the betterment of the life of all mankind. Looking in this light at the matter of co-operation by the MemberStates, it will be well to judge them not by what they do but by what they try to do, not by their accomplishments but by their efforts. It is unfortunate that the world now contains many countries that are poor in material resources, so that much of what has been done or contem- plated in the programmes of the Organization seems too much like one-way traffic. But the countries so concerned certainly should be ex- pected to do their part, in order to make the pro- jects—sometimes entirely intended for their own benefit—a real success. And it is very fortunate, indeed, that the world still contains a few, per- haps very few, countries that are rich both in material wealth and in intellectual and scientific leadership, and have contributed so generously through Unesco and also through other channels toward the relief and reconstruction of many countries. In this way they have earned a deep gratitude and have helped to make Unesco a more real thing. Incidentally, as the delegate from Iraq has shown a kind concern for China, I must say that   Unesco has done several things for my country, particularly in the pilot projects of fundamental education and in the various projects in scientific reconstruction. Naturally, many people in my country would like to see the Organization help- ing us much more, but we realize that its over-all programme must be considered in terms of rela- tive needs and the resources at its disposal. And I must also say that China is endeavouring to do its utmost in the carrying out of these joint pro- jects and in contributing its share, where it can, to the other activities of the Organization. Then I wish to say a few words regarding the programme activities of the Organization, which, it seems to me, should be the subject of chief interest to the Conference. On reading over the Report, one rather gets the impression that per- haps more attention—atleast judging by the space he has given it in the Report—of the Director- General has been taken up in the matter of Official and External Relations. This is, perhaps, as it should be when we still need to establish contacts and come into working relationships with the various governmental and non-governmental agencies. But when that has been accomplished, when regular channels of contact have been formed, we need to concentrate more on the planning, the execution and development of the Programme activities of the Organization, for that is the main, the only objective for the existence of Unesco. Among the many Programme activities, I ven- ture to suggest that more emphasis be given to the natural sciences. I am not unaware of the great value for the realization of world peace and understanding of the development of mass edu- cation and cultural appreciation, but, as Profes- sor Radhakrishnan has already mentioned, many people in the world today are poor and hungry, and the most urgent thing for us to do is to help improve the conditions of their physical well- being. An ancient Chinese sage once said that when the people are fed and clothed, then they can be expected to understand righteousness and propriety. A starving world cannot be a peaceful world. But to increase food production for these people, to improve the quality of the crops, to regulate irrigation and prevent floods, to combat the menace of disease and insanitary conditions, and to initiate and expedite other related projects, modern science and technology must eventually supply effective means. And I think many of our delegates here are looking forward with much eagerness to the great scheme of Technical Assi- stance which we hope can be realized very soon. Without going into too much detail, may I mention just one more point regarding the pro- gramme: that is in the field of cultural activities.
95 In the interests of mutual understanding and ap- preciation between the East and the West, it seems that much of the best of the two cultures, in literature, in art and in philosophy, should be brought out. Both are essential for what we hope eventually to arrive at—the birth of a world cul- ture. The West is making great strides in the advance of modern civilization, but for an ulti- mate solution of the situation arising from con- flicting ideas and attitudes as we have today, we may need to look deeply into the philosophies of the East and the West, perhaps more of the East. My last point is a point which has been stressed by several of the delegates before me, but I must express the satisfaction of my colleagues with the statement of the Director-General to the effect that adjustments for more rational geographical distribution of the staff will be made when the question of recruitment is considered in the future. Adjustment is certainly needed and we hope this will be realized as soon as possible. If we look at the list of, say, the first nine persons who occupythe top posts in the Organization, we must admit that they are all distinguished and able, but they seem to come entirely from two con- tinents. Can we say that some equally distin- guished and able people cannot be found in other areas of the world? If we seem to be per- sistent in repeatedly suggesting that more quali- fied persons from regions such as South and East Asia might be recruited in the work of the Organization, we do not advocate it merely as a matter of national or regional representation as such. In fact, we do not think that any specialists or other workers should come to Unesco “simply to familiarize themselves with international life”, but that they should be prepared to contribute their talents and experience, each in his field, to the immense task of the Organization. And if due regard is given to geographical distribution, we should have achieved a wider scope of knowledge and a range of view which can be of great value in making the programme of Unesco more com- prehensive and comprehensible. The PRESIDENT [Translation from French] I call on the delegate of Syria. Mr. FARRA (Syria) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, it is a very pleasant duty for us to be attending this congress of education, science and culture which, starting in London, took us to Mexico, then to Lebanon and has this year brought us to the soil of France. His Excellency Mr. Georges Bidault rightly remarked that his country was not the inviting power. But it is none the less true that things of the     the spirit have always found a welcome in this lovely country, to which I have the pleasure and honour to offer our greetings. Gentlemen, this is not mere politeness. Please allow me to tell you of an impression, peculiar perhaps to myself, which struck me two days ago as I was passing the flame of remembrance on my way to Unesco House. I had the feeling that this flame was the reflection of something far transcending its local and national, its military and historical importance, and represented the flame of those who have fought for the spirit at all times and in all places, those who died that the ideal might live, a flame whose guardians we are today and which it is our proud duty to keep burning. It is in this spirit that I should like to offer a frank and straightforward criticism of the Organization's report for 1949. It is a valuable document which clearly con- veys the impression that Unesco, still a young Organization, born amid countless difficulties in the uncertain days following the war, seems to be making some headway with its work, its achievements and development and is now car- ving out a position of unique importance in the world. This Report bears testimony to remarkable activity. Gentlemen, we have pleasure in endors- ing the Director-General’s praise of Unesco as a body, from the seniorofficials to the lowest ranks, for their zeal, their unremitting toil and their faith—feeling certain that they have been spurred on by the Director-General's own example. May I recall an incident still fresh in the minds of those who attended the unforgettable session in Beirut? In the Unesco buildings by the Mediter- ranean, shortly before we elected the new Director-General, many were speaking in his praise, praise which found a sympathetic re- sponse in us, and with moving enthusiasm the General Conference unanimously elected Mr. Torres Bodet to his high office. When a few days ago we again contacted our friends in Unesco, made some study of its work and read the Director- General’s Report, with all that was explicit and implicit in it, we were glad to find that that enthusiasm was justified and that what was said at Beirut was an understatement. However, allow me to express clearly our views on this Report. I feel that the field of action and plan of work it outlines are too vast, too extensive, as many of my colleagues have already pointed out. They embrace so many tasks and aims, such a variety of projects, that, taken as a whole, they are an incoherent agglomeration and a heavy burden on the frail shoulders of so young an organization. It is only fair to add that the Report cannot be blamed for this host of tasks. The General Con- ference, the Commissions, Committees and the Board, animated by the best will in the world and a zeal which may be explained by professional scruples, specialization and a desire for publi- city, every year impose on the Director-General and the Secretariat an excessive number of reso- lutions, decisions and proposals. The Director- General then has the responsibility of carrying them into effect in that year and the early months of the following year. We therefore welcome whole-heartedly the policy of selection, of limiting Unesco’s objects and restricting its activities; we fully endorse your very just remark that twenty tasks, success- fully completed, with practical results, are worth more than a hundred superficial and abstract enterprises still in the rudimentary stage. As for the general character of the work, we naturally recognize that things of the mind are the very essence of Unesco. Nevertheless, it would seem to be a predominantly academic organ- ization, as suggested by its research, surveys and documentation. We feel that Unesco is not merely a research institute but first and foremost a working instru- ment. We therefore fully approve the policy adhered to in recent months, of entrusting spe- cialized institutions with the carrying out of research, the compilation of reports, documentary material and statistics. We would go further: it is only natural that this work should be entrusted to such institutions since, after all, it is their rai- son d’être. We should also like more stress to be laid on the practical, constructive side, and would endorse a just and illuminating remark which has been made: the problems of education, science and cul- ture can be solved only in terms of economics. We are delighted to note the encouraging success obtained by such schemes as Book Coupons and we should like to see more worth-while under- takings of this kind. Lastly, gentlemen, as regards general policy, it is an established principle that the primary object of the Organization is to serve the cause of peace, through education, science and culture. It would nevertheless seem that the institution is tending to become a vast administrative body, a large inter-governmental organization of official repre- sentatives and technical experts, where the work, in itself intensely interesting, is overshadowing the main objective. Far from us to suggest a particular policy. But we should be glad for the National Commissions to take firmer root in each country and in public opinion, instead of being a mere bureaucracy of    traditional, official representatives, civil servants in Ministries of Education and Foreign Affairs, and for the sessions of the Conference, instead of being a collection of official representatives or of diplomats who are available on the spot, to become a genuine congress of education, science and culture. This would perhaps help to streng- then the moral authority of Unesco to which Dr. Torres Bodet alluded in his speech. It is not possible, or even permissible, for Unesco to stand back as a mere eye-witness in the troubled times through which we are passing and then to act as a Main Educational Hospital or Cultural Red Cross. Individuals who are avowed intellectuals can no longer afford to remain in their comfortable ivory towers. Nor can organizations. Without underrating the praiseworthy assistance given under difficult conditions and frequently at short notice, we might well ask what is the pur- pose of distributing books with their handsome Unesco stamp, when devastated countries, re- fugees and war victims are all that are left by the terrible war machine with its trail of injustice and hardship? Unesco cannot afford to sit back as an academic, cultural offshoot of a great political organization, which, alas, has achieved so little and disappointed so many. In the cultural field, Unesco, with its moral authority, has been summoned to play a part which will reveal its true character, in the service of justice, human dignity and peace. The PRESIDENT — French] [Translation from the I call on the delegate of Tran. Dr. Ali Akbar SIASSI (Iran) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow-del- egates, ladies and gentlemen, the Iranian del- egation has noted with interest the remarkable Report of the Director-General. Reading through it, we have the impression that over the past year, so short and bristling with difficulties, Unesco has made great strides in the way of practical achieve- ments. We also have the impression that this success is due, not merely to the material resources at Unesco’s disposal, but first and foremost to the ardent faith and admirable enthusiasm of the Director-General and to the outstanding zeal of his staff which undertook such a heavy burden of work. Indeed, we cannot but pay tribute to such devotion and I feel it is my first duty to express our gratitude and thanks to the Director- General and his assistants. Many remarks spring to my mind in connexion with this Report but, as each has such a limited time, so that other members of the Conference may have an opportunity of speaking, I shall con- fine myself to two points. Firstly, there is the criticism the Director- General brought out both in his Report and in his eloquent speech the other day, regarding the im- portant rôle which the National Commissions should play in the fulfilment of Unesco’s task—a role they ignore or play half-heartedly. Although the Iranian National Commission, spurred by the enthusiasm of its hard-working Chairman, may, with a few other National Commissions, be regarded as an exception to the general rule, it would seem that the criticism in on the whole well-founded and should receive the attention of the Conference. To remedy this shortcoming, I suggest that a Committee be appointed to study the problem and make suggestions. My second remark may be put in the form of a question. Would not the results obtained hitherto through the labour and devotion of the Director- General and his staff have been more satisfactory and, above all, more in keeping with Unesco’s true mission, if the time and money spent had been concentrated on more limited objects? I would draw the attention of the Conference to a fundamental truth, that the value of any work, including Unesco’s, must of necessity be adapted to the means available and the end in view. A wise balance must be struck between ends and means; once this balance is lost, the quality of the work naturally suffers. Consequently, if the means are limited, so should be the objectives, and it is a commonplace to say that to carry oul great projects, appropriate means—large means— are needed. On reading the Report under discussion and examining the documents and pamphlets pub- lished by Unesco, we had the impression that in its work Unesco is running counter to this truth. Our means are limited—there is no denying it. But our objectives are not. It seems as though we are trying to imprison elephants in birds’ cages. In other words, it is very difficult, if not impossible for Unesco, with the funds available to it, to carry out satisfactorily the programme it has set itself, even in its concentrated form. This is a serious drawback which should be remedied without delay. I do not think it out of place, on solemn occa- sions such as the present, to repeat a few general truths on such subjects as Unesco’s value in assisting international understanding, in estab- lishing justice and a lasting peace, but I would prefer our Conference, instead of confining itself to statements incontestable and for the most part uncontested, to carry out constructive work. With regard to the special item now before us, our task in my opinion is to decide on one of    two things: either to vote a considerable increase in Unesco’s budget or to stop it reaching for the unattainable and require it to compress its pro- gramme of work yet further. In his outstanding address, Professor Piaget clearly set forth the threefold object for which Unesco is now working, and which entails three different activities: co-ordination, research and educational work. With the resources now available to it, Unesco should cut down on its work of co-ordination and research and throw its entire energies into educational problems, which, after all, represent Unesco’s true mission and an essential condition for all scientific and cultural progress. Such a limitation would in no wise reduce the value of Unesco’s work. We must admit that education is not a simple problem, standing alone. As you are well aware, it represents many prob- lems in one. It is so vast and has so many varied aspects, that it could easily—and I would say with conviction, profitably—absorb our entire resources and energies. Take, for instance, the mere ques- tion of literacy campaigns and imagine what time and money must be spent on them if they are to have practical results. Yet it is Unesco’s most urgent and imperative duty to lend a helping hand to those hundreds of millions of illiterate people, to rid them of their ignorance and pre- judices and the intolerant fanaticism to which they are a prey. Let us cherish no illusions, gentlemen. As long as so many human beings are intellectually blind and are thereby unable to enjoy the benefits of culture and science and of all Unesco’s work, mutual understanding between the peoples in every land—our favourite theme and the ultimate goal of our Organization—cannot become a reality, however much is done in the way of co-ordination, research and so forth. Gentlemen, it is not Unesco’s task to win over the few cultured intellectuals, the great majority of whom are either already on our side or against us and very difficult to win over. In either case we are merely wasting our time, as always hap- pens when efforts are made to convert the con- verted or to preach to stones. Unesco must therefore concentrate on the rest of mankind, consisting largely of illiterates, our first move being a relentless, systematic and large- scale campaign against illiteracy. To conclude these brief remarks, I wish to make it quite clear that the delegation of Iran is of the opinion that, if Unesco’s resources are to be kept within their present limits, it would be advisable to concentrate its work still further, confining it mainly, if not entirely, to education, at the international level of course. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I call on the delegate of Poland. Mr. PUTRAMENT (Poland) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the general impression one gains from the Director-General’s Report and our discussions is that we are searching for a definition, an ideology, a policy which must guide Unesco’s work. The Fourth Session of the General Conference is there- fore no different from previous conferences where the same problems were put forward and discus- sed. Does this mean that it is so difficult to find suitable tasks for our Organization? Does it mean that Unesco is superfluous? Werefuse to draw such conclusion. Nevertheless, to remedy the constitutional ill to which Unesco is a prey, and which is brought out frequently in the Director-General’s Report, we must make a diagnosis and find a name for the disease. Cloudy, verbose idealism could only aggravate Unesco’s present condition so that it would finally founder in general apathy. If Unesco is to fulfil the peoples’ hopes, it must boldly tackle the very real problems today facing every country and which may be reduced to a single aspiration: peace. The Constitution of Unesco subordinates all its activities to Peace. My delegation is therefore bound to judge this Organization’s work and pro- gramme in terms of this essential aim. Considering the spate of war propaganda and the shamelessness with which today, ten years after Hitler’s attack on my country, people are speaking of war and stirring up a new war, I feel that I must, on behalf of my delegation, state that Unesco’s contribution in the struggle for peace has been far too modest, despite certain praiseworthy endeavours. In his Report, the Director-General tells us of Unesco’s work for cultural reconstruction. Gifts and questionnaires have been despatched. I have no wish to belittle the positive value of such work. But can one seriously claim that it fulfils the hopes of the war-devastated countries, who paid such a tremendous price to safeguard civil- ization against the onslaught of Fascism and towards whom it was Unesco’s duty to champion the principles of international fellowship? Fortunately, the war-devastated countries, who can boast of having saved world civilization, have found sufficient strength to undertake cultural reconstruction hand in hand with far-reaching reforms, whereby all subjects acquire both the right and the means of access to education and culture. Those who stood in the way of interna- tional fellowship, wishing to hold up the    reconstruction of countries which should be free to choose their own way of life, did not reckon with the enthusiasm of peoples who for the first time in their lives found themselves free of the old feudal yoke. Poland today no longer has children wandering about the streets unable to go to school or to receive the necessities of life. The whole nation, through the State, cares for these victims of war; and, if the brotherhood of nations could furnish us with the means of improving the living con- ditions of these children and their schools, it would be no more than justice towards a country which has paid so heavily towards safeguarding the cultural heritage of mankind. If the governments of other countries have not felt it their duty to care for war-handicapped children, if all a particular country has done to help others was to send guns to destroy schools, while the people's resistance was being worn down in my own and other countries such as Czechoslovakia and Hungary, our governments have felt it to be their foremost duty to attend to war-handicapped children. And what results have we achieved? I would draw your attention to the following facts. In 1930 there were 43,000 students in Poland, while today there are more than 100,000. A series of governmental measures has given the children of working-class parents and peasants access to education at all levels, not merely by proclaiming their right to such education, but by establishing boarding schools to make this right a reality. A special Commissariat to combat illiteracy has been set up and today 10,000 literacy centres are in operation. Priorities have been established for the re- construction of schools. Hundreds of vocational training schools have been opened. The living conditions of teachers have been considerably im- proved. Museums and theatres have been raised from their ruins, thanks to the Government's attention. I quote these examples, not because I wish to boast of my country’s achievements, although I have every right to do so, considering the condi- tion Poland was in four or five years ago—I quote them because I feel that Poland’s example may be really instructive for many other coun- tries. We must realize that a crisis no less serious than the economic crisis is today threatening the culture of countries which have not been able to carry out the necessary social, economic and polit- ical reforms in time. As regards education, we see whole continents almost completely destitute of even elementary schools. As for culture, we note the existence of a phenomenon which I
99 would compare with the “double sector” in the economy of certain countries. Alongside what I would call the “official” sector, there is the cul- ture of the privileged few, which is unintelligible to the great mass of the people under present con- ditions; there is a genuine “black market” in culture, which appeals to the lowest human instincts, which might be said to have no other motive than to fill the pockets of speculators in culture, but which, in reality, merely stupefies and degrades whole generations of adults and, worst of all, young people. Today, the great American nation does not stand before the world as the home of Franklin, Walt Whitman and Theodore Dreiser, but as the pro- ducer of trashy Hollywood films, Sexual Digests and suchlike. To remedy this situation, Unesco must throw the whole weight of its authority and its entire energy into enlisting the support of the peoples of the world, stimulating the development of popular culture, the fountain-head of all human culture. Unesco must make up its mind to combat the “black market” of culture by active measures and moral condemnation. If my country is entitled to look upon its achievements in science, education and culture over the past four years with a certain justifiable pride, it is because our people, rid of all the hangers-on of culture, has takenits affairs into its own hands and has thus brought about a genuine rebirth of Polish national culture after the terrible trials and suffering of the war and the occupation. The example of my country and of the other countries of Eastern Europe, headed by the Soviet Union, therefore confirms this historic law, that the people are the fountain-head of all human culture. The further we get away from the people the greater the danger of abstraction, scholasti- cism and sterility. I feel that it would be well today to recall this basic law. The Director-General did not feel it necessary to mention that, in some countries, a political complexion has been given to relief for war- devastated countries, so that those countries who have suffered most severely from Hitler's bar- barism have been deprived of this assistance. He did not think it necessary to dwell on that part of the resolution passed by the Committee of Experts for Cultural Reconstruction dealing with work for the free flow of scientific information which Unesco might carry out in conjunction with the United Nations. Is it not Unesco’s task to remind certain countries that their laboratories have been able to make strides thanks to the sacrifice of other peoples, and that it is immoral to cling jealously to their advantage? Is it not    Unesco’s duty to make a public protest against the embargo on scientific equipment for the war- devastated countries? Such a move would be in the interests of science throughout the world. Among the international non-governmental or- ganizations with which Unesco maintains contact, we look in vain for such as represent a major proportion of the world’s population and are actively engaged in the struggle for peace. If Unesco is to draw closer to the great masses of the people, it must seek collaboration with the World Federation of Trade Unions, the Interna- tional Union of Women and, above all, with the World Congress of the Friends of Peace, which represents 600,000,000 men and women. Only thus can Unesco appeal to the mass of workers, who, as already emphasized from this rostrum, are even unaware of its existence. We were a little surprised to hear some de- legates put forward the theory that the papacy has always been the champion of freedom of conscience and progress. My country guarantees complete freedom for all faiths. I have every respect for the religious sentiments of my hon- ourable colleague, Professor Carneiro, but the view he holds that the papacy has always cham- pioned freedom of conscience and progress is in flagrant contradiction with the most elementary historic truths. I need only recall the name of Giordano Bruno to prove that this theory is merely a flower of oratory and in no way corresponds to historic truth. If we wish to embark here on a serious discus- sion of a genuine programme for cultural col- laboration instead of merely exchanging compli- ments, I feel it necessary to correct this error. As regards Unesco’s activities in Germany, Poland has often raised its voice to warn this Organization of the inherent dangers of such work. We still hold to the conviction that such work is not consonant with the Constitution or the aims of the Organization. By collaborating with the Occupying Powers in the three Western Zones, the Unesco Secretariat has violated the resolution passed in Mexico, providing for col- laboration with the Inter-Allied Control Commis- sion in Berlin. Unesco has thus contributed to deepening the division of Germany. Furthermore, Unesco may be considered as partially responsible for the utter failure of so- called re-education in the Western Zones. After all, what use is it for various German experts to attend the meetings convened by Unesco? What is the purpose of setting up publication centres or of Unesco collaborating in the revision of school textbooks in view of the wave of national-
100 ism and racial prejudice which is daily becoming more marked in the German publications of the Western Zones? The most useful contribution to peace in Germany would be for Unesco to protest with all the weight of its authority against the laxity of the Occupying Powers in the Western Zones who encourage those Germans standing for nationalism and aggression. Is there any need for me to quote at this meeting extracts from the speeches of Schu- macher, Adenauer and others attacking Poland, France and other neighbours of Germany? Do I need to quote the vindictive articles which the Occupying Authorities in the Western Zones allow to be published daily in Germany? Do you re- quire another example to prove that Western Germany is adopting the same policy as Bis- marck and Hitler? You need only note how Herr Adenauer, the new German Chancellor, has chosen the tenth anniversary of Hitler's aggres- sion against my country to launch a frenzied nationalistic campaign for the revision of Ger- many's frontiers, thus returning to Hitler’s policy? Only yesterday, according to the France-Presse Agency, Herr Adenauer thought fit to put forward his policy of revenge as the chief goal of his puppet government and to launch another attack against the territorial integrity of my country. “We shall never agree”, he announced to the ap- plause of the House, “with the uni-lateral decision taken by Russia and Poland with regard to these frontiers”. The Head of the French delegation must be as well aware as myself that France’s turn will come immediately after Poland: Herr Adenauer did not fail to mention the Saar. The others also began with the Saar. Are we helping to guard peace against such dangers by working in Germany in collaboration with the very Powers who contributed to the formation of this nationalistic, vindictive Western Germany? We have foreseen these dangers and proclaimed them. Unesco would have done much more for peace if it had combated the campaign of hatred going on in Germany, by a vigorous intervention with the Occupying Authorities, who, for unac- countable reasons, were endeavouring to mould Western Germany in its present form. What about the future? With whom is Unesco intending to collaborate? Poland will stoutly object to this Organizations collaborating in any way with the self-styled Republic of Western Germany, and it would ask Unesco to put all its energy and authority into the struggle against the   new spirit of Nazism, in compliance with its Constitution and its aims. I have endeavoured to show you that the struggle for peace is something real which cannot be put off by platonic statements. Have I any need to remind you that in the press of a certain country, you will find daily incitement to war? Do I need to remind you that, in certain countries, freedom is regarded as a safeguard for those who openly stir up an aggressive spirit? That is the true situa- tion. Unesco, which was created to struggle for peace, cannot shirk its responsibilities in the face of such a situation. If Unesco wishes to carry out work consonant with its ideals, it is its duty to foster such a mental attitude throughout the world as will make war-mongers feel like common criminals, That is why Unesco should approach the World Congress of the Friends of Peace, to which the real intellectual leaders belong, and at the same time appeal to the masses of workers in all countries aspiring to a lasting peace. My delegation firmly believes that peace must and can be safeguarded and that various systems can exist peacefully side byside, as Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the Chairman of Unesco’s Execu- tive Board, stated from this platform. We never- theless believe that under the present circum- stances, we have to fight for peace, and we hope that Unesco will adopt the motto of the World Congress of the Friends of Peace at Wroclaw, which proclaimed in its final resolution: “We are prepared and determined to win the battle for peace, the battle for life”. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate for Liberia. Mr. J. Lemuel GIBSON (Liberia) — This con- clave of nations has met in this historic city to continue discussions, evolve plans, make sugges- tions and adopt measures for the betterment of mankind, especially of the backward and under- privileged peoples of the world. We think this is the surest wayof establishing international peace and solidarity, of raising the standards of living and bringing about better understanding among nations. The realization of these hopes has been the preoccupation of this Organization since its birth and Liberia has no hesitation in subscribing to its aims,—we are with you heart and hand. May I, therefore, express, Ladies and Gentlemen, our gratitude for the privilege afforded us of making this statement. Unesco has accepted its grave responsibility fully realizing, I am sure, that, in order to achieve its aims and purposes, the help and co-operation of every nation no matter how small or apparently insignificant will be needed; every contribution, even the smallest, will help to solve international problems. Although Liberia is a small country, it is to her credit that she has always remained and will ever remain a faithful and constant adherent of the true principles of democracy; she is ever conscious of her obligations to humanity and her interna- tional commitments. The records of this and other organizations of which she is a member testify to the correctness of this statement. Liberia has lived up to her obligations not only in word but in deed. I refer to the sacrifices she made in the world struggle for the perpetuation of an ideal democracy by placing her territory and all her resources at the disposal of those who strove for a common cause, she did so at the risk of losing her sovereignty, without a thought of her defence- lessness, but in a spirit of co-operation. It was her contribution to save civilization from collapse and chaos so that a better world based on demo- cratic principles and justice for all nations might be built. We and you have lived to see the clouds of disaster disappear from the international horizon; a new dawn now begins to peep from behind the eastern hills. But the question arises today, as ever after a struggle: Is this peace for all? Are we fulfilling the terms of Charters and Constitutions in so far as they are intended to affect the interest of all? Are the privileges to be enjoyed by all without regard to race, creed, colour or sect? Or are these merely promises or declarations made in the abstract? If our territory was given without reserve and our sons fell upon battlefields like others, why then, is a curtain drawn between us and those who receive the benefits of Marshall Aid? Why cannot we, and other peoples of Africa and African descent forming minority groups else- where, share the advantages of Marshall Aid in order to have better standards of living for our- selves and posterity yet unborn? It is noted that certain dependent territories are benefiting from this Plan which is denied to a sovereign and in- dependent nation such as Liberia. No one can reasonably contest the rights of a nation that suffered the ravages of war to claim the benefits that were instituted precisely with the aim of assisting such nations. Why must we risk the hazards and not share in the advantages when they are enough to go round? Yet in these cir- cumstances we are not disappointed, neither are we disloyal. We are not complaining, but are merely expressing our view, and hope that these important facts will receive wide attention. We have listened with great interest to the Re- port of the Director-General, and I wish to convey    our congratulations to him and the entire staff. We cannot agree with those who feel that Unesco is a mere symbol or Utopian dream. It must be remembered that the summit cannot be reached without struggle. We cannot expect to see con- ditions transformed over night. It is our expe- rience, however, that no organization, nation or individual can achieve lasting results if it dis- regards the principles of justice and equality for all. If the various international organizations of the world have made slow progress, if they have failed to achieve lasting peace, if there are bicker- ings and harangues, if there is a lack of under- standing and co-operation, it is because they have wanted to ignore these principles. They have refused to realize that God has made all men of one blood to dwell upon the face of the earth, and until a common brotherhood is admitted and accepted, endless trouble will arise. Any effort to unify the world or eliminate conflict without accepting this principle is futile. We are speaking today for the Africans and all coloured peoples scattered over the world. The African is justly proud of his background and culture. There is much beauty in our culture and with the right education and scientific help, given to us and other nations as mentioned in the Report, I am sure that Africa can again take the place in the world she deserves. The peculiar circumstances under which Liberia was founded makes it imperative for us to labour assiduously for our own development and request help when we are in need of it. President Tubman has initiated a programme of educational recon- struction and expansion in Liberia which is being vigorously pursued by our Ministry of Education, and it is gratifying to see that this programme is meeting with success. Elementary education is now made possible for every citizen throughout the length and breadth of Liberia, and we can look forward to a wide diffusion of knowledge in the coming years. It is our anxious desire to give our aboriginal population greater participation in the political and social affairs of the country and to assure their economic self-sufficiency. Apart from the help we have from small missionary groups, we are facing the task single-handed; yet we are proud of the results we have achieved so far. One of the greatest drawbacks, however, is the destruction by fire of our National College a few months ago. It is indeed a tragedy to our country. Our College library, archives, laboratory equipment, all we possessed was destroyed, and we are now trying to reconstruct. In order to implement existing projects, Liberia, as one of the economically less developed countries with vast potentialities and a member of Unesco, nowappeals for assistance, and desires to be in- cluded in the present technical assistance pro- gramme. We desire to implement our agricultural pro- duction, to tackle the problem of soil erosion, to introduce and develop numerous local industries, to promote trade, to raise the standard of living of the people of our hinterland through education and to improve health services. To give you one concrete example of the poten- tialities of Liberia, it may be news to some of you to hear that one of the largest iron ore deposits in the world has been found in Liberia. Just recently, a new drug for the cure of arthritis has been discovered in a vine which grows profusely in Liberia. There are deposits of gold, diamonds and other precious stones. Our Government, as I have said, has provided foreign scholarships within the limits of our re- sources; but we desire immediate technical assist- ance and advice in order to combat the subversive influence which is beginning to stretch its tenta- cles also in other under-developed areas—a very fertile ground. In passing, I should, on behalf of my delegation, like to impress upon the Director-General that we are also anxious to see in Liberia the circula- tion of educational, scientific and technical books and pamphlets, and the setting up of a scientific and technical institution under the auspices of Unesco. We hope that we have made clear our position and have succeeded in convincing this body of our spirit of co-operation and our needs, of our ardent loyalty to Unesco and all the world organizations of which we are members. We assure you again that we would welcome any help, in the form of a technical advisory mission, fellowships or other- wise, which you may grant Liberia in the very near future as it has been granted to other nations. This appeal is a challenge to the principles and objectives of Unesco, coming as it does from a foundation member. We hope we have done what you desire. We need help and we need it very quickly. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of New Zealand. Sir James SHELLEY (New Zealand) — Mr. Pre- sident, fellow delegates: the delegate of Belgium emphasized the fact that all speeches had begun with encomiums of the Director-General, but that he deserves more than praise and appreciation. I would like, in the name of New Zealand, to express our hope that he feels that inner sat- isfaction of the consciousness of a great task,    greatly conceived and well done. He deserves more than that, he deserves the trust and the corresponding freedom of action that will give him the fullest possible chance of doing that job. I shall confine myself to the consideration of one or two seemingly small practical matters which will tend to give the Director-General this freedom. I have much to say concerning the programme side of the Director-General's Report, but I shall leave that for the place where I hope it will be more effective, in the Programme Commission. New Zealand takes the ideals that have been so ably expressed in so many noble speeches—New Zealand takes all that for granted. We know what Unesco stands for. It stands for a development of a vital mental background against which the United Nations may become united. The leader of the delegation for the United States in a very noble speech, spoke of the backward areas of the world and of the remark made in the United States of what they are doing about those areas that are going backward. Now I would emphasize, Mr. President, that from the point of view of the ideals of Unesco, all the areas in the world are backward. And I should like to congratulate the Secretariat for seeing that this is adequately sym- bolized in the fact that they have hung the United Nations flag back to front so that all the nations there are going backwards. I do not know what the President of this assembly thinks about it, but they have also shown the same thing in regard to the Australian flag, but I do not know how fast Australia is going backwards. I am glad to say the Secretariat has recognized which way New Zealand is going. The difficulties of international machineries are of course enormous; it is like gathering parts of motor cars in all the various places of the world, the screws from America and the nuts from Eng- land, and so on, and expecting them all to fit into one another. It is possible in the senior executive of any department which works under the Dir- ector-General, that no one member may be able to think or speak in the native language of any other member. Now that is a very serious handicap, and of course makes for extremely slow action and for cumbersome translation and re-translation. Now in regard to this matter of nationalities, I would like to point out that Article VI of the Unesco Constitution dealing with the Secretariat says in paragraph 4 The Director-General shall appoint the staff of the Secretariat, subject to the paramount consideration of securing the highest standards of integrity, efficiency and technical competence, appointment of the staff shall be on as wide a geographical basis as possible.
103 The paramount consideration is the securing of the highest standards of integrity, efficiency and tech- nical competence. From some of the speeches that we have heard, there is some doubt about whether the members of this Conference are prepared to give power, and to put trust in the Director-General, and give him the necessary freedom to make it possible for him to run the Secretariat effectively and with the highest possible efficiency, even though geographi- cal distribution may, for the time being, have to be set on one side. I can assure him that he will have the backing of New Zealand in any effort he makes to free himself from shackles of territorial imprisonment. Passing on to the second matter, this again is a trifle, but one of those trifles that, if you are not careful, is like a plant disease, starts in a small way, but gradually spreads over the plant until it has to be burnt, or destroys itself. We have been reminded by one or two of the speakers that this is a meeting of intellectuals, among whom as we know, are some of the most dis- tinguished scholars of the world. We have, back in our own countries, the best brains on the Unesco National Commissions. In other words, we have gatherings of people who must necessarily be very busy people and required for all sorts of important purposes. But they and their interest in Unesco's work are being smothered with a blanket of words. This is characteristic not only of Unesco but of the United Nations Organization and various other international organizations. But it is Unesco’s business to set an example to all these other international organizations. That is why we gather the brains here. It is Unesco’s business to find, shall I say, a way by which coun- tries can speak to one another easily. That is one of their big jobs, and I hope that in the future programme they will perhaps realize that job, the job of finding the basic means whereby the most efficient contacts and most efficient communica- tions can be made between country and country, and the most efficient collaboration can be brought about. The United States delegate quoted an English critic who said of Unesco: “It should moderate its rapture in the interests of practicality”. Well,
1 pass on to you that we should moderate our words in the interest of meaning. Is the peace which we are seeking, the peace to which we are lulled by the purr of typewriters and the hypnoti- cally monotonous scanning of roneoed sheets? That is what it is with me. The Secretariat, I think, should be strengthened; it should be strengthened by a new Department, a department whose mem- bers will speak like men and not like dictionaries.    If we progress as we are, we shall not lament that more than half mankind is illiterate, we shall be saying how blessed is the lot of those who cannot read. We are imprisoning ourselves in words. The United States delegate in a most able speech said that Unesco is a healthy child of three. That is right, Mr. President. You will realize of course, if you know anything about the development of a child, that it is during the second and third years that he learns to collect words. He has got to the end of his third year. I am hoping that in his fourth year he will be able to collect meanings and express them in very much fewer words than he has had to use in his stuttering days. This disease of words is like a creeping paralysis which will gradually prevent people from taking that interest they ought to in the actual work of Unesco. Speakers have emphasized, the Director-General too, the need for the Commissions in the various countries to get down to the job, but if it has many more words to analyse and to criticise and to try to find out what they mean—if it has many more months of that—you will kill all the enthu- siasm there is. While they are doing that, they cannot think out ways of making Unesco popular, ways of spreading the good word and so on. That is really important. 1 think it was the delegate of the United Kingdom who spoke of the number of millions of sheets which have been distributed during one year. Nowit need not be. I have gone through some of Unesco’s publi- cations and in most cases I am quite sure that I can make the meaning very much plainer by
25 per cent less words than are used. It comes, I admit, to a large extent, from the Director- General's difficulties in having members of dif- ferent countries trying to get together on the same job. The beginning of St. John's Gospel reads: “In the beginning was the word”, and then a little later, “and the word was God”. Let me add to that, “in the end will be words, words, words”, and believe me, words can be the very devil. Mass Communication is, of course, one of the most highly important matters that Unesco has to deal with— but masses of communications are often very highly unimportant. I suggest that the new Department the Director-General may think fit to set up should end all the documents that are sent out with just about one page, the heading of which is “This is What it Means”. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Turkey. H.E. Mr. N. MENEMENCIOCLU (Turkey) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I come from a country where it is not polite to praise anyone to his face. How- ever, I should like to begin by speaking of our distinguished Director-General, and in so doing I do not feel that I am breaking this rule of polite- ness; from where I am standing I cannot see Dr. Torres Bodet, and with a little stretch of the imagination I might be speaking in his absence. Shortly after he took up his duties, I had the honour and the very great pleasure of making Dr. Torres Bodet’s acquaintance. We spoke of this institution, of its ideals and also of the practical results which the new Director-General hoped to achieve in this extremely difficult and delicate field. I may say that this conversation made me feel that I was speaking to a man with rare clear- sightedness, of sound common sense and great energy in carrying out the heavy task allotted to him. I believe Dr. Torres Bodet to be a man with a remarkable combination of enthusiasm and level- headedness, idealism and common sense. The Director-General told me of the priority pro- gramme he was intending to lay before the Executive Board and the various organizations. I gave him every encouragement. He also spoke to me of the National Commissions and I must admit that he was not very complimentary about certain Commissions, including our own; but I listened to him with great respect as I realized that the subject in question was of paramount importance. After this interview with the Director-General I felt that the hope I had placed, that we had all placed in him, was justified, as in such a short space of time Dr. Torres Bodet can present to us a record which I can only call remarkable: the report before you is not merely an account of what has been done; it holds out more definite promise for the future and our faith in Unesco’s work is thereby increased. In my opinion, this Report is also a remarkable working instrument for the National Commissions, which mayfind in it the inspiration they need for spurring their Governments and fighting against what I would call “administrative inertia”. I would therefore add my modest remarks to the outstanding speeches which have been made from this rostrum and thank Dr. Torres Bodet most sincerely for what he has done, not forgetting his distinguished assistants who have worked with such zeal and self-denial to achieve constructive and extremely valuable results in so short a time. Our century of amazing achievements has the defects of its virtues. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the desire for show caused the ruin of many people who felt they had to maintain their rank, to keep up appearances. The world has changed but the vice persists. We have a marked tendency to show a polished, gilt surface with no real depth, no solid basis to support    the superstructure. And this is the most serious danger we have to face. In the various spheres of human activity, there is a tendency to spread ourselves. But I feel that we must strive for depth and not for merely superficial results. I should like to offer my whole-hearted congratulations to Dr. Torres Bodet first and foremost for the courage with which he has cut down this superstructure, sacrificing high-sounding projects and going deep- er in the search for solid foundations for Unesco. Gentlemen, we all, I believe, agree on the basic importance of the National Commissions for carry- ing out Unesco’s work. I should here like to quote the words of my eminent friend, Mr. Georges Bi- dault: “The masses we have to influence are not shapeless masses, or mere blocks; but human beings, each with his own value, dignity and great- ness, human beings in groups, for men, in the times in which we live, have to form themselves into groups.” There can be no single formula, no rigid, uniform method which can be applied automatically without distinction to living groups of human beings. It would therefore be wrong for us to expect Unesco to devise laws, leaving Governments only the task of enforcing them in each country. That would be a kind of totali- tarianism which is as abhorrent to us as to the leaders of Unesco themselves. Unesco is a rallying point for all who aspire to triumph over the evil instincts dragging the world to its material and moral ruin, by raising the intellectual standard of men and teaching them systematically about their right to a happylife. It is our wish to attain this ideal for mankind as speedily as possible. In our opinion, Unesco and the lofty principles which inspired its establishment are the living symbol of this ideal, but it is for us, for us all, to take advantage of the splendid working instru- ment which has been given us and to adopt appro- priate methods to make these abstract ideals real- ities in our respective countries. That is the task of the National Commissions and we should see that the Governments attach more importance to, and show greater understand- ing for, the work of the National Commissions, so that they may become more instrumental in securing the success of Unesco’s mission. Gentlemen, in this connexion, I should like to make a suggestion which our Director-General or the Executive Board, as the case may be, may consider, if it is worth their attention. I feel that, while the National Commissions should retain full autonomy in their working methods and in the application of those methods to the task assigned to them, they could co-ordinate their work better through closer mutual contact. In my opinion, it would be necessary to convene, in addition to this Conference, which is naturally of an official and solemn nature, a small conference of the National Commissions themselves, to be attended by one or two delegates of each Commission, for the sole purpose of co-ordinating their work and giving them greater flexibility and cohesion in carrying out their common task. This is only an idea—and you may take it for what it is worth—but in any case, it is necessary for the National Commissions to put more method and enthusiasm into their work and that, I believe, is where these small conferences could be so use- ful; the contact thus established between the National Commissions could be a stimulus for each one, spurring it to greater efforts and encouraging it to supply both Unesco and its own Government with systematic, rational information and, above all, to work to greater purpose, so that this small conference, which would be a kind of private gathering—might benefit from past work and the suggestions it might offer for the future. Gentlemen, I feel that this suggestion, which is perhaps out of place at this General Conference, could be profitably considered by our Director- General, who, I am sure, wishes the National Commissions to assume their proper rôle, a rôle of paramount importance for ensuring the success of Unesco’s mission. The PRESIDENT — I call upon the delegate of South Africa, Mr. H. T. Andrews. Mr. H. T. ANDREWS (South Africa) — Mr. Pre- sident, the South African delegation welcomes the opportunity to participate once again in this annual meeting of our Organization and in particular to pay tribute, along with other delegations, to the first Report issued by the Director-General since he took over his responsible duties. In paying that tribute one does so with the conviction that the Director-General, in the short time he has been in office, has certainly applied his every effort to clarifying and simplifying the objectives for which the Organization stands, and for which it was created a brief three years ago. But, as the Dir- ector-General himself indicated in his brilliant analysis of the aims and purposes of the Organ- ization which he delivered on our opening day, it is still very obvious that we all have a long way to travel before we can be satisfied that the organ- ization and administration have been placed on sound healthy lines such as we all desire. In that task it must be the business of each and every member of Unesco to offer some co-operative contribution, but my delegation feels it would be lacking in frankness, Mr. President, if, at this stage in the life of our Organization, it did not utter an earnest note of apprehension at the expanding    Budget which has been presented to us this year for our consideration. I know it sounds like a contradiction in terms, and it may be unpopular in some quarters, to speak of applying the purposes and objectives of Unesco effectively, and yet, on the other hand, to urge economy of expenditure. But in this economic world in which we live, where budgets have to be balanced—where national expenditure has to be adjusted to national revenue—it is essen- tial that Member States should examine their contributions to the various international organ- izations. And in that respect, I would very much wish to give emphasis to what the distinguished delegate of the United States expressed so precisely in his speech yesterday. Unesco is part of our United Nations Organizations; it is one of the important Specialized Agencies of which there are many, and each and every one of them from the United Nations Organization itself down, calls for very considerable financial contributions from Member States. We must not overlook the fact that whilst Ministries of Education, of Arts, or Culture and so on plan and devise projects—and part of those projects may relate to the activities of Unesco— it is nevertheless the Ministries of Finance who have to find the money, and it is from the indivi- dual taxpayer, the man in the street, that that money has to be obtained. The need for an annual budget of rational proportions is therefore adamant and my plea is that we aim more and more at simplification, at concentration, at consolidation of the activities of this Organization. I believe that is the Director-General's aim, but I believe also that he will have to go even further than he may have contemplated. The South African delegation associates itself therefore with the United States and United King- dom delegations in the view that we should re- assess and re-evaluate many of the directives and resolutions which have emerged from past Confer- ences and which have placed a top-heavy obligation upon the Organization and Administration. The honeymoon period—if I may call it that—during which these resolutions and directives were for- mulated in the past—is now surely over. Three years is long enough for any honeymoon and as we all know, Mr. President, that many things are promised, many plans and many reso- lutions are made which, when we come down to practice and reality, have to be modified or even jettisoned. Let us therefore, as has already been suggested by the United States delegation, once again re- examine the position and let us discard what is impracticable or beyond the means of this Organ- ization. It is better to lower our sights and keep our objective within our economic and financial limits, than to be extravagant and risk eventual bank- ruptcy and possibly failure. These observations, Mr. President, are of a very general character, and can be pursued and elabor- ated later at the proper time. 1 only give utterance to them now in this brief fashion to indicate what my delegation considers requisite if a healthy, vigorous Organization is to come into being. I would, in conclusion, offer only one specific observation to these remarks, and that is to assure the Director-General that my Government is fol- lowing very closely the activities of this Organ- ization. Evidence of that interest will be found in the annual report which has already been sub- mitted by the Union of South Africa to the Organ- ization. But over and above this, as further evi- dence of our co-operation, it has been our pleasure to invite the Organization to be represented at the Southern Africa Scientific Regional Conference to be held in Johannesburg next month. The Deputy Director-General has, I understand, been called to represent Unesco at that Conference. He may be sure of a warm welcome when he arrives in South Africa, not only in his personal and official capa- city, but also as a gesture of friendly co-operation to Unesco itself. The PRESIDENT — It is proposed that the meeting be adjourned until tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. There will be a plenary session in which you will hear the delegates of Austria and Peru and the reply of the Director-General. The plenary ses- sion will be followed at 10.30 a.m. by the second meeting of the Commission of Programme in this room. At the same time, 10.30 a.m., the second meeting of the Commission of Official and External Relations will take place in Room No. 11. It is hoped that we shall start punctually tomorrow at
9.30, so as to enable other meetings to continue their work. The meeting rose at 6 p.m.