The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the United States delegation, with the support of several others, had suggested the adoption of documents
4C/8 (rev.) and 4C/9; document 4C/8 (rev.) con- tained, in Chapter III, two proposals submitted to the Commission and the General Conference by the Executive Board. The proposal made by the delegation of the United States of America was adopted. It was decided to set up a special Sub-Committee on Technical Assistance, consisting of representa- tives of the delegations of Australia, Brazil, the United States of America, France, India the United Kingdom and Turkey. The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commission should adjourn until the sub-committee could sub- mit its first report. Agreed. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. FOURTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 4 October 1949, at 5 p.m. Chairman: Report of the Sub-Committee for Technical Assistance (document 4C/PRG/14 and Corr.). Mr. CUMMINS (Australia), Rapporteur of the Sub- Committee, said that the Report (document 4C/ PRG/14) was in four parts. Pages 1 to 4 inclusive * stated briefly the method of procedure adopted by the Sub-Committee, and referred in some detail to document 4C/9. It was felt that it was inappropriate for the Sub-Com- mittee to propose detailed comments and amend- ments to document 4C/9 because, as explained by the Director-General, that document was prepared for the Secretary-General of the United Nations for presentation to ECOSOCand, as a result certain parts of it were now only historical. The Sub- Committee had therefore confined itself to ex- pressing certain comments which it was hoped would be helpful to the Director-General in the preparation of an amended document, a request for which was submitted in the Appendix to the Sub-Committee’s Report. In particular, attention was drawn to the desirability of deleting references to the financial table at the end of the doc- ument 4C/9, and to the number of proposed units under Part Two, Section B. The second part of the Sub-Committee’s Report (Appendix) consisted of two draft resolutions based on the recommendations made by the Ex- ecutive Board in Chapter III of document 4C/8 (rev.) and on comments made by the Programme and Budget Commission and members of the Sub- Committee. The third part of the Report (Ap- pendix, Annex 1) consisted of the “Observations
1. See below, Report of the Sub-Committee -for Tech- nical Assistance, pp. 375 to 376. Professor PauLo DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) and Guiding Principles” of the ECOSOC, ? and the fourth part (Appendix, Annex 2) set out the “Ob- jectives and Conditions of Unesco’s Participation”. The Sub-Committee had given particular consi- deration to the criteria which might be followed when considering the possible selection of a pro- ject. It had been agreed that there was no abso- lute criterion, and that in any given project dif- ferent criteria might be taken into account, some of them conflicting in nature. Therefore a num- ber of criteria had been submitted as a guide, and not as a complete list, or with anyidea of priority. Finally, Mr. Cummins drew attention to para- graph 10 of Annex 2 (Relationship between the technical assistance programme and the normal programme of Unesco). The Sub-Committee had been much impressed with the clarity and com- prehensiveness of the material submitted by the Executive Board and the Director-General in doc- ument 4C/8 (rev.). The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission’s atten- tion to the two draft resolutions in document 4C/ PRG/14 (Appendix, pages 1 to 3). A vote was taken on resolution I, which was adopted. * Resolution IT, with the corrections contained in document 4C/PRG/14 (Corr.), was adopted. * Annex 2 was then adopted. * The whole of the report was thus adopted.
2. 4C/Resolutions, Section II, Fifth Part, Annex I, p. 46 to 49.
3. In final form: Resolution 12.1.
4. In final form: Resolution 12.2.
5. In final form: 4C/Resolutions, Section II, Part V, Annex II, pp. 49 to 53.   Report of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee (documents 4C/PRG/13 and Corr, grand 3); Mr. EVANS (United States of America), Rap- porteur of the Sub-Committee, summarized the text of pages 1 to 4, which gave details of the Sub- Committee’s deliberations, drawing attention more particularly to the penultimate paragraph on page 4, where the opinion was put forward that the Programme and Budget Commission should withdraw its approval of the Draft Code of Poli- cies (document 4C/5 rev., Part I), considering that it would be very inadvisable to publicize widely such a temporary set of directives. Mr. Evans also drew attention to minor errors in the figures given in Annex IT of document 4C/ PRG/13 (see documents 4C/PRG/13 - Corr. 2 and
3). The CHAIRMAN proposed that the preamble should first be considered, then the body of the report and, lastly, the resolutions outside the Pro- gramme and the appropriation resolution. He drew the Commission’s attention to the draft resolution, on page 2 of document 4C/PRG/13, regarding a transfer of $30,000 to the Emergency Fund for the Near East. The words “for the Near Fast” did not appear in the document, but should be understood. The resolution was adopted.” Code of Policies The CHAIRMAN mentioned that, in the last para- graph on page 3, the Sub-Committee suggested that the Commission should withdraw its approval of the Code of Policies (document 4C/5 rev., Part 1) on the ground that it would be inadvisable to publicize widely a document of temporary ap- plication. The Chairman pointed out, however, that the Code of Policies would remain in force until the General Conference in Florence. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that, the previous year, the Conference had instructed the Director-General to consider standard policies for work. A report had been submitted. The Secre- tariat had considered the problem. The Executive Board had spent several days examining the Code and had approved it. The Programme and Bud- get Commission had also adopted it. If the United States delegation's proposal (document 4C/13) were adopted, the Secretariat would have time, before the General Conference in Florence, to collect certain information which would make it possible to draw up a more precise code. He admitted, however, that he was not very optimistic on the point. The Code of Policies was not ideal,
1. Im final form: Resolution 9.3 (last paragraph).
328 but it specified what Unesco was to do rather better than the Constitution. Consideration of the Code showed that it was only a basis for work; the publication of the code was a great advantage in preparing the budget; when Unesco was at work in the world, its appeal was not addressed to specialists only. If the Code of Policies were omitted, Unesco would be deprived of an impor- tant instrument, for the code represented an inter- mediate stage between the Constitution and action. The Director-General did not think it possible to frame any better code, and the attitude of the Commission which had adopted the Code was very easy to understand. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) said that his delegation considered that the Draft Code of Policies was very good—a document for which the United Kingdom National Commission and co-operating bodies were waiting. But the idea that it was provisional, that the National Com- missions, having received the present Code of Policies, might next year be provided with another one, was not liked. They would ask themselves why Unesco could not make upits mind, since it had had fouryears in which to do so. The code was not itself criticized, or unwanted; the United Kingdom delegation regarded it as absolutely essential to explain Unesco to the United Kingdom National Commission and Co-operating Bodies. It was because the Code was so important that it should not have the title of “provisional” and should not be changed in six months” time. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) thought that many members of the Commission would re- member the work which had been done to evolve the Code of Policies. He considered it would be useful for the National Commissions to see the code so that their views could be reported to the General Conference in Florence. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that he did not wish to publicize the code if it was really thought that the General Conference in Florence might adopt a better code differing substantially from the existing one. Although he had not agreed with that point of view, he was coming round to it: it was obvious that the Code should not be publicized if it was going to be changed every six months. But the time available was short; it would be possible to frame some new texts by November, but the Executive Board would then already be deciding on the programme for Florence. The Director-General did not insist that the code should be formally accepted but he thought that, if a question of substance was in- volved, it would have to be specified. The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Sub-Com- mittee's request that the Commission should          revise its decision should be considered first; thereafter, if the Commission still approved the Code, the Chairman would take a vote on the question of publicity. Mr. HOLLAND (United States of America) had listened with great interest to the Director- General's statement. He thought, however, that the United States delegation agreed basically with the United Kingdom delegate. He wondered whether a compromise could not be reached; the Code of Policies should be approved, but only for distribution to Member States and their National Commissions, for comment and criticism; the Dir- ector-General and the Executive Board could then, in the near future, know what changes were desired and, at the Fifth Session of the Confer- ence, the Secretariat could present something that perhaps better represented the point of view of all delegations. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed, and sug- gested asking the National Commissions to trans- mit their criticisms to the Secretariat as soon as possible, so that the Executive Board should be able to come to a decision in November. He pointed out, however, that all Unesco’s documents were public and that any journalist could obtain them. It might be proposed that the National Commissions should consider the Code, which would be provisional until the Florence Confer- ence. The CHAIRMAN observed that the Code would be subject to revision. A vote was taken on the new proposal, which was adopted. Programme Resolutions (Annex I, pages 1 to 31). Chapter 1 Chapter 1 (Reconstruction) was adopted. Chapter 2 Mr. FARRA (Syria) read out resolution 2.21 in document 4C/5 (rev.), observing that, in the Rapporteur’s document, the reference to the semi- nar to be held in the Middle East in 1950 had been omitted. It would be very regrettable if the seminar were abandoned. The literacy campaign could only be carried on with the aid of the States concerned, but Unesco’s assistance was never- theless extremely important. The Middle Eastern Countries had made tremendous efforts with very limited financial resources. The speaker stressed the unfortunate effect which would be produced in the Middle East if the amended text were adopted. He asked that the original text should be restored. Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) supported the proposal of the delegate of Syria. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) said that it had been estimated that the particular seminar under discussion would cost some $25,000 and the related clearing-house activities another $7,200. The original idea had been that there would be a mission to Syria. As a follow-up of that mission, two or three experts were to work in the Middle East on the collection of materials, and then the seminar was to have taken place. The Syrian Government having found that they were not in a position to receive the mission, the Secretariat was no longer sure whether the rest of the proposed activities were still in request. Therefore, when cuts in the budget were asked for, it had been decided to eliminate the project. The CHAIRMAN observed that an expenditure of $32,000 was involved, and that the effect on the budget should be taken into account. Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) said that the past inci- dents in Syria should not be a ground for sup- pressing the project. In any case, Iraq itself could benefit from such a scheme, as well as other Arabic-speaking countries. He thought that some preliminary work might be done in Iraq, Syria and other countries—at least a survey of the situa- tion to find out what Unesco could do in the matter. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the Com- mission that the budget for 1950 amounted to $8,000,000. The Sub-Committee had worked hard not to exceed that figure. The Director-General agreed with the delegates of the Arab States. Оп- fortunately, the situation in Syria had made it impossible to arrange for the seminar. The seminar would cost $32,000 and the Sub-Com- mittee could not go back on its decision. The Director-General therefore proposed a compromise: in 1950, the Secretariat might make preparations for the seminar to be held in 1951, in agreement with the Arab States. The preparations under- taken by the Department of Education would not necessitate heavy expenditure, and it would thus be possible for the seminar to be well prepared for 1951. Mr. FARRA (Syria) wished to correct a mis- understanding. The previous year, there had been talk of sending a mission to Syria with a very specific object, i.e. education in that country. Confusion might arise in some minds between that mission to Syria and the proposed seminar, which was of interest to all the countries in the Middle East. Mr. Farra emphasized that he had never intended that the budget should be in-   creased; it was simply a question of restoring the original sum allotted. The CHAIRMAN proposed that item 2.21 should be amended by the addition of the words “parti- cularly in the Middle East”. * Chapter 2 (Education), adopted. as amended, was Chapters 3 to 6 Chapters 3 (Natural Sciences), 4 (Social Sciences),
5 (Philosophy and Humanistic Studies) and 6 (Cul- tural Activities) were adopted. Chapter 7 Concerning resolution 7.22 (page 28), Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) protested against the resolution of his delegation (document 4C/45) being dropped and said this did not agree with the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee's point of view. The CHAIRMAN informed Dr. Zeissl that, as the resolution involved no financial commitment, the Rapporteur would be prepared to acceptit as a recommendation to Member States. Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) accepted the Chairman's suggestion. * Concerning resolution 7.4 (page 30), Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) said that he realized that this resolution was merely a suggestion to the Director-General; but the more his delegation studied it, the more dangerous it seemed. A sys- tem of certificates for cultural values could not be established without establishing a censorship. The Secretariat and the Executive Board would then have to explain whycertificates were given for certain books, and withheld for others. Sir Ronald considered the resolution too dangerous to go into the programme, even as a suggestion. Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) had no intention of disputing Sir Ronald Adam's point of view, but he wished to remind the Commission of the his- tory of the amendment; it had been put forward by the French delegation and dealt only with a certificate of approval for films. The delegation of the United States of America had then suggested that the certificate of approval should be extended to all cultural productions and the Sub-Committee had agreed. If Sir Ronald Adam's view were adopted, it would be necessary to go back on a decision already taken. Mr. Sedar Senghor wishedto set all fears at rest; it was not a question of substituting a Unesco censorship for that exer- cised by individual countries. The certificate of
1. In final form: Resolution 2.23.
2. In final form: Resolution 7.2289.
330 cultural value would be rather like the imprimatur given by a bishop or a distinction awarded in an examination; it was a recommendation for certain productions designed to secure internation- al co-operation. Mr. HOLLAND (United States of America) agreed with the delegates of the United Kingdom and the United States. His delegation felt that the Director-General should study the situation and report to the Fifth Session. To leave such a resolution in the Programme would be to pro- vide a target for hostile criticism of Unesco. Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) remarked that the French delegation attached special importance to the amendment and proposed that there should be added to the resolution a statement that the Director-General was requested to report to the Florence Conference. The DIRECTOR-GENERALobserved that, when he looked at the list of reports which he was to submit to the Florence Conference, he could not conceal his anxiety. He asked the French del- egation to instruct him to make his report to a forthcoming session of the Conference rather than to that to be held in Florence. The British proposal that resolution 7.4 should be deleted was adopted. The whole of Chapter 7 (Communication), as amended, was adopted. Resolutions outside the Programme (Annex I, pages 3
10.135). The resolutions concerning aid to victims of the earthquake in Ecuador, relief to refugees in the Middle East, the situation of Greek refugee chil- dren, and the China Reconstruction Fund, were adopted.* Appropriation resolution for 1950 (Annex II). The resolution was adopted.*
1950 Budget Information and Appropriation Table. Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) observed that the Budget apportioned approximately 70 per cent of the con- tributions to the main programme and services of Unesco, and some 28 per cent to salaries and fees, and that seemed to him an excellent arrangement. He would like to have confirmation that the same policy would be followed in the amended Budget. The CHAIRMAN stated that the budget made no change in the percentages allotted to the various chapters.
3. In final form: Resolutions 9.4, 9.3, 9.2 and 9.1.
4 In final form: Resolution 10.       The whole information and appropriation table was adopted. * The CHAIRMANthanked Mr. Seydoux, Mr. Flor- kin and the Rapporteurs for their painstaking accomplishment of an enormous amount of work in a very short time. The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m. FIFTEENTH MEETING Wednesday, 5 October 1949, at 12 noon Chairman: Draft Report of the Programme and Budget Commission (document 4C/PRG/15). Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur, pre- sented the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission (document 4C/PRG/15). On behalf of the Commission, the CHAIRMAN thanked the Rapporteurfor the way he hadcarried out his duties. He openeddiscussion of the report paragraph by paragraph. Paragraphs 1 to 11 Paragraphs 1 to 11 inclusive were adopted without comment. Paragraph 12 Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur, re- quested members of the Commission to amend paragraph 12 by the deleting “2 and 3” at the end of the third line and substituting: “and the re- vised table designated as Annex II (rev.)”. Paragraph 12, as amended, was adopted. Paragraph 13 Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) regretted that he had not been present during the discussion of the technical assistance programme. He wished to make explicit certain points which were implicit in the report. His delegation was in favour of the whole scheme and was very glad that Unesco was participate in it; he felt however that, while Unesco’s tasks in the field of education as part of the technical assistance programme were very clear, its responsibilities in the field of science were less clear. There would be three aspects of science involved in the technical assistance pro- gramme: (1) Hygienic conditions; (2) Sociological problems; (3) Applied Science. The first aspect was the concern of WHO, but the last two con-
1. In final form: 4C/Resolutions, pp. 42 and 43.
391 М. Jean Prager (Switzerland) cerned Unesco and it was absolutely necessary that, in all its actions, Unesco should be in friendly and close contact with social scientists and na- tural and applied scientists, and that it should enlist the co-operation of scientific bodies like the International Council of Scientific Unions. It was Unesco’s essential task to ensure a scientific ap- proach to the problems involved in Technical Assistance, otherwise Dr. Kruyt feared that it would have small successes and large failures. Professor AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) thought that the position of science with regard to Technical Assistance was fairly fully covered. He was prepared to give any additional information required. The Secretariat had thought that the two most important points concerning the rôle of science in technical development were the following:
1. Whena technical process which hadalready been tried out was transferred to some other re- gion of the world, it was essential to make a very thorough scientific study in order to adapt it to the new conditions; that was a matter for scien- tific research, which would come very close to pure science and would undoubtedly derive ad- vantage from the advice of a body such as the International Council of Scientific Unions;
9 Preparation of the ground was equally es- in Technical Assistance, account had to be taken of the capacities of the population, whose development should keep pace with technical de- velopment, if they were to realize what benefits sential; would accrue to the country; the dissemination of science had a great part to play in that field. Paragraph 13 was adopted. Paragraph 1) Paragraph 14 was adopted without comment. The whole report was adopted. The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.