SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUB-COMMITTEE FIRST MEETING Friday, 30 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Mr. W. E. F. Warp (United Kingdom) The SECRETARY stated that the Technical As- sistance Sub-Committee had been appointed by the Programme and Budget Commission for the purpose of making any technical changes and discussing any amendments which might be thought necesary to documents 4C/8 (rev.) and
4C/9. The Commission hoped that the Sub- Committee would be able to make a report by Monday, 3 October 1949; such report should deal particularly with the Draft Resolutions at the end of document 4C/8 (rev.) and with the principles contained in Chapter II of the same document. Election of the Chairman. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) proposed that Mr. Ward (United Kingdom) should take the Chair. This proposal, seconded by Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America), was adopted. Mr. W. E. F. Ward took the Chair. General Discussion. The CHAIRMAN thought that, since the United States delegation had proposed that this Sub- Committee should be formed, the best manner in which to begin the debate would be for the del- egate of the United States to explain the reasons which had prompted this action on the part of his delegation. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) requested the Chair- man to allow him, before the discussion began, to mention a slight inaccuracy which appeared, in the survey regarding the establishment of this Sub-Committee, on page 97 of the Journal of the Conference. The paragraph beginning: “The assent of their Governments to the principles and methods set out in documents 4C/8 (rev.) and
4C/9.” semed to lay great stress on the human and social aspect of technical assistance. When he had made the statement therein referred to, he
360 had intended to stress mainly the economic aspect of the question and this, he understood, had also been the intention of the delegate of the United States of America. The SECRETARYexplained that the surveys of meetings were produced at great speed late at night; if one view of the question had been overstressed, he was prepared to insert a corri- gendum in the next issue. Dr. GHOSH (India), resumingthe point he had raised the previous day in the Commission, said that it was not sufficient for technical assistance to be given to countries of lesser technical deve- lopment. Unesco should endeavour at the same time to change the outlook of the countries con- cerned, in order to enable them to benefit from the higher level of culture in other countries. In this connexion, there was a suspicion in the minds of certain countries of low technical development that the effect of Unesco’s present action would be to keep them at that low level. In his opinion, Unesco should seek to guide countries in the way of progress; the present system should therefore not be perpetuated, but an improved method should be elaborated. Mr. JAUME (France) said that, although the French delegation agreed that within the Tech- nical Assistance Plan the main stress should be on programme activities capable of giving im- mediate economic results, it would not like to see Unesco’s activity take the form of mere professional assistance without any educational aim. They should look for a method capable of embracing both aspects of the problem: economic development and cultural enrichment. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) felt that the points raised by the delegate of France and India, while of great interest, were more fit for discussion by the full Commission than bythis Sub-Committee; he therefore suggested that the           Sub-Committee should proceed with the work in hand. Agreed. Mr. Abraham noted that document 4C/8 (rev.) had been approved in principle by the Com- mission, and the Sub-Committee should now discuss any amendments which might be neces- sary. In this connexion, he would have various points to raise. In reply to a question by the CHAIRMAN as to the most suitable procedure, Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) suggested that the Sub-Committee should first examine the draft resolutions contained in Chapter III of document
4C/8 (rev.). Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) had in mind a text which would include, as a first annex, the re- solutions of the Economic and Social Council and, as a second annex, Chapter II of document 4C/8 (rev.). Much of Chapter IL, however, duplicated Chapter I and was written in narrative and not in mandatory language. It would therefore be advisable to reduce the length of Chapter II and convert it into simple statements for the guidance of the Director-General. If the Sub-Committee managed to do this, it would have achieved its object. The CHAIRMAN said that the delegates of the United States and the United Kingdom appeared to agree on one point, namely to examine the resolutions contained in Chapter III first, so as to refer back to them subsequently. Was the Sub- Committee in favour of this procedure? Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) expressed his agree- ment with this suggestion, but would like the Rapporteurto tell him if they were also to include document 4C/9 in their report, as there were certain portions of that document on which the Australian delegation might wish to comment. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) thought this was self-evident and implicit in the draft resolutions. Mr. JAUME (France) also thought that the Sub- Committee should first examine Chapter III of document 4C/8 (rev.) containing the resolutions to be submitted to the General Conference, for, in his opinion, the other two chapters were merely informatory in nature. Agreed. Examination of document 4C/8 (rev.). Chapter III. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, in the interest of clarity, the discussion should consist of an initial discussion on the document as a whole, and secondly a debate on points of detail.
361 Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) stated that Chapter III was intended to give the Director-General authority, together with the necessary instructions, to undertake Technical Assistance activities. Document 4C/9 was an information document and, as such, did not contain any decisions. It had, however, been referred to the Sub-Committee for comment, and the United States delegation desired that a brief concise text should be drafted stating that the Sub-Committee approved in prin- ciple that document. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) wondered if a further resolution would be needed. In connexion with the draft resolution in section 28 of Chapter III, he suggested that sub-paragraph (d)
(1) be dissociated from the remainder and made to precede document 4C/9, and mention that the Sub-Committee accepted in principle the contents of that document. Dr. GHOSH (India) could not see why it was necessary to separate sub-paragraph (d) (1) from (@) {mm Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) said that there should be annexes to the resolution, one of which would correspond to document 4C/9; what he had had in mind, however, was a text to precede document 4C/9. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) agreed with Mr. Pile that it might be necessary to change sub-paragraph (d) (1). In the view of the United States delegation, certain passages of document 4C/9 had not been satisfactorily worded, and he therefore had various points of substance to raise in that connexion. However, the United States delegation felt that, in the interest of clarity and in view of the short time at the Sub- Committee’s disposal, they would leave any modifications to be worked out by the Director- General and would limit themselves to agreeing in principle to the document. The CHAIRMAN said that the intervention by the delegate of the United States, if he had under- stood it correctly, made the Sub-Committee’s first task somewhat simpler. Sub-paragraph (d)
(1) mentioned decisions of the General Confer- ence and instructed the Director-General to act in conformity with those decisions; the aim of the United States delegation was a more precise wording of the Sub-Committee’s views on docu- ment 4C/9. The SECRETARY felt that the Director-General would welcome simplification of document 4C/9, especially if it was intended to make this into an annex. In this respect, there was now only one   really important part of the document, and that was Part II. The table at the end of document
4C/9 should now be deleted, and the introductory note and Part I were now clearly superfluous. Another solution might be to cancel docu- ment 4C/ in its entirety and to replace it by a more concise document worded on the same lines. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) suggested that sub-paragraph (d) (1) should be re-worded as follows: Within the framework of the general statement con- cerning the possible fields and methods of operation contained in document 4C/9 and in the light of the views expressed during the consideration of that doc- ument at the Fourth Session of the General Confer- ence... There would then be a short document com- menting on 4C/9. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia), while he agreed with the proposal, feared that detailed examina- tion of all the parts of document 4C/9 would take too long and prevent the Sub-Committee from tackling the major points; he therefore suggested that the views of the members of the Sub- Committee on document 4C/9 should form a report to be addressed to the Director-General. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) agreed with the Australian proposal, but thought that such a report should only be made after the Sub-Committee had disposed of the more essential matters. If it was not found possible to do this, Member States should submit memoranda to the Director-General giving their respective views. Mr. JAUME (France) thought that document
4C/9 was an information document for the use of delegates. It was a sort of “catalogue” of the kinds of assistance that could be offered by Unesco, rather than a definite programme. He therefore proposed, firstly, the deletion of the Introduction, which could be replaced by a kind of general clause recommending the Director- General to carry out Unesco’s programme when- ever he received a request for technical assistance; and, secondly, the deletion of the first part and of the final table. He thought that only the Part ll of the document should be maintained, as a “catalogue” for the benefit of States desirous of receiving assistance. Such a “catalogue” would obviously be subject to revision as and when Unesco’s experience enabled it to discover new ways of giving assistance. Dr. GHOSH (India) had intended to voice much the same views as those just expressed by the delegate of France. Too much importance should
362 not be attached to document 4C/9; it was only a guide for countries wishing to ask Unesco for services. If, in the future, Unesco should intend to offer other kinds of services, these could be contained in a supplementary document. Another point of importance with regard to the services offered by Unesco was that of giving priority to those services which would improve standards in countries of low technical develop- ment. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Sub- Committee seemed to be in agreement on several points:
1. That document 4C/9 was not a programme, and should not be treated as such;
2. That certain parts of document 4C/9 were no longer necessary;
3. That to go through every detail of this document might prove a very lengthy undertak- ing and might prevent the Sub-Committee from presenting a complete report on the main points referred to it. A solution would be to redraft document 4C/9 completely, using the same sequence of headings (pages 15 and following). Not only would this be a very lengthy job, however, but he suspected that it was somewhat outside the compass of the present Sub-Committee. Mr. JAUME (France) was afraid that, if they reduced the second part of document 4C/9 to a simple list of possible activities and deleted all those parts of the present text which were likely to arouse the interest of States wanting assistance, they would be mutilating the document far too much. Moreover, he wondered whether the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission expected the Sub- Committee to simplify it to that extent. The CHAIRMAN explained that he did not propose to cancel document 4C/9 or to compress it too much. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) was of the opinion that the best solution would be to adopt the text proposed by Mr. Pile; he moved, however, that a small modification be made to the wording in order to introduce a reference to the observations made by the Economic and Social Council regarding Unesco’s proposals. The resolution would then read as follows: Within the framework of the general statement con- cerning the possible fields and methods of operation contained in document 4C/9 and in the light of the views expressed during the consideration of that doc- ument at the Fourth Session of the General Confer- ence and at the Ninth Session of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations...         He felt that it was unnecessary to define more clearly the types of services Unesco would render; experience, based on a country's needs, would show which services were the most essential. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Sub- Committee now had a firm proposal before it, namely to adopt the resolution proposed by Mr. Pile as modified by Mr. Abraham. Mr. JAUME (France) said that, if the Sub- Committee adopted the text proposed by Mr. Pile, sub-paragraph (d) (11) would no longer have any meaning. The SECRETARY pointed out that there were two quite different things involved. Sub- paragraph (d) (11) referred not to the comments made by the Economic and Social Council during the examination of Unesco's proposals set out in document 4C/9, but to the “guiding principles” annexed to the resolution adopted last August by the Council (document 4C/8 rev., pages 11-15). In those circumstances, Mr. JAUME (France) proposed that, in order to avoid all confusion, sub-paragraph (11) should be deleted from para- graph (d) and added to the fifth paragraph of the first draft resolution which would then read as follows: Approves Unesco's participation in the plan put for- ward by the Economic and Social Council in confor- mity with the “Observations and Guiding Principles” laid down by the Council. The SECRETARY thought that the Director- General would welcome the suggestion just made by the delegate of France. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) expressed his agree- ment. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, if the Sub- Committee could see its way to approving the changes in principle, there was no need to waste any more time as the Secretariat would take care of minor points when drafting the document that evening. Mr. SHALOM (United Nations) drew the attention of the Sub-Committee to the fact that the General Assembly of the United Nations might desire to make certain modifications to the text of the document, and advised a drafting of the resolution which would leave the way open for any amendments on which the General Assembly might decide. This suggestion was referred to the Secretary for drafting. The CHAIRMAN asked whether there were any modifications to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).
363 Dr. GHOSH (India), referring to paragraph (c), said that the words: Each organization contributes its special skills towards the single objective of human betterment in the widest sense went too far, and he would rather they were replaced by the initial wording contained in paragraph (1) of Annex I (document 4C/8 rev., page 11). Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) en- tirely approved this suggestion. The CHAIRMAN found that the Sub-Committee as a whole agreed with the modification suggested by the delegate of India and, as there were no further amendments to paragraph (c), asked the Sub-Committee to decide on paragraph (a). Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) suggested a slight change of wording in para- graph (a) for, in its present form, it seemed to promise too much. He would like to see the first phrase modified to read: On the basis of the requests he receives from govern- ments desiring assistance... Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) wished to raise a point which, though connected with paragraph (a), was not quite in the train of the present discussion: was the Sub-Committee prepared to consider the question of giving assistance to countries which were not members of Unesco as well as to Member States? In answer to a point made by the CHAIRMAN to the effect that any resolution on this subject would not change the wording of paragraph (a), Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) stated that his desire was that the resolution should mention specifically the question of assistance to non-Member States. He felt that it was the duty of the Conference to state whether or not non-Member States were eligible for assistance. Mr. JAUME (France) said that the matter was dealt with in Chapter II, section 16, of document
4C/8 (rev.). If, in principle, a non-Member State was not entitled to receive technical as- sistance, it was provided that the General Con- ference should authorize the Director-General, in consultation with the Executive Board, to give such assistance if it were expressly requested by the TAB. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) had felt it imperative to inform the members of the Sub-Committee of Australia’s interest in the question of assistance to non-Member States, as the Australian delegation   to the United Nations would mention this point at the General Assembly. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America), while he agreed with the point raised by the delegate of France, asked the Sub-Committee to take note of the fact that present regulations prohibited a non-Member State from receiving assistance from Unesco. If members agreed that this ruling should be waived, the Sub-Committee should recommend that the Director-General be given the needed authority. Mr. JAUME (France) did not think that such a recommendation was within the competence of the Sub-Committee, which could merely draw the attention of the Programme and Budget Com- mission to the matter. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that everything the Sub-Committee might propose was subject to the approval or rejection of the Programme and Budget Commission and of the General Conference in plenary session; it could not take any decision which would formally bind the Director-General in any way. If the Sub-Committee desired that assistance be granted to non-Member States, it should ask the Secretariat to draft a resolution on the question for approval by the Sub-Committee on the following morning. Agreed. The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m. SECOND MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. W. E. F. War» (United Kingdom) Examination of document 4C/8 (rev.) (con- tinuation). Chapter III (continuation). Section 28. The CHAIRMAN announced that the Sub-Com- mittee would re-examine the revisions proposed to the resolution in section 28 of document 4C/8 (rev.), a redraft of which had been distributed by the Secretariat. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) sug- gested that the wording in the second paragraph: Authorizes the Director-General, in consultation with the Executive Board, to provide technical assistance to non-Member States of Unesco where such assistance is expressly requested of Unesco by the Technical Assistance Board might be too precise and should be generalized to say that assistance would be provided in ac- cordance with any provisions formulated by the Technical Assistance Board. The SECRETARY pointed out that precise lan- guage was purposely used, because very definite instructions had been given by the Second Ses- sion of the General Conference in regard to ser- vices to non-Member States, and the Director- General would prefer that any authorizations and exceptions should be very definitely stated. Unesco would, of course, explain its position to the Technical Assistance Board, Unesco’s position being no doubt similar to that of the other Spe- cialized Agencies. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) called attention to three factors which he said should be considered in the present situation: (1) that the instructions given by the Second Session of the General Con- ference referred only to the regular programme of Unesco, whereas this was a special programme;
(2) that non-Member States would probably be putting money into the project; and (3) that an anomalous situation would arise if a State applied directly to Unesco for aid in Unesco’s field and if Unesco could not act because it did not have the authority. He said that this point could be provided for in two possible ways in drafting the text: (a) by stating that Unesco would follow the common decisions adopted by the Technical Assistance Con- ference, or (b) by instructing the Director-General to provide technical assistance to non-Member States if authorized by the Technical Assistance Board. Mr. Pile considered the first method (a) to be the better. On the CHAIRMAN’s invitation, the SECRE- TARY explained that the Executive Board, in con- sidering that point, had decided that it could not