in the field of education, science and culture. He was in favour of construction, which would in- clude reconstruction. It was the word “ transi- tion” in the resolution that worried him. In his opinion, it would be best to maintain the text proposed by the Executive Board. That would be a logical course, for once the directives had been approved, why should they not be adhered to in a field covered by one of those directives? From the psychological point of view, that course would avoid a premature interpretation in a field which offered such wide possibilities to Unesco. The United States proposal, amended by Switzer- land and seconded by India, was put to the vote. There were 10 votes in favour. The text proposed by the Executive Board (item
1.71, document 4C/5 rev., page 9, right-hand column) was put to the vote. There were 18 votes in favour. The latter text was therefore adopted. * The CHAIRMAN stated that, apart fromthe pro- posals referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, which would be re-submitted to the Commission, the consideration of Chapter I (Reconstruction) was completed. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Friday, 23 September 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 2. Education. Section 1. General Education Clearing House RESOLUTION 2.1 The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission had before it two draft amendments to resolution 2.1, the first proposed by the Executive Board (docu- ment 4C/5 rev., page 9, right-hand column) and the second by the delegation of the United States of America (document 4C/26). Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) praised the great energy and foresight which Dr. Beeby and otherpersons in charge of these activities had shown. He appreciated the importance of collect- ing information in different fields, but stressed the very considerable increase in budgetary esti- mates related to the education clearing house. He thought it was essential to collect information bearing on approved projects and programmes; hence the amendment moved by the United States delegation (document 4C/26). He also expressed the hope that the matter would be deferred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee which would consider the budgetary implications. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) asked that it should Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) be made quite clear that the field of education covered not only the school and university period but also the pre-school period, the importance of which should not be overlooked. The French delegation had no objection to the adoption of the text proposed by the United States delegation, pro- vided that it was interpreted so as not to limit the Secretariat’s action. It was willing to approve the establishment of the proposed Clearing House, provided that it did not overlap with existing centres. The draft resolution submitted by the United States delegation (document 4C/26) was adopt- ed: RESOLUTION 2.11. EDUCATIONAL Missions Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) paid tribute to the Director-General's deep understanding of human beings and his preoccupation regarding the effect of Unesco's work on the peoples of the world. He stressed the world shortage of teachers, adminis- trators and technicians, and the limitation of Unesco's resources. It therefore seemed to the United Kingdom delegation that Unesco's policy should be to select the most effective points of its programme and concentrate on those. He re- minded the meeting that at least twice, the Director-General had used the word “amputation”;
1. In final form: Resolution 1.71.
2. In final form: Resolution 2.1.            he thought that Unesco could rather be compared to a garden than to a living body, and suggested that the word “pruning” might be a better ren- dering. He said that the modifications in the programme proposed by the United Kingdom delegation aimed at improving the effectiveness of the programme. He indicated that indeed these changes did not necessarily aimat saving money. In relation to the three educational missions for
1950, he suggested that the Executive Board should consider the possibility of reducing by $45,000 the amount allotted. He thought that the big increase in fees for 1950 required some explanation. Dr. BEEBY(Assistant Director-General) pointed out that in 1949 there had been a carry-over of the balance of the 1948 budget, and that in 1949 there had not been three missions in the full sense (the mission sent to Siam operated on a very re- duced scale). He also reminded the delegates of the importance of follow-up work and stated that the amount estimated for 1950 was quite in pro- portion with the activities contemplated in this field. Some of the follow-up work of the 1949 missions was to be carried out in 1950. Concerning fees, Unesco had committed itself to meeting the fees of persons on missions, in- cluding the cost of travel and briefing as well as the after-cost of publications in English or French. The country in which the mission was operating would meet the costs of hospitality, secretarial assistance and other expenses. Mr. SMITH (Australia) supported the views of the United Kingdom delegation, but also stressed the importance of follow-up work. He appreciated the fact that the Secretariat would have to carry on the task of supervising the work and suggested that, as there had been no increase in staff, the Secretariat would not be able to carry out the necessary follow-up work and the new programme as planned. He therefore supported the proposal for a reduction of $45,000 with a reduction of the number of missions to two, and the referring of this matter to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) wished to know the opinion to the limitations that would be imposed upon its action by the proposed reduction of $45.000. Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) suggested that the Secretariat should be invited to give infor- mation to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee on the question of fees, for instance the number of consultants and experts and their average fees. Before calling upon Dr. Beeby to speak, the CHATRMAN reminded the meeting that only pro- posals that had been previously agreed upon in principle by the Commission could be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee for detailed examination. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) indi- cated that a proportion of the follow-up work was undertaken by the staff of the Clearing House. He also pointed out that there had been a mis- conception in relation to the word “fees”, and that this item included the total cost of the mis- sion as far as Unesco was concerned. He was not aware of the number of requests for missions which Unesco would receive; there had been two so far and, if the reduction moved by the United Kingdom delegation was adopted, it would only allow for two missions to be undertaken. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) said that he was unable to support the United Kingdom proposal since the Secretariat was of opinion that that pro- posal would involve a reduction in the number of missions contemplated for the following year. The technical assistance plan was still no more than a scheme, whereas the educational missions had already been asked for by various govern- ments. He thought that the missions were among the most interesting of Unesco’s activities and that it would be a pity to reduce them. The DIRECTOR-GENERALemphasized that the present was the first occasion when the technical assistance plan had been invoked by delegations in support of a reduction in the Organization’s Programme. In that connexion, he wished to point out that it was impossible at the moment to say when that plan could be put into execution and that its main purpose was the economic deve- lopment of the countries concerned. He added that he would be very sorry to see the number of missions organized in 1950 reduced to two. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) stressed the importance of educational missions and thought it was not likely that the technical assistance just mentioned should be forthcoming. Since the missions were very expensive, he moved a reduction of $30,000. The proposal was seconded by Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom). Mr. SMITH (Australia) said he would also sup- port the United States delegation’s amendment, if the Director-General thought thefull programme planned would still be possible with the proposed cut. If not, he preferred to adhere to the original proposal to reduce the budget by $45.000. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said it was not a mere matter of $15,000 more or less, but of the very nature of the missions organized bythe Secre-   tariat. If they were to beeffective, follow-up work should be done on the spot by technical experts responsible for helping the governments to carry out complementary activities. Any reduction in the budget estimates would make it impossible to organize three continuing missions, which were the only effective ones. Dr. MARTÍNEZ BÁEZ (Mexico) stated that, in this matter, figures should not constitute the sole preoccupation. He thought there was a double task in connexion with educational missions, namely a service by the missions, and the experi- ence gained by their work which could be re- flected in other aspects of Unesco’s task. He thought it was very important that a mission should stay in the country in order to observe the results of its work. Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) stated that it was of utmost importance that technical assistance should be made available at the right moment to countries who were very keen to undertake such tasks in the field of education, but were not able to achieve any measure of success without scien- tific help and financial support. He reminded the meeting that Unesco was using money belong- ing to the people and he thought that the best way to use that money was to make it available for tasks of this kind. Dr. AWAD Bey (Egypt) stated that, to his mind, the matter should be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee for its considera- tion, and that the United States amendment might be adopted if it was proved that the cut did not endanger the accomplishment of the three mis- sions. If this was not agreed to, he thought it would be unwise to fix any amount and suggested that the matter should be further examined. Mr. GIBSON (Liberia) stated that he could not agree to any reduction before the matter had been given careful technical consideration. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) stated that, in view of the carry-over from 1948 to 1949, the amount of $130.000 for three missions was in proportion with the work contemplated. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) having asked what the reduction would be if only two missions as well as full follow-up activity were carried out, Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-Gen- eral) replied that, for two missions, the approxi- mate cost would amount to $95,000. Sir James SHELLEY (New Zealand) thought it would be very unwise to reduce the amounts al- lotted to the item under consideration. He stated that educational missions provided a growing point
274 for activity in the countries where they operated, and pointed out that in this manner seeds were planted by living people belonging to Unesco. He said that any person belonging to a small ‘and remote country would know how vital these con- tacts between human beings could be. The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the United States delegation’s proposal, seconded by the United Kingdom delegation, to reduce by $30,000 the budget figure corresponding to resolution 2.11. The proposal was rejected by 25 votes to 6. The new resolution 2.11 (document 4C/5 rev., pages 9 and 10, right-hand column) and the cor- responding budget figure were adopted without amendment. * RESOLUTION 2.13. Exchange of Information The amendments proposed by the Executive Board (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/5 - Add. & Corr.) were adopted without discussion. * Section 2. Educational Seminars Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) reminded the meeting that it had been agreed in Beirut that educational seminars were one of the most valu- able activities of Unesco, but that, if they were to be fully effective, one full year should be al- lowed for their preparation. He pointed out that the Beirut Conference had prescribed that three seminars should be operated in 1950, allowing the whole of 1949 for their preparation. He therefore believed that the third seminar recommended by the Executive Board should be postponed until
1951. He suggested that only $15,000 should be deducted from the budget and that the balance should remain for the preparation of this third seminar. Mr. ABRAHAM(France) had no recollection that it had been thought necessary by the Beirut Conference, during the discussion on seminars, to devote a year's preparation to each seminar. The limitation in their number had been due to budgetary considerations or to lack of personnel. It was certain that the seminar which was to be held in the Middle East should be carefully pre- pared, but he thought that the one on the cam- paign against illiteracy which had just been held in Brazil could greatly assist that preparation. He would be sorry if the two seminars on the teaching of geography and on the improvement of history text-books, both of which were related to a more advanced stage of education, were main- tained to the detriment of the seminar on the campaign against illiteracy in the Middle East.
1. In final form:
2. In final form: Resolution 2.11. Resolutions 2.131 and 2.132.          Dr. EL-DIWANY (Egypt), referring to “other contractual items” (document 4C/6, page 83), stated that the great increase in this item neces- sitated some information. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) pointed out that in 1949 Unesco had not been running any seminars. whereas in 1948 three seminars had been organized. In 1949 there had only been given some assistance to two seminars, one in Brazil and one in India. In 1950, Unesco would have to revert to the 1948 practice and provide for the board and lodging of the participants. Mr. SMITH (Australia) expressed his concern at the size of the budget. He thought it might not be necessary to provide for such large fees to obtain the assistance of distinguished personalities. He drew attention to the disparity both between the cost of seminars as planned by Unesco and that of a seminar recently conducted in Australia, and between the cost of seminars as provided in this Section and a sum of $11,200 to cover the cost of the proposed seminar for librarians (doc- ument 4C/6, page 133). Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that the Secretariat was examining the possibility of providing either for the costs of travel or for board and lodging, and that three schemes were under consideration. He indicated that, in many countries, it was not a common practice to afford voluntary help. He also stressed the cost of interpreters and translation of documents. The running of international seminars was extremely expensive. The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the United Kingdom delegation’s proposal that the seminar in the Middle East should be postponed until 1951 and the budget relating to Section 2 accordingly reduced by $30,000. The proposal was rejected by 10 votes to 6. The newresolution 2.21 (document 4C/5 rev., page 10, right-hand column) and the correspond- ing budget were adopted without amendment. * Section 3. Improvement of Tertbooks and Teach- ing Materials Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) agreed that the amounts allotted for this Section were quite small in proportion to the importance of this aspect of Unesco's work. He expressed the hope that every Member State would give careful consideration to this matter. He called attention to a series of resolutions in this field which had been passed by previous sessions of the General Conference and had not received due attention.
1. In final form: Resolutions 2.21 to 2.24. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that in fact Unesco was engaged in the activities mentioned by the United States delegate. He pointed out that works were being published under bilateral agreements and that a project for the translation of classical works was under way. There was also a project for collecting materials on international affairs and international co- operation. He stressed that it was of great im- portance that every Member State should consider the question of revision of textbooks. Dr. MOHR (Norway) drew attention to doc- ument 4C/2 - Norway, which contained the sug- gestions of the Norwegian delegation in relation to the improvement of textbooks. He hoped these suggestions would be taken into consideration. The CHAIRMAN pointed out to the Norwegian delegate that his proposal covered new activities which could be included in the 1951 programme. Dr. ALZONA (Philippines) spoke on the impor- tance of improving textbooks particularly in the field of history. She said that the western nations should be better informed on the smaller countries and the oriental countries. What little information is generally made available, was ob- solete or inaccurate. She further pointed out that in many schools textbooks were the only source of information available to teachers and students. Section 3 was adopted. * Fundamental Education The CHAIRMAN said that comments on the new resolution 2.425 proposed by the Executive Board (document 4C/5 rev., page 11, right-hand column) were to be found in document 4C/PRG/11. Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) paid tribute to Dr. Beeby and other persons concerned for the work achieved in relation to the Clearing House in Fundamental Education. Speaking on the new Resolution 2.425 and on document 4C/PRG/11, both referring to the Regional Training and Pro- duction Centres, he suggested that, this being a new project, the discussion should be postponed until the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) asked whether the series of deletions following item 2.421, proposed by the Executive Board was solely intended to give the Secretariat greater freedom of action, without abandoning the activities mentioned in the pro- gramme adopted at Beirut. After being reassured on that point, he said that he was willing to sup- port the project for the Training Centres men- tioned in document 4C/PRG/11. He said that, during the summer of the present year, France Section 4.
2. In final form: Resolution 2.3.   had organized a Teachers’ Training Centre for Equatorial Africa. The French delegation hoped that the establishment of a Training and Produc- tion Centre at Unesco would be very useful to the National Centres by providing them with all the material necessary for their work. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) also supported the Executive Board’s proposal. If Unesco’s activities were not to be sporadic, it was absolutely necessary to organize such Centres, which would prove the effectiveness and continuity of its work. The real problems of education consisted in the training of personnel and the evolution of techniques. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) supported the motion of the United Kingdom del- egation, in view of the essentially novel character of this project and of the considerable increase in the budget it entailed. Mr. SMITH (Australia) also supported the views of the United Kingdom delegation. As this was to be a pilot project, he hoped that, when such a project eventuated, a maximum of co-operation would be obtained from Member States, and sug- gested that the first training centre should be on a smaller scale than was intended, with fifteen students for instead of forty, so that it would be suchas to serve as a model for Member States who wished to establish similar centres. Regarding training grants, he thought this matter called for further consideration and that Member States might be asked to share the costs. Dr. NANNETTI (Colombia) described the tra- gedy which faced countries where illiteracy was very predominant and where the necessary staff and resources were not available. He thought the moment had come for Unesco to give technical advice in this matter, and that the experience already gained in this field was sufficient to permit the undertaking of training and production centres. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he did not wish to reiterate the arguments so excellently advanced by the French, Swiss and Colombian delegations. He could not, however, admit the objection raised by some delegations. The task of the Fourth Session of the General Conference was to deal with business; and it seemed to him that the establisment of the Training and Pro-
276 duction Centre for fundamental education was a very important item of business. So long as the peoples who were expecting Unesco to carry out such activities were disappointed, for purely tech- nical reasons, Unesco would be unable to fulfil its mission. The States looked to the Organization for a solution to their educational problems. Their hopes should not be deceived on the grounds that the present session of the Conference, which was a short business session, was not competent to deal with the matter. Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) stated that, to his mind, the question of scientific and technical material for fundamental education could not be separated from matters related to the preparation of textbooks and trained personnel; he thought that in this field unity should be a primary con- sideration and agreed with the United Kingdom and United States delegations that the discussion on this matter should be postponed. U KAUNG (Burma) stated that, in Burma as in many other countries, there was a great need for trained personnel and community leaders in the field of fundamental education. He stressed the fact that a desperate disease called for a des- perate remedy, and made an earnest appeal to the more advanced countries that they should recon- sider their views and afford immediate help to countries who were grappling with this problem against great odds. Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said he had con- siderable pain in maintaining his recommendation in spite of the eloquent appeal of the Burman delegate. He indicated that the United Kingdom delegation wanted to have the opportunity of laying the matter before their National Commis- sion in order that they might formulate a con- structive recommendation at the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Dr. AWAD Bey (Egypt) supported the views of the United Kingdom delegation. The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the British pro- posal to postpone to the Fifth Session of the Gen- eral Conference the establishment of the Training and Production Centre and to reduce by $89,000 the budget figure relating to item 2.425. The proposal was rejected by 19 votes to 8. The meeting rose at 7 p.m.