should be nominated Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) seconded the nomination of Mr. Antonio Castro Leal. The nomination of Mr. Antonio Castro Leal as Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission was approved. The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the members to Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure: Each commission or subsidiary body set up by the General Conference shall elect its own Chairman, Vice-Chairman and, if necessary, Rapporteur and, in doing so, may take into account any recommen- dation of the Nominations Committee in these re- spects, in accordance with Rule 30 (2). He invited the delegates to express their views on this matter. Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) believed the Commissions should be given a free hand in the election of their officers. The CHAIRMAN read Rule 30, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure and asked members if they wished any suggestions to be made by the General Committee. Mr. MENEMENCIOGLU (Turkey), while agree- ing that the Commissions should be given a free hand in the election of their officers, thought that it would be more practical for the Nominations Committee to suggest names to them. Mr. HOLLAND (United States of America) supported the views of the Philippines delegation and stressed the difficulty, at this early stage, of ascertaining who was able and available to assume the important duties of an officer. He thought it would be more profitable to leave it to the Commissions to suggest nominees and elect them. This proposition was adopted. The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m. THIRD MEETING Friday, 30 September 1949, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of America) Nominations for the election of six members of the Executive Board to replace those whose terms of office expired in 1949. The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the Com- mittee to two points in the Report which the Procedure Committee had submitted to that morning’s plenary meeting, and which had been approved:
1. The Procedure Committee had taken note of the reply given by the Arbitral Tribunal set up by the Executive Board on the question whether a member of the Board whose term of office expired, and who came up for re-election, should, in order to be eligible for re-election, be a member of his national delegation at the session of the General Conference at which the election took place. The decision of the Arbitral Tribunal was negative. The Chairman gave the statement for information only, as at the present Session the members of the Board whose terms of office expired were all members of their delegations, and so eligible for re-election.
2. The Procedure Committee had examined, on the basis of document 4C/PRO/5, the problem created by the decision to change the date of the General Conference from autumn to spring, and decided to recommend to the General Conference Alternative III (page 3 of that document). The Chairman explained that the change in the time of year at which the General Conference would be held, meant that some members of the Board would serve only for two and a half years. Nothing, however, could be done about that until the Constitution had been modified, presumably at the session. The only thing to be done at the present session was to go ahead and have a normal election for a three-year term of office. The Chairman read out the names of the members of the Executive Board whose mandate expired nr 10407" TE:"Dr. PO. Parras Dunez; Mr. Roger Seydoux; Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro; Resat Nuri Guntekin; Professor Alf Sommerfelt; Dr. George D. Stoddard. Those six members were, under Article V of the Constitution, immediately eligible for a second term. Never-   theless, he had just been given to understand that Dr. Stoddard was not a delegate to the Conference, and that the Chairman of the Executive Board had a communication, which he would read later, in connexion with Dr. Stoddard. The Chairman reminded the Committee of the nationalities of the members of the Board whose term of office expired in 1950 and 1951, as that was particularly important in view of Article V.A.2 of the Constitution, which stated that no two members of the Executive Board might be from the same nation. Procedure. The SECRETARYread out the relevant articles of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure which governed the election, i.e., Article V of the Constitution, and Rules 30, 87, 95, 96 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. The CHAIRMAN observed that there was a certain conflict between Rules 95 and 97. The position was that the six members of the Board whose mandate expired at the present Conference were elected for three years (Rule 95), and those three years were not up util 23 November 1949. Rule 97 however, stated that the term of office of each member should begin immediately on his election. As between those two Rules, the Chair- man had been competently informed that Rule
95 was based on the Constitution, and Rule 97 had been established by the Conference; it was there- fore proposed that Rule 97 be suspended to enable the six members of the Board who would be elected to take office at the expiration of the existing mandates. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) supported the Chairman’s proposal. It was decided to suggest to the General Confer- ence that Rule 97 be suspended. The CHAIRMAN proposed that, after the members of the Committee had put forward their nominees, a secret ballot should be taken. In connexion with Rule 89, he asked the Committee if, in orderto be valid, the ballot-paper should bear six names. At the Third Session of the General Conference, it had been ruled that it should bear six names, neither more nor less. Dr. BARBAGELATA (Uruguay) asked whether they would be voting for countries or for individual persons. The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that they would be voting for individual persons, and not for countries. Mr. RUEFF (Monaco) wished to know whether
450 it was necessary to put the names in a certain order. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) asked whether it was necessary to put six names on the paper, or whether a ballot-paper bearing one, two or five names would be valid; for it was possible that a delegate might not be sufficiently acquainted with the six or seven candidates proposed, and might wish to vote only for one, two or three of the candidates. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) was opposed to the proposal by the delegate of Afghanistan. He thought that each paper should bear six names. The argument that the delegates would then be obliged to vote for persons they did not know seemed to him unjustified in view of the inter- national reputation of the candidates. The latter had proved their ability and no delegate could be unaware of their services to Unesco. Mr. HOLLAND (United States of America) supported the delegate of Belgium, and thought that, as had been done at the Third Session, six names should be put on the ballot-paper. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) felt that the Belgian proposal had two disadvantages: on the one hand, they would be obliged to vote for persons whom they did not know; on the other hand, if a delegation was particularlyinterested in the election of a certain person, it should be able to express that interest. But that would not be possible if they were forced to vote for a list of six names. He emphasized that the procedure would be unsatisfactory if they had to vote for persons whom they did not know. Count JACINI (Italy) referred to the traditions in almost all the parliamentary countries re- presented at Unesco. Everywhere the electors were able to vote for a smaller, but not for a greater, number of candidates than those on the ballot-paper. The important thing was that the vote should have a personal value. It would be sufficient to make a vote for a larger number of candidates invalid. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) quoted Rule 30, and said that his understanding was that there need be no secret ballot in the Nominations Committee, and he could not find, in the Rules of Procedure, a reference to any such secret ballot. The CHAIRMAN said that tho Secretary of the Committee informed him that the reply to that query was that a secret ballot had always been taken in the past. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) demurred and con- sidered that, if the nominations were open, the delegates would know whom they were voting for.            Mr. OGRODZINSKI (Poland) seconded the Afghan and Italian proposals giving each del- egation entire freedom of voting. Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) said that, from the point of view of parliamentary practice, the Italian Delegation was quite right. But the Italian delegate’s proposal involved risks, for, if it were adopted, the result of the vote might not express the views of the majority. He preferred the kind of vote proposed by the Belgian Delegation. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) again emphasized that personal knowledge of the candidates was essential and he proposed that, in future, Unesco should publish a curriculum vitae of each candi- date before the vote. The CHAIRMAN thought that the curriculum vitae of nominees would certainly be known to their advocates. Dr. BARBAGELATA (Uruguay) pointed out that there were six candidates and that they were all well known, being outgoing members of the Executive Board who had served their term with distinction. Mr. MENEMENCIOGLU (Turkey) said that, according to the Rules of Procedure, a candidate must be a member of his delegation. It was therefore unlikely that such a person would not be known to the other delegates. If a curriculum vitae of candidates were published, there was no reason why that of all the delegates could not also be published. Mr. RUEFF (Monaco) seconded the Italian proposal. U BA LWIN (Burma) supported the suggestion of the delegate of Canada. The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of Canada whether his wish was that there should not be a secret ballot. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) thought that the delegates would be free to nominate candidates for the Executive Board and, if there were more than six nominations, then, as he understood it, there would have to be a ballot; but he did not see why the ballot should be secret. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, although there was no specific rule which said that the ballot in the present Committee should be secret, the voting in the plenary meeting was secret. It would seem logical, therefore, that the Nom- inations Committee should do the same as the plenary meeting in that respect, particularly as such had been the procedure on previous occasions. He drew attention to Rule, 87, para-
451 graph 2: he would take advantage of that Rule and decide that the ballot would be secret. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), replying to the delegate of Canada, said that the very fact that it had been previously ruled—though not speci- fically—that six names should be written down, and that that arrangement had worked, was a very strong reason for supporting such a practical procedure. He therefore supported the proposal of the delegate of Belgium. The CHAIRMAN would take a vote on the two proposals before the Committee: that of the del- egate of Afghanistan that the ballot should be valid with any number of names from one to six; that of the delegate of Belgium that the ballot should have six names to be valid. The proposal of the delegate of Afghanistan was adopted by 20 votes to 18. Nominations. The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open to nomination, and asked the Chairman of the Executive Board for his statement concerning Dr. George Stoddard. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Chairman of the Executive Board, read a com- munication from Dr. Stoddard in which the latter submitted his resignation from the Executive Board. After the decision which the Committee had reached as to the date on which new members of the Board would take office, Dr. Stoddard’s resignation would take effect from the date on which his successor took his seat on the Board. Mr. MENEMENCIOGLU (Turkey) announced that Resat Nuri Guntekin, memberof the Executive Board, did not wish to be re-elected, for he intended to resume his political activity. M. Menemencioglu proposed that he should be replaced by M. Kudsi Tecer, a member of the Turkish delegation, who was long familiar with Unesco's work. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) proposed the name of Dr. Alf Sommerfelt (Norway) for re- election. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed the names of M. Roger Seydoux (France) and Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil) for re-election. Mr. OGRODZINSKI (Poland) proposed as can- didate Dr. Jan Boor of the Czechoslovak Delegation. He pointed out that Dr. Boor had attended the Mexico and Paris Conferences, and that, two years ago, he had been a member of the Executive Board. As Professor Arnold was at the moment the only member of the Executive Board who   represented Slav culture, the election of Dr. Boor would ensure a more equitable geographical distribution. Count JACINI (Italy) took up the suggestion of the delegate of the United Kingdom and pro- posed the re-election of all six members whose terms of office had expired, not only in order to show their fellow-feeling, but because it would be just to do so. As the draft resolution of the del- egation of Iraq made clear, they should ensure the continuity of the Board’s work. He thought that it would be prudent to make as few changes as possible in its composition. He proposed as candidates Dr. C. Parra Pérez, whose excellent work as Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board had been appreciated by all of them, and Mr. Luther H. Evans, Doctor of Letters, Professor at the University of New York and Curator of the Library of Congress. Dr. Zérega FOMBONA (Venezuela) thanked the Italian delegate for his kind words concerning Dr. Parra Pérez, and he seconded the proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom. He proposed Professor Carneiro as candidate. M. OZORIO de ALMEIDA (Brazil) seconded the nomination of M. Parra Pérez, and proposed that of Professor Sommerfelt, whose outstanding work was known to all of them. He also seconded the nomination of M. Seydoux. Dr. BARBAGELATA (Uruguay) seconded the nominations of MM. Carneiro and Parra Pérez. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) pointed out that there were two new members to be elected to the two vacant posts created by retirement of two members. In reality there were only four members to be re-elected. The CHAIRMAN said that, while the six persons whose mandates had expired were eligible for re-election, that did not mean in any way that they did not have to be elected just as definitely as anyone else who might be proposed. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) said that the previous speakers had proposed the re-election of the six members whose terms of office had expired. He supported their proposals, particularly the nomination of Mr. Luther H. Evans, not only for his personal qualities, but because of the excellent work he had done for Unesco. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) supported the nomination of Mr. Luther H. Evans.
452 Dr. WALKER (Australia), while not proposing any name himself, spoke in support and praise of the seven candidates whose names were submitted to the Committee and expressed his regret that Dr. Stoddard and M. Guntekin would not be seeking re-election because of their many activities in their own countries. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) fully concurred in the remarks by the Australian delegate. Mr. GYALMOS (Hungary) supported the nom- ination of Dr. Jan Boor. Mr. MENEMENCIOGLU (Turkey) thanked the Australian delegate for his tribute to Resat Nuri Guntekin, and the delegations of Iraq, Egypt, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Syria, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia for their draft resolution aiming at the appointment of a new Turkish delegate to the Executive Board in accordance with the principles of regional representation. Vote. The CHAIRMANsaid that, as there were no further nominations, he would declare the list closed. The names submitted to the Committee were: M. Kudsi Tecer (Turkey); Professor Alf Sommer- felt (Norway); M. Roger Seydoux (France); Pro- fessor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil); Dr. Jan Boor (Czechoslovakia); H.E. Dr. C. Parra Pérez (Venezuela) and Mr. Luther H. Evans (United States of America). He observed that nine del- egations were absent, and therefore a clear majority would be twenty-one votes in favour of any candidate. The vote was taken by roll-call and secret ballot. The results were as follows: MH Roger Séydoux TT OS VOIES Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro . 36 Mr. Luther Evans . 36 Professor Alf Sommerfelt 36 Mr-KRudsi Tecer.. u. man « 31 HE. Dial. Parra. Pérez 29 Dr. Jan Boor . 8 The CHAIRMAN said that the nominations of M. Seydoux, Carneiro, Evans, Sommerfelt, Tecer and Parra Pérez would be transmitted to the General Conference. The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.