THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 4 October 1949 at 4.15 p.m. CONTENTS
26. Consideration of the Report of the Official and External Relations Com- mission on Unesco’s work in Germany (continuation) . . . . . . . 197
227. Consideration of the Report of the Official and External Relations Com- mission on Unesco’s work in Japan 199
28. Adoption as a whole of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission 201 President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia).
26. Consideration of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission on Unesco’s work in Germany (continuation). The PRESIDENT — I apologize for starting late. Unfortunately the meeting of the Executive Board which was called for 3 o’clock, at which several leaders of delegations were present, took a little longer than expected. We now resume the discussion on the Report of the Official and Ex- ternal Relations Commission on Unesco’s activities in Germany, together with the two amendments proposed, one by the delegations of Poland, Hun- gary and Czechoslovakia, and the other by the delegation of Brazil. There are two speakers on my list, the delegate of Israel and the delegate of the United States. I call on the delegate of Israel. Mr. FISCHER (Israel) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, the delegation of Israel will vote against any proposal for the immediate association of Germany in Unesco’s work and for these reasons. No doubt a broad campaign of education, or rather re-education, will have to be undertaken in Germany. But we do not feel that Unesco can take on this task with the facilities now available to it. If it is to have any influence, Unesco must count on the good will of the Germans themselves. Without their support, its action will be illusory, especially if it relies on outside assistance. Are there any agents in Germany today to which this task of re-education may be entrusted? We are here obliged to state that, from the information we receive from Germany, it would appear that the Nazi spirit is still very much alive. The secret character of the present Nazi movement compels its followers to disguise themselves. They attempt to worm their way into the denazification agencies
197 and frequently succeed. Such being the case, we cannot trust the Germans sufficiently to contem- plate the formation of a national committee which would be a genuine reflection of Unesco’s ideals. Only when we are convinced that the Germans have thrown off or been purged of all their old Nazi creeds can we believe that any good may come out of launching an appeal to German good will to co-operate with the rest of the world. More than any other country, Germany must furnish evidence of this good will altruism, before we make it an active partner in any work for peace and brotherhood. Lastly, we should like to make it quite clear that we deplore the political turn which discussion of the German question has inevitably given to our proceedings. We suggest the deletion of this item from the Agenda and its reference to the United Nations Organization. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of the United States of America. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Amer- ica) — Mr. Chairman: We have been under the sad necessity in this room today to listen to im- plications that, since there is evidence that nation- alism continues to exist in Germany, those of us who favour the activities of Unesco in Germany favour the revival of Nazism there. That is a most unpleasant implication for anyone to hear, par- ticularly anyone who represents a country which has contributed to the defeat of Nazism so very recently. I want to say to you, with all the genu- ineness I can: the German people have brought on a world war twice in the last generation. I am convinced that if the German people should be so foolish as to bring on another, the destruction of Germany will be greater that it ever has been before. My country is opposed to the rise of    e e     Nazism or aggression in Germany or anywhere else in the world. Every political action my coun- try has taken has been directed against the return of Fascism or aggression. Let it be understood, therefore, that those of us who favour Unesco activity in Germany resist as strongly as we can the implications that we favour any type of Nazi sentiment that may exist in that country. The question before us today goes to the heart of Unesco. There are various means by which one can attempt to create the international com- munity which we hope will bring everlasting peace. There is the military approach. Some people are great devotees of that approach. They think that we in this hall are wasting our time when we try to bring about international peace through education and persuasion. Unesco’s approach is directly opposite to the military approach. Unesco seeks to mobilize that residue of good will which exists everywhere, on both sides of the iron curtain and in every country. We believe Unesco should try to do what it can in Germany as well as everywhere else, in an effort to integrate the Germans into the family of nations. Those who propose that Unesco should have nothing whatsoever to do with Germany or the German people—that they be quarantined just because they are Germans—are dangerously close to genocide, which we all condemn so bitterly in the Nazi philosophy. I hope very much that Unesco, at this crucial hour, will not go down the dangerous road of that wicked creed. The resolution proposed by the Brazilian delegate goes far to satisfy the legitimate objections of the delegations of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hun- gary. The resolution supports the unity of Ger- many, to which we all subscribe. The resolution also points out that the actions of Unesco shall be through the Allied Authorities. Allow me to recall the purpose for which Unesco was founded. Let us examine this question to see whether it fits into the purpose of Unesco. The preamble to the Constitution of the Organization provides: “The purpose of the Organization is to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations.” Now, that means friendly, peaceful collaboration among all the nations, everywhere. I hope you will not con- clude that the people of any country—and I mean any country—those represented here and those not represented here—shall be condemned to an exist- ence beyond the pole or be denied that recognition as human beings to which all of God’s creatures are entitled. The PRESIDENT — Is the Conference ready to proceed to a vote on the amendments before it, or does anybody else wish to speak? I shall present the first amendment, that pro- posed by the delegations of Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia as being the amendment which is furthest removed from the Report of the Commis- sion. If that amendment is carried, then it will not be necessary to take a vote on the other. The Chairman of the Executive Board has asked me to make sure that the three delegations con- cerned wish their amendment to be pressed. I would ask those who in favour of the Polish, Czechoslovak and Hungarian amendment to vote by raising their hands. Those in favour please raise their hands. The amendment is defeated, 4 votes in favour,
35 against and with one abstention. I will now put to the meeting the amendment proposed by the delegation of Brazil, document
4C/55. Will those in favour please raise their hands. Those against? Any abstentions? The voting on this amendment is 35, 4 against, with 1 abstention. The amendment is therefore adopted. I now put to the meeting the resolution proposed by the Commission, as amended, that is to say, the proposed programme for Unesco, but with the first six paragraphs replaced by the words as con- tained in the Brazilian amendment which has just been adopted. Those in favour of the programme in relation to Germany as so amended, please show by raising their hands. This is the Com- mission’s Report as amended by Brazil. The Report is adopted * by 34 against 4. I call on the delegate of Poland. Mr. Przemyslav OGRODZINSKI (Poland) — [Translation from the French] I have the honour to make the following statement on behalf of the Czechoslovak, Hungarian and Polish delegations. These delegations feel bound to raise a vehement protest against the resolution which has just been adopted regarding Unesco’s activities in Western Germany. By this resolution, Unesco acquiesces in the partition of Germany, which is a flagrant violation of the Yalta and Potsdam agreements. During the second world war, millions of human lives were sacrificed for democratic ideals in the struggle against Fascism. These just ideals are embodied in the said agreements, the application of which would have transformed Germany into a peaceful, democratic State. Such a transforma- tion is naturally bound up with the political and economic unity of Germany. The establishment of a puppet State of Western Germany is in fla- grant contradiction with the above-mentioned agreements. The elections which have given rise to the so-called Parliament of Bonn are ample proof
1. In final form: Resolutions 35 to 35.39.
198     of the non-democratic character of a system which reflects the policy of the Occupying Powers in Western Germany. This Western Germany, to which Unesco is now considering extending its work, is the cradle of German neo-Fascism and militarism. The revi- sionist speeches which have recently been made in the Bonn Parliament clearly indicate its ag- gressive spirit. The Hungarian, Czechoslovak and Polish delegations therefore consider that the resolution which has just been passed is the very denial of Unesco’s aims and will seriously impair the friendly collaboration of all its Members. On behalf of their governments, they reserve the right to decide what measures these governments may deem fit to adopt for the future. The PRESIDENT — The declarations made by the Polish delegate, on behalf of three delegations, will of course be included in the minutes.
27. Consideration of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission on Unesco’s work in Japan. The PRESIDENT — We nowproceed to point B of this Report, page 20, which relates to the acti- vities of Unesco in Japan. I call on the delegate of the Philippines. H.E. Proceso E. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) — Mr. Chairman, gentlemen and friends. At a joint meeting of the External Relations Commission and the Programme and Budget Commission, I had occasion to state in definite and clear terms the position of the Philippine delegation, whichis also the position and stand of the Philippine Govern- ment, with regard to Unesco’s work in Japan and the proposed programme for 1950. Although the proposal I then advanced to eliminate paragraph 6 of the resolution was defeated in the Commission, I have decided to bring it again to the floor of this Conference, as I have no doubt, gentlemen, that you will lend a sympathetic ear to the plea of a people that has suffered much at the hands of the Japanese, to the plea of the martyrs and the dead of Corregidor and Bataan. Our position, gentlemen, is clear; we want Unesco to carry out its work of securing peace for the whole world. We would like to have Japan come back to our fold, the fold of the peace-loving peoples. We are willing to help them learn and acquire our new way of life, a life of peace. We are, therefore, in favour of Unesco distributing documents, publications and other Unesco mate- rials and making known its aims and achieve- ments by all appropriate means. We favour the exchange between Japan and other countries of publications on educational, scientific and cultural matters and of information calculated to further the aims of Unesco. We have no objection to Unesco’s preparing and publishing textbooks in Japan. We do not object to Unesco’s carrying out a survey of the problems involved in the exchange of persons and scholars between countries, and encouraging objective research by Japanese social scientists. In short, we welcome any step which tends to influence and predispose the Japanese mentality in favour of a democratic way of life. But the Philippine delegation believes that it is much too early to admit the Japanese to our seminars and Conferences. A peace treaty has not yet been concluded. We are not yet assured that all vestiges of Facism and militarism have disappeared, and until the Japanese have shown us that they have discarded their imperialistic designs and have absorbed enough of our demo- cratic institutions, we object to their sitting with us in conferences or in seminars. I have with me the Report of Dr. Bunce before the Commission. He said that the question might legitimately be raised as to the depth of penetration of democratic ideas and as to the changes in the Japanese mind. He further said that no conclusive answer could be give at present, and recommended that enlarged activities and an increased budget be approved for Japan, but made absolutely no recommendation regarding Japanese participation in technical conferences and seminars. I wish to pay special tribute to the man, who, as Head of the Allied Forces of Occupation in Japan, has done splendid work to bring the Japanese to democratic and peaceful ways. I refer, gentlemen, to General MacArthur. But, can anyone assure us that the Japanese masses, even the leaders, have been sufficiently indoctrinated in the ways of peace? We, the Filipinos, wish to tell you frankly that we, as orientals, and knowing as we do the Japanese mentality, entertain very serious doubts whether the Japanese in such a short time have absorbed enough of our democratic ways to change their mentality, which they have been acquiring and developing for a thousand years. We express the hope, however, that the Japanese would not lightly give up whatever new fundamental liberties they may have acquired during the period of the occupation. What the Philippine delegation wishes to ask this Conference, is, not to discontinue the work of Unesco in Japan—unlike the proposal of the Polish, Hungarian and Czechoslovak delegations, which would stop all work of Unesco in Germany —no, we only ask you gentlemen to go slow in giving the Japanese international recognition by giving them now, seats in our conferences and   our seminars, lest in so doing, we help Japanese resurgence, which may once again become a threat to peace. Concretely, therefore, the Philippine delegation proposes the elimination of paragraph 6 of the resolution concerning Unesco's Programme for
1950. The next Conference in Florence is only seven months away. Why cannot we wait and observe a little, and if by 1950 we are convinced that they deserve to sit with us in international conferences and seminars, let them come in? We will have no objection then. Gentlemen, the Philippine delegation hopes that this Conference will not forget that, with present conditions in the Far East, the Philippines stands as one of the bulwarks of peace and democracy today. We sincerely hope also that the voice of the Philippines and the voice of Australia heard here the other day, shall be given some weight in deciding our programme so far as Japan is concerned. The PRESIDENT — The delegate of the Philip- pines has proposed that paragraph 6 of the reso- lution relating to Japan, namely, that providing for Japanese individuals to be invited to confer- ences and seminars be suspended until the next conference. I call on the delegate of Australia. Mr. A. J. A. NELSON (Australia). — Mr. Chair- man, fellow delegates. When the honourable delegate of the Philippines spoke on this subject during the joint meeting of the Official and Ex- ternal Relations and the Programme and Budget Commissions, my delegation supported the stand which he took and we again support it. During the discussion at that joint meeting, it was stressed that our aim in Japan is not to open wounds but to heal them. The Australian delegation believes that that should be precisely our aim, but we should go carefully. We feel that the whole of this resolution will help to heal the wounds of war, but, it should be applied judiciously and at the right time. Even paragraph 6 should become operative at some time but the present is not the time, and we think that the delegate of the Philip- pines has adopted an eminently reasonable attitude in suggesting that, until it is clear that the pro- visions of that paragraph might be adopted with benefit, this conference should hesitate to adopt it. We therefore support the proposal of the Philippines that this paragraph be deleted from the resolution on the understanding that the sub- ject be reopened at the Florence Session of the General Conference. The PRESIDENT. — Does anybody else wish to speak? I call on the observer from SCAP.
200 Dr. William K. BUNCE (Supreme Command for the Allied Powers, Japan). — Mr. President, fellow delegates. Since the remarks which I made the other day were mentioned here, I think it desir- able to come to the rostrum again today and clarify some part of the mistaken impressions which apparently have penetrated at least certain portions of the audience. I thoroughly understand and appreciate the position of the delegate of the Philippines and wish to pay tribute to the important position which the Republic of the Philippines has taken in the Far East and in the war against Japan. I should like to say, however, that the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers does believe it desirable that Japanese be permitted to participate in seminars, and conventions of an international nature that do not involve political questions. It appears to us desirable that the Japanese be gradu- ally reintegrated into the world community. I spoke the other day about the impossibility of making positive assurance at this time of the com- plete conversion of the Japanese to democratic ideals. I did say, however, that we are hopeful and that great progress has been made. I say further here today that I believe it impossible to mention any particular time when one can give definite assurance of complete democratization of Japan or of certain other countries, or perhaps of all other countries, as Sir John Maud said this morning. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers does believe that it is desirable to permit to Japanese people participation as observers and visitors, at international conventions or meetings of a technical nature, not involving political con- siderations. The President If there are no further speakers I will put to the meeting the amendment proposed by the delegate of the Philippines. Those in favour of the Philippine proposal to delete para- graph 6 in the resolution relating to Japan until the next Session of the Conference please raise their hands. Those against? Any abstentions to be re- corded? This amendment is lost, 6 votes for, 17 against and with 5 abstentions. The Philippine amendment having been dealt with we now vote on the resolution as a whole, that is the resolution relating to Japan, with of course, paragraph 6 remaining in. Those in fa- vour of adopting the resolution, please show by raising their hands. Any against? Any absten- tions? The resolution as a whole is carried * by 21 in favour, 4 against and with 2 abstentions.
1. In final form: Resolutions 36 to 36.16.   Mr. Fulgence CHARPENTIER (Canada), Rap- porteur — The last item in the Report is 9—Other Questions—page 25 in the English text and 26 in the French text, the Preliminary Study of the Reports of Member States. The PRESIDENT — If there is no objection to this proposal and no comment, I declare this re- solution adopted. No objection? Adopted.’
28. Adoption as a whole of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission. The PRESIDENT — Now, as regards the Report as a whole, may I take it that, subject to the votes recorded against two of the resolutions, namely, one about Germany and one about Japan, the Con- ference, as a whole, adopts the Report of the Com- mission on Official and External Relations. If there is no objection to my recording a decision in that sense, of it is adopted subject to the votes recorded against two parts of it by certain delega- tions, I will declare the whole Report adopted? Adopted. The next plenary meeting of the Conference will be held tomorrow morning, immediately after the meeting of the Nominations Committee. The Nom- inations Committee will meet at 10.30 in this room for the purpose of agreeing on nominations to the Committee of seven governments to consider the problem of headquarters and premises of the Organization. The business at the plenary meeting will be to vote on the proposals from the Nominations Com- mittee, to take a supplementary report from the Procedure Committee; and to take such parts of the Report on the Programme and Budget as are ready, and it is especially hoped that, in the morn- ing, we can dispose with the part of the Report relating to Technical Assistance. It is expected that the plenary meeting will con- tinue in the afternoon to complete the work on the Programme and Budget, and that the Confer- ence will conclude towards the end of tomorrow afternoon. The Meeting rose at 5 o'clock. FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 5 October 1949 at 11.15 a.m. GONTENTS Supplementary Report of the Procedure Committee . . . . . . . . . 202 Election of seven members to the Headquarters Commission . . . . . . 202 Report by Member States for 1949. Referral of their consideration to the FIRASession oie Conor Conference ZTA Ge ee ee 209 President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia). The PRESIDENT — I wish to give the Conference some indication regarding the work to be under- taken in the course of the day. At this plenary session now, which will be a short one, we shall receive a supplementary report from the Procedure Committee and the Report of the Nominations Committee on the appointments to the Head- quarters Committee. Following that, the plenary session will adjourn and the Programme and Budget Commission will meet in this room at
11.30 a.m. to complete its consideration of the Programme and Budget, the question of Technical
1. In Final form: Resolutions 30.4 to 30.42. Assistance and one or two other outstanding points. The plenary session, which will be the closing session of the Conference, will take place this afternoon at 3 o'clock, not 3.30 as stated in the Journal. The business will be, first of all, to receive the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission and to adopt it. We shall also have to take a formal vote on the amendment to the Constitution. You will remember the provision relating to the voting rights of Member States which are two years or more in arrears. We postponed the formal vote on that amendment to the Constitution until the conclusion of the