SECOND MEETING Thursday, 22 September 1949, at 11.30 a.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Working method of the Commission. The CHATRMAN reminded the meeting that it had been decided to consider the programme and budget simultaneously. That method was logical, but it demanded very close attention since it would be necessary to refer constantly to two separate documents: Part II of document 4C/5 (rev.) (Amendments to Unesco’s programme) and Part III of document 4C/6 (Programme Oper- ations) and its supplement 4C/6-Amendments. He also said that, as the Beirut Conference had decided that the Fourth Session would be a short business session, there could presumably be no radical revision of the Programme, though the final decision on that question would rest with the Conference. The Chairman proposed that the meeting should begin by considering the amendmentsto the Beirut Programme submitted by the Executive Board and shown in the right-hand column of document 4C/5 (rev.). For any radical changes, it would be necessary to make recommendations, which would be taken into account by the Director-General in drawing up the 1951 Programme for submission to the Fifth Session of the Conference. Only pro- posals already received by the General Committee could be taken into consideration, as 21 September had been fixed as the last day on which proposals involving amendments of substance to the pro- gramme could be received. The working method proposed by the Chairman was adopted. As regards the method to be used for consider- ation of the documents, the CHATRMAN proposed that they should be examined chapter by chapter and section by section. The Head of the Depart- ment concerned should be present in order to answer questions and the Secretariat should indi- cate in each case the corresponding section of the budget, so that the Commission could be aware of the budgetary implications of each proposed amendment. Certain proposed amendments were only given in document 4C/5 (rev.), as they did not in any way affect the budget; the Chairman would point them out as they arose. Lastly, the Commission would have to examine the budgetary proposals concerning those parts of the Beirut Programme which had remained un- changed. The Chairman pointed out in that t O O u connexion that amendments were not precluded provided they involved no changes of substance. The Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee would have to examine the particular matters re- ferred to it by the Commission and present the latter with a report on each occasion. Except with regard to the final editing of the texts, the Sub- Committee had no general terms of reference. Lastly, the Commission would have to examine Parts I, IT and IV of the Budget, purely on the basis of document 4C/6 (Budget Estimates). Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) expressed his belief that it would be very difficult for such a large body as the Commission to consider immediately the details of the budget. He considered it better that the budget should first be examined by a com- paratively small committee, which would report to the Commission and offer some general prin- ciples to guide it in its task of selecting those items for which the budgetary allowance should be increased or decreased. If this were not within the authority of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, he suggested that a special com- mittee be set up for that purpose. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that it was on the proposal of the Executive Board that, on the present occasion, the programme and budget were to be examined simultaneously by the Commission as a whole. He asked that there should be no reversal of the decision, taken at the first meeting, to establish a small Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, for that would be to alter the very spirit in which the Commission had been set up and the tasks allotted to it. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) emphasized that speakers of a number of delegations had already discussed the Unesco programme and had pointed out certain fields in which activity should be inten- sified. The proposal of the Chairman that the programme and the budget should be immediately and concurrently examined by the full Commis- sion was the result of much experience on his part; Dr. Martínez Báez therefore supported the procedure proposed by the Chairman. In view of the importance of the questions in- volved, Professor BRANCA (Italy) asked, on behalf of his delegation, that the functions of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee should be clear- ly defined from the start.   Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) referred to the question which had been raised as to the authority of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee and the suggestion to confer upon that Sub-Committee all necessary authority to carry out its study of the budget, thereby giving the Commission something definite to follow. He considered the motion of the delegate of Italy as being most opportune, and therefore seconded it. The logical thing would then be for the Commission to adjourn until it had received the report of the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) was opposed to an adjournment and urged that the Commission should begin its work in the spirit of earlier deci- sions. The Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Com- mittee should not overlap with the Commission, with which the final decision would rest. The purpose of the abolition of the former Budget Sub-Commission had been to avoid the existence of a State within a State, and he proposed that the Commission should follow the line of action laid down by its Chairman. Whilst supporting Mr. Piaget’s proposal, Pro- fessor BRANCA (Italy) asked the Chairman to give the Commission, at its next meeting, detailed information concerning the powers of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. He felt sure that the delegate of Iraq would agree to that pro- cedure. The CHATRMAN said he would submit a definite proposal in writing at the next meeting. Statement by the Director-General. The CHAIRMAN said that the Programme had already been presented, on behalf of the Executive Board, by Dr. Parra Pérez. The Constitution re- quired that the Director-General should present his own Draft Budget. He therefore called upon the Director-General to speak, before the discussion of the Programme and Budget section by section. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he would add a few words concerning the Budget to the statement on the Programme made the previous day by Dr. Parra Pérez on behalf of the Executive Board. The comments of the Board on the Draft Budget for 1950 were given on pages 7 and 8 of document 4C/6. The Director-General would not repeat the reasons which had guided him in making his Budget Estimates for 1950. Those reasons, which had been very carefully considered, were set out in the Introduction (pages 9-12 of the above-mentioned document). Certain sub- sequent amendments (document 4C/6 Amend- ments) reduced the total amount of the original
58 Budget to $8,748,000 which represented an in- crease of $968,000 on the 1949 Budget. He mentioned briefly the main items for which an increase was requested. In the Department of Education, the most im- portant increase was intended for the training and production centre. He referred to the statement made on the previous day, at the plenary meeting, by Dr. Nannetti (Colombia) who had presided over the Literacy Seminar at Rio de Janeiro. Definite action by Unesco in the field of funda- mental education was ardently desired, and the personal experience of the Director-General in Mexico had shown the futility of any campaign against illiteracy which was not preceded by a proper training of personnel and followed by the production of audio-visual and written material. His proposal was a real step forward in the field of fundamental education and would enable Unesco to answer the criticism that its work was too theoretical. The centre would bring experi- enced teachers together for a few months, to enable them to gain a better understanding of the methods of fundamental education. In such a campaign account must be taken of the phase in which the pupils, although no longer illiterate, were still at a very low cultural level and needed special material that they could understand. In the Department of Natural Sciences, the credits allocated to the existing Field Science Co- operation Offices (Cairo, Shanghai, New Delhi and Montevideo) were extremely small. In spite of their very limited staff, they were doing excellent work by sending in reports, disseminating publi- cations, etc. but they had not yet been able to strengthen their relations with universities in their respective areas. In accordance with the spirit of Unesco, the head of each of these offices came from a very far country; but he needed the collaboration of an eminent scientist from the region itself. Appropriations would be necessary when more definite action was contemplated, in the form of symposia (on questions of interest to the region), which would be extremely useful in connexion with the forthcoming development of technical assistance. In the light of surveys pre- viously carried out on the spot, the Field Offices would be able to give valuable help to Unesco, in connexion with the choice to be made between the requests put forward by the various States. In the same field of Natural Sciences, the Director-General would like to give greater im- petus to the popularization of science, and he asked for an appropriation exceeding the 1949 figure by $37,000. He had in mind particularly the publication of a bulletin, the drawing up of lists of scientific publications and mobile scientific exhibitions. He reminded the meeting of the       success of the exhibition organized during the Beirut Conference; a Human Rights exhibition was at present being held in Paris, on the occasion of the Fourth Session; but the organization of similar exhibitions might be contemplated quite independently of the sessions of the Conference. There had been numerous requests for such exhibi- tions and several countries, such as France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, had offered exhibits. In the Department of Social Sciences, the project for the study of tensions arising from psychologi- cal and social complexes and likely to engender bad feeling between nations should receive an appropriation exceeding the 1949 figure by $60,000, on account of increased activity in that field necessitated by a request from the United Nations. Unesco had worked for international co-operation in the social sciences. A small committee of jurists had met for the purpose of establishing an International Association of Comparative Law, which was all the more necessary as discussions frequently arose regarding names. An inter- national Association of Political Science had also been established that year, whilst an International Association of Sociologists and an International Association of Economists were contemplated. Those Associations would in time be able to exist independently, but Unesco could hardly refuse to help them at the beginning, and the Director- General was therefore requesting a sum of $119,000 for that work as against $47,000 in the previous year. As regards the translation of great books, he was asking for an additional sum of about $35,000. A section for the teaching of languages with a view to international understanding would be very useful, and though, in the field of creative art, Unesco could not replace the creators (a miserly patronage would hardly be a wise policy), it ought certainly to make the various countries familiar with each other’s literary work. It had begun in the Arab-speaking countries and was now directing its efforts towards South America. He referred to the Ibero-American collection published by the International Institute of Intellectual Co- operation, which was printed in French only and in a limited number of copies. The Secretariat proposed to continue that work and to ask Govern- ments to bear half the cost of translating selected great books of all countries. If the sale were successful, the sums so advanced could be recuper- ated. The Director-General had already asked Member States for suggestions concerning the works to be translated, and could assure the Com- mission that Governments had been interested in the project. As regards Libraries, after referring to the suc- cess of the Summer School for Librarians organ-
259 ized in 1948, the Director-General explained that the increased approximation under the heading of Libraries was due to the Seminar for Professional Librarians to be held in 1950 with a view to im- proving the part played by public libraries in adult education. Moreover, as a sequel to the Seminar on Adult Education that had proved such a success at Elsinore, it was proposed to organize a seminar in Austria in the month of June. The size of the additional appropriation re- quested for the Exchange of Persons was justified by the fact that the most definite results of Unes- co's work had probably been obtained by that Department. The Director-General referred to the success of the publication Study Abroad, which had been very well received everywhere. Unesco had to see that its fellowship holders were tho- roughly competent and would undertake studies relating to the aims of Unesco. The world was greatly in need of experts, and Unesco should help to provide them. In the field of Mass Communications, Unesco had interested itself in the standardization of the Braille System, for it was bound to assist in the education of the blind. Tbe survey carried out in eastern countries should be extended to Latin \merica. The Director-General had enlisted the help of a distinguished consultant, himself blind, who had drawn up a report. An appropriation of $25,000 would be required for the task, which surely no man of good will could reject. As regards the project for setting up a Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere, instituted by the Third Session of the Conference, the Organ- ization of American States, the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies had been consulted. The Organization of American States had approved the project and the Co-ordinating Committee of the United Nations had made no objection. The Executive Board had chosen Havana as the head- quarters of the Office for the first year and had asked the Cuban Government to guarantee the diplomatic privileges and immunities of the staff. A favourable reply had been received, and it was now necessary to set up the Office and make of it a constructive (not merely representative) centre. As the appropriation granted by the Beirut Conference was clearly inadequate, the Director- General was obliged to ask for $56,000 as against the original $25,000. In connexion with Unesco’s activities in Ger- many and Japan, decided upon at the Beirut Con- ference, Committees of Experts had met, one in Paris for Germany, and the other in Japan for that country. But, if Unesco were to undertake a thorough campaign in accordance with the experts’ wishes, an additional sum of 560,000 would be necessary. Professor Carneiro, who had   been the Chairman of the Committe of Experts on Germany, would be able to give further informa- tion on the subject. It was to be feared that even the sum requested would be inadequate for the programme recommended by the experts. All the increases asked for were in respect of priorities and, if the Commission adopted the Pro- gramme now before it, it should also adopt a corresponding Budget. The Budget should be proof of the sincerity of the Programme. Referring to the devaluations that had taken place in most countries, the Director-General said that the Secretariat was trying to determine their incidence on the budget of the Organization, and he hoped to be able to make a statement on that subject on 26 September. He pointed out that, as the devaluations merely affected figures and not the substance of the programme or the budget, they should not interfere with the discussion of the Programme and Budget. Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (documents
4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to begin its simultaneous detailed examination of the Pro- gramme and Budget, in the light of the foregoing general statement. Chapter I. Reconstruction. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the chapter on Reconstruction (document 4C/5 (rev.), Part II) comprised seven sections, indicated by the first figure after the decimal point. In cases where no amendment had been proposed by the Executive Board, the proposals of the Beirut Conference (left- hand column) were to be examined. Section 1. Reconstruction Campaign As regards the budget estimates relating to Sec- tion 1 (document 4C/6, page 71), the CHAIRMAN pointed out the changes to be made in certain figures (document 4C/6-Amendments) as the result of decisions by the Executive Board: con- tractual printing had been reduced to $26,200 (as against $29,400) and the other contractual items to $11,500 (as against $12,500), so that the total cost of the project was reduced from $131,471 to $127,271. Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) made some general remarks regarding the Reconstruction part of the Programme as a whole. The United States was especially interested in the matter of recon- struction, and this interest had been made evident by the very large amount of money raised in the United States, mostly through voluntary organ-
260 izations, to assist in educational reconstruction, in addition to the regular work of Unesco. A joint Committee of representatives of voluntary organ- izations had first been formed, which during the past two years had raised large sums for that pur- pose. The Joint Committee had now disbanded and handed over its work to the United States National Commission for Unesco, a continuing organization. Although the future total of volun- tary contributions might be less than it had been, Dr. Zook assured the Commission that efforts would be continued to do everything to further Unesco’s work. In regard to the details of the budget, Dr. Zook stated that, under Section 1, the United States delegation desired an explanation of the increases proposed in the allotments for fees, for conferences and meetings, and for contractual printing. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) explained the reasons which had made it necessary to propose the increases referred to by the United States delegate. In regard to the allotment for fees, the Secre- tariat had had to make cuts in the staff of the Department in order to finance the Reconstruc- tion Unit in New York, consisting of four persons. In order to keep abreast of the work in Paris, however, it had been necessary to use the services of temporary assistants in order to carry out the programme. In regard to the allotment for conferences and meetings, Dr. Drzewieski pointed out that during the last year, it had become clear that campaigns for voluntary funds for educational reconstruction presented increasing difficulties both in the United States and in Canada. It was therefore necessary to give the new Reconstruction Unit a larger amount of money to enable it to call meetings of representatives of voluntary organizations to dis- cuss plans of action in the field of educational reconstruction. In regard to the increase for contractual print- ing, he stated that for the efficiency of the cam- paign the Reconstruction Unit must provide information and propaganda materials, which necessarily required an increase in printing costs. Dr. AWAD Bey (Egypt) emphasized the great importance of educational reconstruction in the reconstruction in the Middle East and the dis- appointment which would be felt if increase were not provided for this work. He stressed the need of teaching for refugee children in the Middle East and in Greece, and the hope that more would be done in that field by Unesco. The CHAIRMAN said that, as that question related to Section 5, it would be considered in its proper order.       Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out two places in the general Budget Estimates where the delegation of the United Kingdom believed that too much money had been allotted. (a) The proposed figure of $842,650 (amount- ing to nearly 10 per cent of the total budget) for fees appeared to be excessive; he believed that it would be impossible to find experts who were good enough, within the time available, to spend that amount properly, and also stated that some Unesco experts had not proved satisfactory; the delegation of the United Kingdom would there- fore propose a reduction in that item. (b) The amount allotted to publications was questioned. Since some of the publications were of an ephemeral nature and were out of date by the time they reached the hands of many readers, Sir Ronald felt that some of them might be made bimonthly, with other similar economies. In regard to Reconstruction, Sir Ronald had intended to propose a reduction of $1,000 in the allotment for conferences and meetings, but would withdraw that suggestion after hearing the ex- planations of Dr. Drzewieski and the statement of the excellent results in obtaining voluntary contributions through such meetings in the United States. He did propose, however, reductions in the allotments for fees and for contractual print- ing, amounting to $2,000 and $4,500 respectively. The CHAIRMAN observed that the Commission had before it a definite proposal for a reduction of the Reconstruction budget by $6,500. Dr. WALKER (Australia) requested an explana- tion of the Personnel Costs (on page 71 of docu- ment 4C/6), in which eleven staff members, instead of ten in the 1949 list, called for a total of $48,245, an increase of 50 per cent over the
1949 total of $32,483. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) pointed out that the difference was explained by the grades and increments of the various posts and by the addition of a post of Deputy Head of Department. The CHAIRMAN asked the delegates of the United Kingdom and Australia whether they were satisfied with that answer. If necessary, their requests could be referred for consideration to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, which would make recommendations thereon. Dr. WALKER (Australia) stated that he still did not see adequate justification for such a large increase in the Personnel column. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Sub-Com- mittee, as soon as it was constituted, should answer Dr. Walker's question and examine the reductions proposed by the United Kingdom del- egation. As there were no other remarks onthe chapter on Reconstruction, the Chairman took note of the two amendments by the United Kingdomdelegate and of the Australian delegation’s request for an explanation, for the purpose of transmitting them to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The chapter on Reconstruction could only be final- ly approved by the Commission after the Sub- Committee had given its opinion. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. THIRD MEETING Thursday, 22 September 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO pE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) later: Mr. JEAN PIAGET (Switzerland) Terms of Reference of the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee. The CHAIRMAN read out certain suggestions concerning the functions of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee: LA" The title Kofi this Sub-Committee, which was established by the Executive Board, limits its func-
261 tions and defines its two fields of competence. The Sub-Committee is clearly empowered to deal with budgetary matters, as the United Kingdomdelegation desires, but not to the exclusion of programmeissues. It cannot, therefore, be a budget sub-commission in the Mexico City and Beirut sense.
2. With regard to functions, the Sub-Committee exists for drafting and for co-ordination. It has therefore no power to take decisions.