Programme and Budget in the light of the Com- mission’s discussions. It would be at liberty to suggest amendments and would have very wide powers, including the settlement of details of pro- cedure. Every delegation was fully entitled to submit written proposals to the Sub-Committee. Bicentenary of the death of J. S. Bach. Mr. FISCHER (Israel) remarked that the Secre- tariat intended to commemorate the bicentenary of the death of J.S. Bach, who, living a humble life, had made a supreme appeal to men’s hearts and minds throughout the world. Unesco ought to take part in the tribute to that great musician, and Mr. Fischer asked the Secretariat to put for- ward proposals in that connexion. Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) felt sure that the Commission would agree with the delegate of Israel’s view. The Secretariat had already prepared a scheme so that Unesco would be prepared to commemorate the anniversary; suggestions from Member States would be wel- come. Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 6. Cultural Activities (continuation) Section 8. Service of Cultural Liaison in the Middle East Dr. AWAD Bey (Egypt) said that the people of the Middle East were highly flattered that Unesco should make special provision for a liaison ser- vice. There was however a danger that people might imagine that there was no cultural liai- son there, or that existing cultural liaison in the Middle East was either lacking or needed strengthening. That was not the case. Two years ago the Turkish Minister of Education had visited Egypt. Only this year an agreement had been made with the Turkish cultural authorities which would enable the same authorities in Egypt— especially the representatives of Arabic-speaking countries—to receive some hundred thousand manuscripts of Arabic books now in Istanbul, and which would be made available to Arabic scholars in all countries. Cordial relations existed with Iran, and there was already a small pro- gramme existing for the exchange of teachers and students between Iran and Cairo. The Egyptian universities all had at least four or five Chairs for the Persian and Turkish languages. The Arabic- speaking countries also collaborated between them- selves. Under the auspices of the League of Arab States, a Cultural Commission had been set up
300 which practically duplicated Unesco’s Programme; it had a centre in Cairo which held conferences, like Unesco, in a different place every year. Even with regard to the Millenary of Avicenna, close contact was maintained with the Iranian Govern- ment with a view to a joint celebration in honour of that great scholar. Relations with Pakistan and India were already well established, and partic- ularly intimate and happy. In making this state- ment, however, Dr. Awad did not of course wish to infer that a special liaison service in Unesco would not be very welcome. Section 9. Cultural Conventions Mr. ABRAHAM (France) said that the French del- egation was in general agreement with the pro- posed resolutions, but wished to suggest a few changes in the wording of resolution 6.91. The delegation feared, in particular, that there might be some disadvantages in the preparation of “model clauses on cultural exchanges”. Although there were typical clauses, Mr. Abraham did not think it advisable to consider standard agreements in the field in question; the facts were there be- fore the law; the point at issue was to create new sets of facts but to regularize those already exist- ing; the same form of words could not be applied to different countries, and contracts should be based on existing conditions. The CHAIRMAN thought the Commission would agree with the French delegate’s suggestions, and proposed that they should be submitted to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that no formal amendment had been put forward, and asked the French delegation to submit a written proposal to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee. The Head of the Legal Service of the Secretariat was prepared to give any necessary assistance to the Sub-Committee. Agreed. The whole of Chapter 6 (document 4C/5 rev., pages 23 to 29) was adopted. * Chapter 7. Communication Section 1. Exchange of Persons The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the delegation of the United States of America had submitted an amendment to resolution 7.16 (document 4C/25). Miss LUCAS (United States of America) em- phasized the great interest which the United States National Commission took in the Exchange of Persons activities. At a recent meeting, it had noted with satisfaction the increasingly valuable
1. In final form: Resolutions 6.1 to 6.922.         services which Unesco was furnishing through its Centre of Information. It was hoped that that service would be continued and strengthened. The United States delegation had been extremely impressed by the quantity and quality of the work done in the Exchange of Persons Department. Unesco’s Handbook on Fellowships was a remark- able achievement, and provided a bridge between peoples, which had long been sorely needed. The United States delegation had noted however that the budgetary increase was one of the largest, with proposals to award fifty direct Unesco fellowships, and for planning and administering many others. Could not some reduction be made for instance in the expenses of the Centre of Information by omitting one of the three proposed conferences? The proposed subsidy in connexion with the ex- change of workers for cultural purposes could also be omitted, as the International Labour Organiza- tion might perhaps carry that financial responsi- bility The United States delegation questioned the pro- posed number of direct Unesco fellowships, sixty- five in all, although they appreciated the Secre- tariat’s desire to have a satisfactory distribution of those fellowships among Member States and Unesco Programme projects. The delegation was of opinion that only a moderate increase in the allocation for fellowships should be made for 1950, with a maximum of forty such fellowships. Unes- co’s direct Fellowship Programme should be ex- panded, but at a more moderate rate. The United States delegation urged the Director- General to develop plans for interneships and in this connexion proposed an amendment to resolu- tion 7.16 (document 4C/25), as it was the delega- tion’s view that some of the Fellowships should be used for that purpose. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), on behalf of his delegation and the United Kingdom National Commission, endorsed what had been said by the previous speaker. The United Kingdom National Commission shared the doubts expressed about the rate at which Unesco should increase the number of direct fellowships which were actually paid for out of Unesco funds, although it had been agreed at the last session of the General Conference that it was exceedingly difficult to find the logical number of direct Unesco fellowships, or the logi- cal sum of money which Unesco should spend on them. The United Kingdom National Commission felt that this work should be encouraged in every possible way, but that Unesco should limit its direct action to some more or less arbitrarily cho- sen figure, which should certainly be increased in 1950, but not as much proposed in the draft programme. In resolution 7.17, reference was made to a small committee of experts, and there was a pro- posal that the words “in 1949” be replaced by “in
1950”. If that were necessary, it should of course be done, but Sir John would like an assurance that it would be to convene those experts. With regard to the new resolution 7.181, the United Kingdom National Commission also felt some hesitation as to whether Unesco was ready to expand in that particular direction, and thought the object might best be achieved on a bilateral or a multilateral basis between Member States and different institutions, rather than by inter-govern- mental action. Sir John emphasized that there was no part of the Secretariat for which the United Kingdom delegation had developed a more ardent and genuine admiration than the Exchange of Persons Department. Professor BRANCA (Italy) thanked the Director- General for the work he had done and his report on fellowships. The question was extremely im- portant, for fellowships made closer international contacts possible. It was particularly essential that workers should be able to take advantage of fellowships; craftsmen, especially, would benefit greatly from them. The Italian Government would do all in its powerto facilitate such ex- change of persons. Dr. VAN ZYL (Union of South Africa) asso- ciated himself with the previous speakers in applauding the work done by the Exchange of Persons Department. With regard to direct fel- lowships, his delegation also felt that Unesco should go more slowly, and that the increase to fifty was too great. Mr. NELSON (Australia) expressed the thanks of the Australian National Co-operating Bodies to the Exchange of Persons Department for the ex- cellent advice and help given in administering the Australia/Unesco fellowship scheme. His delega- tion was in agreement with previous speakers re- garding the extension of Unesco’s own programme for fellowships; the number of Unesco financed fellowships should not be increased; on the other hand, the provision of fellowships by Member States should be encouraged as it gave them a sense of participation in Unesco’s work. The matter should be studied very thoroughly in the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) asked whether the exchange of teachers could not be considered, as his country had sometimes great difficulty in finding suitable persons. Unesco might act as a centre of information in this matter, and supply National Commissions with lists of teachers and scholars who wished to teach and work abroad.   Mr. ABRAHAM (France) wished to associate himself with other delegations who had congra- tulated Mr. Carter, whose Department was operat- ing in a most satisfactory way. With regard to fel- lowships, Unesco should be principally a clearing- house linking the different States. It would be extremely useful if the Organization would give Member States the fullest possible information on the matter. Unesco should, however, itself award a few fellowships, either from its own budget or from the funds supplied by certain States. Mr. Abraham agreed with the Italian delegate about the importance of granting fellowships to workers; in that connexion, he was glad that Unesco was co-operating with the International Labour Organization. Such fellowships served not only a technical but an intellectual purpose; the exchange of workers was not only a question of technical improvement. Unesco would fail in its duty if fellowships were not also granted to the working people with whom the Organization ought to be in touch. With regard to resolution 7.181, Mr. Abraham was not altogether satisfied with the words “a conference or conferences”. Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) said there was no necessity to underline the importance of the exchange of persons; but in view of certain difficulties regard- ing costs, he wished to move—while apologizing that it had not been distributed to the meeting— the following resolution, which had no budgetary implications: The Director-General is instructed to study the question of a convention to recommend to Member States the granting of reductions in transport charges, and other facilities, for persons who are travelling under an officially recognized exchange of persons scheme, and to report on the results of that study to the next session of the General Conference. Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) said that his delegation associated itself fully with the views expressed by the United States delegation, and felt that any increase in the budget for this activity would be fully justified. Although the United States del- egation should be modest, his delegation would modify the word “modest” to “substantial”. Mr. Sharif agreed with the United Kingdom del- egation that this scheme should be financed by national organizations and Member States, but that their interest should be stimulated; the best way to do that would be to ask Unesco to sponsor a much larger number of scholarships in the initial year. Once interest had been stimulated, it would be easy enough to reduce the budget expenditure. Professor CHEN Yuan (China) wished to be associated with the previous speakers in their praise of the work of the Exchange of Persons Department, but did not understand the views advanced by some of them. They seemed to say “what a wonderful thing Unesco has done in this field, but it must not go any further”. If the work were one of the best things Unesco had done, let it go ahead; the Chinese delegation fully supported the fellowship programme presented by the Director-General. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) also associated him- self, on behalf of his delegation, with the well- deserved tributes paid of the Exchange of Persons Department. Although there were undoubtedly many items in that section of the programme for which increased appropriations should be pro- vided, his delegation felt that, in general, the pro- jected rate of expansion of the Department might be excessive. Mr. CARTER (Head, Department of Exchange of Persons) gave some reasons for the increase in the budgetary allocation for Unesco-financed fel- lowships, which he hoped would show that what purported to be an extensive increase was not so in actual fact. Leaving aside the request for fifteen fellowships in connexion with the United Nations, the request for fifty Unesco fellowships was in essence an increase not so much in depth of programme as in geographical extent. The Third Session of the General Conference had passed a resolution determining the area in which the Director-General should allocate fellowships, extending that area to include under-developed territories and trust territories. At the same time, the 1949 total had been decreased so that the Director-General had had to face the problem of utilizing fewer fellowships on a broader geogra- phical area. The request for an increase was essentially to expand the fellowship scheme geo- graphically, but still at a fairly slow rate. With regard to resolution 7.17, the Committee of Experts which had met recently felt it would be useful to have a more detailed and technical study of the subject. Speaking of the United Kingdom delegation's observation in resolution 7.181, Mr. Carter did not think that a bilateral approach would meet the situation; neither was a purely inter-governmental approach envisaged. Concerning the proposal made by the delegate of Austria, the matter was being studied carefully, in collaboration with the Department of Mass Communications, and it was hoped that concrete results would ensue. The CHAIRMAN also thanked Mr. Carter. He announced that the Secretariat agreed with the      amendment to resolution 7.16 submitted by the United States delegation (document 4C/25). The amendment was adopled. * Section 2. Mass Communication The CHAIRMAN mentioned that there were several amendments in document 4C/5 rev. - Add. & Corr, pages 3 and 4. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), with regard to resolution 7.2111, suggested that the word “production” be left out. The encouragement of the “provision and distribution” of raw materials would appear to be the point to make. Resolution 7.2112 spoke of regional technical co- operation missions. The United Kingdom delega- tion did not quite agree that such missions were likely to be successful, but the point might perhaps be more appropriately raised in the debate on Technical Assistance. The view of the United Kingdom National Commission was that Resolu- tion 7.2112 should be deleted and come up again for discussion at the Fifth Session. With regard to the International Institute of the Press (resolution 7.226), the United Kingdom Na- tional Commission felt that the Conference might be asked whether this was not a piece of “dead wood” in the programme which could be elim- inated; it did not appear that journalists were sufficiently interested to provide funds for it. The United Kingdom delegation thought that the Con- ference should have the courage to delete this re- solution 7.21131( though they did not wish to be dogmatic in the matter. Professor VEDOVATO (Italy) referred partic- ularly to resolution 7.2121. He observed that the taste for culture, and familiarity with works of literature and art, had spread considerably in the last century and that many factors had been at work in bringing about that result; he remarked that general cultures were coming into being, over- laying the national cultures, in which growing similarities in ways of thinking were to be found. Even the most original works, most closely linked with the character of a country, always contained a proportion which could be communicated to all other countries. The mast important agents in that dissemination were the press, radio and film. Professor Vedovato emphasized that the time was ripe to extend Unesco’s surveys of the techni- cal needs of the press, radio and film to other countries. It would be very helpful to supplement the enquiries already made by others in a number of different countries. Otherwise, the results al- ready obtained would not give a complete picture. The Italian delegation therefore supported the sug-
1. In final form: Resolution 7.16. gestion that the survey of technical needs should be extended and the results published. Mr. RUTTENBERG (United States of America) referring to resolution 7.2112, said that his del- egation had a suggestion to make which was in line with that of the United Kingdom delegation. A particular Member State had requested that a Technical Needs Mission be sent to its country. The United States delegation thought that, in send- ing one such mission to one country that had specifically requested it, the results would indi- cate whether this technique was useful in mobiliz- ing press, film and radio for Unesco’s purposes. The saving effected by sending only one mission, instead of two, could be put to other purposes. The United States delegation felt very strongly that radio, press and film were extremely useful media through which to carry the ideals and principles of international co-operation and mutual under- standing to the mass of the people. The United States delegation had intended to propose an expansion of the press, radio and film programme, and to ask the Conference for a budget increase of some $300,000. With the budget situa- tion as it was, however, it had decided not to make such a proposal; but it would like to suggest to the Director-General that he consider further the methods by which to implement the whole of that programme, so that the whole problem could be fully discussed at a future date. The CHAIRMAN congratulated the United States delegate who had just spoken, and welcomed him to the Conference; he represented the important C. 1. O. Trade Union. Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) thanked the United States delegate for stressing the importance of the radio, film and press. He was convinced that the United Kingdom delegate would agree with the views expressed. He remarked that the results of the introduction of films in new coun- tries had often been disastrous; the peoples of backward countries did not always understand the methods of the cinema. Mr. Sedar Senghor urged that educational and cultural films should be made, specially adapted to the needs of the under- developed countries. Work of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee and the Budget Ceiling (continua- tion). The CHAIRMAN read out the terms of reference of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee: To examine the programme proposed for 1950 by the Executive Board and the budget proposed by the Director-General, in the light of discussions which took place in the Programme and Budget Commis- sion.    The Sub-Commission has full powers to recommend to the Programme and Budget Commission adjust- ments and possible modifications which appear neces- Sary (LO йе. Members of the Sub-Committee, as well as delegates, who wish to participate in this work may present amendments and make verbal proposals, and may participate in discussions upon invitation of the Chairman, taking into consideration the directives of the Programme and Budget Commission. In reply to a question from Mr. ABRAHAM (France), the CHAIRMAN gave an assurance that the Chairman of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee would maintain the closest contact with the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission. The Sub-Committee’s terms of reference were approved: The meeting rose at 7 p.m. ELEVENTH MEETING Wednesday, 28 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 7. Communication (continuation) Section 2. Mass Communication (continuation) Mr. GROS (United Nations) expressed his Organ- ization's thanks for the work done in that field by the Commission and the Secretariat, and recalled that resolutions had been passed by the Economic and Social Council, congratulating Unesco on the invaluable co-operation it had furnished. Mr. SCHNEIDER (Head, Department of Mass Communications) referred to two points which had been raised that morning in connexion with the Section under discussion: technical missions, and the proposed International Institute of the Press. With regard to resolution 7.2112, it had been suggested that, as this was an experimental field, it would be wiser to limit the technical co- operation missions to one in the current year; both the United Kingdom and the United States delegations had made that point, and Mr. Schnei- der welcomed the United States proposal which specified, not only that there should be a single mission, but also that any money left over should go back into the Mass Communication budget. With regard to the proposed International Institute of the Press, Mr. Schneider agreed that, if the proposal was “dead wood”, it should be lopped off. But the Secretariat had studied the question for many months, and a great deal of
304 favourable comment had been received: it there- fore seemed that to drop the proposal without further trial would be a waste of much good work. Mr. Schneider referred to a resolution passed by the Ninth Session of ECOSOC, welcoming Unesco's efforts in this matter, and to the United Nations Conferences on Freedom of Information which had expressed the opinion that there was a need for an international institute of the press. Mr. Schneider stated that the idea of the Secretariat was not to go forward with the establishment of the Institute, but to call a meeting of a small committee of experts in 1950 that would present final findings to the Florence Session of the Conference, which could then either delete the item from Unesco's Programme, or make definite arrangements for the Institute's establishment. The CHAIRMAN mentioned that an amendment had been proposed by the French delegation (doc- ument 4C/43) and suggested that it should be considered in connexion with item 7.2113. Mr. ROLLIN (France) mentioned that the crea- tion of an International Institute of the Press and Information had been given preliminary considera- tion by three successive conferences of experts, whose conclusions had been in favour of the establishment of an Institute. The French representative proposed that, as the Executive Board and the Secretariat suggested, a final conference of experts should be convened to consider whether the project could be carried out as proposed by the Secretariat, taking into account not be very expensive. The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's atten-