SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE FIRST MEETING Monday, 19 September 1949, at 10.50 a.m. Chairman: Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of America) Election of Chairman. Shafik GHORBAL Bey (Egypt), seconded by Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), pro- posed the Head of the United States Delegation, Mr. George V. Allen, as Chairman of the Com- mittee. This proposal was adopted by acclamation. Mr. Allen took the Chair. Adoption of the Agenda (document 4C/NOM/1). The Agenda was adopted. Submission of nominations for the offices of President and seven Vice-Presidents of the General Conference (document 4C/NOM/2). The CHAIRMAN observed that document 4C/ NOM/2 contained proposals submitted by the Executive Board regarding the procedure for the presentation of nominees. There was a list, on page 2, of Member States which had occupied the Offices of President or Vice-President at the last three sessions of the General Conference. Accord- ing to Rule 38 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-Presidents should be so elected as to ensure the representative character of the General Committee. Office of President. The CHAIRMAN called for nomination for the office of President of the Conference. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed the Head of the French Delegation, M. Georges Bidault, as President of the Conference. Mr. BIDAULT (France) thanked the Head of the
447 Norwegian Delegation for his proposal, which he deeply appreciated. But he wished to point out that, as the Beirut Conference had decided that a Working Conference would be held every two years in Paris, where the Organization had its headquarters, France was not legally the host nation. Although he was proud to see Unesco House installed in Paris, and although, as a Frenchman, he was glad to welcome on French territory the six new delegations which had joined the General Conference this year, he did not think it right that the Presidency should devolve every two years upon the Head of the French Delegation simply because the Conference was held at the headquarters of the Organization. On the contrary, he would like the Committee to appoint a distinguished representative of a country in which the General Conference was unlikely to be held in the near future. He therefore felt bound to decline the honour shown to the French Delegation and proposed as President the Head of the Australian Delegation, Dr. Walker, whose authority and competence had long been recognized by the Organization. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) se- conded Mr. Bidault’s proposal. Dr. Walker had been associated with Unesco from the beginning, he had been Chairman of the Executive Board and was eminently qualified to preside over the Conference. It was unanimously decided that the Committe would submit to the General Conference the nomination of the Head of the Australian Del- egation for the office of President of the Fourth Session. Dr. WALKER (Australia) thanked the Committee for the honour done to his country. Such an honour, he said, rewarded Australian for its attachment to Unesco’s work. He also thanked Mr. Bidault for his proposal and said he would be glad to accept the Presidency of the Conference.     Offices of Vice-Presidents. Passing on to nominations for the seven Vice- Presidents of the Conference, the CHAIRMAN asked delegates to consider the necessity for represen- tation of the different cultural regions of the world on the General Committee; bearing that necessity in mind, he submitted the following list of delegations as a basis for discussion: Egypt, Ecuador, France, India, Italy, United Kingdom, Czechoslovakia. There were no other nominations and Sir Sarve- palli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), seconded by Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) and Dr. PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela), moved the acceptance of the Chair- man’s list. The list was adopted and the Committee decided to submit it to the General Conference, as its nomination for the offices of Vice-Presidents of the Conference. The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m. SECOND MEETING Tuesday, 20 September 1949, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Grorce V. ALLEN (United States of America) Nominations for the offices of Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the Com- missions and Committees of the Conference (document 4C/NOM/2). The CHAIRMANcalled on Dr. Walker to report on the suggestions made by the General Committee as to the nomination of a Chairman for each of the three Commissions, namely the Programme and Budget Commission, the Administrative Com- mission, and the Official and External Relations Commission. Dr. WALKER (Australia), Chairman of the Gen- eral Committee, emphasized that, apart from the consideration of the personal value of the nom- inees, the members of the General Committee had borne in mind, as an important factor, the desirability of ensuring an equitable geographical distribution. They proposed the election of M. Paulo de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil) as Chair- man of the Programme and Budget Commission, stressing his wide knowledge of programme matters and his valuable work during the Beirut Conference. The General Committee suggested M. Léo Mundeleer (Belgium) for the chairmanship of the Administrative Commission. For the chairmanship of the Official and External Relations Commission, two nominations had been considered by the General Committee, namely Mr. Antonio Castro Leal (Mexico) and Mr. Przmy- slaw Ogrodzinski (Poland). The CHAIRMAN moved that Professor Carneiro be proposed as Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission. Unanimously adopted.
448 The CHAIRMAN moved that M. Mundeleer be proposed as Chairman of the Administrative Commission. Unanimously adopted. The CHAIRMAN called for expressions of views concerning the suggestions of the General Com- mittee for the Chairmanship of the Official and External Relations Commission. Dr. WANG Te Yio (China) seconded the nom- ination of the Polish delegate, which he felt was more in accordance with the principle of geographical distribution, as a representative of South America had been nominated Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission. Mr. SEYDOUX (France), although he admitted the value of the Chinese delegate’s argument, thought that geographical distribution should not be a predominant factor during the Fourth Session of the General Conference, as this was mainly a Working Conference. The choice of Mr. Carneiro as Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission had been made, not because of his nationality, but because of the ability which he had shown in Beirut. He therefore thought Mr. Castro Leal’s nomination should stand. Professor HERCIK (Czechoslovakia) stressed the personal qualities of Mr. Ogrodzinski and reminded the members that one of the chief aims of Unesco, as stated the previous day by the Director- General, was the exchange of ideas. He said that the delegate of Poland represented a set of ideas which were those of a very large group of people and consequently thought that M. Ogrodzinski