FIFTH MEETING Friday, 30 September 1949, at 12 noon Chairman: Mr. Léo MUNDELEER (Belgium) Item 5 (a) of the Agenda: Report on the organization of the Secretariat (continuation) (document 4C/ADM/7). In response to the request made, the previous day, by the delegate of the United Kingdom, the CHAIRMAN had enquired which Commission would be responsible for considering the financial repercussions of decisions taken by the Adminis- trative Commission; it would be the responsibility of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission alone, and the Administrative Commission did not need to trouble about that aspect of the problem. Item 7 of the Agenda: Consideration of the report of the Administrative Commission to the General Conference (document 4C/ADM/
20). The CHAIRMAN asked the Rapporteur to read his report (document 4C/ADM/20), paragraph by paragraph, together with the relevant draft resolu- tions. Mr. KIRPAL (India), Rapporteur, pointed out that, for the most part, only those decisions of the Administrative Commission on which action was required had been recorded in his report, and that it was presented as a draft document only, subject to alteration or approval by the Commission. A. Financial Questions. Section A 1 (Arrears of Contributions) and the proposed resolution No. 1 of Annex I (Auditors’ Report) were approved. ' Section A 2 (Scale of Contributions) and the proposed resolution No. 2 of Annex I were ap- proved. * Section A 3 (Currency of Contributions) with the corresponding proposed resolution No. 8 of Annex I were approved. * Concerning Section A 4 (Administration of the
1. In final form: Resolution 20.
2. In final form: Resolution 21.
3. In final form: Resolution 22.
444 Revolving Fund) with the corresponding proposed resolution No. 4 of Annex I, Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) pointed out that the English and French texts did not agree on the dates on which loans granted of the staff should be reimbursed, and Mr. KIRPAL (India), Rapporteur, stated that Annex I, Section 4, paragraph (3) (11) should be corrected to read as follows: … provided that all loans granted during 1949 shall be reimbursed by 1 January 1954 and all loans granted during 1950 shall be reimbursed by 1 January 1955. Section A J and draft resolution No. 4 as corrected were approved. * Section A 5 (Amendments to Financial Regula- tions) and the proposed resolution No. 5 of Annex I were approved, * subject to correcting the word “shall” to “may”, in the proposed resolution No. 5, under Financial Regulation 2 (second sentence). Section A 6 (Utilization of certain categories of miscellaneous income) and A 7 (Arrangements for the Appointment of Auditors), with the corre- sponding resolutions No. 6 and 7 of Annex I, were approved. * B. Staff Questions. The following sections of the report, with the corresponding proposed resolutions No. 1, 2 and 3 contained in Annex II, were approved: B 1 (Organization of the Secretariat); B 2 (Measures taken to implement the Staff Regulations); 7 B 3 (Joint Study by the United Nations and Specialized Agencies on the Salary and Allowances System) ; * B 4 (Medical Benefits Scheme); B 5 (Joint Staff Pension Fund). * C. Other Questions. Mr. KIRPAL (India), Rapporteur, recalled that the proposed resolution on Headquarters contained in
4. In final form: Resolution 23.
5. In final form: Resolutions 24.1 to 24.4.
6. In final form: Resolutions 25 and 24.5.
7. In final form: Resolution 26.
8. In final form: Resolution 27.
9. In final form: Resolution 28.             Annex IIT had been presented by the delegation of the United States. Mr. SEYDOUX (France) stated that the French delegation, after very careful examination of the draft submitted by the United States delegate, had proposed a form of words which, although very close to the original text, would allow of a clear distinction between the exploratory work (to be carried out by the Director-General) and the tak- ing of decisions (which would rest with the pro- posed Commission of seven). He read out the new resolution his delegation proposed: The Director-General is instructed to enter into nego- tiations with the Government of the Republic of France with a view to examining the possibility of establishing in Paris the Unesco headquarters in a building, which would meet the increasing needs of the Organization. The Director-General is instructed to report on this question to the specially constituted Commission of seven, which will consider the Director-General’s pro- posals and thereafter take suitable steps. The Commission shall report, if possible, to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The new first paragraph would leave open the possibility of Unesco’s being allotted an existing building more in consonance with the cultural character of the Organization (an historic monu- ment would not be excluded) or, if necessary, of erecting a new building. The second paragraph made it possible to dis- tinguish clearly between the two functions, the Director-General’s duty being to submit proposals to the Commission, which was responsible for accepting or rejecting them, or putting forward fresh proposals. Finally, the words “if possible” had been in- serted in the third paragraph to take account of the fact that lengthy negotiations would be neces- sary, between the Secretariat and the French Government on the one hand, and architects in all countries on the other; it might be impossible to complete those negotiations in such a short time. The CHAIRMAN asked the United States del- egate if he could agree to those changes. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) stated that it was difficult to discuss this difference of opinion without having a written text of the French proposal. He emphasized that the United States delegation deeply appreciated the generosity of the French Government in making available a headquarters for the Organization in Paris. The second paragraph of the French proposal appeared to concern the manner in which the negotiations would be conducted, and Mr. Roseman believed that the Headquarters Commission should be given broader authority in regard to the process of such negotiations than was apparently intended by the proposal of the delegate of France. In regard to the date on which the Headquarters Commission should report, Mr. Roseman agreed that it might not be possible for a definitive report to be made by the time of the Fifth Session of the General Conference, but he felt that an interim could be made, showing what negotiations were in progress. In conclusion, he stated that, without having had the opportunity to examine a written proposal, he could not agree entirely with the suggestions of the delegate of France. Mr. TALJAARD (Union of South Africa) pointed out that the French proposal appeared to him to give ample authority to the Headquarters Commis- sion, and agreed on the point that the Headquarters Commission should not be expected to report on actual negotiations accomplished by the time of the Fifth Session of the General Conference, but should show that it had been set up and had given preliminary consideration to the matter. The CHAIRMAN asked the delegates of the United States of America and France to consult together immediately; he was sure that they would quickly be able to agree on a joint text, as the ideas in the two draft resolutions were much the same. After consultation with the United States del- egate, Mr. SEYDOUX (France) read out the agreed wording. The first paragraph of the French pro- posal was accepted by the United States delegate. The second paragraph was to be the first para- graph of the United States delegate’s original re- solution, with one slight modification (the words “on the basis of the report of the Director-General” were to be substituted for “with the assistance of the Director-General”). The third paragraph was to be that suggested by the French delegation. Mr. Seydoux wished to point out, however, that there was a slight contradiction, in the agreed text, between the first paragraph, which referred to the establishment in Paris of Unesco’s headquarters, and the second paragraph, which merely men- tioned the expansion and maintenance of head- quarters accomodations. He therefore suggested that the text should be approved, but subsequently referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee of the Programme and Budget Com- mission for the framing of the final draft, eliminating that contradiction. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) questioned the state- ment in the first paragraph of the proposed resolu- tion to the effect that the Director-General was instructed to enter into negotiations regarding a building, as contrasted with the second paragraph     which called for the Headquarters Commission to decide on the kind of accommodations to be ob- tained. This appeared to be “putting the cart before the horse”, and the relative authority should be more clearly stated. In anwer to a request by Mr. SMITH (Australia), the SECRETARYread the revised text of the pro- posed resolution, which was adopted unanimous- y
1. In final form: Resolution 29.1. The CHAIRMAN remarked that the considera- tion of the Commission's report to the Conference was the last item on the Agenda. Before bringing its work to an end, he wished, on his own behalf and that of the Commission, to thank the Rap- porteur for his conscientious fulfilment of his task, delegates for the understanding and conciliatory attitude they had displayed, and the Secretariat for all the assistance it had given the Commission. The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.