FOURTH MEETING Friday, 23 September 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Item 6 B (1) of the Agenda: List of inter- national non-governmental organizations ap- proved for consultative status (continuation) (document 4C/OXR/9). Mr. LEDERMANN (League of Red Cross societies) gave an account of the work of the League of Red Cross Societies, which included the sixty- eight national Red Cross Societies in existence throughout the world and had more than one hundred million members. The League was glad of the opportunity of taking part in Unesco’s work as an observer. Although observers had previously attended sessions of Unesco’s General Conference, the link between the League’s delega- tion and Unesco’s work was different on the pre- sent occasion because the League had been ap- proved for consultative status. At the meeting held in Geneva in April 1949, the Executive Com- mittee of the League had expressed its satisfaction at co-operating with the United Na- tions and Specialized Agencies in matters concerning the humanitarian work of the Red Cross. In order to safeguard the independence and discretion of the Red Cross, which were essential if its humanitarian work was to be effective, the Executive Committee reserved the right, in every case, to consider how far its collaboration with international organizations might be desirable, and what should be the conditions for such collaboration. Mr. Ledermann reminded the Commission that the League had already taken part in the work of the Temporary International Council for Edu- cational Reconstruction (TICER); it had co-oper- ated with Unesco in drawing up educational syl- labuses for the children of Palestinian refugees. The Red Cross had blazed the trail and shown the possibility of working for peace and international understanding by bringing the peoples together in a practical way. The speaker recalled that there were forty million members of the Junior Red Cross in the world; he took the opportunity of urging on the governments represented in Unesco the great value of the educational work of the Junior Red Cross. He quoted statements made by the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the League of Red Cross Societies at its last meeting in Stockholm, emphasizing the pioneer work of the Red Cross in the field of international understanding.
393 Mr. Antonio Castro Lear (Mexico) Mr. SOLIELI (Israel) wished to correct the state- ment at the previous meeting by the delegate of Egypt. Speaking of international non-govern- mental organizations approved for consultative status during 1949, Dr. El Diwany had mentioned the Agudas Israel Organization and had thought fit to suggest that it should be omitted from the list of organizations in question on the ground that, as a result of the establishment of the State of Israel and its recognition by the United Nations and admission to Unesco, the work of Agudas Israel would be confined to citizens of the State of Israel, thus depriving the organization of its international status. That was not a true picture of the state of affairs. It was true that the word “Israel” appeared in the title of the organization concerned, but there was no connexion between it and the State of Israel. Agudas Israel was still an international organization, based on religious traditions and with purely spiritual aims; it was concerned with educational problems—primarily religious education—and therefore made no dis- tinction between citizens of the State of Israel and other members of the Jewish religion. There was therefore no reason to omit it from the list of international organizations. Item 6 B (m) of the Agenda: Report of the Director-General on contracts concluded with international non-governmental organ- izations, and grants-in-aid allotted in 1949 (document 4C/OXR/11). Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Re- lations) gave a brief summary of document 4C/ OXR/11, the various appendices of which gave detailed information about the organizations con- cerned and the results achieved. Annex I showed the amounts of grants-in-aid allotted. Annex II specified details of the grants-in-aid allotted in
1949, in particular to the International Council of Scientific Unions and the Unions belonging to it. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) was anxious that the report for the following year should also show the percentages of grants allotted. He suggested that each case should be considered in turn. Annex I. Table of Contracts. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) asked   whether, in connexion with the Permanent Inter- national Commission on Industrial Health (Ap- pendix 4), the International Union against Cancer (Appendix 5), and the World Federation for Men- tal Health (Appendix 6), the World Health Organ- ization had been consulted before the organizations had been admitted to consultative status. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) explained that Unesco always consulted the World Health Organization before admitting a medical organization to consultative status. Dr. GRZEGORZEWSKI (World Health Organ- ization) stated that relations between Unesco and the organizations mentioned by Mr. Mulliken were established before WHO was created. In the case of the World Federation for Mental Health, the relationship had been carried out parallel: Unesco had admitted that organization to official relation- ship, and so had WHO. Unesco and WHO were always in close contact on those questions. The agreement them provided for close collaboration in fields touching both Organizations. It did not, however, provide rigidly for formal approval by one Organization of an agreement to be made by another Specialized Agency with any of the inter- national non-governmental organizations. He was not sure whether the agreement required that Unesco obtain the preliminary formal approval of WHO if it wished to establish an arrangement with a medical non-governmental organization. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) said he might have misinterpreted Mr. de Blonay’s explanation, but he had had the impression that consultative relations on certain of those organ- izations existed with WHO. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) thought there was a misunderstanding. Before concluding a contract with one of the med- ical organizations in question, the Secretariat always consulted the World Health Organization. It did not invariably do so when consultative status was concerned. In a few instances, arrangements had in fact been made before the World Health Organization was set up. The Contracts (document 4C/OXR/11, Annex I) were approved. Annex II. Table of grants-in-aid allotted in 1949. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Re- lations) reminded the Commission that the only organizations entitled to receive grants-in-aid were those with which Unesco had concluded a formal agreement. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)
394 pointed out that the New Education Fellowship (Appendix 2) had not been admitted to con- sultative status at the time it was given a grant- in-aid. Was there no further information on this “exceptional case”, except that the Organ- ization was “passing through a financial crisis”? Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) replied that it was indeed an exception- al case. The grant which the Director-General had proposed to allot to the organization (which had done extremely useful work for many years) had been approved by the Executive Board, which had thought it necessary to apply the ex- ceptional provisions. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) recalled that he had already spoken on behalf of the Fellowship in the Executive Board. It had been established in
1921 and the best teachers in Europe and America belongedto it. The Fellowship had initiated the movement for the reform of primary and sec- ondary education. Its latest congress had been held in Brussels. It thoroughly deserved Unesco's help in its present difficult circumstances. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) asked if the Secretariat could indicate whether consideration was given to howlong it might be necessary to make a grant “to tide the Club over until it can stand on its own feet”. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) confirmed that the Executive Board had felt that some assistance was necessary; it had, however, given no undertaking for the following year. The grants to the International Theatre Institute and the International Council of Museums were in fact a means of economizing; had those two con- tratcts not been made, Unesco would have had to have special staff to deal with those questions. Having set up those bodies, it was possible to secure more substantial results at less cost. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) had not had the intention of commenting on any of those particular grants-in-aid or contracts. Re- ferring to the International Zoological Station at Naples and the International High Altitude Station (Jungfraujoch), he asked whether the criteria established by the Beirut Conference were inter- preted in such a way that Unesco was committed to financing permanent long-term improvements in organizations, laboratories and so on. He did not interpret the criteria in such a way. Mr. AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) remarked that the grants to the Inter- national Zoological Station at Naples and the Inter- national High Altitude Station (Jungfraujoch)          were mainly for their laboratories and were fully justified. The two laboratories were moreover under international supervision, which was an exceedingly unusual state of affairs. Draft resolution concerning contracts and grants-in-aid, submitted by the United States delegation (document 4C/OXR/19). Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) re- ferring to the proposed resolution submitted by his delegation (document 4C/OXR/19), stressed the importance which they attached to the matter. Not only did Unesco make a valuable contribution to these non-governmental organizations and these to Unesco; there was also the consideration that Unesco was sending large sums of money on them. He cited the fact that, according to the budget estimates, $600,900 would be allocated for contracts and grants-in-aid. This was an impor- tant sum of money. In fact, it exceeded the con- tribution to Unesco of each of forty-four Member States; there were only four Member States of the Organization who contributed a sum greater than $600,900. The United States delegation had no proposals to submit which required definitive action at the present session of the Conference. It was hoped, however, that the Commission would agree that this was a matter warranting not only their continuous scrutiny, but possibly, upon occasion, particular scrutiny. With that in mind, it was the view of the United States del- egation that time might be set aside at the Fifth Session for a more thorough examination of the problem. The United States resolution proposed certain subjects on which it, at least, would find such information of interest and value. The United States delegation had noted in going through the budget estimates that, in a number of instances, the organization which would receive a contract or grant-in-aid was not indicated, and they suggested that the Director-General might, wherever possible, name them, though it was recognized that this might sometimes entail dif- ficulty. Detailed information might be given on the relationship of a contract or grant-in-aid to the proposed programme activity. Some of the one-line descriptions or explanations in the bud- get or in the report (document 4C/OXR/11) were not adequate. The United States delegation also hoped that it would be possible to report annually on results achieved on each contract and each grant-in-aid, so that the General Conference could determine the extent to which the programme of Unesco had been advanced by each such contract or grant-in-aid. After some comments on the remainder of the proposed United States resolution, Mr. Mulliken added that his delegation would like to see placed on the Agenda of the Fifth Session an item with reference to contracts and grants-in-aid so that everyone would be prepared, on the basis of the information requested from the Director-General in the proposed United States resolution, to ex- amine the matter thoroughly at that session. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) paid tribute to the spirit in which the United States proposal had been made. If it were accepted, delegates would have more information about the grants- in aid allotted. He thought, however, that few delegations would be able to study the mass of documents necessary to give a complete picture. The French government departments dealing with Unesco were at present adequate for the work, but they could not cope with any more. Other national delegations might not be in such a good position. The desire for information was per- fectly justified, but other Commissions had taken up a different attitude and, in the Programme and Budget Commission, for instance, complaints had been made about the amount of paper turned out. The United States proposal would certainly in- crease the number of documents and the work the Secretariat had to do; it would not only have to consider the contracts to be concluded but would also have to examine possible economies, which would probably be offset by the increased work. The French delegation was satisfied with the Secre- tariat’s report, which gave all the necessary infor- mation. Mr. STEWART (Union of South Africa) agreed with the United States delegation. If grants-in- aid and contracts were to be continued on the present scale, it was very necessary that the Gen- eral Conference should be informed as to the man- ner in which the funds were disbursed. Mr. Ozorio de ALMEIDA (Brazil) emphasized the importance of the matter, and agreed that the United States delegation was perfectly entitled to make the proposals it had made; the question was, however, extremely complicated, and he wondered whether the final result of the proposal, if it were adopted, would not be a loss, due to the delays it would entail. Some organizations might be excluded, thus making some saving; but that would jeopardize some of the organizations which were of undoubted importance. For that reason, Mr. Ozorio de Almeida was uneasy about the United States proposal. He wondered how the General Conference could form an opinion of a purely scientific laboratory like that at Naples. It was very difficult to assess the results in certain cases. For example, the literacy campaign could only bear fruit in ten or fifteen years’ time. The   Brazilian delegation therefore supported the French proposal. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) supported the United States proposal. He emphasized that it was most difficult for delegates to scrutinize contracts and grants-in-aid, and other expenses incurred by the Organization, with the extremely limited time at their disposal, and in documents suchas the one before the Commission. He realized that obtain- ing more information would involve much work. It was, however, the view of the Canadian del- egation that the whole question should be thoroughly reviewed in a not too distant future Sir David BRUNT (United Kingdom) asked if he was correct in assuming that there were three classes of organizations under discussion: those with which Unesco had concluded formal agreements; those which had received ad hoc contracts; and those which received no money at all, but were merely consulted from time to time. If these were the three types of organizations, then he did not consider that the first group could in general be run by grants-in-aid. International co- operation in science could not be effected by means of a contract, but only by a grant-in-aid. With regard to the proposed United States reso- lution, Sir David thought its adoption would lead to too many papers and documents, and he would submit that the only way in which a review could be carried out was through the Executive Board. He would like to be assured that there would be an examination of the whole question, possibly by the Executive Board, and a report to the Fifth Session. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) agreed with the del- egate of the United Kingdom that Unesco had to carry out its work. He also agreed that Unesco should exercise some supervision over the use of the grants-in-aid it had allotted, both before and after the contract was concluded. Moreover, Unesco took all possible precautions and obtained information about the organizations to discover whether they could be trusted. After a contract had been concluded, review (every year, or every two or three years) was desirable. At that point, however, Mr. Verniers ceased to agree with the United Kingdom delegate; the General Conference could not study every con- tract. The Executive Board could do so, and could ascertain whether a particular organization deserved to be included in the list of organizations having consultative status, a contract or a grant- in-aid. Mr. Verniers wondered whether the United States proposal might not be amended to provide for the General Conference to instruct the Executive Board to consider the whole question of Unesco’s relations with non-governmental organizations, and to submit a report to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Dr. ROJAS (Venezuela) felt that it was most important that Member States should knowclearly and precisely the steps which the Executive Board had taken for the dispensing of grants-in-aid. He therefore supported the United States resolution. Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) maintained that a reso- lution asking for an analysis of an expenditure of more than $600,000, and how far that expenditure was achieving beneficial results, was an essential document. He therefore strongly supported the United Nations resolution. Professor EUSTATHIADES (Greece) deplored the rising number of documents and remarked that, as Unesco could not do everything itself, it was compelled to call in the non-governmental organizations and obviously had to supervise their work. He wished to make a practical proposal which might reconcile the two different points of view. The United States proposal down to the beginning of paragraph 3 might be taken as a basis; paragraph 3 introduced the danger of excessive paper work. Professor Eustathiades wished to support the Belgian delegate’s proposal. Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) agreed with the Greek delegate. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) asked the United States delegation whether it would agree to that proposal; he thought, however, that some of the phrases used in the American draft should be toned down. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) reminded the Commission of the dis- tribution of functions among the main organs of Unesco provided for in the Constitution: the Gen- eral Conference determined the general policy of the Organization; the Executive Board was re- sponsible for the execution of the programme; and the Director-General and the Secrelariat were responsible for administration. Was there not a danger that the United States resolution might transfer some of the functions of the Executive Board and the Secretariat to the General Confer- ence? Mr. de Blonay also drew attention to some practical difficulties that might arise from the United States draft resolution: with regard to paragraph 1, the Director-General, who was al- ready preparing the budget for 1951, would find it difficult to specify, so long in advance, all the contracts he proposed to conclude. It should also be noted that the provisions of that paragraph already appeared in a resolution passed by the Third Session of the General Conference.           Mr. Ozorio de ALMEIDA (Brazil) laid further stress on the practical difficulties. Reverting to paragraph 1 of the United States proposal, he asked what the Director-General was to do, sup- posing he were confronted with some new task for which he had not enough staff. He would obviously not be able to draw up a list in advance, since that would be impossible in the imaginary case in question. With regard to sub-para- graph 3 (D), it was impossible to report on the results of an analytical appraisal of the compar- ative cost of work performed for Unesco under contract and work done by the Secretariat. That would mean a statistical study which might take ten years. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) wished to protest, on behalf of his delegation, against certain comments of the representative of the Director-General, when he suggested that a request for information from the Director-General in any way tended to modify the constitutional balance of Unesco. The Beirut resolution which had been mentioned did call for a triennial review; but the exact date for the initial report was not fixed and the United States resolution was intended to clarify the time at which that report should be made available to the General Conference, and suggested that it be made available to the Fifth Session. As to the comments of the representative of the Director-General on paragraph 1, Mr. Mulli- ken was a little surprised by his reference to the difficulty of presenting that information since the
1950 budget estimates already contained much of it. The purpose of paragraph 1 was to suggest that the Director-General continue that practice, and, wherever possible, to the fullest extent. If Mr. Mulliken had been convinced that the request would result in so many papers that the United Kingdom delegate or others would be discouraged from attending the Fifth Session, he would with- draw his resolution. He did not feel that was the case. If his suggestion met with the approval of other delegates who appeared to share the concern of the United States delegation in the matter, he would be happy to accept Professor Eustathiades’ proposal, except that he would like to retain the first paragraph as it stood. He would expect the Director-General to interpret the language as it stood, in the light of the discussion which had just taken place and from which it was clear that the Commission was only requesting information from which it could make an appraisal of the existing situation. Mr. Mulliken would however be prepared to withdraw paragraph 3, but would ask for the continuance of the instruction to the Executive Board, as it stood, and the instruction to the Director-General.
397 Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) wished to read out his draft to see whether it was acceptable to the United States delegation. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) asked if the entire resolution was in question, or merely the first paragraph. The SECRETARY having replied that Mr. Ver- niers’ version was meant to replace the first para- graph of the United States resolution, Mr. MUL- LIKEN (United States of America) said that, if the reference to collaboration with non-govern- mental organizations was clearly understood to embrace the problem of contracts and grants-in- aid, then the first paragraph as suggested by Mr. Verniers was acceptable to the United States delegation. Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) proposed that the first paragraph of the United States resolution be voted upon. He would support that paragraph. The rest of the resolution could be voted upon afterwards. After discussion, the CHAIRMAN asked the del- egates of Belgium, the United States of America and Greece to submit a joint proposal to the next meeting. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) then read out a draft resolution which was a compromise between the United States text and his own, embodying the essence of the United States requests but placing less burden on the Secretariat. The draft resolution was adopted unanimously. ' Item 6 B (у) of the Agenda: Report of the scheme for an International Union of Organ- izations working for Peace (document 4C/ OXR/12). Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Re- lations) reminded the Commission of the prelim- inary work that had been done (document 4C/ OXR/12, pages 1 to 3) and drew attention to the draft resolution on page 3 of the document. Mr. ENNALS (World Federation of United Na- tions Associations), after some remarks on the report, asked whether, in the interest of the con- tinuing collaboration with the Interim Committee of Consultative Non-Governmental Organizations to which the Director-General had referred, the Commission might consider it desirable slightly to amend the draft resolution proposed in document
4C/OXR/12. He agreed with the resolution as far
1 In final form: Resolution 33.1.         E      as the end of the fourth paragraph, but would sug- gest that the Commission could perhaps consider inserting: Notes the co-operation already established between Unesco and the Interim Committee and requests the Director-General to continue this co-operation, to offer such assistance as may appear appropriate, and to report on this co-operation to the next session of the General Conference. In the light of the comments just heard, Mr. MUL- LIKEN (United States of America) moved that the Commission instruct the Rapporteur to state that the Commission had taken note of the Director- General's report. Dr. LANG (Czechoslovakia) remarked that it was in accordance with the Constitution for Unesco to co-operate with organizations working for peace. He was anxious that there should be close collaboration with all progressive organizations to combat imperialism, which was a threat to peace. He hoped that Unesco would not confine its co- operation to the organizations listed in document
4C/OXR/12, but would also work with the mass organizations which had supported the Peace Con- gresses in Prague, New York and Paris. Miss PEDERSEN (Denmark) said that the Com- mission was facing one of the important problems of co-operation with non-governmental organ- izations. The Interim Committee was an able organization which should be useful, and she would suggest that the draft resolution be amended in the terms put forward by Mr. Ennals, that the resolution be adopted forthwith andthat the Com- mission should not limit itself to noting the report of the Director-General as suggested by the United States delegation. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) seconded the pro- posal of the United States delegation. The proposal of the United States delegation to note the report of the Director-General was adopted. * Item 7 A of the Agenda: Draft regulations governing the approval by the General Con- ference of recommendations to Member States and international conventions (con- tinuation) (document 4C/OXR/14). Mr. NICHOLAS (Australia) presented the resolu- tion prepared by the drafting committee appointed on the previous day. The resolution was adopted. * The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Monday, 26 September, 1949 at 10 h. 30 a.m. Chairman: Item 4 B of the Agenda: Liaison with Mem- ber States and National Commissions (doc- ument 4C/OXR/3). The CHAIRMAN mentioned that provision had been made for a preliminary consideration of the reports of Member States underthat item of the Agenda. He then asked the Director-General to put forward his proposals. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was sorry that he had been unable to be present at the beginning of the Commission, which had to decide on those items of the Agenda which were most important for the future of Unesco; he had, however, fol- lowed the work of the Official and External Relations Commission very closely and wished to thank the members for the spirit of understanding
398 Mr. Antonio Castro Lean (Mexico) and consideration for Unesco’s ideas in which its discussions had been conducted. The question of liaison with Member States and National Commissions, was incidentally, of equal concern to both the main Commissions. The map that the Bureau of Public Information had prepared and put up in the hall of Unesco House illustrated his own statement in his speech at the opening of the Conference: Unesco is not a Secretariat alone; it is an institution whose influence must extend over the whole world, the Secretariat being no more than as it were the nerve centre. Of course it has its own part to play; but first of all it should help the other participants, above all the Member States, to play their parts. Its
1. In final form:
2. In final form: Resolution 33.4. resolution 34.1.