FIFTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 5 October 1949 at 3.45 p.m. CONTENTS
32. Consideration of the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission. 204 Code of Policies 205 Programme} DL. Vir al 206 Miscellaneous resolutions 208 Budget в 210 Technical assistance 213 Publications policy . 214
33. Suggestion regarding the Convention on Genocide 214
34. Tribute to the memory of the Mexican painter José Clemente Orozco 215
35. Adoption of a draft amendment to the Constitution 215
36. Closing speech of the Fourth Session of the General Conference 217 President: Dr. E. RonaLD Warker (Australia). The PRESIDENT — We have on the Agenda of this afternoon’s meeting the Report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, to be followed by the amendment of an Article of the Constitution on which we have to take a formal vote, and one or two other matters on which delegations will be making a statement.
32. Consideration of the Report of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. The PRESIDENT — I call on Mr. Pile, Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, to present the Report of the Commission. Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I have the honour to present the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission. Fourteen days ago I was sent to this rostrum as Rapporteur of that Commission. I have listened to and recorded the speeches of 451 delegates and myself maintained silence. Mr. President, though I must not lay any claim to being the only person to hold his peace for so long, I hope you will permit me, as one who has been able so far to share his thoughts only with himself, to share them now with you. Gentlemen, this is the end of your first business Conference. No doubt you will be clear in your minds as to how it has differed from earlier Con- ferences, and as to whether it is a form of Con- ference which you will wish to repeat in future years. Whatever may be your final decision, how-
204 ever, this Conference has given us all, I think, an opportunity to reflect upon the nature and the implications of our work. Even if they have not been answered, certain fundamental questions have at least been asked. What do we mean by concentration of the programme? How fast can we extend our work? Where and what are the resources which we have at our disposal? Mr. Pre- sident, I believe, on examining my notes of what delegates said, or tried to say, that, in one form or another, they were concerned with those three questions. Mr. President, I hope that you will not think it paradoxical for a Rapporteur of a Programme and Budget Commission to say that perhaps the Budget and the Programme are not so important after all. Why? Because there are resources out- side the Budget which dwarf it if they can be summoned to our aid. It is my personal belief, which I have been unable to express until now, that every person who is properly informed of our work, and who has the will to act is worth more than any thousand dollars in the Budget. These resources of flesh and blood and will-power are ours if we can involve them intelligently in our work, and that is why I was bold enough to say that perhaps we must not develop a budget fixation. The same is true of the Programme. The Pro- gramme is, in the last analysis, a piece of paper. We must not get a programme fixation. Too often we conceive an affection, or an aversion for resolution 2222, or resolution 3333, without thought of the real problem which lies behind that resolution. Gentlemen, behind and beyond   these written pages of resolutions lie the shadows of the problems which we are here united to resolve. 1 feel certain that in approving the Pro- gramme for 1950 you will remember and, when it is a question of priorities, you will discriminate between the dark and the light shadows. You will, I feel sure, see behind each resolution on paper, the essential human problem. Mr. President, I have only one other thought: you will, I hope, not accuse me of malice, if I say that there has been perhaps a tendency to act as if we were legislating here for other people. Twentieth Century Man, of whom we have heard so much, is not a creature who was specially created so that Unesco could look after him. No doubt he will knock on our door for help, but unless it is also Twentieth Century Man who opens the door, there will always be the danger that our relation with him will be that of self-styled kings and beggars. No, Mr. President, 1 feel sure that we here are the subjects of our own Pro- gramme. There is, in each of us here today, an Africa of the mind, a Germanyof the heart, which needs fundamental education, and which needs the social scientist. In a sense, we are the pro- gramme itself; the General Conference is our finest pilot project in the programme of our own fundamental education. Mr. President, were you to ask me, as the re- corder of your thoughts and perhaps even of your feelings, what are our greatest obstacles, I should say time and geography. If you were to ask me what qualities we need in order to overcome these obstacles, I should say collectively a clear judg- ment, patience, and singleness of mind. Mr. President, it is my privilege in the light of these remarks, to present, for the consideration of this Conference, the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission contained in document
4C/PRG/15. The PRESIDENT — I thank the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission for pre- senting so ably the Report of the Commission. The Report is now before the Conference. I invite the Rapporteur to guide the plenary meeting through the various points in this Report on which the Conference is asked to take decisions. Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission — Mr. President, you have, of course, two main tasks this afternoon and one subsidiary task, the two main tasks being the adoption of your Pro- gramme and Budget and the adoption of the Report on Technical Assistance, the smaller matter being the resolution concerning publications. If I could draw your attention to document
4C/PRG/151 would suggest, that there is nothing on paragraphs 1 or 2 that the Conference need take note of. I would like to apologize for an error in paragraph 3, in that an omission of the second Vice-Chairman has been made, and you should therefore enter Mr. Ogrodzinski of Poland after Dr. Piaget of Switzerland. Apart from that, I think there is no point arising there, nor on paragraphs 4, 5 and 6. When we come, Mr. Pre- sident, to paragraphs 7 and 8, which are under Item 5 (Consideraton of the Draft Code of Poli- cies), I would remind the Conference that it is the recommendation of the Programme and Bud- get Commission that this Conference adopt the Code of Policies in Part I of the Grey Book 4C/5 (rev.) as one decision, and that it adopt the reso- lution in paragraph 8 as a second decision. I put this before you. The PRESIDENT — Is there any comment on the resolutions covered in paragraphs 7 and 8, doc- ument 4C/PRG/15 relating to the Draft Code of Policies? I call on the delegate of the United States. Mr. Luther H. EVANS (United States of Amer- ica) — Mr. President, further discussion has been taking place in the United States delegation and with certain other delegates and members of the Secretariat, concerning the present status of the Directives and the Code of Policies. You will note that paragraph 7 maintains the Directives contained in Part I, as indicated by the Rappor- teur. Paragraph 8 is the United States resolution on the further elaboration of a Code of Policies and basic programme of Unesco. I should like to propose that the resolution reproduced in para- graph 8 be modified after the word “1951” to read “... to consider the feasibility (a) of pre- senting to the General Conference” and striking out the word “present”. A semi-colon would be substituted for the period at the end of the first sentence, and the remainder of the paragraph would read: “and (b) of submitting in subsequent years to the General Conference proposals for the amendment of the basic programme and the standing directives”. I move that amendment Mr. President. The PRESIDENT — Does somebody second that amendment? Seconded by the delegate of Greece and the delegate of Iraq. Any further comment? I call on the delegate of the United Kingdom. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. Pre- sident and fellow-delegates, on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation I want very much to welcome this slight verbal amendment in this reso- lution and I would like, if I may, to explain why we think it is rather important.    The remaking of the Unesco programme is a task to which all of us have put our hand, and we hope that at Florence, this work will come nearer still to completion. But I must confess, as a member of the Executive Board who has listened very attentively to all the discussions in this Conference and in the Programme and Budget Commission, I feel that perhaps we have not given, as a Conference, very clear guidance to the Dir- ector-General or to the Executive Board as to what kind of Programme we would like to see offered for our consideration at the Florence Conference. We may well have been wise, ladies and gentle- men, to have avoided giving very much guidance at this stage, but we should recognize that the omission of such guidance at this Conference means that the Director-General and the Board will have a very difficult task in interpreting the general will of the Conference, so as to provide a good chance for all of us to agree at Florence. This resolution as it was passed in the Programme and Budget Commission, and as it was originally proposed by the United States, ties, in the opinion of the United Kingdom delegation, the hands of the Director-General and the Board too closely, by instructing them to do something which, when you look at it carefully, is not very clear, because the difference between the projects which are to form the second part—until you get down to brass tacks and work it out in terms of each part of the Programme—may very easily lead to quite different answers. Therefore the present form as amended, in which the General Conference simply resolves that the Director-General and the Board should consider the feasibility of this division, seems to us very much wiser. May I, Mr. President, add a few remarks on this general and, we think, very important ques- tion of what kind of a Programme we wish to have at Florence? The United Kingdom de- legation thinks, in the first place, that if possible, it should be physically—in the sense of the num- ber of words in it—a shorter Programme than any we have had before. The present Programme is, I think, probably a shade longer than the one we passed at Beirut; even if it is not, we think that the Florence Conference should pass a shorter Programme. Secondly, it would be a great ad- vantage, ladies and gentlemen, if it could be a simpler Programme, which could be more easily understood by people who have not taken part in our deliberations. But, thirdly, in our desire for simplification, integration and concentration, we feel that it is most important to remember the effort that was made by the Executive Board and the Director-General for the benefit of the Mexico City Conference. There is a little book which we used to call the Green Book, which was the Programme of Unesco in 1948, and which was the cause of considerable obloquy at Mexico City. I, as a member of the Board, still am loyal to it, up to a point, but it came in for very severe criticism, particularly from our French friends. That Conference was certainly made exceedingly difficult by the fact that that Programme was an attempt at presenting an intelligible whole in four parts, and choosing four general themes as the headings of the four main chapters. May I just remind you of them?
1. Raising the standards of Education, Science and Culture;
2. Free Flow of Ideas;
3. Education for International Understanding;
4. Man and the Modern World. I still think that the attempt was worth making, but it certainly did not succeed. What we did do, ladies and gentlemen, was to scramble the eggs before we had made up our minds whether we wished to eat scrambled eggs, and the consequence was that, at the Mexico Con- ference, we were earnestly engaged in trying to unscramble them, and that process was carried a stage further at the Beirut Conference, with, I think, some success. The Programme that our present Director-General inherited was a de- scrambled Programme which had been through the mixer and had come out in the shape which our present Programme still holds—a shape which is reflected in the organization of our national communities, as educators, social scientists, na- tural scientists, philosophers and so on, and which (at any rate in my country) is reflected in the organization of the National Commission. There is no doubt that that arrangement has great ad- vantages, and is very convenient for the carrying out of the Programme, and the work on it in our own country, and therefore my third desideratum is, that our Programme at Florence should not only be shorter and simpler, that is to say, more integrated and more intelligible, but it should also, as far as possible, follow the arrangement of our present Programme and enable educators to get hold of a part of the Programme as educators, and social scientists of another part. My last word, Mr. President, is simply this: I think at this stage of the Conference, the best thing we can do is to trust the Director-General, and in effect, the amendment which the United States suggested goes one stage nearer that ideal than the original words. We have to trust the Director-General and the Executive Board, to do the best they can with such guidance as we have given them here. The PRESIDENT — Any further comments? Is there any objection to the adoption of the amend-       ment proposed by the delegate of the United States, and supported by the United Kingdom, Greece and Iraq. If there is no objection I declare the amendment adopted, and if there is no objection to the resolution so amended, I declare the reso- lution adopted. Adopted.’ Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom), Rappor- teur of the Programme and Budget Commission — Mr. President, that brings us to Item 6 and Item 10 of the Agenda of the Programme and Budget Com- mission, which were taken jointly. We have al- ready disposed of one item, concerning the Pro- gramme, that is, the resolution dealing with directives. We now come to the substance of the Pro- gramme, and that you will find in document 4C/ PRG/13, pages 1-4 of the English text, which is the Report of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Commission of the Programme and Budget Com- mission. It was adopted, as it stands, by the Programme and Budget Commission, with one exception, and that is, that the penultimate para- graph now drops out, since under the previous item, the Commission made up its mind that it wished to retain the directives, and so, Sir, the first four pages of the Report stand, with the exclusion of the penultimate paragraph. T do not know whether you wish to take that first, before we start on the amendments to the text of the Programme. There is, on page 2 a resolution which this body will have to approve. The PRESIDENT — Does anybody wish to speak on the text of the Report as contained in pages
1-49 Or on the special resolution relating to a transfer from the Reserve of the present year’s Budget of $30,000, which is found on page 2? This particular transfer, as is explained in the document 4C/53, to which reference is made, will be designed to continue until the end of the year the work which Unesco is undertaking for the educational assistance of refugees in the Middle East. The funds previously provided would be inadequate to complete the year. If there are no comments and no objections I will declare the four pages of the text of the Report adopted, including the resolution on page 2. Any objection? I call on Sir John Maud, delegate of the United Kingdom. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. Pre- sident and fellow-delegates, I do apologize for speaking again, but I will try to be briefer this time. There is just one more point which we of the
1. In final form: document 4C/Resolutions, pp. 10-
11, I-XVIII; Resolution 9.6. United Kingdom delegation feel we should men- tion. It appears on the second page of the Report of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Commis- sion at the end of the first full paragraph in the English text; the words are: “... the Sub-Com- mission observes that its work was facilitated by the decision of the Programme and Budget Com- mission to fix a target for the Budget rather than a ceiling.” Mr. President, I certainly do not wish to provoke a debate at this moment, but I think that my delegation would like it to go on record that, though it fully agrees with this statement, and though it quite understands why the Sub- Commission makes this remark—their work was thereby immensely simplified—it was known from the outset that the final figure was going to be $8,000,000. I think we ought not, at a Conference, to assume too hurriedly that there will not be disadvantages in fixing a Budget figure, instead of proceeding towards a Budget figure by stages, the first of which is to decide provisionally on a ceiling. Now 1 fully understand that, particularly to my French friends, the logic of building a budget from the top downwards seems curious; though in architecture that would perhaps be the worst way of going about it, we think, in view of our experience during the last three years, that, as concerns the Budget, there are distinct advantages in starting with a ceiling after the delegates have fully acquainted themselves with the substance of the proposals in the Programme and the Budget. We do think that unless you first of all have a general discussion of principle on the Programme and the Budget, and then decide onthe maximum that Unesco canafford to spend in the next year, vou will not be able to make the best use of such money as is available, and you will certainly not have, as in past Conferences, that rigorous ex- amination of the particular expenditures proposed under the various headings; quite frankly in this Conference we have not had such examination, except in respect of those items which had to be cut out, which were very few in number. I only want to say on behalf of my delegation, that we do not think that Unesco has yet found the answer to this very dificult question of how best we should proceed to fix our Budget. We certainly do not think that we, in the United King- dom delegation, have the answer, but we would not like it to be thought from this reference in the Sub-Commission’s Report, that in all cir- cumstances a target, or Budget figure, should be fixed, rather than a ceiling. In my own country, if I may speak personally, we find that it is an extremely healthy exercise for any administrator to have to defend a fairly substantial Budget and any detail of it about which a Member of Parlia-   ment wishes to question the small body that is called the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons. Some small commission of government representatives who, before the full Conference assembles, would look at the budget proposals, not from the point of view of policy, but simply from the point of view of seeing whether all the proposed expenditure is in fact justifiable from an economic point of view, might save future Conferences a great deal of trouble. The fortunate decision that the Budget should be, practically speaking, the same figure as was originally proposed to us has naturally made our task easier, but I think it should not obscure from us the fact that we have not submitted the details of this Budget to the sort of scrutiny that perhaps a sovereign body representing governments—and the taxpayers who will make their contributions— should in future be prepared to make. The PRESIDENT — Any further comments? Then I may take it that this section of the Report —the text, together with the resolution on page 2 —is adopted.* Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission — In that event, Sir, since we have adopted the intro- duction to the Report, delegates will realize the status of the pages that follow, how they are the result of the work of that Commission working within its terms of reference, how they, on some occasions only, had to draft, and on some occa- sions had to make up their minds. The final result of all the work which was remitted to them is contained in Annex I of document 4C/PRG/13. There are certain changes to the pages of Annex I, and I will merely draw your attention to them. There is a corrigendum—corrigendum 1, to doc- ument 4C/PRG/13, which proposes a new text for resolutions 6.512 through 6.5123, and you no doubt take that into account when you cometo it. Secondly, there are the three amendments noted in the Report of the Programme and Budget Com- mission, document 4C/PRG/15, paragraph 12 (b), (c) and (d) affecting resolutions 2.21, 7.22423 and 7.4 which is now deleted. With those amendments, Sir, I put to you the revisions of the Programme proposed by the Executive Board in document 4C/5 (rev.). The PRESIDENT — If it proves possible, we shall vote on those revisions as a whole. How- ever, I would like to give the opportunity to any delegation desiring to raise any important point, and will therefore divide the proposed amend- ments to Programme resolutions into the seven
1. In final form: Resolution 9.3.
208 parts in which they are numbered. They are really seven Chapters of the Programme. Are there any comments on Chapter I—those are the resolutions bearing the numerals 1.5 and other decimal points? Any comments on Chap- ter I? Any points on Chapter 2 which begins on page 3 of Annex I beginning with the General Education Clearing House? Are there any comments on Chapter 3, which begins on page 9? Chapter 4 begins on page 13, and the first heading is Study and Dissemination of Scientific Facts concerning Race. Are there any points on Chapter 4? On page 15 we have the beginning of Chapter 5. Any comments? Chapter 6 beginning on page 17—Reproduction of Material of Cultural Importance. Any com- ments? Chapter 7 beginning on page 25, the first reso- lution relating to Fellowships, and going on the Mass Communications. Any comments? Chapter 8 of the former Programme disappears, but instead there are several miscellaneous re- solutions beginning on page 33. I think I may take it that the Conference adopts * Chapters 1 to 7 of the Programme, the revisions to the Programme proposed, as I have heard no comment and no objection. I would ask the Conference now to consider these miscellaneous resolutions beginning on page 33. The first one is a resolution concerning Aid to Victims of the Earthquake in Ecuador. No objections? I declare that resolution adopted * by the Conference. The next is a resolution, still on page 33, con- cerning the Relief to Refugees in the Middle East providing for the continuation in 1950 of work done in the current year. I will invite the Secre- tary of the Conference, Mr. Montagnier, to read the text of the appeal, which, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this resolution on page 34, is intended for governments, National Commissions and international organizations, to secure, for the refugees driven from their homes by military operations in the Middle East, aid in education, science and culture, additional to that given in- directly by Unesco. M. MONTAGNIER, Secretary— [Translation from the French] APPEAL ON BEHALF OF REFUGEE CHILDREN IN THE MIDDLE EAST Unesco’s General Conference, at its Fourth Session, again draws the attention of the Governments of
2. In final form: Resolutions 1 to 8.2.
3. In final form: Resolution 9.4.       Member States, of the National Commissions and of international organizations to the plight of refugee children in the Middle East. As the result of events in Palestine, 800,000 persons, including 200,000 children, are living in camps. If their sufferings follow upon those of many others, that is no reason for ignoring them. The work of peace has already begun in the Middle East: 20,000 children out of the 200,000 victims of the recent hostilities are learning reading, writing, arithmetic and the elements of history and geography. Certainly, their living conditions are wretched, but, thanks to generous international help, they can hope one day to become educated people like so many others. Although of modest proportions, this work is in danger. If further help is not rapidly forthcoming, Unesco’s schools in the Middle East will have to sus- pend their already precarious activity. The govern- ments and organizations which have undertaken the maintenance and education of these refugees will not be able to meet all needs unless a big collective effort brings them immediate relief. These children cannot be brought up on bread alone. Like other children, they have the right to learn, to develop themselves and to grow up into men and women. Unesco wants to enable them to do so by providing them, in the camps where they are forced to live, with the schools, books, materials and teachers they need. And those are what Unesco is asking for. To condemn these children to igno- rance is to condemn men and women to despair. If the world of tomorrow were to be peopled by desperate souls, it would be doomed to the most atrocious of wars. Unesco therefore appeals to its Member States, the National Commissions and international organizations to co-operate in a charitable work which is justified by the most natural of human sentiments as well as by the duty of constructing more stable defences of peace in the minds of men. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the text read by the Secretary. Unesco, in this reso- lution decides to make an appeal to Governments, National Commissions and international organ- izations to secure additional assistance for the chil- dren of the Middle East. Is there any objection to the adoption of the resolution relating to relief in the Middle East? No objection? Then I declare this resolution adopted. The following resolution relates to the situation of Greek refugee children, and that resolution is found on pages 34 and 35. This resolution also provides that Unesco shall address an appeal to Governments, Nations Commissions and inter- national organizations with a view to affording assistance to refugee Greek children in the field of education, science and culture, and requests the Director-General to secure the widest possible distribution of the reports submitted to the Exe-
1. In final form: Resolution 9.3.
209 cutive Board on this matter. I would invite the Srecretary of the Conference, M. Montagnier, to read the text of the appeal which has been pre- pared in accordance with this resolution. M. MONTAGNIER, Secretary — [Translation from the French] APPEAL ON BEHALF OF GREEK CHILDREN The General Conference of Unesco meeting in plenary session urgently appeals to the governments of Mem- ber States, to the National Commissions and to inter- national organizations on behalf of the 340,000 Greek refugee children from the Northern provinces at pre- sent living in makeshift camps or in hastily requi- sitioned buildings. They are without schools, teach- ers, teaching material, clothing, medical attention and a social and cultural environment capable of meeting their essential needs. Out of 10,000 schools,
7,625 have been completely destroyed or badly damaged. In the educational field alone the losses amount to more than $50,000,000. Instead of the relief which the end of the war brought to almost every country, the situation in Greece today is worse than during the bitter years
1940-1944. Nine years of incessant fighting have re- duced the children of this country to an indescribable state of physical debility and moral distress. In spite of the ordeals of the second world war, which have blunted human sensibilities, we cannot but be moved at the thought of these 340,000 children whom it is necessary to save from ignorance and from revolt against an inhuman destiny. The sense of continuity and of cultural influences needs no rekindling in regard to Greece, which gave birth to the art, science and philosophy that are ours today. All those who share in the advantages of mod- ern civilization know well what they owe to its Hellenic sources. Resolved to give effective help to the Greek refugee children, Unesco is anxious to find the means neces- sary for this work of mercy. It therefore launches this appeal with confidence. In the name of civilization as well as of humanityit asks for a gesture of gratitude and solidarity which will help education, science and culture to flourish once more on the devastated soil of Greece. The PRESIDENT delegate of Brazil. Mr. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, the success of the appeal just launched by Unesco will depend on the Conference. I must not become a dead letter, but must spread throughout the world a message of hope. These children of the Middle East, these children of Greece, will be the men of tomorrow. Perhaps they will also be the leaders, poets, scientists and philosophers we are waiting for. Boys and girls throughout the world must join together and help these un- happy children to enter on a new and better life. It is therefore with very deep feeling that I
1 call on Mr. Carneiro,   express the hope that each of you, that each of us, on returning to his country, will impress the National Commissions and the international organ- izations, which have already given so many proofs of their devotion to human welfare, of the urgency of this appeal; and that each of us will give it the widest publicity, so that you, Mr. Pre- sident, will be able to announce at the Conference in Florence that at least 600,000 children have been given new life and new hope, that the hearts of men have not become insensible to the suf- ferings of others, and that in spite of our indigence we are still rich enough to devote our live to the service of others. The PRESIDENT — I call on Professor Pho- tiades, delegate of Greece. Prof. Alex PHOTIADES (Greece) — Mr. Pre- sident, ladies and gentlemen, the Director-General, I want to express the deep gratitude of my del- egation to our delegations for all their kindness to the Greek children. This kindness reminded us of the gesture of a mother blessing some of her children. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The PRESIDENT — I call on Monsignor Maroun, delegate of Lebanon. МЕ J. MAROUN (Lebanon) [Translation from the French] 1 do not wish to prolong this meeting, but I would like to repeat what I said on behalf of the Lebanese delegation during the dis- cussion on the Director-General’s Report. In other words, I wish to express once more our deep gratitude to the Director-General, the Exe- cutive Board and the Conference for the com- passion they have shown to the refugees in Pales- tine. Practical measures have already been taken and the Director-General has informed you that schools, assisted and patronized by Unesco, al- ready exist in the Middle East. We deeply thank you for your help. The PRESIDENT — The Conference having adopted the resolution relating to refugees in the Middle East has now, I take it, by acclamation adopted * the resolution in favour of assistance to Greek children. The next resolution, also on page 35, relates to the China Reconstruction Fund, authorizing the Director-General to establish, out of any funds allocated by the Executve Board for emergency aid to China this year and remaining unobligated at the end of the year, a special fund known as the China Reconstruction Fund, available for obli- gation during 1950 for emergency reconstruction in China, particularly for assistance to child and
1. In final form: Resolution 9.2.
9 ~10 student refugees. No objection? I declare this resolution establishing a China Reconstruction Fund adopted * by the Conference. Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom) Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission — Mr. President, the Conference has now adopted the Programme of the Organization for 1950. It is now your task to adopt the Budget for the same period. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of the United States of America. Mr. Luther H. EVANS (United States of Amer- ica) Mr. President, before we leave the Programme Report I should like to offer a resolution con- cerning the problem of the reports which we have instructed the Director-General to submit to us at the Florence Conference. I have a list here which tabulates a number of these, I am not sure if it tabulates all of them, for there are a great many. I think, fellow-delegates, that we have gone too far in burdening the Director-General and his staff and the Executive Board with the making of reports, some of which will be essential to our work at Florence, some of which will not. I therefore urge upon you a reconsideration of these demands, not by going through the list of reports and deciding which to require the Dir- ector-General to submit, but rather by authorizing the Executive Board to re-examine these require- ments to report, and relieving the Director-General of reporting in those cases where the Executive Board does not judge the matter to be one of urgency. I therefore move that the General Con- ference authorizes the Executive Board, in con- sultation with the Director-General, to exempt the Director-General from reporting to the Fifth Ses- sion of the Conference on any matter which in its judgment is not urgent at that time. The PRESIDENT — I call on Mr. Senghor. Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak, for I merely wish to support the proposal of the delegate of the United States. The French delegation also feels that the Dir- ector-General has done excellent work this year and we all thank him for it. It would not be reasonable to overburden him with tasks, for no one can achieve the impossible. The French delegation therefore very warmly supports the proposal of the delegation of the United States of America.
2. In final form: Resolution 9.1.   The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] — Mr. President, gentlemen, I would like to express my thanks to the delegate of the United States for the resolution which he has sub- mitted to you, and to the delegate of France for seconding it. You will have noticed that, during the dis- cussions of the commissions, committees and sub- committees, the delegations have drawn up a list of 30 reports, some of which are very important and require very careful study. We have some months to go before the Con- ference in Florence and, if I am not mistaken, it is your desire to make it a Conference on Unesco’s Programme. The task of revising the programme is not an easy one. I quite agree with Sir John, and I wish to thank him for his brilliant speech of a few moments ago. I felt somewhat uneasy when I saw that the present Conference, which was announced as a Conference on current business, was incapable of giving precise instructions to the Executive Board and to the Secretariat con- cerning the condensing of the Programme. Certain speakers spoke in favour of certain reso- lutions, but recommended that we should not advance too quickly in that direction. As regards the other resolutions, criticisms did not clearly show whether I should regard them as a desire to cut down our Programme. The Board and the Secretariat as well as the Director-General, are therefore confronted with a very heavy task. To ask us to draw up 30 reports in six months and at the same time to carry out important programme work would be to ask the impossible. We must count on an average of six or seven days at least in order to draw up reports which frequently contain more than 100 pages. Even if we were in a position to draft all these reports, and draft them properly, we would have to neglect revising the programme. But even supposing that we were able to draw up these reports and revise our programmes, the Exe- cutive Board would be obliged in February to dis- cuss the preparation of the final draft programme for the Conference in Florence, and then to discuss each item of the budget—for when the budget is presented by the Director-General it is first sub- mitted to the Board—and in addition to that it would have to examine 30 reports, some of them very important. I feel that this would result in a very long Con- ference and would be extremely difficult in Flor- ence, where our attention will be divided between administrative questions and programme ques- tions. The manner in which you have welcomed the proposal by Dr. Evans and the words of Mr. Senghor permit me to hope therefore that the Executive Board, the Secretariat and myself will be able to dispose of the weeks left to us—forit is a question of weeks and not of months—to prepare the condensed Programme which you expect from us. I emphasize that it is a question of weeks because, as you will realize if you think of the time needed for sending the report and the annexed documents to your respective countries, we shall have to finish all this before the end of January. It is a very trying task for the Secretariat at the end of the crucial year which we have just passed. I do not wish to conclude without informing you that tomorrow I shall be sending the following letter to the Governments of Member States. I shall read it out because certain Member States will not receive it for another ten or fifteen days and some of them might then complain of the short time limits fixed by the Secretariat for the sending of answers to its questionnaires. On this occasion, as on most others, it is not the Secre- tariat which fixes the limits but the Conference itself: I have the honour of drawing your attention to the following resolution adopted by the General Confer- ence of Unesco at its Third Session:
8.6—CODE or The Director-General and the Executive Board are requested, in preparing the draft programme for
1950, to preface this programme with a code of policies to include those approved by previous ses- sions of the General Conference and those re- commended for adoption in 1950. POLICIES FOR 1950 DRAFT PROGRAMME In accordance with this resolution, the Executive Board at its Sixteenth Session adopted eighteen direc- tives defining, within the framework of Unesco’s Constitution, the main objectives and general rules of action which guide the Organization in the definition and execution of its Programme. This code of directives was submitted to the Fourth Session of the General Conference which has just closed in Paris. It was approved provisionally on Tuesday, 20 September, by the Programme and Bud- get Commission which decided on 4 October to invite Unesco’s National Commissions in the various coun- tries to examine the code and to make comments on it with a view to a further examination at the next Session of the General Conference. Owing to the nearness of the Fifth Session of the General Confer- ence, which will be held in Florence in May 1950, the proposed amendments to this code of directives will have to be submitted to the Executive Board at its Session in November next. I therefore enclose herewith document 4C/5 (rev.) containing the directives approved by the Fourth Session of the General Conference and I would be glad if you would send the comments of your Na- tional Commission or Governmentbefore 15 November for submission to the Executive Board. If no answer is received before that date, I will assume that your National Commission or Govern-     ment has no objection to make to this code of direc- tives. I regret the shortness of the time-limit, which is due to the fact that the Fifth Session of the Gen- eral Conference follows so closely on the meeting of the Executive Board. Yours faithfully... [ earnestly recommend the Heads of delegations to adopt the appropriate measures for bringing this question to the immediate attention of their Na- tional Commission or Government (or of both of them), so that the Executive Board at its No- vember session will be able to discuss the sug- gestions made by the Governments or by the Na- tional Commission with regard to the Code of Directives. This will perhaps facilitate the Board's task of revising the Programme. We shall continue to do all we possibly can and I feel sure, gentlemen, that you have convinced yourselves that the Secretariat is endeavouring to honour its duties. I speak of “honour”, having in mind the beautiful words of Alfred de Vigny, which might serve to symbolize one of the aspects of Unesco’s activities: Honour is the poetry of duty. The PRESIDENT — If there is no objection to the resolution proposed by the delegate of the United States, supported by France, I declare that reso- lution adopted.’ We now continue with the approval of the Bud- get for 1950. I would like the Rapporteur to speak. Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission — Mr. President, we now come to the approval of the Budget for 1950. You should have attached to the end of document 4C/PRG/13, Annex II. That contains an Appropriation Resolution, and follow- ing it, an Appropriation Table. You should also have on your desks a separate copy of the Ap- propriation Table headed Annex II (rev.). We are concerned with the latter document only. It is your task to approve the Appropriation Reso- lution and Table, and I think, Sir, it may be most convenient were we to take the Appropriation Table first and then, when that is agreed, to vote on the Appropriation Resolution. In voting on the Appropriation Table you will need to consider only the right hand column of figures; those on the left are self-explanatory, but the decisive series of figures are those on the right which take account of the situation created by the recent devaluation of certain currencies. I put the Appro- priation Table before you. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget
1. In final form: Resolution 0.10. Commission. We have before us the Appropri- ation Table, involving a total appropriation of $8,000,000 for the year 1950. This Budget is divided into four chapters and I will invite the Conference to consider it. I will ask if there are any comments or objections on each of the four parts and then ask you to vote the final figure of $8,000,000. Is there any comment or objection to the first part, providing under General Policy, that is, for the conduct of the Conference and the Executive Board, the sum of $308,504. No objection? Part I is adopted.? Part II—General Administration. $1,966,202. Any objections? on the delegate of Iran. Dr. Ali Akbar SIASSI (Iran) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, before you approve Unesco’s Programme and Bud- get for 1950, I wish to make a remark concerning Part III, Section 2B of the Budget: Education: Clearing House and Special Activities. I have always thought, and I have said so many times during this Conference, that Unesco’s efforts to win over all peoples to the generous ideals of tolerance and peace will be successful only if those peoples are able to hear Unesco’s voice. They will be able to do this only if they are taught to read and write. Now we all know that the majority of the world’s population is illiterate. Consequently, Unesco must concentrate its main efforts on this first part of its programme on Education. We were therefore somewhat astonished to note in Part III, Section 2B of the Budget, that the modest funds provided for a Seminar to be held in the Middle East on the problem of illiteracy has been suppressed for 1950. The French delegate, during the discussions of the Programme and Budget Commission, said that he regretted the fact. I myself, on behalf of the Iranian delegation—and I venture to speak also on behalf of the delegations of the Middle East— express the same regrets. However, as today is the last day of the Conference, and difficulties would arise if a formal proposal were made, I will refrain from making such a proposal. But I repeat my regrets and I hope that at the Florence Conference these modest credits for the Middle East will again be made available and that Unesco will even increase the appropriations for Education; for, I repeat, Education is Unesco’s main task and takes precedence over Science and Culture as is elo- quently expressed by the very name of our Organ- ization: United Nations Educational, scientific and Cultural Organization. A total of Adopted.? 1 cal
2. In final form: doc. Table, pp. 42-43.
4C/Resolutions, Section II,    The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Iran for his speech, which will, of course, be included in the record of this meeting. Are there any comments on Part III—Pro- gramme Operations of the Budget, providing for a total of $5,051,976? If there is no objection then I declare this Part III of the Budget adopted *. Part IV: Common Service Costs, totalling $673,318. Any comment or objection? If not, I declare Part IV of the Budget adopted.’ I take it, therefore, unless I hear any objection, that the Conference now adopts the total Budget of $8,000,000 for the year 1950. I hear no objec- tion and declare the Budget adopted. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we have the Appropriation Resolution for 1950 which embodies the Budget which has just been approved, and lays down the conditions under which transfers may be made from one part of the Budget to another. Any comment? Any objection? I hear no objec- tion and therefore declare the Appropriation Reso- lution for 1950 adopted.? Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission — Mr. President, we have now disposed, I believe, of everything relating to the Programme and Budget of the Organization for 1950. If you would turn back now to the Report of the Programme and Budget Commission, to page 5 of 4C/PRG/15, we will take the next item, the Extraordinary Programme of Technical Assistance for Economic Development. You will see under paragraph 13 that the Programme and Budget Commission adopted the report of its own Sub-Committee and recommends it for approval by this Conference. The relevant document is
4C/PRG/14 and Corrigendum to that document, and the relevant resolution is the one appearing in document 4C/PRG/14, page 1 of Appendix beginning: “The General Conference believing that the Programme of Technical Assistance...” and going right through to the end of the follow- ing page. 1 therefore put that resolution to you. The PRESIDENT — You have heard the Rappor- teur’s suggestion regarding the first part of the report on Technical Assistance. We have had notice of a small amendment to this Report and I will call on Mr. Cummins, delegate of Australia, who was Rapporteur of the Technical Assistance Sub-Committee. Mr. J. E. CUMMINS (Australia), Rapporteur of the Technical Assistance Sub-Committtee Mr. President, fellow-delegates. At this morning's Session of the Programme and Budget Commis- doc.1. In final form: Table, pp. 42-43.
2. In final form: Resolutions 10 to 10.4.
4C/Resolutions, Section II,
213 sion, the delegates of the Netherlands drew attention to the desirability of including in the Report of the Technical Assistance Sub-Committee the advantage to be derived from, and the necessity of, consultation, in so far as the scientific and technical aspects are concerned, with the interna- tional scientific unions and the existing world scientific bodies, although such advantage is implied in our Report. To cover this point I wish to propose as follows:— In report 4C/PRG/14 on page 3, add under para- graph 9 (c) the following: .. and that maximumconsultation should be effected between Unesco, the various international scientific unions and established scientific bodies throughout the world. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the amendment proposed which is designed to ensure the close consultation of the various inter- national scientific unions and established scientific bodies throughout the world, in connexion with Unesco’s part in the Programme for Technical Assistance. Any comment or objection to the inclusion of this amendment? It is seconded by the delegate of the Netherlands. If there is no objection, and I take it that the amendment is incorporated in the Report, I will put that part of the Report to the Conference. If there is no objection, I declare the resolution referred to by the Rapporteur on Technical Assistance adopted 3. Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission — Mr. President, I think it is clear now that what has been adopted is resolution I in the Appendix to 4C/PRG/14, together with the appended Direc- tives of which there are two, the first one referred to in Annex I, the following page, and the second being the Annex II to 4C/PRG/14, the Objectives and Conditions of Unesco’s Participation. We have now, I take it, adopted that complete resolution and are left with one other resolution headed II, which you will find on page 3 of the Appendix to 4C/PRG/14 which ends with the instruction to the Director-General to make the fullest use of the services of other Specialized Agencies, etc. I put that resolution to you. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the second main resolution relating to Technical Assistance for Economic Development. Is there any objection? I declare the resolution adopted * by the Conference.
3. In final form: Resolutions 12 to 12.16 and 12.3 to
4. In final form: Resolutions 12.2 to 12.23.     Mr. W. D. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission — We have now disposed of Technical Assistance, and we come to the last item of the Programme and Budget Commission, the resolution contained in paragraph 14 of 4C/PRG/15, dealing with the pub- lications policy, and the action which would be desirable from Member States. I therefore put to you Sir, the resolution contained in paragraph 14 of document 4C/PRG/15. The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Belgium, Professor Verniers. Prof. L. VERNIERS (Belgium) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, the Conference is nearing its close and the time left to us is limited. That, as well as my natural disposition. will induce me to be brief. But I wish to profit by the occasion to suggest an idea and to submit a proposal. This idea, inspired by my experience of different administrations and by the numerous ups-and-downs of my life, is that every organ- ization, whether civil, military, commercial, industrial or administrative, is what its Head makes it. When it works badly, it is the Head who is to blame. When it works well, credit is due to him. For that reason I would like to present a pro- posal concerning resolution 14 relating to Unesco’s publications. According to this proposal the Con- ference would decide that all the speeches made by the Director-General, since he assumed the im- portant and heavy responsibility of Unesco’s Pro- gramme, will be published in a booklet. The latter would be the best form of propaganda for Unesco. The resolution could be drafted as follows: The General Conference decides to publish all the speeches made by the Director-General since he assumed the important and heavy task of ensuring the carrying out of Unesco’s Programme. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, permit me to utter a few sincere and heartfelt words of thanks to the delegate of Belgium for his proposal, and to thank you all for the confidence you have shown me in approving it. The texts which will be published, if you so direct, have no other merit than the faith they express in your work. They are militant texts intended to serve Unesco’s cause, and I will sim- ply suggest an amendment to M. Verniers’ pro- posal to the effect that they should not all be published. There are no doubt activities of lesser importance which oblige the Director-General of an institution such as ours to make speeches and it will perhaps be well to make a selection. If
214 you will permit me to make that selection I feel that the publication will be less unworthy. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has shown by its applause that it approves * the Belgian pro- posal as well as the amendment which leaves the Director-General free to make such a selection as he thinks fit. If there are no objections, the reso- lution concerning Unesco’s publications can be considered as adopted. Adopted *. I would like on behalf of the Conference to thank Mr. Pile, as we have thanked other rappor- teurs, for the assistance he has given. He has had a particularly difficult task, I think, to aid the Conference in this complicated report and we are grateful to him for the assistance that he has given.
33. Suggestion regarding the Convention on Genocide. The PRESIDENT — I now call on Mrs. Tillett of the United States delegation to speak to the Con- ference on a matter relating to the Convention on Genocide. Mrs. Gladys TILLETT (United States of Amer- ica) — Mr. President, Mr. Director-General and fellow-delegates, about a year ago in the city of Paris, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted unanimously the Genocide Convention. Today the United States delegation wishes to make, quite briefly, a suggestion. The delegation of the United States hopes that the Director-Gen- eral will take up with the United Nations the question of whether there are appropriate services which Unesco should try to render in order to create and promote an improved understanding of the Genocide Convention. For example, should Unesco promote a study of the Convention through its National Commissions or through co-operating organizations, or might it create information by using the media of mass communications? The United States believes that it will appear, upon investigation, that there are ways by which Unesco can effectively and usefully co-operate in this undertaking of informing people generally about the Genocide Convention. Therefore, my del- egation hopes that the Director-General and the Executive Board will take note of the suggestion and follow it up with appropriate steps. The PRESIDENT — The Conference will take note of the suggestion that has been made and I am sure that, since the activities proposed
1. In final form: Resolution 0.11.
2. In final form: Resolution 9.5.   fall so clearly within the general framework of our work in relation to the Declaration of Human Rights, the Executive Board and the Dir- ector-General will be pleased to study every possi- bility of giving effect to the suggestion made.
34. Tribute to the memory of the Mexican painter José Clemente Orozco. The PRESIDENT — I now call on Mr. Hardman, delegate of the United Kingdom, to address the Conference. Mr. David HARDMAN (United Kingdom) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates. I take this op- portunity to say a few words on that great Mexican artist, José Clemente Orozco. This Conference cannot be insensitive to the loss to the culture of the world that the death of Orozco has caused. Born in 1886, he worked for many years covering the walls of the palaces, churches and public buildings of Mexico with his tremendous frescoes, one of which indeed, as many here will remember, adorned the walls of the Escuela Normal, where our Conference was held in 1947. Through his frescoes, he sought to express his understanding of and the yearning of ordinary people all over the world for what we are here trying to foster— education in understanding. I do not propose, Mr. President, at this stage to offer a resolution to the Conference, but I think it is fitting that this Conference should express its sense of loss at the death of Orozco, and that we should ask you, Mr. President, to transmit our deep sympathy to the Government of Mexico. The PRESIDENT — I call on the Director-Gen- eral. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL [Translation from the French — Mr. President, gentlemen, I find myself in a rather delicate situation. I do not know how to thank Mr. Hardman. I cannot do so as Director-General, for it is a duty incumbent on the President and the Conference itself. I will not do so as a Mexican, as I see that the Head of the Mexican delegation is already coming forward to thank Mr. Hardman for his generous idea. I can therefore only speak here as a man who ad- mired and who knew the great artist whom not only my own country but the whole world has lost in José Clemente Orozco. It is therefore as an admirer and friend of this great mind, who carried out his duties as a man as well as his duties as an artist, that I support Mr. Hardman’s proposal and thank him with all my heart for having made it. The PRESIDENT — I call on Dr. Castro Leal, delegate of Mexico. Dr. Antonio CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) — [Trans- lation from the Spanish] The Mexican del- egation is deeply grateful to the delegate of Great Britain, Mr. Hardman, for his proposal that the General Conference should express its sense of loss at the death of the great Mexican painter, José Clemente Orozco. He was a noble and generous soul devoted to Truth and hating every kind of baseness and falsity in the lowly and in the mighty. He devoted himself to art, holding up to ridicule the foibles of men and portraying the dismal pleasures of the poor. He tried to conceal his tenderness under continual irony. But his understanding of life and his artistic powers kept increasing, and he has left on the walls of many buildings in Mexico and in the United States a profound, piteous, incisive and prophetic vision of the world of today. To express the troubles and complexities of his time, he had to create new symbols. He died at the age of 65 when his art had acquired that mysterious and vigorous eloquence which per- meates the second part of Faust and the last quar- tets of Beethoven. José Clemente Orozco’s art was universal like other Mexican contributions: the masterpieces of ancient Mexican sculpture and its best baroque churches of the eighteenth century. Your sorrow at the loss of this Mexican painter has an added significance here in Paris, for it was France which, in the nineteenth century, gave new inspiration to the whole of modern art. In José Clemente Orozco Unesco loses an admir- able although involuntary collaborator, for his painting carries an eloquent and passionate mes- sage, namely, that in spite of our differences we are all brothers. We are all brothers in the spirit where neither prejudices nor propaganda can pene- trate, and where the virtues of the saint and the inspiration of the artist can develop freely. The PRESIDENT — 1 take it that it is the unanimous wish of the Conference that we accept the suggestion by the delegate of the United King- dom and that on your behalf I should transmit to the President of the United States of Mexico a message of condolence and regret at the passing of this great artist.
35. Adoption of a draft amendment to the Constitution. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has before it one remaining piece of business—the adoption of an amendment to the Constitution, which was    already considered in connexion with the Report of the Procedure Committee and the Report dis- cussed also by the Administrative Commission. This is an amendment which is found in doc- ument 4C/PRO/8, relating to the voting rights of the Members of the Organization who are in arrears with payment of their financial contri- butions to the Organization. In order that this amendment be adopted, it is necessary that we should have a majority of two-thirds, that being the requirement laid down in the Constitution for the acceptance of amendments to the Constitution. The following is the text of the resolution which the Conference is invited to pass by the Procedure Committee: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, Havine noted the resolution adopted at its third Ses- sion on the Report of the Administrative Commission containing a draft amendment to Article IV of its Constitution, ConsiperING that the draft amendment thus adopted was communicated to the Governments of Member States more than six months in advance, ConsmerING that this amendment does not involve any fundamental alterations in the aims of the Organ- ization or mew obligations for the Member States, Aporrs the following amendment which will become paragraph 9 of Article IV of the Constitution: ‘A Member State which is in arrears in the pay- ment of its financial contributions to the Organ- ization shall have no vote in the General Conference if the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the preceding two full years. The General Conference may, nevertheless, permit such a Member State to vote if it is satisfied that the failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation.’ The Conference has heard the proposal submitted to it by the Procedure Committee and I will ask the Conference to proceed to a vote on this amend- ment of the Constitution. Those in favour of the adoption of this amendment will please raise one hand, one vote for each delegation. Thosc who are against, please raise one hand. The proposed amendment is adopted’ by
32 votes to 3. That completes the formal business of the Con- ference. I now call on H.E. Mr. Mundeleer, first delegate of Belgium. Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium) — [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, we have now completed our work, but, before the close of the Conference, I am sure you would all like me to offer our congratulations and thanks to the President. His task has been a very heavy one
1 In final form: Resolution 0.9.
16 and, at times, a thankless and difficult one. But nothing seems too heavy for his broad shoulders and his robust constitution. You have, Mr. Pre- sident, conducted our discussions with remarkable energy, patience and determination, together with unfailing good humour. You have exercised your duties in a spirit of understanding, moderation and broad common sense to which I am delighted to pay tribute. I ask all delegates to associate themselves with me and to show by their warm applause our feelings of affection for the President and our thanks for the masterly way in which he has con- ducted the discussions. The PRESIDENT — The French delegate, Mr. Sarrailh. has asked to speak. After his speech I shall declare the list of speakers closed. Mr. SARRAILH (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to associate myself with the thanks which have just been so eloquently ex- pressed to the President by the Belgian Minister of Education. On behalf of the French delegation I would like to say how much we have apreciated the fine qualities of the President, who has con- ducted these discussions with kindness and firm- ness. I would also like to add a word of praise for the members of the Secretariat. We have been very appreciative of their efforts—sometimes feverish efforts—to carry out their task. Lastly, I wish to thank the Director-General for his splendid direction of this great international institution. Mr. Director-General, I do not wish to gather together all the tributes which have come from various parts of this Conference. I could collect them in an anthology, but I hope that when the collection of your speeches is published, it will compensate for the one which time prevents me from preparing today. And now, gentlemen, on behalf of the French delegation, I would like to say a few words to you. We have welcomed you to this great city of Paris, which has always had the reputation of being a very hospitable city and an intellectual centre of the first rank. I hope that you will retain happy memories of your stay here and I assure you that we have been very glad to have you. I would like to add—for it seems to me to be indispensable —that now that you are about to return to your countries we should all pledge ourselves to help Unesco in its difficult task. We must make up our minds to work hard in our National Com- missions in order to fight against the scepticism whichstill exists in the minds of those who should be co-operating with us, and in order to overcome the misconceptions about Unesco which still   persist among the general public. I hope that after these encouraging debates in which we have felt the pulse of faith and enthusiasm in Unesco’s destiny, we shall all be able to work together for the good of this great Organization. The PRESIDENT — I have declared the list of speakers closed, but the Director-General, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, has the right to speak at any comment during the Confer- ence. 1 therefore call upon the Director-General. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, I am not taking the floor to make a speech. It is for you to make the closing speech and that you will do so in a masterly fashion is clear from the way in which you have presided over this Conference. I want only to express my deep thanks to all present and particularly to Mr. Sarrailh for the handsome words of his that you have so cordially applauded. I accept your tributes on behalf of the 700 members of the Secretariat, for it is they and not myself who have earned them. They have carried out their task with great tenacity and throughout have shown their faith in Unesco’s future. I would therefore be very happy if I could tell them tomorrow that their task, which is a frequently difficult and worrying one, has not been in vain and that you, the representatives of the Governments who established Unesco, are well aware that all these men and women, whatever their rank and grades, are working for peace and culture, and that they should pursue their task, assured of your trust and encouragement. It is in their name as well as in my own that I thank you.
36. Closing speech of the Fourth Session of the General Conference. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] — My dear friends, I am not going to make a long speech to close this session of the Conference. But I would like to thank Mr. Mundeleer, Head of the Belgian delegation, and Mr. Sarrailh for the kind things they said about me, and all of you for the cordiality with which you greeted their remarks. It was suggested that I had a difficult task as President. I assure you that I did not find it very heavy, thanks to the help I received from so many of you. TI, too, wish to give sincere thanks to the General Committee and the Vice-Presidents of the Conference, and to the Chairmen of the Com- missions, who met with me every morning to dis- cuss the organization of our work. Their excellent advice and great qualities considerably lightened my task.
217 I want to thank the Vice-Chairmen and Rap- porteurs of the Commissions for their great help. The Conference is run as it were by the General Committee, the President, Vice-Presidents and Chairmen of the Commissions. But its prepar- ation is ensured by the Executive Board. 1 would therefore like to thank the latter, whose sole re- presentative here is the Vice-Chairman, Mr. Parra Pérez, for the Chairman, Sir Sarvepalli Radha- krishnan, has returned to his post as ambassador in Moscow. Mr. Sarrailh has already expressed, much more eloquently than I could, our thanks to the Secretariat and to our distinguished Dir- ector-General. We have complete confidence in this Organization, for it remains in the hands of Mr. Torres Bodet, and I take this opportunity to express to him my personal esteem and the affec- tion of all members of the Conference. We must not forget his collaborators. I would like to thank on your behalf all members of the Secretariat who have helped us in our task. If I refer particularly to Mr. Montagnier, in his capacity as Secretary of the Conference, it is because he has always been at my side with the members of the General Committee and because he has eased our work every day with a zeal long familiar to us. I would also like to thank the interpreters over there in their little cabins. I have been told that the heat has made their task a very trying one, but I was not told that they had anydifficulty in translating our speeches. It is with the greatest pleasure that we thank them fortheir co-operation. I also wish to point out that there has been a great improvement in the documentation services of the Conferences since our first Conference in Paris in 1946, and we thank all those responsible for it. Thanks must also be given to the adminis- trative services who furnished the offices and rooms of the Conference and organized the run- ning of the restaurant. We are deeply grateful, Mr. Director-General, to all your collaborators who have made the success of our Conference possible. I have not yet spoken of the Departments which helped us at our meetings and to whom we are very indebted. I would like to thank everyone and particularly the Deputy Director-General, Dr. Laves, and the two assistant Directors-Gen- eral, Mr. Thomas and Dr. Beeby. To the latter, who is about to leave us, I shall say “au revoir”, for we hope to see him with us again on other occasions. Someone who heard me say that I would like to thank all those who have helped us asks me not to forget the press. I certainly do not forget the help it has given us and I ask it to help us even more in the future. We have been meeting here in Paris and have    all been delighted with the warm welcome given to us by the French authorities. It is always a joy for those who are not lucky enough to live in Paris to visit this city. We are now settled in Paris and are aware of the great services rendered our Organization by the French Government and the French people. I hope that the French del- egation will transmit our sincere thanks to the French Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this Conference was a Working Conference. It was called so at the beginning and I feel that we can say, now that it is over, that we have worked well. What have we done? We have admitted Ceylon as a new MemberState. That is an important event. We have chosen the six new members of the Exe- cutive Board for next year. We have taken deci- sions concerning technical assistance to under- developed countries. We have adopted the Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950. We have taken delicate decisions concerning the work of our Organization in Germany and Japan. We have settled a whole number of questions relating to administration and to official and external rela- tions, as well as certain domestic questions of great importance to our Organization. Moreover, we have launched certain activities outside or rather on the fringe of our Conference. From some points of view the general debate was a disappoint- ment for it was materially impossible to allow speakers enoughtime to give us the benefit of their wide knowledge and high qualities. Nevertheless it was a success for the public and the public stayed. We have still to examine and develop the right methods for bringing to the attention of the gen- eral public the ideas of the great men of our Mem- ber States, and I profit by the occasion to thank all those who participated in these discussions. We also had the pleasure of attending a concert in which French and foreign musicians performed works composed in memory of Chopin. I wish to thank the composers and artists responsible for such an enjoyable concert. In honouring Chopin they also honoured our Organization. I should like to say a few words about the Human Rights Exhibition. Our thanks are due to the French Government and particularly to the President of the Republic, who kindly gave his patronage to the exhibition and to the Minister of Education who represented the Head of the State at its opening. 1 particularly wish to thank the French Government and the City of Paris for all their help in the organization of the exhibition. On your behalf I would like to thank René Cas- sin, Vice-President of the State Council and French
218 representative on the United Nations Human Rights Commission; our colleague, Mr. Julien Cain, General Administrator of the Bibliothèque Nationale; Mr. Georges Salles, Director of French Museums; Mr. Charles Brabant, Director of the National Archives, the Municipal Council of the City of Paris, which kindly lent us the Musée Galliéra for the exhibition; Mr. Yvon Bizardez, Dir- ector of the School of Fine Arts of Paris; Mr. Rigal, Curator of the Musée Galliéra, as well as the high officials and French experts who helped us: Mr. René Grousset, Mr. Victor Fawtier and Mr. Er- nest Labrousse. I also wish to thank the Governments which sent such valuable documents to the exhibition. Many countries sent us copies and material which we also used. But I must especially thank the Governments of France, the United States, Bel- gium, Italy and the Netherlands for entrusting to us the originals of documents of great historical value which contributed much to the success of the exhibition. Ladies and gentlemen, I have insisted on ex- pressing our thanks to all our helpers, because it is to them and to you that we owe the success of this Conference. We have worked hard and I feel that we have worked well. I have often noticed during the last days of this Conference a certain holiday spirit beginning to prevail. The Conference is about to close. To- morrow we shall disperse. Let us not forget those who remain behind: the Director-General and the members of the Secretariat, who will have no holiday at the end of the Conference. Tomorrow they will begin to work again and, on your behalf, I wish them all success in the work that lies ahead. I would not like to conclude without telling you how much I appreciated the friendships we have all formed during this Conference. Each of Unesco’s Conferences is itself an experiment in international understanding and friendship. I will tell you of a small incident. One of my children, aged eight, was visiting America for the first time. We were travelling across that vast continent by train and the children had walked up to the observation car at the end of the train and begun, as children do, to chat with the pas- sengers. And I heard a lady say to her husband, “I like that little boy’s accent”, to which my son replied, “But, Madam, it’s not I who speak with an accent, but you.” It is not for me to speak of the foreigner’s accent when he is not speaking in his own tongue. In our native language we have our own parti- cular accent and one of the advantages of Unesco          is that it shows us that we each have our own months in Florence, so I will merely say “au accent, but teaches us, I hope, to like the accent revoir”. of others. I declare the Fourth General Conference of I believe we are all to meet again in a few Unesco closed.