SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE OF THE CONFERENCE FIRST MEETING Monday, 19 September 1949 at 6.15 p.m. Chairman: Preliminary considerations for nominations for the offices of Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs of Commissions and Com- mittees (document 4C/NOM/2). The CHAIRMAN explained that, though the Com- missions and Committees elected their own officers on the suggestion of the Nominations Committee, the General Committee could offer useful advice on the choice of the most suitable persons for filling those offices, involving difficult technical problems, especially as far as the three main Commissions were concerned. With regard to the establishment of the Com- missions, the Chairman suggested that, to save time. they should adopt the same procedure as the General Assembly of the United Nations: the Pre- sident theoretically adjourned the plenary meeting, all delegates remaining in their places, and the Assembly broke up successively into each of the Commissions for the election of the respective Chairmen. That system had given excellent results at the General Assembly. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) saw no reason for altering Unesco’s usual procedure, under which the suggestions of the Nominations Com- mittee forwarded to the various Commissions and approved by them at their first meeting. The CHAIRMAN thought that under the new procedure proposed there would be no delay in electing a Chairman for each Commission and Committee. The full General Committee of the Conference would thus be formed in a very short time, whereas under the old system, they would have to wait until each of the Commissions had held its first meeting. Though the Programme and Budget Commission was to meet the follow- ing day, the Official and External Relations Com- mission would not be meeting until Thursday,
22 September, while the Administrative Commis-
223 Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia) sion would be holding its first meeting as late as
26 September. The Chairmen of the various Com- missions would therefore not all be elected until towards the middle of the Session. It was decided to propose the new procedure to the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to advise the Nominations Committee in the matter of the three Commissions still without Chairmen. He recalled that representatives of Australia, Egypt, Ecuador, France, India, Italy, the United King- dom, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, New Zealand and the United States of America already held the office of President or Vice-President of the General Conference or Chairman of a Committee. He stressed that the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission needed to be particu- larly well-informed of the previous work of that Commission, as it would be dealing with a two- year programme modelled on that adopted by the General Conference in Beirut. He therefore sug- gested that Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil), who had presided over that Commission in Beirut, should again be elected its Chairman. Adopted. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed Mr. Léo Mundeleer, head of the Belgian delegation as Chairman of the Administrative Commission. Adopted. Professor HERCIK (Czechoslovakia) nominated Mr. Przemyslaw Ogrodzinski, deputy head of the Polish delegation, as Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission. Mr. BIDAULT (France) thought Mr. Antonio Castro Leal, head of the Mexican delegation, more suitable for the special work of that Commission and therefore proposed him on behalf of the French delegation.   The CHAIRMAN asked if both names or only one should be passed on to the Nominations Com- mittee, or whether one of the candidates should be proposed for the office of Vice-Chairman, for in his opinion, it was desirable for different parts of the world to be represented. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) and Mr. ZAL- DUMBIDE (Ecuador) supported the nomination of Mr. Antonio Castro Leal. The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that it merely had to put forward certain candidates and that it was for the Nominations Committee to make formal suggestions and for the Commission con- cerned to take the final decision. Shafik GHORBAL Bey (Egypt) suggested sub- mitting both names to the Nominations Com- mittee for it to make its own choice. Adopted. The CHAIRMAN, seeing that the nomination of the Chairmen of the Commissions (which would enable the full General Committee of the Confer- ence to be formed) was the only urgent matter as far as the General Committee was concerned, thought that nominations for the offices of Vice- Chairmen and Rapporteurs could be left to the discretion of the Nominations Committee. Agreed. Organization of the Work of the Session (document 4C/BUR/1 rev.). The CHAIRMAN summarized the main points in document 4C/BUR/1 (rev.) and drew attention to the Executive Board's recommendation that all speakers on the discussion of the Director-General's Report should be limited to fifteen minutes. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought that an undemocratic move; however, he hoped that it might prove useful. The CHAIRMAN did not regard it as a hard- and-fast rule; in any case, governments and del- egations had already been notified. Shafik GHORBAL Bey (Egypt) pointed out that, in fact, the time-limit had already been observed at the afternoon's plenary meeting. The CHAIRMAN proposed recommending that procedure to the General Conference. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) was prepared to accept the suggestion but reserved the right to bring the matter up again before the Gen- eral Committee as soon as it was found necessary to call speakers to order.
224 The Executive Board's recommendation adopted. was The CHAIRMAN drew the Committee’s attention to the time-table attached to document 4C/BUR/1 (rev.) and suggested abiding by it, on the understanding that the Committee would be entitled to make any changes found necessary. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested cancelling the plenary meeting for the following afternoon (during which the discussion on his Report was to have been continued), to enable him to attend the first meeting of the Programme and Budget Com- mission fixed for the same time. It was decided to do so. The CHAIRMAN drew the Committee’s attention to paragraph 5 of document 4C/BUR/1 (rev.): “Proposals or amendments submitted by Member States”. He suggested asking delegations to submit in writing, before the evening of 21 September, any amendment or new project likely to involve substantial changes in the programme or budget. He explained that such a provision would not prevent delegations from formulating amendments during the discussion, but it would deter them from proposing substantial amendments to the programme and budget later in the session. It was decided to notify the following morning’s plenary meeting of that provision. In reply to a question from Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), the CHAIRMAN stated that the procedure to be followed by the Programme and Budget Commission was determined not by the General Committee but by the Commission itself at its first meeting. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) mentioned that the Credentials Committee had found some dif- ficulty in applying Rule 22 of the Rules of Pro- cedure; he supposed that the General Committee would not be in a position to discuss the substance of the question, but suggested referring it to the Procedure Committee, which could report to the General Conference. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the matter had been discussed at Beirut and consi- dered by the Secretariat: it was intended to submit a draft amendment to the Rulesof Procedure to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN suggested deferring consider- ation of the question until the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Adopted. The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.