p n  EIGHTH MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia) Organization of the General Discussion (con- tinuation). The CHAIRMAN gave an account of the second public debate which had taken place the night before at the Maison de la Chimie; he emphasized the high quality of the speeches made. He then asked Count Stefano Jacini (Italy), the Chairman for that evening’s debate, to attend the meeting of the speakers to be held at 4 p.m. Agreed. Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN announced that the Executive Board would meet in the afternoon at 2.30. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL apologized for his inability to attend the meeting, at which he would be represented by the Deputy Director-General. However, he informed the Chairman of the Exe- cutive Board that he would like to address the Board at a private meeting at 3 p.m. The CHAIRMAN then suggested the time and agenda for the following morning’s meetings:
10 a.m.: Plenary meeting (Consideration of the Procedure Committee’s Report and Admission of Ceylon to membership of the Organization);
10 a.m.: Meeting of the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee. The Chairman thought that the plenary meeting's business would be concluded early enough for the delegates to attend the opening ceremony of the Exhibition on Human Rights at the Musée Galliera. The President of the French Republic, who was to have been present, would probably be replaced by Mr. Yvon Delbos, Min- ister for Education. Places had been reserved only for Heads of delegations, but it was desirable for all delegates to be present. Mr. CAILLOIS (Secretariat) mentioned that the Protocol Service had provided only a small number of places in order to avoid any overcrowding while the President of the Republic was present. But, as the latter would probably not be there, the Protocol did not have any further objection to all members of delegations attending the ceremony. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was afraid that, as the rooms of the Musée Galliera were small, it would be difficult for more than three hundred persons to move freely, and not all delegates would be able to have a proper view of the exhibition. The CHAIRMAN thought that the ceremony could be organized on the same lines as that arranged in honour of Princess Elizabeth; there had first been the actual opening ceremony, after which the rooms had been thrown open to the public. The Director-General and the President himself could first receive official guests and then all delegates would be able to visit the Exhibition and gain some impression of it. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested the follow- ing procedure: the President of the General Con- ference and the Director-General would await the President of the Republic (or his representative) and would accompany him with the Vice- Presidents and Heads of delegations, amounting to roughly one hundred persons. The Heads of delegations would then invite their members to visit the Exhibition. There would be no speeches at the ceremony, which would last only a quar- ter of an hour. Mr. CAIN (France) pointed out that the same arrangements had been made for Princess Eli- zabeth’s visit to the Franco-British Exhibition, where the rooms had also been open to visitors. As for the crowd, it could only be welcomed as a favourable omen by the organizers of the Exhibi- tion. The Director-General’s proposal was adopted. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked for a note to be prepared stating the exact hourfor the opening of the Exhibition at the Musée Galliera and how long it would last. The President of the Con- ference would then communicate it to the delegates during the plenary meeting. The note would stip- ulate that heads of delegations should arrive some time beforehand. At the suggestion of Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), it was decided that a summary of the note should appear in the following day's Journal of the Conference. After that exchange of views, it was decided to hold the following meetings the next day:
3 p.m.: Meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission to discuss the Technical Assistance Scheme.
3 p.m.: Meeting of the Nominations Committee to consider nominations for vacancies on the Executive Board. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was afraid that the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion could not foresee its work being completed that day, for the question of publications still had to be discussed. The Chairman of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee had asked the Commission to conclude its discussion of Item 9 (budget ceiling): in that event, the Technical Assistance Scheme could be taken up that day. The CHAIRMAN said it had been understood that the consideration of the Technical Assistance Programme could begin either toward the end of the morning or at the afternoon meeting. Letter from the President of the World Countrywomen’s Association. Mr. de BLONAY (Secretariat) read a letter from the President of the World Countrywomen's Association, asking Unesco to consider the ques- tion of an international language. The CHAIRMAN noted that request, adding that the problem of a common language was one which interested both the Secretariat and the Executive Board, in view of its repercussions on inter- national understanding. The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m. NINTH MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Dr. E. Mr. Evatt's Message to the General Confer- ence. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, much moved by Mr. Evatt’s inspiring message to the Conference, asked the President to reply to him, expressing his deep gratitude. Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN stated that, on behalf of the Gen- eral Committee, he had authorized the inclusion, on the agenda of the plenary meeting, of the elec- tion of the members of the Executive Board and of the discussion on the seat of the Fifth Session of the General Conference in order that Count Jacini, who was to leave during the week-end, should be informed of the final decision. In reply to a question put forward by Mr. ALLEN (United States of America), the CHAIRMAN stated that, according to Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, it was the General Conference’s re- sponsibility, and not the Executive Board's, to make a final decision on the site of a future ses- sion of the General Conference. He reminded the members that, in Beirut, a resolution had been passed recommending that the invitation extended by the Italian Government should be accepted, but RonALD WALKER (Australia) that the present Conference would make a formal decision. He suggested that there should be no plenary meeting on Monday morning, 3 October, but that the Programme and Budget Commission should meet instead. He further proposed that the Reports of the Administrative Commission and of the Official and External Relations Commission should be submitted on Tuesday, 4 October. He also stated that, having been asked whether the General Conference would terminate on Wednes- day according to schedule, he had replied in the affirmative. Professor NIELSEN (Denmark), Chairman of the Credentials Committee, reminded the Committee that it was necessary that the Credentials Committee should meet before the end of the Session. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Credentials Committee should assemble on Monday afternoon. Agreed. International Federation of Children’s Com- munities (continuation). The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Chairman of the Executive Board in reply to a request for consultative status by the International Federation of Children’s Communities. It was made clear that the Executive Board did not recommend that