THIRD PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 20 September 1949 at 10.40 a.m. CONTENTS
9. Establishment of the Programme and Budget Commission, Administrative Commission, and Official and External Relations Commission
10. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation): Speeches by delegates of India, the United States of America, Czechoslo- vakia, Brazil, the Principality of Monaco and France . . . . . . . 58 President: Dr. E. RonaLp WALKER (Australia). The PRESIDENT — I desire first of all to make a short report on behalf of the General Committee of the Conference, which held its first meeting yesterday at 6.15 p.m. The General Committee considered the proposals submitted by the Exe- cutive Board to the General Conference for the organization of work at its Fourth Session (doc- ument 4C/BUR/1). The General Committee has decided to recommend to the General Conference that the proposals included in the above- mentioned document 4C/BUR/1 be adopted. Those proposals provide for the establishment of three Commissions, a Programme and Budget Commis- sion, an Administrative Commission and a Commission on Official and External Relations. They also provide a tentative time-table for the work of the Conference which may, however, be modified in the course of the Conference by decision of the General Committee. The General Committee has taken note that the Executive Board decided at its Sixteenth Session that, in view of the additional item of Technical Assistance for Economic Development, the origin- al duration of this session should be extended by three days, and that the time devoted to the discussion of the Director-General’s Report would be limited to two full days. The General Com- mittee has endorsed the wish previously expressed by the Executive Board, that delegates’ speeches on the Report of the Director-General be limited to 15 minutes. I would inform speakers that while we are not imposing a firm rule in this matter, the President of the Conference may, at his discretion, switch on the small red light on the speaker’s desk if it appears that the speaker is going far beyond his 15 minutes. I hope that speakers, when they see the light, will bring their remarks to an early close. The General Committee decided to approve an- other proposal contained in the document I men- tioned—Proposals of the Executive Board—namely, one included in paragraph 5 (b). This is very important. Any amendments, draft resolutions or new proposals which involve a substantial modi- fication of the ordinary Programme and Budget, should be submitted in two copies in writing to the Secretariat of the Conference not later than the close of the third day of the Session, that is, tomorrow evening. This does not, of course, rule out the possibility of introducing amendments in the course of discussion, but the General Com- mittee endorses the view of the Executive Board that any new proposals, any amendments or reso- lutions which seriously modify the programme or budget of the Organization should be introduced, tabled, in writing, before tomorrow night, in order that their implications may be examined, and in order that we shall not have important changes introduced in the last days of the Conference. After consultation with the Director-General, the General Committee recommends that the plenary meeting scheduled for this afternoon be cancelled, or rather, transferred to a later day in order to permit leaders of delegations and the Director- General to attend the first meeting of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. The first meeting of this Commission will be held in this room this afternoon at 4 o'clock. It is a parti- cularly important meeting, since the Commission will want to determine its own procedure, in relation to the discussion of the Programme and of the Budget. The discussion on the Director- General’s Report, which should have taken place this afternoon, will now be transferred to to- morrow, and, if necessary, we shall have to add a further half-day meeting to make up for time lost today.
9. Establishment of the Programme and Budget Commission, Administration Com- mission, and Official and External Relations Commission. The PRESIDENT Now the Conference has heard the views of the General Committee re- commending the adoption of the Organization’s proposals that I have outlined, and if these pro- posals are acceptable to the Conference, the next step is to deal with Item 7 on the Agenda, and to establish formally the three Commissions— Programme and Budget Commission, Adminis- trative Commission, and Official and External Relations Commission. As these are Commissions of the whole Organization, every delegation has the right to be represented. It is proposed that questions under Items 12, 13, 14, and 15 of the Agenda be referred to the three Commissions. Is there any objection to the adoption of that proce- dure and to the formal establishment of the three Commissions? No objection? It is so decided. There is one further slight modification of the procedure which the General Committee decided to propose last night. You will note that the Programme Commission starts this afternoon, and the other Commissions a little later in the course of the Conference. It would be convenient if the Chairmen of each of those Commissions could be appointed at once. In the first place, the mem- bership of the General Committee would in this way be completed; secondly, it would enable the Chairmen of those Commissions to prepare their work in advance, so that when the Commissions actually meet for business, they would be able to move ahead expeditiously. The Nominations Committee is authorized to submit suggestions to the Conference; this Committee has met and will submit suggestions for the Chairmanship of the three Commissions. However, instead of con- vening the Commissions separately in other rooms to carry out the election of their respective Chair- men, I propose to adopt the procedure used by the Assembly of the United Nations in this way: After we have heard the report of the Nominations Committee with suggestions for the chairmanship of the three Commissions, I shall then formally adjourn this meeting of the plenary Conference and, while requesting delegations to remain in their places, I shall then formally convene the Programme and Budget Commission, act as its temporary Chairman, and ask the Commission to elect its permanent Chairman. We shall then adjourn that Commission, and take up each of the other Commissions in the same way, thereby completing the procedure of electing the Chair- men. Then we shall resume our plenary meeting and continue with the business of the Conference. The main advantage of this procedure is, we hope,
58 the rapid election of the three Chairmen, and when the Commissions first meet to transact business, the Chairmen, already elected, will be able to launch the Commissions on their work immediately. I propose to call on Mr. Allen, the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, to report to the Conference on the proposals relating to the chairmanships of the Commissions. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Amer- ica), Chairman of the Nominations Committee. Mr. President, the Nominations Committee has met in accordance with the provisions of Rule 30, para- graph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. The Nominations Committee, at its second meeting held on 20 Sep- tember at 9.30 a.m., decided to suggest for consider- ation by the relevant Commissions the names of the following persons to serve as their Chairmen. For the Programme and Budget Commission, Professor Paulo Carneiro of Brazil; for the Administrative Com- mission, H.E. Léo Mundeleer of Belgium; for the Official and External Relations Commissions, H.E. Cas- tro Leal of Mexico. The Committee has decided that it should be left to the Commissions themselves, with- out suggestions from the Nominations Committee, to decide as to the appointment of their Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the Report of the Nominations Committee. I now propose formally to adjourn the plenary meeting. The meeting was adjourned for five minutes.
10. Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). The PRESIDENT — We now resume the business of the Plenary Conference and continue with Item 8 of the Agenda, namely, the discussion of the Director-General's Report. I call on H. E. Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) Mr. President and fellow delegates. 1 am now speaking not on behalf of the Executive Board, but as a member of the Indian del- egation We have read with great interest the first Report of the new Director-General and listened with attention to his moving speech yes- terday afternoon. We are sure that the activities of Unesco under his direction will greatly further the interests of peace and international understand- ing. On behalf of my delegation. I offer our warm congratulations to him and his staff on the very satisfactory progress which the Organization has made this year. The delegate of Iraq complained yesterday about the working of this Organization. Many of his complaints would lose their point if it was suffi- ciently recognized that the majority of the peoples       of the world and of the cultures of the world live outside Western Europe and America. I have no doubt that the Director-General will remember this whenestablishing projects, sending missions, and selecting personnel for the Secretariat and Ex- pert Committees. Our Organization consists of menof letters, men of science, educators who are healers, not haters; reconciliators not persecutors. In the thick of life’s urgencies and passions, we should stand for the serenity of reason. In a world seething with unashamed stupidity and ideological cruelties, we should stand for humanity and wisdom. The proceedings of the United Nations General Assembly held in this city last year were described by the London Times as “a megaphone for rival propaganda”. We seemto use these international organizations for proclaiming our differences and pronouncing themto be irresolvable. Ten years after the beginning of the last war, four years after the achievement of victory, our cherished illusions are disappearing one after an- other. We thought that the war-time spirit of Community would resolve class differences. We have been disappointed. We thought that the allies who won the war would continue to be friendly partners in winning the peace. We have been disappointed. We thought that the United Nations would be different from the League of Nations and help to create a family or fellowship of free nations. We have been disappointed. While professing our faith in the United Nations, we rely on our own efforts, on our own military power for security. It would be a great illusion to imagine that the ‘one world’ has been born; it has not even been properly conceived. The atmosphere has become one of gloom. The shad- ow of conflict is creeping over the world. On every side we are faced with a stalemate, in Ger- many, in Austria, in Japan. We in Unesco are convinced of the tragedy, of the folly, of the futility of war. It is our duty to recall men from their fears, renew the conviction that all men irrespective of creed or cultural heritage can come into possession of a new wis- dom, a new tolerance. It is our faith that the unconquerable powers of man’s spirit can triumph even yet over those things which now divide us. Present conditions of the world may be distressing and tragic; but life may yet become kindly and beautiful if only we will it. We do not believe with Marx or Spengler that progress is a blind, impersonal process. It is achieved by human will bent on the realization of human values. In one of our sections we discuss tensions in regard to race, minorities, etc., but what are we doing with regard to the greatest of all tensions —the East-West tension which constitutes the most serious threat to all that we hold dear? East and West live in diverse worlds of thought. They do not speak a common language in matters of politics and economics. We are beset by the prob- lem of communication. We use words such as peace and democracy with almost no trace of mu- tual understanding. The basis of the tension is the fundamental lack of confidence between the countries of the West and those of Eastern Europe. This lack arises from the conviction held in different degrees on both sides that there is a fixed aim to destroy capi- talism and enthrone Communism or vice-versa. Eachis afraid of encirclement by the other. Is the present conflict to be decided by a military struggle? Can it be decided that way? Does not history provide us with famous examples of mortal conflicts between great mo- vements which, with the cooling of passion and the tempering of fanaticism, in later generations found it possible to live in peace with each other? Have the conflicts between the Christian and the Muslim worlds, or between Protestants and Cath- olics, resulted in the extermination of either? Has not peace been made possible by greater tolerance being practised on both sides? The hatred and sus- picion between the Communists and non Commu- nists are not greater than those between the Cath- olics and the Protestants in the sixteenth century. Our Constitution lays down that ‘ignorance of each others’s ways and lives has been a common cause throughout the history of mankind, of that suspicion and mistrust between the peoples of the world through which their differences have too often broken into war”. If we are to meet the future, which is already invading the present, we must take this clause seriously and adopt a fresh approach, unhampered by past prejudices. We complain of the control of men's thoughts, of secret police, of the punishment of political dissenters, of a semi-militarized government bu- reaucracy, but armament competition, which is now proceeding apace, leadsto restrictions of civil liberties, strengthens authoritarian governments, emphasizes military secrets, increases espionage, develops hysteria against persons suspected of dis- loyalty, and concentrates political and economic power in the hands of the officials of the State. We approximate to the very image of what we oppose. If Soviet Russia believes in revolutionary Mar- xism as the only correct analysis of history and of society, as the only correct programme of polit- ical action, this intolerance is not peculiar to Russian Communism. Every society which con- siders itself to be the sole guardian of an orthodoxy believes that the end justifies the means. Our actual practice corrects our dogmatic theory.   All the nations which have subscribed to the UN Charter have affirmed their faith in the objectives of peace, improved economic well-being for the whole of the world’s population, equality of opportunity for all citizens. They all affirm their faith in democracy, in the government of the people, for the people, by the people. The emphasis in one case is on ‘by the peope’ (U.S.A.) and in the other on ‘for the people’ (U.S.S.R.). Weall aim at a welfare state and wish to raise the standards of life of the ordinary man. This is not possible unless the people increase the pro- duction of consumer goods. With man’s present disinclination to work, how can we secure in- creased production and guarantee a reasonable standard of life, without a certain degree of com- pulsion? What is to make the peasant and the worker perform a reasonable amount of work? Is it com- pulsion or is it the attraction of higher wages? If we resort to compulsion we sentence people to forced labour. If we insist on democratic liberties and civil rights, we may risk impoverishment and inequality. In the book on Human Rights just published by Unesco, Gandhi wrote, “I learnt from my illi- terate but wise mother that all rights to be de- served and preserved came from duty well done”. It is the Indian concept of dharma that he em- phasizes here. No rights accrue to us until we perform the answering duties. A rough-and- ready way of expressing it is by saying that he who does not work, neither shall he eat. Our habits of mind and action require to be changed. To work for others must become a habit. Until a different morality is adopted we have to reconcile individual freedom with social control. Even in Western democracies the principle that the general well-being of the whole community requires community control exerted by the govern- ment, of at least the bulk of heavy industries, of public utilities and transport, has for many years been finding wider and wider acceptance. In Great Britain and the Scandinavian countries this is to be achieved democratically, without revo- lution or dictatorship. Even in the U.S.A. the process of unlimited free competition is evolving now within the framework of government regu- lation and social control. Until the day comes when compulsion will not be necessary, a planned economy safeguarding individual freedom is essential. Co-existence of the two systems will bring about mutual adaptations and adjustments. Our atti- tudes are not inflexible. The future belongs not to rigid absolutes, not to inflexible dogmatisms, but to things which grow. We should rise above our ideological differences and antagonisms and
60 see the greater value of a world united but not uniform, a world free from the economic injustice of the West and the political injustice of the East. A wider distribution of the English respect for the rule of law, the American love of freedom, and of the Russian racial brotherhood and community- mindedness, would improve all of us. We are living in days which are big with fate. The issue of war or peace hangs in the balance. Can we not stop getting angry with each other, stop the political wrangles, the long-distance cam- paigns which are carried on in the capitals of the world, and work together for peace? We will succeed, we can succeed, for we know that we must succeed. We cannot continue to live as an armed camp in a state of perpetual alarm. Is it inconceivable for half a dozen heads of States, two from the East, two from Europe, one from America and one from Russia, to meet, not to achieve political results, but to break through the blinding fog of misunderstanding, this mounting wall of prejudice? The risks are great; the re- wards will be greater. Such meetings were held during the last war. Can they not be held today to discover the road to peace? The goal of peace is not beyond our reach and, if we will, not beyond our strength. Have we any glimmering of the effort that it entails? Do we realize how great is the need? We are meeting in this city, which is precious to all mankind, the city of great writers and artists, a city of a gay, courageous and inspired people, the city of many revolutions born of anxiety and distress of mind. Can we not from here, in the name of Unesco, call upon the leaders of the world to listen to the voice of humanity in anguish, to give up the ways of the jungle and inaugurate the history of man? Can we not strive for a peace not raised on the blood of the people shed on the battle-fields, on the sea and in the air, but on truth and virtue established in the minds, hearts and consciences of men? The PRESIDENT — The next speaker on my list is the delegate of the United States of Amer- ica, the Honourable George Allen. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Amer- ica) — I am greatly indebted to the previous speaker, for he has given exactly the outline I would like you to bear in mind during my more detailed consideration of the Unesco programme. The General Conference of Unesco, meeting here in Paris at its Fourth Annual Session, returns after an interval of three years to the headquarters of the Organization and to the scene of its first meeting. Three years is a short time in the life of a man; it is a still shorter time in the life of        an institution. Unesco, we are confident, is des- tined to outlive anybody in this room, and to exercise an enduring influence on the welfare and fate of mankind. Three years ago Unesco had just seen the light of day and presented all the innocence and perfection of a newborn child. Now at the age of three, it is a healthy child, with its imperfections, but with the vitality of youth. I must report to you, Mr. President, that in the United States there has been considerable criticism of Unesco. It is not an unpopular pastime in my country, and perhaps in other countries, to deride the large number of projects Unesco is engaged in or to wonder howthis or that activity con- tributes to the peace. Unesco’s multifarious pro- jects, some having apparently little relation to the general purpose of the United Nations, has caused one well-meaning critic to refer to Unesco as “that organization in search of a purpose”. I recall also a British critic who said, “Unesco must mod- erate its rapture in the interest of practicality”. Unesco’s primary need, it seems to me, is to integrate itself more closely into the general United Nations structure. I would emphasize that Unesco is the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Unesco’s specific assign- ment in the general United Nations structure is to try to create enough understanding and friend- ship in the international sphere, among all the peoples of the world, to give the rest of the United Nations a chance to succeed. At the present moment, the outstanding task of the whole United Nations with all of its Specialized Agencies, is to eliminate international warfare. As long as the horrible possibility of modern war haunts our lives, the problem of peace far out- weighs any other question of our time. Unesco, then, must contribute its part to a world system strong enough to keep the peace. Some en- thusiastic Unescans appear to believe that inter- national understanding itself will prevent war. I do not subscribe to that belief. World organi- zation must have a political structure. Unesco has a vital rôle in helping to make that possible, but we should make every effort to avoid any impression that we in Unesco are trying to do it alone. Sceptics doubt that Unesco can mobilize sufficient international understanding to make any real difference in the present world situation. I myself would be inclined to agree if Unesco were alone, if it were the entire United Nations Organi- zation, but it is one part of a larger structure. Unesco’s contribution may well mean the dif- ference between the success or failure of the whole organization. I doubt that the United Nations can succeed unless Unesco does. On one thing all the delegates in this room are agreed, I believe, and that is that Unesco has a
61 priceless asset in the vision, vigour and ability of the Director-General, Dr. Torres Bodet. Last April we held in the United States a national conference on Unesco, which was attended by 2,500 delegates from the forty-eight States of our Union, and by some 6,000 visitors from the Cleveland community. It was our great pleasure to have the Director- General with us. He has left with us an enduring impression and an enduring inspiration. We are sometimes told that a nation gets the kind of leaders it deserves—the same thing is true of or- ganizations. I can have no doubts as to the merits of Unesco if it has deserved such a distinguished leader. I have read with great interest the Director-Gen- eral’s Report on the activities of Unesco during the brief months since he took office. I can well understand the difficulties he has faced and which he describes so well in the first pages of his report. Many of us here in this room have experienced the difficulties of recruiting a competent staff for our national service; how infinitely more complex are the problems of securing the services of an able secretariat drawn from many countries to perform new tasks of an international character, and requiring knowledge and skills of a very dif- ferent order. We earnestly hope that the prob- lems of recruitment and continuity in the Secre- tariat will be satisfactorily solved. Dr. Torres Bodet has given us an enlightened review of the problems of Unesco as he sees them from his vantage point as Director-General of our Organization. He has told us that Unesco must simplify its programme. The United States dele- gation heartily and emphatically agrees. I admit that I find considerable difficulty in understanding all the implications of the bountiful resolutions that we passed in the last session of the Confer- ence in Beirut. I have given considerable study to them, but I am frequently embarrassed by being asked to explain some obscure item which I either have not noticed or not understood. Probably this difficulty rises in part from defects in the way we formulated some of our resolutions. We have not always made them clear or stated pre- cisely what contribution to Unesco’s general pur- pose each project is supposed to make. Nor does our programme as a whole seem to be guided by a central purpose. I have said that I believe it should be. The activities of Unesco must be sim- plified, concentrated and always directed un- waveringly towards the development of fun- damental understanding, needed in the peace- making of the United Nations. I do not wish to be misunderstood on this point. A world community of mind, with peace as its central aim, will not be developed by a single project or a single programme. Unesco’s acti-   vities must command the active participation of intellectuals and the masses of the people every- where. To do this, diversity of efforts is required, but I am quite confident that the best results will be obtained—and good results must not be delayed by focusing education, scientific and cultural co-operation on the issues, concepts and problems crucial to the building of an enduring peace. The Executive Board has submitted to us a sug- gested code of policies consisting of eighteen General Directives, which is intended to help remedy the present difficulties of diffusion and confusion. While the policy code is an excellent beginning, these eighteen directives do not appear to the United States delegation to be fully commen- surate with the fine purpose intended. Rather than adopt these directives as they are now presented to us, we would prefer that they referred back to the Executive Board for redrafting, in the light of the revised programme which we expect will be presented to us at the next session of the General Conference. From what I have already said you will un- derstand that we fully concur with the Director- General's assertion that Unesco’s dificulty is not merely one of expressing more clearly and simply what we are trying to do. It goes deeper than that. We still have to agree on basic objectives and a plan of work. We must continue to clarify our aims, even though no complete and final definition is likely to be formulated. Great philo- sophers continue year after year to try to define the purposes of education, and no one has ever been completely satisfied by their definitions. But this fact does not absolve us from the re- sponsibility of a renewed effort to clarify our goal. Certainly I agree with the Director-General that it is not so much the mere number of activities of Unesco which induces confusion, as it is the absence of one or more clearly designed plans, running through the whole programme. Thus, I hope that there will be general agreement at the next session of the Conference on a drastic revision of the programme of Unesco, organized around the relatively few major projects. We must indeed concentrate and integrate the activities of Unesco. But I trust that we can agree on more than that, for it is not enough to concentrate and integrate in a vacuum, we must firmly establish the frame of reference, the vital purposes within which we concentrate and integrate the Pro- gramme. I venture to make two or three suggestions which I hope will be considered when the Exe- cutive Board and the Director-General refashion the programme for our consideration at the next conference. First, let us all recall that while Unesco draws its mandate from the will of the
62 peoples of the world, it must be operated, as | have already said, as a part and parcel of the system of the United Nations. A world community is needed with sufficient cohesion to enable international justice and an international political organization to function. The United Nations and its Specialized Agencies are the best expression in institutional form which the world now possesses. Unesco exists to strengthen that community and in particular to strengthen the system of the United Nations. How can Unesco best serve the United Nations? I hope that this question will be thoughfully con- sidered by every delegate who proposes a project to be undertaken by Unesco, or who votes on a budget item during this conference. I hope that the Executive Board and the Director-General will consider how Unesco can best serve the United Nations when they reflect on the future pro- gramme of Unesco. Unesco can command to a degree unparallelled by any other organization the interest and support of educators, scientists and scholars. It can exert an immense influence through the radio, the press, and films. Would it not be well for the Director-General to invite the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the heads of the eight sister agencies of the United Nations to submit, for his consideration, three or four projects which Unesco, as the edu- cational arm of the United Nations, might well undertake in order to advance the interests of the whole system? Could he not by such a request at once make clear that Unesco accepts this re- sponsibility to the world community, and at the same time ensure the support and co-operation of the other agencies? Unesco is designed as a major agency of the cultural revolution of the twentieth century. This is a revolution like the French revolution and other great revolutions in history, in the sense that its aim is to spread possession of the instru- ments of power among all peoples. Scholarship, education and art are instruments of power in the modern world. Held closely in the hands of a small fortunate élite, they may be exploited to buttress privilege and block the growth of demo- cracy. But when all the people have access to knowledge and skill, and may share in the cultural riches of mankind, tyranny and aggression become increasingly difficult, if not impossible. This cultural revolution, asserting the right of all human beings to education and to the benefits of research and artistic creation is vigorously under- way today. Unesco was created to facilitate this revolution, as being necessary to the spread of international understanding and the growth of world community. Unesco is not for the few, it is for the many, it is for all. This is why    Unesco must proceed with a vigorous and ex- panded programme of education for the masses of the people of the world. That is why the United States delegation supports an energetic campaign of fundamental education, not only as a part of the programme of Unesco, but also as an essential part of the programme of technical assistance in economic deveolpment. That is also why the U.S. delegation urges that still more effective use be made of the means of mass com- munication, the radio, films, and the printed word. A great deal has been heard recently about the proposed technical assistance programme for the so-called backward areas of the world. A distin- guished member of the American delegation asked recently, “What's to be done about the areas of the world that are going backward?” I hope Unesco can assist in reversing that retrograde movement and that all the world can advance to- gether in peace and human dignity. Unesco must cling unflinchingly and firmly to the ideas of free enquiry, freely carried on and freely com- municated. The United States has signed the Convention to facilitate the international exchange of audio- visual materials of an educational character. It is our earnest hope that other nations will also sign this Convention, which is the first to be negotiated under Unesco’s auspices. We hope that it will be rapidly brought into effect. Ten signatures are required to bring that Convention into effect. The United States, the first nation to sign it, affixed its signature very shortly after it was opened for signature in Lake Success, about two weeks ago. While we urge the adoption of the present Convention, we also favour continued efforts to enlarge its scope to include other edu- cational materials. The delegation of the United States reaffirms its faith and confidence in Unesco. We are proud of the efforts which have been made by our Na- tional Commission in the United States to win support for Unesco in our own country. I do not know to what extent we may be considered by the Director-General to have failed to carry out in the United States some of the projects which we have been asked to perform. No doubt we, like other members of the United Nations, may have been remiss to some extent. As the representative of the United States delegation to this Confer- ence, of the United States National Commission and of the Government of the United States, I wish to give this pledge to the Director-General —“the United States will, during the coming year, redouble its efforts to bring into the service of Unesco our learned groups, our great civic and cultural organizations, and our media of mass
63 communication. We shall welcome recommen. dations from the Director-General, we shall do all in our power to carry them out. If we are negligent we shall gladly accept his reproof. We shall bear in mind that peace is made in the villages, the towns, in the schools and in the home, and where it lies in our powerto build the peace, we will put forward our utmost strength.” The PRESIDENT — I call on Mr. delegate of Czechoslovakia. Mr. BOOR (Czechoslovakia) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the Czechoslovak delegation has examined the Report of the Director-General with great interest. However, while we have found certain ideas and facts which we should like to endorse, there are other facts on which we have different opinions. On behalf of the Czechoslovak delegation I shouldlike, first of all, to put forward certain essential remarks with regard to the gen- eral character of the Director-General’s Report, and to the Organization’s activities. Afterwards, I should like to comment on certain concrete items of the Report. It is in particular the first part of the Report, that is “General Consider- ations”, which offers us the opportunity to present certain comments of a basic character. The Dir- ector-General has considered it opportune to divide Unesco's tasks into three groups according to their significance and urgency. In doing so, he considered the most important criterium the “practical value as regards the stan- dard of living of ordinary people”. We are in full agreement with this principle. In developing this thought further, the Director-General con- tinues: “All men agree that plenty is preferable to famine, health to disease, knowledge to ignorance, and communication and exchange to isolation. They all agree that life is enriched by literature and art.” He goes on to state that the first task of Unesco is ‘satisfying humanity's essential needs and in the first place the most pressing needs of the greatest number of people”. Naturally we also agree withthese ideas of the Report. We think, however, they do not com- prise everything and that they do not strike at the root of the matter. From our point of view, and according to the practice we have followed, the most important task is to create favourable conditions for the development of plenty, health and culture, and to eliminate the causes of famine, disease and ignorance. All this necessarily calls for a newly organized society and a change in economic structure. In this we see the primary duty of the modernstate. So that Unesco may retain the faith of the na- tions—which is highly desirable—the Director- General recommends that it concentrate its Boor, the     efforts on “certain practical tasks that it can complete with the resources at its disposal, and the value and meaning of which is beyond all doubt”. It is necessary that these resources be- come steadily greater. We therefore note with satisfaction that the proposed budget for 1950 foresees an increase of from 56.2 per cent to
62.6 per cent for programme operations, and a decrease of administrative expenditure of 23.9 per cent. These changes are no doubt connected with the contemplated changes in the Secretariat, which the Director-General promises to carry out in the near future. The Czechoslovak delegation is convinced that in implementing this promise the Director-General will adhere to the criterium which he so appropriately expressed by the words: “Unesco should be much more than a career, it should be a vocation.” We further hope that the Director-General will keep in view ideological distribution rather than purely mechanical distri- bution based on geography. Thus the free flow of ideas and of all currents of thought according to the Director-General’s intentions could be realized in the very heart of our Organization. At the end of the “General Considerations” the Director-General speaks of co-operation with inter- national non-governmental organizations, stating that the broad masses of their members constitute “vast latent reserves of faith and devotion which are only waiting for tangible proof of our effi- ciency to organize their efforts and take action”. On this we do not have any doubts. Whenever Unesco will demonstrate that its endeavours, and chiefly its deeds, are directed towards the ensuring of peace, social and economic progress and inter- national co-operation, it will be supported by inter- national organizations inspired by these ideals and by the peace-loving people of all nations. We therefore welcome the public debate which will take place in a few days within the framework of this Conference. We would, however, be glad to see Unesco take part in all activities whose watchword is “Peace”. We are not thinking only of the important peace congresses held in New York, Paris, Prague and Budapest, but also of the forthcoming International Day of Peace which will be celebrated on 2 October. And if Unesco in- tends to co-ordinate the activities of all inter- national organizations working for peace it would be best to link this work with that of the already existing International Committee for the Defence of Peace. I should now like to mention some questions on which the Czechoslovak delegation wishes to express its point of view. According to the order laid down in the Director-General’s Report, the first group of questions concerns itself with Pro- gramme activities. In the field of reconstruction the relief campaign for war-devastated countries is still very much to the fore. Czechoslovakia too, is grateful for the aid she is receiving from Unesco, although it must be emphasized that there are frequent technical difficulties of various kinds with the material sent, and that these difficulties diminish the value and usefulness of this aid. In the field of education we prefer international seminars such as those held at Sèvres and at Podê- brady in Czechoslovakia to educational missions. On this point we fully agree with the criticism put forward by the Swiss delegate, M. Piaget. We shall follow with the utmost interest the drive for the improvement of textbooks, in particular as regards textbooks of geography and history. In this way ancient prejudices, misinformation and lies, which poison the mutual relations among nations, may be removed. It is the desire of all of us that truth be triumphant, that objective reality be always presented, and that the strictly scientific and progressive point of view prevail. With regard to natural science, we are glad to know that Unesco does not flinch from tackling such practical, economic questions as Food and People. In our opinion, this is one of the most vital problems, and we hope that the authors from other countries with a planned economy, will come forward with suggestions towards their solution, basing themselves on the successful ex- periences gained with new economic forms. We have commented on certain activities of Unesco. Unfortunately, there are several matters in which Unesco should have done something, but has failed to do so. One example is the fate of the Polish art treasures which are at this mo- ment in Canada. Almost nothing has been done on the part of Unesco to send them back to Poland. Furthermore, we join in the criticism offered by the delegates of Iraq and Afghanistan who accused Unesco of red tape and insufficient initiative in the field of genuine reconstruction. Finally, a point of special significance must be raised as being the most important one in the field of official and external relations—the ques- tion of Germany. The Czechoslovak delegation looks upon Germany as a world problem as well as a special Czechoslovak problem. Sooner or later Germany will have to find her place as a member of the community of the European na- tions. We do not, however, see any other solu- tion for this painful problem than an agreement between the Big Four and the consequent early signing of a peace treaty witha unified Germany. Once this has been achieved, the function of Unesco in Germany becomes quite clear, i.e. to educate the German people for peace in the spirit of the Preamble and above all to bring about a thorough denazification without the participation of any private capital. Those nations who have   suffered most from the German occupation and who know the German mentality best have a vital interest in this great problem. The broad masses of the people want to acquaint themselves with the work of Unesco, to discuss and criticize it. They feel instinctively if and when Unesco’s activities are directed towards the establishment of a genuine and lasting peace. The raison d’être and the moral credit of our Organi- zation will depend on the energy by which Unesco satisfies the passionate desire for peace and social justice that exists in the overwhelming majority of all people. The PRESIDENT — I call on Professor Car- neiro, Head of the Brazilian delegation. Prof. P. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) — [Translation] Mr. President, our new Director- General Dr. Jaime Torres Bodet in his brilliant report to the Conference showed a loftiness of utterance and a breadth of vision on which I should like to congratulate him. In defining the tasks of our Organization, the Director-General used language reminiscent of the school of Pytha- goras, of the great Hildebrand, the peerless pope; it was even akin to the style of the great encyclo- paedia which aspired to the position of a kind of lay papacy in the eighteenth century. In com- menting on the Director-General’s Report, I should like to start from the exalted level to which the speaker raised us. When he attributed to Unesco an international mission, to be reinforced gradu- ally, by the support of a growing number of people inspired by an active desire for mutual com- prehension and progress, the Director-General added a warning: Unesco could fulfil this mis- sion onlyif it was generally accepted as a universal aspiration; and he submitted, in explanation, a plea to us to make of Unesco a mighty federation of the spriitual forces of the world. Unesco thus claims to assume the mantle of all the great movements which have guided the course of man’s evolution, presiding over his des- tiny, and offering intellectual and moral stimulus amidst the conflicts arising from the material circumstances of his life. In the past, this role was admirably played, at all the critical periods of history, by certain great spiritual forces. The Greek thinkers, when they strove to lay the foundations of philosophy, of science, of art, regarded them as a basis of building the civilization of the future. The Cath- olic papacy, founding the admirable monasteries, centres of the whole intellectual life of the Middle Ages; the Catholic papacy sending its missionaries round the world; Saint Francis of Assisi inter- ceding between Moslems and Catholics; Francois Xavier arriving in Japan; his Jesuit missionaries reaching the new world and teaching the inhab- itants to read and to write—all these were links in a chain of events which resulted in the natives of my country gaining their first knowledge of Western calligraphy from the characters traced by our great Anchietta on the moving sands of the Brazilian shores. It is thanks to this sum of spiritual forces, also, that a common language was established in the New World and this too was the work of these missionaries; that a famous pope declared to his conquerors, more noted, sometimes, for audacity than sensitiveness, that these native masses, en- countered for the first time, were also human beings with souls; that an attempt was made to protect these primitive peoples, the negro slave and the persecuted Indian. Here, gentlemen, is the work of Unesco in operation: the same striving to spread culture, to draw peoples closer together, the same acknowledgement of the para- mountcy of moral values in human problems. Are we capable of proving worthy inheritors of these traditions, of constituting a great world federation of spiritual forces? Unesco had its beginnings here in Paris. Its work lies, firstly, in the fields of education, science and culture, pre-eminently intellectual, moral and spiritual work, the work of the churches and the priest- hood. And, secondly, it is an organization of States. Governments are not invariably, nor have they been in the past, either the strongest sup- porters or the best spokesmen of the moral and spritual forces of the world. We have proof of this, Mr. President, in the tragic roll of victims and heroes we now admire so much, martyrs who, without the support of governments, addressed to the world the appeal which you believe should be Unesco’s. We have therefore to reconcile these heterogeneous forces. All democracy is based on freedom of the spirit, which alone furnishes the independence necessary in order to advise, to sanc- tion and to judge. Howcan a State play these two parts simultane- ously, without violence to that freedom which is the very essence of our organization? If Unesco is to respect this freedom, she must have neither a philosophy of her own nor even too uniform a system of education and culture. There are limits to the action of States, limits imposed by the need to safeguard the freedom of the indi- vidual, without which we should sink into ex- treme totalitarianism such as has already trans- formed one great people, the Germans, into a horde of slaves swayed by the vilest passions. How, gentlemen, are we to reconcile these two duties: to safeguard spiritual freedom, whilst at the same time ensuring co-ordination between States? Only, surely, by appealing, increasingly,    to these international non-governmental organi- zations and asking them to contribute their wise counsel to temporal powers unable to find the path of salvation unaided. In this International Union of scientists, educationists and sociologists, this co-operation between artists, philosophers, teach- ers and scholars, you have set us an example. But there is more, there are better things to be done, Mr. President. The world is divided between various spiritual forces which, though divergent, all occupy the same position in relation to human destiny. Why not appeal also to the spiritual forces of India, of China, of the Catholic and the Protestant world; why not try to rally to Unesco, in the service of man, all the great religious forces existing and operating for the good of mankind? I would like one day to see this new international organization, this great spiritual alliance, lending its support to the moral forces to which you have appealed. In another passage of his admirable Report, the Director-General referred to that article in Unesco’s Constitution which proclaims that a peace founded solely on economic and political agreements be- tween governments cannot command the unani- mous, lasting and sincere adherence of the peoples, and that lasting peace must be based on the in- tellectual and moral solidarity of humanity. Peace treaties are shortly to be concluded. The political and economic problems of peace are constantly arising. What part has Unesco to play in working out the future peace? I like to think that the heavy burden laid on the shoulders of the Director-General will not be confined merely to carrying out the projects adopted by Unesco; but that he will be found wherever the problem of peace arises, wherever conflicts occur, con- tributing the intellectual and moral solidarity without which no lasting peace is possible; that he will intervene wherever there is ideological strife, or whenever an economic crisis—due so frequently to fear—darkens the horizon. Like the Knight Templars the Director-General must be constantly in the lists; it is important that the peoples grow accustomed to his presence, and thereby acquire that confidence in Unesco which appears hitherto to have been lacking. We share the Director-General’s disappointment, but may it not be because Unesco has not yet made a frontal attack on the problem of peace, because it has not yet been able to be present everywhere, has not appeared, banner aloft, at each of the international meetings where prob- lems of peace are discussed by all, great and small; because it has not yet succeeded in making its mark on public opinion, which expects it to pronounce the last word on international peace and harmony? There is, on the agenda of our
66 conference, a general debate on the duties of States in regard to education, science and culture. I am confident that those who take part in it will keep all these aspects in view; and that the Dir- ector-General may well be called on one day, in the name of our assembly, to represent the cause of peace throughout the world. I propose, with the Director-General's permis- sion, to dwell for a moment on the work accom- plished by the Organization during the months of his administration which, as a member of the Executive Board and of the Programme Commis- sion, I have followed with close attention. His activities have been multiple. May I enumerate them, without however going into all the details of a very extensive programme. Firstly, assist- ance for war-devastated countries. The Book of Needs published by Unesco, represents the tragic reckoning of the last great ordeal inflicted upon the modern world; it is a dramatic portrait; without exaggeration, without distortion, it reveals the results of the catastrophe in all their magni- tude. What a grievous indictment of our cen- tury! What will future generations think of us when they look through these pages, and see nothing but ruins, the faces of children distorted by suffering, universities destroyed, laboratories razed to the ground? I have just returned from a pilgrimage to Greece, made at Unesco’s request. Once again I was moved to tears by the tragedy which still befalls children all over the world, the children we find in Poland, in Czechoslovakia, in China, everywhere, wandering round like little ghosts, with no one to turn to, no security, no homes, no parents, no schools, no country, no future. Unesco must help these children, not as an impersonal organization, but as a group of men inspired by the understanding born of suf- fering. Then, again, Unesco, under the leadership of our Director-General, has despatched educational missions; organized an international seminar on illiteracy in the Americas, a conference on adult education at Elsinore, a big conference on public education in Geneva. The Unesco Natural Science Department has worked on a problem which is regarded by scientists all over the world as a nightmare: So science abstracting has ended by losing its way in the intricacies of the work. Unesco is striving to introduce order into this vast business of research. The Department of Social Sciences has been reformed, and a new pro- gramme is being drawn up, based on the guiding principle of the integration of man, whatever his cultural level, race or religion, into modern civi- lization. Let us not forget that a large part of humanity is still living in temporary quarters round about our cities; that an enormous pro-   letariat expect to receive at the hands of Unesco the schooling which is its common heritage and without which it remains outcast, denied a share in that knowledge that is the most precious legacy of the past. Unesco has established an International Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. It has discussed the concept of democracy. An Inter- national Council of Music has been set up; and two famous names have been cited in a world- wide appeal for unity of thought and feeling: the commemoration of Chopin and Goethe is more than lip-service paid to these two illustrious names; it is proof of Unesco’s aim to keep the inheritance of the past ever alive in the minds of men. Unesco’s work in Japan and Germanyis certain- ly one of the most important operations under- taken this year. A committee of experts, acting as individuals, and enjoying complete freedom to express both their opinions and those of the com- mittee, has given valuable guidance in this sphere; and Unesco has done remarkable work in both these countries, the main culprits of those terrible disasters from whose effects we are still suffering. Unesco does not pose as guardian of the occupied countries; it makes no claim to exercise any political influence in the reform of the opinions and customs of these great coun- tries; it acts under the terms of its Constitution, with the aim of imparting to both these countries its ideal of human solidarity, of concentrating all efforts within the sphare of education, science and culture. It is a true mission; it is in this spirit that the committee of experts has viewed the question and in this spirit only that Unesco proposes to continue its work. It is essential, undoubtedly, for the Secretariat to restrict its programme, if only to give it time to reflect on the problems before it. A very long- standing member of one of the most famous of international organizations remarked to me one day that, in large organizations, there is never time to think things out; work tends to be con- ducted rather on the steam-roller principle, with- out the necessary freshness of approach to serious problems. This gradual concentration of effort, which, as we have been reminded is not a sign of failure or of retreat, should further the solution of those problems for which this Organization was estab- lished; to achieve world unity by improved co- ordination of effort in the sphere of education. science and culture. Some passages in the Director-General’s Report seemed, I thought, to indicate a certain loneliness of spirit. It may be that, in a world all too pre- occupied by immediate problems, problems of peace, of health, of war, few of us have the detach- ment required for consideration of long-term plans. But allow me to assure the Director-Gen- eral that he is not alone; behind him stands the long procession of the illustrious dead who, in the past, worked for the future; and the army of the generations of the past, though mute, is invincible. And before us waits the future. It is in the name of the past of the future that we hope the Director-General will continue to direct the course of the present, troubled and chaotic though it may appear. The PRESIDENT — I call upon Mr. Jacques Rueff, first delegate of Monaco. Mr. Jacques RUEFF (Principality of Monaco) — [Translation] Mr. President, Director-Gen- eral, ladies and gentlemen, fellow-delegates, in addressing this meeting, I should like first to express the profound gratification of the Princi- pality of Monaco at the compliment you have paid it by inviting it to take part in the work of your Organization. I am aware that my country might be regarded in some quarters as geographically insignificant. Allow me to congratulate and to thank your for discarding this superficial view, for taking account of the time as well as the space factor, for re- cognizing the rights of this historic rock, the home of one of the oldest sovereignties of Europe, dating back, as it does, over 800 years. My delegations thanks youfor realizing that the people of Monaco regard it as its duty to participate in the defence and dissemination of that humanistic culture, of which Unesco is the champion, and to which Mo- naco, like all of you. is so deeply devoted. Ladies and gentlemen, in taking up this item on our Agenda—discussionof the admirable Report of the Director-General—I shall crave your per- mission to speak in a twofold capacity: I have in fact the privilege to be here both as Head of the delegation of Monaco, and also, thanks to a chain of events which I have always found some- what incomprehensible, as Chairman for three years of the International Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, established last year at your request. This Council has now been functioning for nearly ten months, and its permanent Committee has already met twice. It is sometimes said that a great merit of conferences is that they force those who address the conference to give serious thought to the subject on which they have—often very lightheartedly—agreed to speak. It is my opinion that Committees play an, at least, equally valuable part in relation to their Chairman, in that they bring him up against responsibilities which, in the present case, both T and all my colleagues have    thought particularly onerous. Fortunately, how- ever, the Conference, whose choice, in my own case, I find some difficulty in approving whole- heartedly, had the wisdom to designate, as Vice- chairmen, firstly Mr. Sommerfelt, Head of the Norwegian delegation, who is present here today; and, secondly, Sir Harold Bell, President of the British Academy. But for the constant advice and support of these two Vice-chairmen, and of all my colleagues composing the permanent Committee and the Assembly of this new Council, I should have felt myself completely inadequate to preside over the birth and the destinies of the new body. Gentlemen, the decision to create the Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies was prompted by a profound enthusiasm. It will not, I think you will agree, be amiss to recall the cir- cumstances of its establishment, since the Council provides a concrete instance of the formidable problems raised by the Director-General's Report. The Council was born, as you know, from an idea voiced at the Unesco General Conference; and it was in pursuance of a resolution submitted by Mexico that the Director-General invited the Inter- national Academic Union (of which I happened to be French representative), the International Federation of Philosophic Societies, the Interna- tional Committee on Historical Sciences, the Per- manent International Committee of Linguists, the International Committee of Folk Arts and Folk-lore and the International Federation of Associations of Classical Studies to consider the setting up of an organization which would accomplish for the sphere of philosophy and humanistic studies the work already so successfully done by the Inter- national Council of Scientific Unions in the sphere of natural sciences. The mandate given to the new organ was out- lined in the text of your resolution of December
1947: “The Director-General is instructed... to promote the establishment of an International Council concerned with philosophy and human- istic studies, similar to the International Council of Scientific Unions”. It was essentially a question of co-ordinating the work of specialists operating in their own fields for the purpose of achieving a kind of synthesis of scientific work covering all branches of humanistic studies. - This, gentlemen, is but a brief summary ofthis project, which, I repeat, was accepted enthu- siastically. The Assembly unhesitatingly acceded to your request and established this Council. En- thusiasm has the power of inspiring to great en- deavour. But enthusiasm, directly it enters the realm of reality, also raises a number of concrete problems—and it was these problems which we had to solve when laying down the main lines of the new council’s policy.
68 As a result of a thorough discussion of general policy, we arrived at a basic conclusion, which I desire to impart to you because, in my opinion, it applies to any organs that may set up in the future. We decided, after hearing the views of the foremost experts in the various branches of our subject, that international organizations some- times tended to forget that the main factor in research is the research worker; that, whilst inter- national organizations could facilitate research by creating favourable conditions, they neither could nor should take the place of the research workers; and should take care not to hamper their creative freedom. The two main principles on which our policy has been based are as follows: that research is carried out neither in committees, nor to order. We want to avoid giving research workers tasks of a theoretical nature, selected by authorities of indifferent competence in the course of a one-week or two-week conference. We believe that the strength of the research-workerlies in his dynamic energy, the penetrating force of his mind. If this force is lacking, it cannot be artificially stimu- lated. We have deliberately avoided any programme which might result in summoning a research worker and saying: “There are fifteen dollars for you; and in six weeks you will produce a basic discovery”. What we have aimed at—and I will tell you what steps we have taken in this direction —is to help research workers in their own spheres, to establish conditions favourable to their work, arduous and exacting as creative work always is. Convinced that life in the modern world had great- ly complicated the work of all who wrestle with problems of the mind, we attempted to help; and I will tell you how we did it. You will find our plan of work in a pamphlet which has just been published, and which will, I hope, be made available to all who are interested in this subject. It contains a summary of the work of our Council; page 34 gives what we term our plan of action. The plan comprises three main sections: Exchanges, Scientific Work, and Projects of broad international importance. The first, the Exchanges section, is by far the most important. It is our belief that one of the most dangerous features of the present age is the diffi- culty experienced by research workers in obtaining information on all the work being done in fields bordering on their own. I reminded my col- leagues, at the Constitutive Assembly, of a phrase in Stendhal’s fine novel Lucien Leuwen; “In all parties”, he says, “the more intelligent a man is, the less is he a party man”. We do not, of course, deal in politics in the Council of Philo- sophy and Humanistic Studies, but we also con- sider that, with specialists as well, the more in-       telligent the man, the less will he confine himself to his own speciality, the greater will be his inter- est in his neighbour’s field. We decided that our first task must be to promote the exchange of ideas between specialists in allied branches of knowledge, which tend all too often to be con- fined within watertight compartments. We re- garded it as our duty to combat the isolation of specialists within their own subjects, a regrettable consequence of the specialization imposed by the spread of knowledge; and it was this conviction that inspired the first section of our plan of work: Exchanges. We provide first for the co-ordination of congresses. Here again, gentlemen, what I say may appear to you to be very obvious and uninspired; but it is our conviction, I repeat, that the work of an organization like ours is essentially technical; it is for you to evolve great schemes, to issue general directives; our task is to carry them into effect, and this postulates close and daily contact with the practical realities of special- ized research. We have attempted, accordingly, to co-ordinate the congresses held. Organizations representing a large independent branch of science and affiliated organizations will hold their congresses every five years. Faced by a spate of international scientific meetings, we have tried to impose some order and regularity. We all—and especially in the month of September, for which we had other plans—had invitations to two, three, four congresses being held simultaneously in a number of different towns. We appointed a co-ordination committee to draw up the calendar of the big international congresses, and it has already achieved important results; we have likewise given technical advice to the organizers of these congresses with a view to improving their internal arrangements; and results here too are already evident. We have arranged meetings of joint commissions to study questions connected with various special branches: there has already, for instance, been a meeting of a committee on the history of science, attended by philosophers, historians and experts from ICSU (International Council of Scientific Unions). We also plan to set up a number of other joint committees in the spheres of the philosophy of science, the history of science, anthropology and geography. Much of our work has been devoted to organi- zing the exchange of information. One of our first tasks—embarked on at your request—has been to produce an annual information bulletin on the work of the Council, composed of reports from member organizations. We have asked for these reports from member organizations, and some have already been received; the first issue of the bulletin is to appear early next year.
69 A large part of our discussions has been devoted to the subject of bibliographies; in this case the dificulty is not lack of information, but super- abundance. Many of those here today have sat on these committees, and are familiar with the details of their work. To avoid duplication, all too frequent in this branch of activity, we have recommended publication of the following inter- national bibliographies: bibliography of philo- sophy, to be prepared by the International Feder- ation of Philosophic Societies; bibliography of historical studies; bibliography of linguistic studies; bibliography of classical studies; biblio- graphy of prehistoric, ethnological and anthropo- logical studies; bibliography of literary studies; bibliography of the history of art. This list may appear to be a long one; actually it is considerably shorter than the list of blibliographies at present in existence. We have also, with the aid of leading experts, made a study of the technique of biblio- graphy, involving lengthy deliberations on reference systems, presentation and languages, frequency of issue, in fact, all the technical questions connected with the essentially international work of circu- lating information in all the branches of know- ledge with which we deal. We have considered setting up a clearing-house for distribution of information; and we have decided to issue, after every congress, a five-year statement, drawn up according to an accepted for- mula, for each branch of study. Finally, at your request, we are considering resuming publication, under the auspices of the Council, of a universal review of humanistic stud- ies. This difficult question has not yet been solved, but will be brought up again at the next meeting of our permanent Committee, in January
1950. The first section, therefore, is exchange of in- formation. The second, no less important, is patronage. In the modern world, the patronage system, which in the past played so great a part in the development of all artistic and intellectual work is practically extinct. Private funds are al- most non-existent, public funds much reduced, and times are such that the majority of states have restricted and in some cases discontinued the practice of subsidies, on which much research work and many publications depended. 1 should like to thank Unesco at this point for its generosity in this connexion: not only has the Organization supplied us with invaluable funds but it has also insisted on receiving nothing in exchange. Unesco has been at constant pains to preserve our inde- pendence, and to enable the Council to-weigh the various requests submitted to it entirely on their merits. I do not propose, gentlemen, to enter into the     details of these requests; they will be found in the record of the last meeting of our permanent Committee; but I must tell you that these many requests raised very formidable questions for an organization such as ours, since a table of priorities had to be established. We have done our best; we are trying to work out a practice based on precedents; we have devoted many meetings to examination of the requests submitted to us, and we have evolved a provisional distri- bution plan, a kind of research budget, which, we hope, will enable us to ensure the survival of a number of publications and research projects which might otherwise have had to be abandoned for lack of funds. The third section of our work, and that which requires the most careful handling, deals with the exchange of ideas, not through publications, but by personal contacts. The obstacles placed, by the modern world, despite the advancement of technical means of communication, in the way of personal contacts between men of various coun- tries seem to us to represent one of the greatest weaknesses of our civilization; yet without such contacts we can never hope to achieve that com- munity of minds on the basis of which alone a rebirth of humanism is possible. We decided to arrange discussions (what the Anglo-Saxon coun- tries call “round-table conferences”) on subjects of vital import to Unesco, the United Nations and all thinking men; to allow carefully selected indi- viduals to meet and, in profound discussion, ex- change views on important topics. The first dis- cussion of this type has been arranged—at your suggestion—for 15 November; the subject is the methods and technique of Fascism and Nazism. The delegates of Brazil and the United States of America spoke, a few minutes ago, of the part Unesco could play in working out a kind of United Nations doctrine. We firmly believe that there is a real technique of freedom, which it is in- cumbent on our Council to define and develop. But to do this, our organization must expand, for, as you will perhaps have noticed, neither econo- mists nor sociologists are at present represented on our Council... I am convinced that when they chose me as Chairman it was the intention of the founders of this Organization to add to the Council, firstly, an international federation of economists, then not yet formed; secondly, an association of political studies, which has just been founded; and, thirdly, an association of sociologists, plans for which are at pre- sent being worked out. If we are to broach the vast problems to which the delegates of Brazil and the United States of America referred, and which bid fair in the future to bring Unesco’s work into ever closer contact with real life, we
70 must have the support of these important branches of knowledge, in order to enable us to bring the right mental perspective to the study of problems which the governments of the modern world are encountering with ever increasing frequency. Gentlemen, I have completed my rapid survey of the work of the Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies; some of you may be disap- pointed at the dry, matter-of-fact character of our programme. I wished to stress our determination to maintain close contact with the realities of research work, and to avoid general plans con- cerned rather with programmes than with their realization. Our emphasis has been, as far as pos- sible, on action. To return to the agenda of this meeting—dis- cussion of the Director-General’s Report—it may not be out of place to remark that the main char- acteristic of the programme entrusted to him is its enormous scope. If we are to meet some of the objections which have recently been raised, our main task is to prune, to curtail, to decide which of our activities are capable of producing quick results, and eliminate those which there is no hope of realizing at an early date. “Infinity” —T think it was André Gide who said it—“is the paradise of empty dreams. Rational action in- evitably means limitation and concentration, not to be obtained without sacrifice.” In the vast horizons opened up before us by the Director- General’s Report, it is our duty to decide what sacrifices must be made in order to reduce our work to the level of practical possibility suscep- tible of immediate results. I am not saying that we must abandon high hopes and lofty under- takings—they must be kept in mind; but that, out of the vast programme of Unesco, elaborated over the three-years of its existence, we must en- deavour to distinguish the main lines along which rapid progress can be made for the benefit of human civilization and the accomplishment of our mission. The PRESIDENT — I call upon the delegate of France, Mr. Bidault. Mr. G. BIDAULT (France) — [Translation] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen; in view of the lateness of the hour, you will I hope permit me to dispense with all generalities. In any case, the long and eloquent speeches we have heard this morning relieve me of the necessity for embarking on any general remarks; moreover, I think, it is advisable that we should confine ourselves to the matter in hand. The subject under discussion this morning was the Director-General’s Report, and I think we should concentrate on this topic, in the interests both of order and of intellectual discipline. In dealing with a very important r n ]   matter we are all, of course, entitled to express our opinion on general questions. At this point, when the ground has been cleared by so many lofty statements, it is possible, I think, to limit ourselves to a bare recital of facts. The organi- zation to which we belong is young—and here I must admit and correct a mistake I made last year when speaking at Beirut. I said that Unesco was three years old; I was wrong, it was four. It is nowfive; and that, though it is not yet the age of reason, is at any rate the beginning of the age of action. Yet, young as the Organization is, it seems to me, and I am sure you will agree, that it has now been rejuvenated. The Director-General's Report is couched in pre- cise concrete terms, devoid of unnecessary elab- oration. Although only a few months have elapsed since the new Director-General assumed his responsibilities, a new stage has been passed; and I do not think I shall be accused of unneces- sary repetition of the words of preceding speakers when I say that it is to the credit of M. Torres Bodet that, with the help of the Secretariat and all his colleagues, working under his supervision and direction, he has transformed an organization in which many of us found much to criticize into one in which we can henceforth put our hopes. The Report shows very clearly and usefully that it is now time to pass from the administrative stage to the executive, practical stage; it is not enough that we should be an international organization— except that it provides us with opportunities of meeting—we must also produce results to show to our countries, to the people of the world, waiting on our actions. Credit for the fact that a beginning has been made is due first and fore- most, naturally, to the person in charge. Never- theless, there is no doubt that many obstacles and difficulties remain to be overcome. The first difficulty, pointed out by the Director- General, is a certain hesitation, certain inadequacy in the various National Commissions. There is a general tendency, vis-à-vis international organi- zations, to leave everything to them, to except them to do everything everywhere. Then later, as we are all aware, the work of the organization is hampered by the cautious, hedging regulations of the various Member States, calculated to pre- vent the aims of the Organization from being carried through without the aid of the States con- cerned. And up to the present, I think, this aid has not been sufficiently whole-hearted. Governments appear to be somewhat lukewarm in their support, not for Unesco as such, but for the form its work assumes in the various coun- tries. For this reason I would suggest, not in the name or in the place of the Director-General, but on behalf of all of us, and of all the countries here represented, that we should not be content with meeting once or twice a year, in a kind of annual or six-monthly academy to exchange views and deliver eloquent speeches, thereafter dis- persing, assuring each other that we have done everything necessary. The men who are entrusted with the work of Unesco and who have the—often doubtful—advantages, and certainly, the disad- vantages accompanying this work, must enjoy the constant support both of the National Commis- sions and of our representatives. In order that this may be so, a certain half-heartedness must be overcome. Governments are harassed by all manner of preoccupations, and every day brings new ones; it is understandable if they take the view that science, education and culture can man- age on their own, that those in charge of them can both represent them and assume responsibility for them, without the government intervening. It is, I think, our duty, when we return to our respective governments, to point out that, far from being here in an individual capacity, we are an assembly of responsible persons who have been appointed by our governments, and appointed, not for the purpose of sitting idle, but for the purpose of informing our governments af joint resolutions, and inducing them to undertake joint action. I admit that there are other obstacles. A few minutes ago Mr. George Allen expressed the view —and it is a point which I fully understand— that Unesco, as an organization of the United Nations, should be integrated more closely into the structure of that organization, and wholly dependent upon it. This is, perhaps, a matter of definition, but I must admit that I am not wholly convinced by Mr. Allen’s argument. It is, I think, permissible to state from this plat- form that the United Nations has not entirely lived up to the hopes we reposed in it. Our hopes are not extinct, our faith is still alive; but neither is our reason asleep, and we cannot, I think, wait for the United Nations to reach its goal before advancing ourselves. Since we have, between us, reached agreement on a number of essential points relating to science, education and culture, and, thence, to peace, it would be unreasonable, I think, to make our advance dependent upon the way being cleared by organizations which are hampered more than we are by difficulties of a political character. Let us therefore act by ourselves, in conformity with the main principles of the United Nations, as an organ dependent upon, and related to that Or- ganization, but having nevertheless its own life, its own aims and intentions; its own desires, and, I maintain, its own duties. There are yet other obstacles we must not forget.    There is, we perceive, behind the half-heartedness of governments, half-heartedness on the part of the press and ignorance on the part of the public. This is a factor which cannot be disregarded; the documents submitted to us state that it is our duty to attend to the education of the masses. Let us not mince words: the masses to be edu- cated are at present unaware of our existence. It is my opinion—and I think also the opinion of my delegation—-that the masses must be educated by the appropriate means; and I must point out an essential fact, i.e. that the masses are composed of individuals. There are no masses as such, but only masses of living human beings, each with his own individual characteristics. There is an old saying, handed down from the troubadours of my country in the Middle Ages, to the effect that the heart of a man is worth all a country’s gold. Thus, the masses we have to influence are not shapeless masses, or mere blocks, but human beings each with his own value, dignity and great- ness, human beings in groups (since all men, in the times in which we live, are obliged to form themselves into groups); and it is to the indi- vidual, primarily, that our reason, our wisdom and our courage must be addressed. I have paid a fully deserved tribute to what Unesco now and henceforward stands for (despite its name, composed of a string of initials, which I venture to qualify as barbarous). But its name —why not admit it—is not the only obstacle; there is another—the obstacle which all adminis- trations invariably encounter in relation to public opinion everywhere. It was Cato who was pop- ular, and not the Senate; Foch was popular, not the General Staff; Victor Hugo was popular, not the Academy. In short, an administration, though essential, is invariably unpopular, and it is obvious—I wish to state this here, if only to dispel certain misunderstandings, and perhaps also to ward off certain reactions—it is inevitable that the administration of Unesco, like every other administration, should raise more difficulties than its work earns admiration. We must however bear in mind that, in addition to the machinery, which is indispensable—since nothing is achieved without material means— there must, somewhere, be a store of faith, con- fidence and resolve. The French delegation has the impression that we have found this faith, this confidence, this resolve, and not only a critical spirit, but, with that critical spirit, the desire to act, to leave the world a little better than we found it. And this is for all of us, I think, an important reason for hope, determination and the will to help. In the world we live in, education,
72 science and culture are words we use, but words of whose meaning we are often ignorant. More than half the people in the world, as M. Torres Bodet reminded us yesterday, are unable to read. To these I would like to add, on my own re- sponsibility, all those who, though able to read, are nevertheless illiterate; and those who, though able to write, are more ignorant than those who are unable to read. All this ignorance cannot be wiped out simply by pious wishes, by exhorta- tions, by articles in the press or by political meas- ures; but only by slow, far-reaching, courageous and persevering work, and it cannot be done with- out an appropriate organization—Unesco. It is my belief that Unesco is the universal republic of free minds, that it is the instrument which can be used, if not actually to establish the reign of the spirit, at least to prepare the way for it. The instrument exists; it is the duty of all of us to ignore unconstructive and unhelpful crit- icism, and to learn to use Unesco—its rôle more or less defined—to bring peace and enlightenment to men of good will all over the world. The PRESIDENT — There are eighteen speak- ers whose names have been sent in for the debate on the Report of the Director-General, and I would ask any other delegations who wish to speak to send in their names to the Secretary as soon as possible. It has been decided not to hold a plenary meeting this afternoon, owing to the importance of the first meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission, but it seems to me, in view of the importance of this general debate, in which we have already heard several brilliant interventions, that it would be highly desirable to avoid as far as possible holding a plenary meeting and the meeting of the Programme Commission simul- taneously. That will create certain difficulties to which the General Committee has given attention with a view to making the best use of the time at our disposal, and it may not be possible to carry the idea through to the end. But I would like to propose that we decide not to convene the Programme Commission tomorrow morning. It will meet this afternoon for its first meeting, but I propose that we continue this general debate tomorrow morning and that meanwhile the Gen- eral Committee, which is also to meet tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m., should examine the re- mainder of the programme in order to make the best use of the time at our disposal. It may be necesary to propose one evening meeting of the plenary Conference in order to complete the dis- cussion of the Director-General’s Report. Should there be objection to my proposal regarding the       suspension of tomorrow morning's meeting of the Programme Commission, I will take it that it is agreed. Then before closing this meeting I would re- mind you that the Programme Commission will meet this afternoon in this room at 4 p.m. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. FOURTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 21 September 1949 at 11.00 a.m. CONTENTS
11. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation): Speeches by the representative of the World Health Organization and delegates of Belgium, Burma, Lebanon, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Egypt, Colombia and Pakistan President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia) The PRESIDENT — Before resuming our discus- sion of the Director-General's Report, 1 desire to announce to the Conference certain decisions of the General Committee taken this morning. The Committee has decided to submit the following proposals to the Conference regarding the organi- zation of our work for the next few days. The meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission scheduled for this morning was already eliminated by decision of the Conference yesterday, and it is recommended that the meeting scheduled for this afternoon also be eliminated. This will enable the Plenary Meeting to continue for the whole day and this afternoon’s session will begin at 3 o’clock sharp. It is hoped that it will be possible to complete the general debate on the Report of the Director-General by the end of this afternoon. If that should not be possible, there will be a further short plenary meeting tomorrow morning beginning at 9.30 and ending at 10.30, but it is very much hoped that speakers in this general debate will strictly observe the time limit of fifteen minutes and, if possible, compress their remarks into a shorter period in order that the debate may conclude this afternoon. The second proposal of the General Committee is that the Official and External Relations Com- mission should hold its first meeting this afternoon in Room 11 at 4 p.m. The purpose of the meeting will be to organize the future work of that Com- mission, and probably to arrange. an informal meeting of representatives of National Commissions who are attending the Conference. Thirdly, the Programme and Budget Com- mission will meet tomorrow, but the combined meeting, the joint meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission withthe Official and External Relations Commission which was scheduled for tomorrow for the discussion of Unesco's activities in Germany and Japan will be postponed until Saturday, 24 September. 'Tomorrow the two Commissions will meet separately, that is, the Programme and the External Relations Com- missions. The meeting of the Procedure Com- mittee envisaged for tomorrow morning will be held at a later stage in the Conference. The General Committee has been informed by the Director-General that the Secretariat is examining the implications for the budget of the recent devaluation of certain currencies, and that the results of this first study of the problem will be submitted to a meeting of the Finance Com- mittee of the Executive Board which will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m. I take this opportunity of requesting members of the Finance Committee to meet in the Executive Board lounge this afternoon at 5.30. Other members of the Board who are not members of the Finance Com- mittee, are of course perfectly free to attend the meeting and observe the discussion. This pro- cedure is, of course, designed to allow the Director-General to have the advice of the Finance Committee of the Executive Board before bringing to this Conference his views on any changes in the budget that can be made following the devaluation of certain currencies.