The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that two technical corrections should be made in doc- ument 4C/ADM/11:
1. Use the title Unesco Staff Pensions Com- mittee” instead of “Unesco Staff Benefit (or Bene- fits) Committee”, and
2. Change the date given for the Organization to become a member of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, as stated in paragraph 3, from
1 August 1949 to 1 October 1949 or later, because
1 August had already passed and time must be allowed for the necessary negotiations to work out the details. Document 4C/ADM/11 was approved. Election of members of the Staff Pensions Committee. The CHAIRMAN announced that the Commission hadto elect the membersof the Staff Pensions Com- mittee, the composition of which was to appear in the draft resolution to be submitted to the General Conference. He informed the Commission of the following proposals which had been received: Members: Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil) M. Guy Ladreit de Lacharrière (France) Mr. Kenneth Holland (United States of America) Deputies: Dr. Alberto de Clementi (Italy) M. Henryk Birecki (Poland) Mr. Paul Mathews (United Kingdom). Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) asked if the nominations were on the basis of individuals or of the positions occupied, for example, the inclusion or not of members of the Executive Board. As a matter of principle, he considered it preferable that the members should be selected by position rather than as individuals. Mr. SELSKY (Head, Bureau of Personnel) stated that the plan did not provide that there should be any particular official connexion between members of the Staff Pensions Committee and the Organ- ization, the only criterion being that the persons on the Committee should have some sort of back- ground in insurance or a similar experience. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) believed that a chief concern should be that these persons would be available for the operations involved, that is, certain to be in Paris. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that all had been selected for nomination because they ware competent and that they were all part of the permanent personnel of the permanent del- egations to Unesco and would, therefore, be in Paris. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) with- drew his objection. The nominations announced by the Chairman were unanimously adopted. * On behalf of the Commission, the CHAIRMAN congratulated the members of the new Staff Pen- sions Committee on their appointment. The meeting rose at noon. THIRD MEETING Tuesday, 27 September 194%, at 5 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Léo MunpeLeer (Belgium) Item 4 (b) of the Agenda: Scale of contri- butions of Member States for 1950 (con- tinuation) (documents 4C/ADM/3, 4C/ADM/15 and 4C/ADM/16). Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) stated that his delegation was very much surprised at the issue of document 4C/ADM/15, which proposed a single scale of contribution only. He
437 had understood that the Commission was to be presented with alternative scales, and he assumed that the document in question was only one of several illustrations which could be provided. The CHAIRMAN explained that document
4C/ADM/15, which had just been distributed, contained the information regarding the scale of
1. In final form: Resolution 28,     contributions, which the Secretariat had been asked, at the first meeting, to obtain. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) real- ized that there had been some misunderstanding, and suggested that the general debate should be continued, taking the figures in document
4C/ADM/15 as a basis. The United States delegation had come to Paris intending to press for a reduction of 2,5 per cent of the United States contribution to Unesco, in accordance with the decision taken at Beirut. In view, however, of the events of the past few days, the United States was prepared not to press for the full reduction authorized by the Beirut Conference, even though the United States would probably be paying a large share of the cost of the Technical Assistance Programme. It had recently been proposed that the United States should be granted a reduction in its con- tribution equal to the share which it would obtain from the contributions of new Member States, namely 1.4 per cent, which would reduce the United States contribution to the 1950 Budget to
37 per cent. Although that was not the reduction which the United States delegation had intended to press for, in view of the circumstances, it ap- peared to be a fair arrangement and one which would be acceptable to his delegation. Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) apologized for the title of document 4C/ADM/15, and drew attention to the new document which had just been distributed, 4C/ADM/16. In the original paper (document 4C/ADM/3), a blank space had been left in paragraph 3 on page 2, in order that the Conference might fix the maximum con- tribution of any one State. The United States was at present asking for a reduction equal to the amount due from new Member States, namely
1.43 per cent, which would reduce their contri- bution from 38.47 per cent to 37.04 per cent. If necessary, the Secretariat could produce a paper explaining that calculation. Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) felt that two con- ditions were essential if the practical and equitable system which had been adopted for fixing the scale of basic contributions was to be successful. One was that the same system should be applied to all Member States of Unesco for, as soon as it ceased to apply to one member, it became inoperative. Mr. Muggli recalled that, at the first meeting, the Commission had agreed that Sweden should still be covered by the existing system. The second condition was that the basic rate (i.e. the rate of contributions to the United Nations) should be fairly assessed for all countries. In that connexion, Mr. Muggli wished to point out that Switzerland's proportionate contribution to the United Nations—a theoretical proportion, since Switzerland was not a member of that Organization—was too high in compar- ison with other countries. Mr. Muggli therefore felt it necessary that the propositions of the basic contributions should be reviewed and that an effort should be made to find a fair solution. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that there were two problems, which ought not to be discussed simultaneously. The first was the request from the delegation of the United States of America that its contribution should be reduced; and the second was the discussion of the Director-Gen- eral’s report on the scale of contributions. He opened the discussion on the first point. Mr. TALJAARD (Union South Africa) stated that his delegation was grateful to the United States for offering to reduce their contribution by such a small amount and for not insisting on the reduction to which they were entitled accord- ing to the Beirut resolution. The CHAIRMAN remarked that the United States delegation was very reasonable in its request for a reduction; he thought it would be difficult to refuse to comply with that request. Altough he had listened with interest and respect to the statement of the United States delegate, Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) hoped that the Administrative Commission would not be rushed into a decision on such an important matter. He recalled that, when the resolution had been passed in Beirut, it had been agreed that any reduction of the United States contribu- tion should have regard to world conditions. The effect of recent events on certain countries had been very serious, and he reminded the Commission that the devaluation meant that some countries would have to find an increase of 30 per cent in sterling or in French francs. He would, there- fore, regret any hasty decision in the matter, and moved that the question be referred to the Sub- Committee, which could report back to the Commission the next day. The motion of the United Kingdom delegation, seconded by Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada), Mr. SMITH (Australia) and Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), was adopted. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that documents 4C/ADM/15 and 4C/ADM/16 had been presented in response to a request from the Commission, when the discussion had been focussed on the probable contribution of Sweden. The Secretariat had been asked to produce a paper assuming that the ceiling of the Swedish         contribution would be fixed at 2 per cent, and the result was document 4C/ADM/16. The Secretariat had also been asked to show what would happen if the United Nations scale of 1.98 per cent for Sweden were applied to the Unesco scale: doc- ument 4C/ADM/15 showed that Sweden’s contri- bution would then be 2.21 per cent. Both doc- uments showed the effect on the contribution of other Member States of the different calculations of Sweden’s contribution, The question of the United States contribution had not been raised in the Commission the pre- vious day, and the figure for the United States was identical in both documents. If the Secre- tariat was to be asked to produce a new paper, it required guidance from the Commission as to the ceiling of Sweden’s contribution. The CHAIRMAN thought that the best solution would be for the Secretariat to supply the neces- sary tables to enable the Sub-Committee to consider the whole problem, including its technical aspect. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) proposed that it should be assumed that the ceiling of Sweden's contribution would be 2 per cent. Agreed. Item 4 (c) of the Agenda: Currency of con- tributions of Member States (continuation) (document 4C/ADM/4). The CHAIRMAN announced that he had received a request from the Brazilian delegation regarding the report contained in document 4C/ADM/4, on which a decision had been taken at a previous meeting; he explained that Professor Carneiro had been unable to attend the meeting at which the report had been discussed, as he was then taking the clair in another Commission. The Chairman asked the Commission to allow Professor Carneiro to submit his request that Brazil (which was listed among the countries that were to pay their contributions in dollars) should be author- ized to pay its contribution for 1950 in francs, in view of certain financial considerations. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) asked for an explanation of the effect which the change would have on the Secretariat’s capacity to finance the dollar parts of the programme. Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) stated that the present situation was that 50 per cent of the total sum of contributions was in hard currency, and 50 per cent in soft currency. Since the begin- ning ofits existence, the Organization had exercised great care in disposing of its hard currency which was essential for certain activities, such as the Book Coupon Scheme; under that Scheme, Unesco paid out hard currency and received soft currency. Unesco’s dollar balance was just suf- ficient to enable it to carry on the Book Coupon Scheme, and any reduction of its dollar income would mean that the whole of its hard currency expenditure would have to be re-examined. Unesco was the only international Organization to receive its contributions in three different currencies; the United Nations, it was true, received contributions in Swiss francs and Dutch guilders, but only to the extent of its commit- ments in Switzerland and the Netherlands; all other international organizations received their contributions in United States dollars or in other hard currencies. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) thanked his colleages for allowing him to submitt his request. He was perfectly well aware of the disadvantages of a transfer from a “hard” to a “soft” currency; and he realized the risks that such a precedent might entail. It was, however, a case of absolute necessity, due to his country’s very limited dollar resources, a handicap which had already caused delay in the payment of the contribution . for the current year (which would, incidentally, be paid in dollars in a fortnight's time). How- ever, in view of the difficulties which were seriously affecting the Brazilian budget, the Brazilian Government had decided to ask the Commission to agree, as a special temporary measure, that its contribution for 1950 should be paid in French francs. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) was sure that the Commission had listened with sympathy and interest to the statement of the delegate of Brazil; but, as the matter involved a technical decision, he moved that it should be referred to the Sub- Committee, which could benefit from the technical advice of the Secretariat. Agreed. Item 4 (d) of the Agenda: Administration of the Revolving Fund (continuation) (doc- ument 4C/ADM/5). The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that the report had been adopted as a whole, but that item (11) in document 4C/ADM/5 (dealing with the arrangements for the repayment of loans) had been held over, as the question was whether loans should be repaid at the end of one year, or in four years as the Director-General had proposed. The Director-General had been asked to give an explanation on the point and his report had just been distributed (under the title: “Information Paper on the Director-General's proposal to liberalize the provisions of staff member repayments of housing loans from the Revolving Fund”).      As his delegation had raised the original ques- tion, Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) announced that it was prepared to accept the information furnished by the Secretariat. The United States delegation still felt, however, that Unesco was involved in a dangerous field, and hoped that Member States would be kept advised of the progress made in the housing problem: it was desirable that Unesco’s banking activities should decrease as soon as possible. The paper presented by the Secretariat on Staff Housing was approved. Item 5 (b) of the Agenda: Annual report by the Director-General on measures taken to implement the Staff Regulations (con- tinuation) (document 4C/ADM/8). The CHAIRMAN recalled that, when the report had previously been discussed, additional information had been considered necessary. He asked the Head of the Bureau of Personnel to give the Commission the further details required. Mr. SELSKY (Head, Bureau of Personnel) said that the United States delegation proposed the following amendment to Regulation 30 of the Unesco Staff Regulation: The Director-General may terminate the employment of staff members holding confirmed indeterminate appointments if the necessities of the service require the abolition of the post or a reduction of the staff. In addition, the employmentof staff members holding temporary contracts may be terminated in accordance with the terms of their appointments. Staff mem- bers may be terminated, regardless of the nature of their contracts, if they prove unable to carry out their duties and responsibilities satisfactorily. Staff Regulation 30, as amended, was adopted. ' The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 11 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Lío MunoeLeer (Belgium) The SECRETARYpointed out that there were two main documents before the Commission for con- sideration, namely: document 4C/ADM/19 (Re- port of the Sub-Committee) and document 4C/ ADM/3 - Addendum (Scale of contributions of Member States for 1950. In addition, document
4C/ADM/18 (rev.) had just been circulated: this was merely a working paper which had been pre- pared in order to give the Commission an idea of the scale of contributions; it did not purport to give the final scale, as the final membership of Unesco was not yet known. Report of the Sub-Committee of the Ad- ministrative Commission (document 4C/ADM/
19% The CHAIRMAN announced that the Sub-Com- mittee appointed by the Administrative Commis- sion to consider questions relating to the contri- butions of Member States had reached complete agreement on every one of the points at issue. Its conclusions were enbodied in the report before the Commission. Mr. SMITH (Australia), Chairman of the Sub-
440 Committee, commenting on document 4C/ADM
19, said that the Sub-Committee was fully aware of the seriousness of Unesco’s position with respect to unpaid contributions and, after debating the matter at length, had formulated certain recom- mendations which they now placed before the Ad- ministrative Commission for approval. These recommendations had been grouped under two heads: (A) The steps which the Director-General was being asked to take immediately; (B) The items which he was requested to sub- mit to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Turning then to the question of the contribution of Sweden, Mr. Smith said that, while the Sub- Committee had great sympathy for the position taken by the representative of Sweden, it had founditself unable to recommend that the Swedish contribution should be reduced. The reasons for this conclusion were set forth in detail in the doc- ument under discussion. With regard to the proposal made by the del- egate of the United States that the benefit accruing Resolution 26.1. In final form: