FOURTH MEETING Friday, 23 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: later: Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 1. Reconstruction (continuation). Aid to Ecuador The CHAIRMANcalled on the delegate of Brazil to make a special statement. Mr. OZORIO de ALMEIDA (Brazil) pointed out that, in addition to the war-devastated countries that were receiving reconstruction aid, there were other countries laid waste by natural disasters; an instance of this was Ecuador, which had just been devastated by an earthquake. As the result of a meeting of the Economic and Social Council in Geneva, a series of recommendations had been made to the Specialized Agencies, and emergency aid missions had been sent to the affected area. The Director-General of Unesco had done every- thing in his power to contribute to those emer- gency measures and to organize relief extending over a longer period. The Executive Board de- cided to wait for the reports of the two Commis- sions sent to the scene of the disaster by the United Nations. M. Ozorio de Almeida gave an account of the extent of the damage and the very high number of schools, universities and laboratories that had been destroyed. He asked the Conference to give a token of its sympathy. He thanked the Director-General and the Executive Board for the steps they had already taken and exhorted them to do all they could to mitigate the sufferings of the people of Ecuador. Even if it were possible to contemplate a future without wars, natural calamities would always exist, and organizations such as Unesco must be able to give help in such cases. The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegate of Brazil for his statement of which he took note. glad to see that the Executive Board was dealing with the question. Dr. PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela) said that Ecua- dor’s problem was of special concern to Unesco. The statistics of the schools destroyed were very He was moving. The Executive Board was dealing with the matter and the Director-General had taken the first steps to help the stricken population.
266 Mr. JEAN PrAGET (Switzerland) Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Dr. Parra Pérez warmly supported the proposal of the Brazilian delegate and drew the attention of the Conference to the moral effect of a generous gesture towards the Republic and people of Ecua- dor pending the measures for effective aid to be proposed by the Executive Board. Mr. PORTUONDO (Cuba) observed that the disaster that had fallen upon Ecuador concerned the whole of America. Heassociated himself with the statements made by the delegates of Brazil and Venezuela. He reminded the meeting of the recommendation of the Economic and Social Council designed to bring help to Ecuador, which was of paramount importance to that country. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that he had sent the President of the Republic of Ecuador a cable expressing Unesco’s sympathy with that country’s sufferings, and had received a reply. Unesco was now awaiting the results of the mis- sion of enquiry sent by the United Nations. The mission had already presented a report, which would reach Unesco in the near future. The pre- vious day, during the discussion on emergency action, it had been proposed that references to particular countries should be deleted from Sec- tion 5. If the Commission agreed to help Ecua- dor, the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Com- mittee should be informed of that recommendation. The CHAIRMAN assured the Director-General that that recommendation would be transmitted to the Sub-Committee. Mr. ZALDUMBIDE (Ecuador), deeply moved by the expressions of sympathy towards his country, thanked the delegates for their fraternal gesture. The CHAIRMAN said that two draft resolutions from the Executive Board had been submitted to the Commission for consideration; they had no budgetary implications. They concerned the situation of Greek refugee children (document
4C/17 and 17 EX/17) and reconstruction in China (document 4C/16). Situation of Greek refugee children (documents
4C/17 and 17 EX/17) Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) spoke on the first of the resolutions, not as delegate of Brazil but       as member of the Executive Board entrusted by it with a mission of enquiry in Greece. He re- called that the Secretary-General of the United Nations had asked the Director-General, in the light of the report of the United Nations Balkan Commission in Greece, to carry out an enquiry into the problem of refugees and ascertain to what extent Unesco could help them. The Executive Board had unanimously decided to make a token gift of $10,850 to Greek refugee children, and instructed Professor Carneiro to hand overthe gift and examine the situation of the children. In his report (document 17 EX/17), the speaker had given an outline of the situation of refugees in general, which should be taken into account. In addition to its 700,000 refugees, Greece had
1,700,000 unemployed living on State grants. If lasting results were to be achieved, it was useless to try to improve educational conditions inde- pendently of a general recovery: it was no good giving books to a hungry child. He had therefore taken account of that general factor before con- sidering the problem of the 300,000 Greek children living in camps in deplorable conditions. With- out dwelling on dramatic details that were con- tained in his report, supported by extensive out- side evidence, he pointed out that 78 per cent of the schools had been so badly damaged that they could no longer be used; there was a lack of teachers owing to financial difficulties, and educational reconstruction in Greece would require a budget of $47,000,000. A draft appeal, not for funds but for moral support, was submitted to the Confer- ence by the Executive Board. Unesco asked the Conference to appeal to the whole world—rich and poor—to take an interest in that problem and join to help the children of a country to which the world owed its greatest heritage. In addition to that appeal, the Board asked the Conference to instruct the Director-General to ensure the widest possible dissemination of the report on the question, and to authorize him to establish a special relief fund for Greek refugee children. The United Nations had raised the question, and Unesco's help should be supported by the other Specialized Agencies, particularly WHO and FAO. Professor Carneiro recalled that, in the past, the League of Nations had sponsored a large international loan for the recovery of Greece. The United Nations, which were the suc- cessors of the League of Nations and were perhaps even closer to human problems, could not remain aloof from such a question. The sole purpose of Unesco’s proposal was to co-ordinate the work of the United Nations and their Specialized Agencies on behalf of Greece by sponsoring the appeal with the authority of the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN was sure that he was voicing D D the opinion of the Commission in thanking Pro- fessor Carneiro for the admirable way in which he had carried out his mission. Mr. GROS (United Nations) said he had been deeply moved by the discussion of that grave ques- tion. He wished, however, to make a few remarks on the resolution submitted to the Commission. The principle of a United Nations’ appeal on behalf of any particular group of refugees had not been decided. Although members of the Executive Board spoke in their personal capacity, delegates to the Conference spoke on behalf of their govern- ments; and the question should be considered, as regards its general application, by the United Nations. Although the first three paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) were within the competence of Unesco, Mr. Gros thought that the fourth para- graph (d) should be amended or even deleted. The CHAIRMAN said that, if the resolution were adopted in principle, the remarks of the United Nations representative would be transmitted to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Professor SCHAFF (Poland) stated that the Polish delegation supported in principle the re- solution concerning aid to Greek children, and pointed out that his Government, as well as others of the popular democracies, had already done much to help Greek children. However, Unesco's task should obviously be to help all Greek children who are in need of help, without political dis- crimination. Referring to the wording of para- graph (c) of the draft resolution presented by the Executive Board, he felt quite sure that, in view of the conditions of civil war in Greece, such help would be one-sided and would leave many thou- sands of Greek children without any help. He therefore proposed that paragraph (c) should end with the words “Greek refugee children”, and that the remainder of the paragraph be eliminated. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) raised a question as to the best procedure to follow in making a decision on this draft resolution. He stated that his delegation, while in complete agree- ment with the principles expressed by Professor Carneiro, had decided on the previous day that it would propose a change in paragraph (a). A similar problem had arisen the previous year in connexion with relief to refugee children in the Middle East, with the result that points 8.3 to 6.34 inclusive had been inserted in the 1949 pro- gramme. Sir Ronald suggested that a similar pro- cedure be followed by the Commission and that a general resolution, in line with the Beirut resolu- tion, be drafted to meet the problem of aid to refugee children in the Middle East, including Greece.   Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) thanked the Polish delegate for his friendly support. He was pre- pared to agree to amendments of form, and saw no objection to resolution 4C/17 being referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee for consideration in relation to other resolutions dealing with similar cases, such as resolution 8.3 of 1949 concerning refugees in the Middle East. He thought however that, if the attention of the United Nations were not drawn to the basic prob- lem which remained unchanged, the action re- quested by the United Nations and the efficacy of the help given would be weakened. Con- sequently, whilst agreeing to an amendment of form to paragraph (d), Professor Carneiro insisted that the attention of the United Nations should be drawn to the economic and financial problems conditioning that action. Whilst supporting the amendment of form proposed by the Polish del- egate, he asked that the substance of the resolution be approved in principle. The CHAIRMAN said that, as the proposed amendment had been seconded, a vote could be taken on the delegation of the last part of para- graph (c). Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) noted that the Commission had before it two different motions: (1) the proposal of the Polish delegation to eliminate the last part of paragraph (c), and
(2) the proposal of the United Kingdom delega- tion that the entire resolution be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee for redrafting. Before speaking further on the re- solution, he would wait for instructions from the Chair clarifying the procedure. As the British proposal related to a question of form and not of substance, the CHAIRMAN proposed that it should be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. On the other hand, as the question raised by the Polish delegate was one of substance, it seemed to require a vote by the Commission before being referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) pointed out the fundamental difference between the two proposals. If the Commission voted on the Polish proposal, obviously the latter would not be re- ferred to the Sub-Committee. There might also be other suggestions forthcoming from delega- tions. He therefore supported the proposal of the United Kingdom delegation that the entire resolu- tion be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, feeling that a debate at this time would be too long. Dr. WALKER (Australia) also supported the proposal of the United Kingdom delegation, stating
9 ~68 that the important point to make clear was the desire of the Commission that Unesco’s work in Greece be continued. He believed it would be a mistake for the Commission to vote at this time on the kind of relationship to be established with the Greek Government. He expressed the opinion that all delegates agreed, in principle and in fact, that no discrimination of any kind should be made. However, a procedure must be established and followed. He therefore preferred that the draft resolution be turned over to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, which, in preparing a newdraft text, should also consider the problem of other refugee children in the Middle East. Dr. PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela) endorsed the proposal of Dr. Walker. Professor SCHAFF (Poland) also approved the United Kingdom delegation’s proposal that the resolution should be redrafted, with the definite condition that the newtext should be correlated with the whole question of aid to children in the Middle East and in Greece. He stated that, on the previous day, the United States delegation had pointed out that it was not advisable to specify in advance the particular cases where aid should be applied and he agreed with this position, since it would hamper the Director-General in his work. The CHAIRMAN proposed that the draft resolu- tion should be referred to the Sub-Committee, which would be asked to connect it with all the provisions of Section 5, or even to combine them. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) said that he was deeply moved by the generous reception given to the proposals to help Greek children. He was also glad to observe that Unesco had risen to the heights of that great humanitarian Nansen, who had mobilized the League of Nations in the cause of children throughout the world, and that it had not forgotten that the help in question would be given to the children of a people that had never brought harm to civilization. He was gratified at the fraternal spirit with which the discussion had been imbued, and wondered whether certain clauses in the Constitution might not supply the principles on which Unesco’s action should be based: Article I, paragraph 3, for instance, should be considered. He wished to point out that Greece took no account of party considerations where children were concerned. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) stressed that the resolution was being referred, without any adoption, to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The CHAIRMAN said that the principle of the resolution had been adopted and that a final vote        would be taken after the text had been revised by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Professor Carneiro took the Chair. Reconstruction in China (document 4C/16) Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Chair- man of the Executive Board, presented a draft resolution of the Board on Reconstruction in China (document 4C/16). He called attention to the fact that the funds provided in the 1949 Budget for emergency reconstruction action in China had not been entirely utilized because of disturbed con- ditions in that country, but that the need was still acute. The Executive Board therefore recom- mended that these funds be put in a special emer- gency fund for China. It was simply a question of continuing the Unesco policy of helping China. Professor CHEN Yuan (China) stated that, with- out entering into the question of why the funds allocated for China in 1949 had not been used and without embarking upon any accusations or re- criminations, the delegation of China, considering the facts as they were, would propose an amend- ment to the draft resolution on Reconstruction in China to the effect that the General Conference should lay down specific uses for the money in China, and in particular for the benefit of students and school-children. Many thousands of Chinese children of school age had no classrooms, no chairs, no books, no paper and no pencils. Many were in need of medical attention. The National Students’ Service Commission was providing tem- porary quarters, which were inadequate, for 40,000 children of middle school status. In Formosa (Taiwan) alone, 140,000 school age children were without schools. The General Con- ference had expressed deep sympathy for the re- fugee children of the Middle East and Greece. It surely would not fail to consider the refugee children of China; Professor Chen therefore pro- posed that the draft resolution 4C/16 be amended by the addition of the following statement: The China Reconstruction Fund shall be administered by the Director-General for the immediate relief of Chinese students and school -children. He also proposed that paragraph 3 of the draft resolution be eliminated as being unnecessary. Finally, Professor Chen expressed the hope that Chinese students and school-children would be included in all requests for help for reconstruction action and in all appeals for funds made under the United Nations and its Agencies. The CHAIRMAN stated that paragraph 3 was not essential, seeing that, whatever text were adopted, the resolution would only be applicable to the year 1950. It would be for the Fifth Session of the Conference to take decisions for 1951. Paragraph 2 could be maintained, with the ad- dition, to meet the wishes of the Chinese delegate, of the words “for the immediate relief of Chinese students and school-children”. Dr. ALZONA (Philippines) stated that her del- egation had a very great sympathy for the prin- ciple expressed by the delegate of China, but wished to raise the question of how such aid could reach the people for whom it was intended. She asked to what cities, for example, such aid would be sent. The Chinese delegate had mentioned Taiwan; did he mean Taiwan only? Professor CHEN Yuan (China) replied that he had mentioned Taiwan only as an example, and did not mean Taiwan alone. That area was still under the administration of the National Govern- ment. He emphasized the great size of China, stating that Szechuan Province alone had a popula- tion of 50,000,000, and that newspaper reports often gave an inaccurate idea of the size and population of the areas under the administration of the National Government. Dr. WATKINS (Canada) stated that his delega- tion would agree to the submission of this re- solution to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee for the preparation of a new text. Professor SCHAFF (Poland) endorsed the ques- tion which had been raised by the delegate of the Philippines as to how the money for aid could reach the Chinese people who needed it. He fav- oured the principle of aid, but stated that in 1950 there would be no question of two governments in China and that the problem was how could this money reach, not the National Government, but the students and children of China. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Chair- man of the Executive Board, believed that the resolution might well be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee for re-submis- sion to the Executive Board. He was of the opinion that paragraph 2 of the draft resolution, as already worded, vested sufficient powers in the Director-General who would see to it that the money was used for the greatest and most urgent needs, and therefore made unnecessary the amend- ment proposed by the delegation of China. The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Commission approved Sir Sarvepalli’s proposal. If so, the re- solution would be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee and be re-submitted later,in its revised form, to the Commission which could then make further comments on it. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN drewattention to the budgetary provisions connected with Section 5. He asked the delegates to note certain changes in the figures:   the item “Transportation of Things” (document
4C/6, page 74) had been reduced from $3,000 to $1,500; the first total therefore became $186,500 and the cost of the project was reduced to $201,388. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he would submit to the Sub-Committee a certain number of specific changes; at the time when the Secre- tariat’s calculations had been made, it had not been decided to delete from Section 5 all reference to particular countries. The whole of Section 5 (Emergency Action) was adopted, ' apart from the passages to be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Section 6. International Voluntary Work Camps and Children’s Communities Professor BRANCA (Italy) recognized the value of the work camps, but said he wished to raise a rather delicate question. Although convinced of the excellence of the principle, he wondered whe- ther it was, in practice, applied satisfactorily. He therefore supported the inclusion of the words “in the execution of their programmes” in item
1.61: it was essential for the Director-General to have detailed information concerning those pro- grammes, in whose implementation he was re- quested to co-operate. Referring to his speech the previous day on Children’s Communities, Professor Branca ex- plained that it had related to procedure and not to a question of substance. He was convinced of the importance of the problem; in Italy, every- thing that concerned children was held very dear. He had approved the proposal for an enquiry to be made by the Secretariat so that, when the problem was submitted to the Fifth Session of the Conference, all the necessary data would be avail- able. In conclusion, he paid tribute to Dr. Drze- wieski, Head of the Department of Reconstruction, for his admirable work. The CHAIRMAN pointed out a budgetary con- sideration. The Board had recommended that a sum of $5,000 should be allotted to lectures on Reconstruction (document 4C/6—Amendments— rev., page 2). As that sum was offset, however, by reductions in the previous sections, all that was required was a transfer, and the total figure of the Reconstruction chapter was not increased. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) thanked the Italian delegate for his kind words and assured him that Unesco was endeavouring to work in the International Volun- tary Work Camps in the spirit of its Constitution. He mentioned the work camps which had been
1. In final form: Resolutions 1.21 to 1.22. organized that year in various countries, to which Unesco sent lectures in order to ensure a satis- factory moral atmosphere. The way in which those enthusiastic young people had responded was very moving; he read out a letter full of faith and enthusiasm that had been sent to him by young camp workers, which showed the spirit in which the majority of the camps were working. Section 6 was adopted. * ySection 7. General Recommendation Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) presented a proposal of the United States delegation (docu- ment 4C/14) to the effect that the existing text of 1.7 (document 4C/5 rev., page 9) be retained without change, andthat 1.71 be amendedto read; The Director-General is instructed to present to the Fifth Session of the General Conference a plan for effecting this transition by the end of 1950. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) said that, thoughthere was agreement on the substance, that was not the case as regards the date mentioned. He himself sawlittle point in fixing a date, since it was im- possible to foresee what the state of the world would be by the end of 1950 or what would then be the Reconstruction needs. Moreover, for psy- chological reasons, and looking at it from the beneficiaries” point of view, it was depressingto fix in advance the date on which help would cease. Lastly, it was difficult to place a limit at the present stage on the Department of Reconstruc- tion's work by fixing a date, Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said that a position had to be taken on a fundamental question. Would the Department of Reconstruction's work cease by the end of 1950 or would it be continued as long as necessary, in conjunction with construction activities? The question was all more important as it had been raised in the Commission by the delegation of the United States of America, which was one of the principal donor countries. Whilst bearing in mind the proofs of brotherly feeling given by all countries, it must be recognized that the United States and Canada had supplied the chief means for the re-equipment of schools and universities in war-devastated countries. The French delegation wished to express its satisfaction with the work of the Department of Reconstruction and to pay tribute to its Head, Dr. Drzewieski, for whom it felt the greatest friendship and esteem. It had always considered that Department to be perhaps one of the most necessary and most effective. But it had noted at each Conference that, whilst the work of that Department increased, the corresponding budget
2. In final form: Resolutions 1.61 and 1.62.             decreased. The budget of the Department of Reconstruction, which in 1948 represented 8 per cent of Unesco’s whole Budget, had fallen to 6 per cent in 1949 and 5 per cent for 1950. So it could not be said that Unesco was spending an excessive amount on its essential activities. Mr. Francois had been a memberof a Committee of Experts on Reconstruction; that committee had recognized, in view of the enormous destruction suffered by cultural institutions, the need for increasing, rather than abolishing, work connected with their reconstruction. That would require furtherefforts from Unesco for a good many years. At the conclusion of its work, the Committee of Experts had passed a vote of thanks to Unesco for its past work and expressed its confidence that that work would be still further extended in the future. The discussions that had taken place on the tragic fate of countries such as Greece, China and Ecuador, had shown the need for Unesco’s work of promoting solidarity to be continued throughout the world. It seemed strange to anticipate that that work would be unnecessary after 1950. Unesco was asked to concernitself with construc- tion; but that was the same thing as reconstruc- tion, for the material supplied consisted of new books, modern equipment, etc. Mr. Francois therefore refused to accept such anartificial dis- tinction. Referring to the recommendation of the Com- mittee of Experts on Reconstruction, he drew attention to its desire to see the main efforts directed towards the supplying of scientific ma- terial, auditory and visual aids and recently pub- lished books. He was sure that all the delegates were convinced that constant co-operation for the benefit of unfortunate countries was the best means of developing international understanding, and mentioned in this connexion the help given by Canada to schools in Normandy, which had engendered a friendly correspondence. The criticism had often been levelled at Unesco that its action was confined to surveys, but in the present case it was actively dealing with realities. The French delegation advocated an extension of the work in the direction of construction and sup- ported the Executive Board’s proposal to include a reference to Directive XII. The CHAIRMAN said that three proposals were before the Commission: The United States delegation’s proposal (docu- ment 4C/14); The Swiss delegation’s suggestion that the words “by the end of 1950” should be delected from the American proposal; The French delegation’s suggestion that the new text 1.71 proposed by the Executive Board (docu- ment 4C/5 rev., page 9, right-hand column) should be maintained. Dr ZOOK (United States of America) pointed out that the proposal of his delegation carried no budgetary implications whatsoever. It did not prevent either increasing or decreasing the funds. Its purpose was to provide a definite plan to carry out the resolution of the Third Session of the General Conference. The United States delegation had no intention to make an effort to reduce the funds for that purpose; on the contrary, the cam- paign for voluntary funds in the United States would be carried forward as vigorously as ever. The intention of the proposal was rather to attempt to clarify where reconstruction ends and construc- tion begins, and to provide the Director-General with an instruction to present a definite plan to that effect by the end of 1950. If circumstances should then require a continuation of the Recon- struction campaign, new plans and allotments could be made for such a continuation. The CHAIRMAN noted that the United States delegate was prepared to support the Swiss amend- ment, thus reducing the proposals before the Com- mission to two: The Swiss-American proposal; The French proposal that the text of the Executive Board be maintained. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL expressed certain doubts. He understood the reasons why the Beirut Conference had adopted items 1.7 and 1.71. He had carefully examined that problem, the kernel of which had been pointed out by the French delegate—i.e. the difficulty of determining where reconstruction ends and where construc- tion begins. If the definition were to relate to the technical assistance with which Unesco would shortly have to deal, he would like the word “assistance” alone to be used, referring to the needs of war-devastated countries, the present needs of Member States (e.g. the Middle-Eastern countries, Greece and Ecuador), and even emergency aid designed to supplement, on a modest scale, the work done in under-developed countries by means of technical assistance. Theoretically, that would make Unesco a very complete organization as regards both the programme activities and co- ordinating activities mentioned by Mr. Piaget in his first speech and the work of technical assist- ance. The budgetary requirements of technical assistance could not be determined until the matter had been discussed. Although it was not possible to exceed the limits of technical assistance decided by the United Nations, Unesco was bound to give all the help it could to definite undertakings so that technical assistance would have real meaning   in the field of education, science and culture. He was in favour of construction, which would in- clude reconstruction. It was the word “ transi- tion” in the resolution that worried him. In his opinion, it would be best to maintain the text proposed by the Executive Board. That would be a logical course, for once the directives had been approved, why should they not be adhered to in a field covered by one of those directives? From the psychological point of view, that course would avoid a premature interpretation in a field which offered such wide possibilities to Unesco. The United States proposal, amended by Switzer- land and seconded by India, was put to the vote. There were 10 votes in favour. The text proposed by the Executive Board (item
1.71, document 4C/5 rev., page 9, right-hand column) was put to the vote. There were 18 votes in favour. The latter text was therefore adopted. * The CHAIRMAN stated that, apart fromthe pro- posals referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, which would be re-submitted to the Commission, the consideration of Chapter I (Reconstruction) was completed. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Friday, 23 September 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 2. Education. Section 1. General Education Clearing House RESOLUTION 2.1 The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission had before it two draft amendments to resolution 2.1, the first proposed by the Executive Board (docu- ment 4C/5 rev., page 9, right-hand column) and the second by the delegation of the United States of America (document 4C/26). Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) praised the great energy and foresight which Dr. Beeby and otherpersons in charge of these activities had shown. He appreciated the importance of collect- ing information in different fields, but stressed the very considerable increase in budgetary esti- mates related to the education clearing house. He thought it was essential to collect information bearing on approved projects and programmes; hence the amendment moved by the United States delegation (document 4C/26). He also expressed the hope that the matter would be deferred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee which would consider the budgetary implications. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) asked that it should Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) be made quite clear that the field of education covered not only the school and university period but also the pre-school period, the importance of which should not be overlooked. The French delegation had no objection to the adoption of the text proposed by the United States delegation, pro- vided that it was interpreted so as not to limit the Secretariat’s action. It was willing to approve the establishment of the proposed Clearing House, provided that it did not overlap with existing centres. The draft resolution submitted by the United States delegation (document 4C/26) was adopt- ed: RESOLUTION 2.11. EDUCATIONAL Missions Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) paid tribute to the Director-General's deep understanding of human beings and his preoccupation regarding the effect of Unesco's work on the peoples of the world. He stressed the world shortage of teachers, adminis- trators and technicians, and the limitation of Unesco's resources. It therefore seemed to the United Kingdom delegation that Unesco's policy should be to select the most effective points of its programme and concentrate on those. He re- minded the meeting that at least twice, the Director-General had used the word “amputation”;
1. In final form: Resolution 1.71.
2. In final form: Resolution 2.1.