cies. In answer, I might say that I was living in France two years ago. If I am not mistaken, France is nearer to Russia or at least nearer to Czechoslovakia and Poland than to the United States. If the French press also takes its instruc- tions from the United States, then we must admit once again that the monopoly of truth and culture is the privilege by divine right of the popular democracies. I am not going to detain you fur- ther at such a late hour. I believe in the cause of peace. I believe that it should be based on a true conception of man, and that, wherever man is oppressed, the seeds of war will always sprout. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] This evening's debate will be concluded tomorrow night, when we shall have the pleasure of hearing the United Kingdom delegate, Lord Russell, Rector Siassi, delegate of Iran, and Professor Gustav Dupréel of Belgium. You are cor- dially invited to the last session in the debate. The meeting rose at five minutes after midnight. NINTH PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949 at 9.10 p.m. CONTENTS
16. Discussion of the general subject (continuation): Speakers: Earl Russell, Rector Siassi, Prof. Eugène-Gustave Dupréel, Prof. Alf Sommerfelt, Prof. A. K. Stout, Dr. Inés Segura Bustamante, Mr. Jacques Rueff, Dr: Mei'Yi chi and Dr., Castro Leal... SL President: H.E. Count Jacını (Italy)
16. Discussion of the general subject (con- tinuation). The CHAIRMAN — [Translation from the French]
1 declare the meeting open. This is the third meeting devoted to this discussion and I shall have the honour of calling upon each of the speakers in turn. Earl Russell, Bertrand Russell, who is to speak first, needs no introduction. His name alone suffices to command your attention. Earl RUSSELL (United Kingdom) — Mr. Presi- dent, ladies and genilemen, the general subject of these debates, as I understand, is the educational duties of the State, for promoting understanding between nations, and I propose to confine myself almost entirely to suggestions which I think practicable in the near future without too much difficulty and without too much utopianism. I would like to say, to begin with, that I con- sider this a matter of the very greatest importance. In the long run the possibility of peace depends upon the existence of friendly feelings between nations more than upon any other one factor, but in the creation of such feelings education must play a major part. I think that, for convenience, we may divide the problem into three parts, first, questions con- cerning universities, libraries and the world of higher learning. Secondly, there are questions concerning university students and school teachers and educational administrative officials. Thirdly, there are questions concerning ordinary school- children. To begin with the highest cultural level, what is needed is mainly to restore the conditions that existed before 1914. But, owing partly to cur- rency difficulties, and partly to various kinds of import duties, the conditions that existed before
1914 can only be restored by government action directed to that end. I should like to say here that, while we of the United Nations are fairly united in thinking that such action ought to be taken, we all of us are, in our respective countries, people subject to governments which do not have the ob- jects of United Nations in view, although they may say they have. For, in fact, they put every kind of obstacle in the way of the recirculation of books and any Education Minister going back from this Conference to his own country will find in the Finance Minister of his own country, no matter which country that may be, his bitterest enemy. And that I think is much to be regretted, and I think our chief battle should be not here, with     each other, but at home with our respective governments. Learned journals and books published abroad should be available without delay. When I was young, the bookshops of Cambridge, where I was an undergraduate, were full of French and Ger- man works of learning; nowthere are few to be obtained, and even those only with much delay. In many continental countries the situation is much worse than it is in England. In the British Sector of Berlin a new university has been created, because the old Berlin University is in the Russian Sector. In response to a desperate appeal from this new university, I recently spent twenty pounds out of my own pocket on English books for its library. But twenty pounds does not go far in equipping a university library. When I visited Berlin I found that even those most anxious to be well informed had been unable to find out what British learning had contributed since 1939. This is absurd. It is surely obvious that one pound’s worth of books can do as much to promote our aims in Germany as one hundred pounds’ worth of soldiers. And, nevertheless, there is no difficulty about getting the one hundred pounds’ worth of soldiers, but governments put every kind of ob- stacle in the way of getting the one pound’s worth of books. Very little money would be required to make serious books and learned periodicals available in university libraries everywhere. I doubt whether even well-informed people are aware of the extent to which governments which profess to be friendly to the objects of Unesco in fact thwart those very objects. Not only this or that government, but almost every government, by taxes and aministrative obstruction, makes the importation of books very nearly impossible. The resulting revenue is negligible and the purpose appears to be purely protectionist. Whatever education ministers may desire, finance ministers treat books as they treat any other kind of mer- chandise, and consider it a misfortune to their country when a foreign book gets past their tariff barriers. If the support which governments give to Unesco is not mere hypocrisy, this must be changed quickly and completely. There ought also to be financial assistance as regards translations. The operalion of currency restrictions in this matter is quite absurd. I have had German translations of books of mine published in Switzerland which were totally use- less to Germans in Germany, because the price in German currency was prohibitive. There should be a fund for the publication of the translations of important books. There should also be a system of exchange pro- fessors. But an exchange professor, if he is to promote international amity, needs certain qualifi-
152 cations in addition to academic eminence. He should know the language of the country to which he is going, and he should be generally agreeable; also he should have no violent dislike of the country to which he is going. All university teachers should be encouraged to spend sabbatical years (without loss of salary) in one or more foreign universities of their choice. This is especially important for the younger teachers; it should not be a reward for eminence already achieved, but part of the process of broadening the minds of the young. Academic freedom I am sorry to have to men- tion as a separate heading; I should have hoped that it might be taken for granted. Any State or any university which demands that its teachers should accept, or that they should reject, the doc- trines of Marx or of Thomas Aquinas or of any- body else from Confucius to Stalin, is failing in its elementary duty, and cannot be admitted to the comity of the world of learning. The battle for academic freedom was long and arduous; in the nineteenth century it seemed to be won. Now, alas, it is explicitly repudiated over a large part of the earth's surface, and-is in danger of being for- gotten in many other parts, though not, I hope in Western Europe as yet. Its importance, I believe, is greater in our age than at any former time. Well, now I come to the second division of my subject—university students and school teachers. Financial arrangements should be made to enable a certain number of university students to spend a year at some foreign university, without any consequent delay in the acquisition of aca- demic status. This should be, as far as possible, on an exchange basis. The student should be selected for ability to profit by a period of study abroad. There should be agreements by which university degrees acquired in one country should be recognized as conferring academic status in an- other. This should extend also to professional qualifications. Eminent German medical men who became refugees when Hitler came to power were not allowed to practise in England until they had qualified afresh in England. This is absurd. In the matters considered under this heading, as well as in some others, there is no need to wait for general agreement. Any two States can make a beginning. School-teachers should be enabled, by financial assistance, to spend time in studying foreign schools and educational methods—again, where possible, on a basis of reciprocity. There should, in as many universities as pos- sible, be an international club. These clubs should form a network, and every member of one of them    should receive the hospitality of any other during any authorized period abroad. I think this is important, because when a student first arrives in a foreign country, he knows nobody and may be very friendless and have a rather dreary time, and the whole point should be to make contacts with foreigners pleasurable, otherwise you will not achieve the object you have in view. And now I come to the third division of my subject, which is school-children. This is at once the most difficult and the most important part of any project for promoting inter- national amity through education. In many coun- tries, at manytimes, the schools have deliberately fostered a narrow nationalism; the opposite policy must be pursued if the natural tendency of mankind to think unduly well of their own group is to be counteracted. The methods required are partly intellectual, partly emotional. Let us begin with the former. The teaching of history must be radically reformed. At present, in every country, emphasis is laid on the history of that country, and, almost inevitably, its merits are stressed at the expense of those of other countries. Contrast what is taught in America about the war of 1812 with the almost complete silence on the subject in English history teaching. Most English people who have never travelled in America do not knowthat there was a war in 1812, but every American school- child knows all about it. Or to take another example, contrast German and Italian teaching about Barbarossa or about the Goths. The mainstress in history should be on world history, treated—as for instance, in Wells’ Out- line of History—in a manner to exhibit the col- lective development of mankind, and to make wars appear foolish rather than glorious. I do not mean that there should be a dull and colourless neutrality, still less a concealment of things dis- creditable to this or that country. What I mean is that the emphasis should be on humanity in general, not on any one nation, and on collective achievements rather than on the virtue or prowess of one’s own country. I do not, of course, deny that children must learn more of the history of their own country than of that of other countries, but it should be taught in an international setting, and not made to seem more important than other history. I think it would be a good thing—though I know this is Utopian—if national histories for use in schools were always written by foreigners. I have made a conscious effort to rid myself of national bias, and nevertheless it gave me a shock when I first read Madariaga’s History of the Spanish Empire in America, to see how great English national heroes, such as Sir Francis Drake, appeared in that account. The importance of international co-operation in the present state of the world should be taught by means of definite instruction as regards relations of States in recent times, and the efforts that have been and are being made to promote supra- national organization. Such instruction should be given with a strict regard for fact, not minim- izing the difficulties or making light of the dangers. On the other hand, the benefits to mankind and to every separate nation that are to be expected from international co-operation should be clearly explained and very forcibly emphasized; there should be no neutrality as between its advo- cates and its opponents. And if you say to me “This is propaganda”, I reply “All education is propaganda”. When you teach the multiplication table it is propaganda; all education is propaganda. There is only good propaganda and bad propaganda, and this, I say, is good propaganda; of course, some people think it is not, but we hope that they are a minority. Organized foreign travel for groups of school- children can be very valuable. In Britain a good deal is already done in this direction; I am ignorantas to what is done in other countries. In this matter, as in many others, the British practice is to rely on private or semi-private ini- tiative, and to ask of the State only that it shall facilitate projects inaugurated by individuals or groups who believe them to be important. But it is obvious that in many countries it is the State that must initiate projects. For children of fourteen and upwards, it is a good thing if a certain number can be sent, on an exchange basis, to schools abroad; but this should be only for those who welcome the prospect. Some acquaintance with foreign stories and songs should be given at an early age, not in foreign languages, but in the children’s mother tongue, and in such a way as to make children feel that foreign children have tastes similar to their own. The natural view of the child is that there is something odd about foreign children, and you want to overcome that idea. I think that throughout the school years children should read, in their own language, such pleasant foreign literature as is likely to give them enjoyment and kindly feelings towards those of whom it treats. I do not think that this process should be conjoined with the learning of foreign languages. That also is important, but for different reasons. For many centuries schoolboys have construed Caesar, but I have not observed that it has pro- duced any great affection for the Roman Empire.      The sort of thing I have in mind will fail of its purpose if it is associated with disagreeable work. It must be of the nature of relaxation, coming, perhaps, at a period when serious instruction is ended for the day. Closely connected with this last point is another: the showing of foreign films. These should not have any ostensible propaganda purpose; they should, in fact, have been popular in their country of origin. Their propaganda value should lie solely in their causing children to think of foreigners as human beings, no more mysterious than human beings at home, but actuated by similar passions and with an equal mixture of good and bad. I am aware that there are still some severe pedagogues who may object to this item (and, in a lesser degree, to its predecessor) on the ground that such things are not WORK, and that it is not the purpose of school to afford amusement, I reply that, if what will best serve the ends we have in view happens to be agreeable, we must patiently endure the pain we shall suffer in seeing the children happy. For if you wish them to love foreign nations, you must cause them to asso- ciate those nations with pleasure rather than with pain. As Spinoza says: Love is pleasure associated with the idea of an external cause. I come finally to a matter where only the emotions are concerned, and where, I think practi- cally alone in these remarks, I allow myself to wander in Utopia. In American schools the stars and stripes are always prominently displayed, and all children are obliged to salute the flag. The purpose is to weld into a unity the children of immigrants of manydifferent countries; it is, in fact, very similar to the purpose which the United Nations ought to have in view. I suggest that, in place of the national flag, schools should dis- play an international flag. And in place of the national anthem, they should be taught to sing a new international anthem. All the poets and composers of the world should be invited to com- pete, and the prize of acceptance by the United Nations should be awarded by the verdict of school-children. I have confined mysef, in the main, to measures that are easily practicable, and that would be adopted at once if governments were sincere in their idealistic pronouncements. The most impor- tant thing from our point of view is that the young should become aware of the gradual emergence of mankind from primitive barbarism, and of the collective efforts that are still needed, if this emergence is to be complete and more stable. Competition, however natural, has become
154 disastrous. For the future, it is only by co- operation among nations that human welfare can be achieved. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] The applause with which you have greeted Lord Russell's speech clearly shows the regard felt for him by this Assembly, and 1 am certain that I am speaking on behalf of all of you when I express to him our deep appreciation. I now call upon Professor Siassi, Head of the Persian delegation, Rector of the University of Teheran, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and former Minister of Education. Rector SIASSI (Persia) — [Translation from the French] It is certainly not an easy task to have to speak after the eminent philosopher, Bertrand Rus- sell, particularly for someone who did not mean to take part in this debate. In fact, it was only at the last moment—when our President, Dr. Walker, thought it advisable that someone from the Middle East should also set out his views on the question—that I was called upon to accept this honour. Gentlemen, as you must have realized already, the subject we are discussing is not as simple as it seems. If it is to be dealt with thoroughly, it entails studying and finding solutions for many psychological, sociological and political problems. I do not propose to undertake such a study now; I could not do so in the limited time at my disposal. Moreover, the well-founded views expressed and the observations made by the learned scholars and philosophers who have spoken before me make it unnecessary for me to dwell further on generalities. And yet, there are still many questions to which no satisfactory reply appears to have been given, and certain obscure points which ought to be clarified before we can go on to a straightforward enumeration of the duties of the State and the steps it should take. First of all, we should discover how far the State is entitled to intervene in the educational and cultural affairs of the country, and to direct them as it deems fit. Secondly, we ought to agree on the meaning of the word “State”, since our subject speaks of the duties of the “State” and the steps which the “State” will have to take. Now, the State is an abstract conception, an entity which has no existence apart from our thoughts. If we attributed duties to that general idea, we should commit the same mistake as those gloomy mor- alists who draw up for human beings, for man—that is to say for a mental concept—a code of stern and rigid rules of conduct, with no regard to individual characteristics, potentialities         and abilities, which differ so greatly from one man to another. In short, the idea of the State as bound by duties and initiating measures can be entertained only by extending its sense, that is, by the idea of the individuals, the various separate States which, at the present moment, actually exist effectively in the world. Now, as you are well aware, these States are not uniformly alike. They are distin- guished from one another by many obvious characteristics. In the particular case with which we are concerned, we cannot fail to see that States are not everywhere possessed of the same powers. In fact, while in some countries the instruction and education of the people are entirely in the hands of the State’s central government, in others they are largely provided by private bodies and are not centralized. We all know, for instance, that the great Republic of the United States of America has no national Ministry of Education, but merely an Office of Education in Washington, which does not issue orders to education and cultural insti- tutions in the country but simply makes recom- mendations and gives advice. A third point in need of clarification concerns the sincerity and good will of these various States. In other words, before we consider the duties and measures in question, we must be assured, firstly, that the different States believe sincerely that the best means of working for international under- standing is to bring influence to bear directly on the minds and hearts of men and nations and, secondly, that they are honestly prepared to under- take this work in their respective countries. That sincerity and good will are equally necessary for the success of the international undertaking with which we are concerned. Without them, no fit and earnest steps can be taken towards achieving our ideal, just as nothing rational and effective can be accomplished by men unless their action is inspired by clear thinking, strong feeling and sincere determination. Gentlemen, you must remember how much ink was spilled on paper after the first world war, and how many words were dinned into our ears about the disarmament of the Powers, considered at the time as the surest means of removing fears of aggression and the danger of war. You are well aware that the failure of all efforts in that direction was largely due to the mutual distrust of the various countries. Each State was afraid that the others were insincere and that, if it disarmed, it would place itself in an inferior position vis-a-vis those other countries which would not have disarmed, even if appearances gave the contrary impression. After the second world war, people were wiser and saw that material disarmament, even if it were feasible, would not suffice to establish lasting world peace and that, to achieve the latter, it would be necessary to carry out another kind of disarmament, moral disarmament, if I may so express myself. Conflicts between peoples, like conflicts between individuals, are caused by a mass of prejudices, erroneous opinions, hostile passions and misunder- standings, which constitute so many grievances and weapons leading the peoples to mortal combat. In order to establish international understanding and lasting peace, those misunderstandings must be cleared away and the individuals and peoples must be deprived of those weapons. That is the real meaning of moral disarmament which, prop- erly understood and carried out, will not fail to imbue the peoples with that spirit of tolerance without which there can be no understanding, no impartiality, no peace and no justice. To prevent moral disarmament from miscarry- ing in the same way as material disarmament, the mistrust which caused the failure or the latter must be removed at all costs. The various States must do more than render mere lip-service to disarmament and must give adequate proof that they are not attempting to deceive each other by administering sugar-coated sleeping pills. This mistrust must be removed if we wish to usher in an era of sincere international co-operation. To sum up, I repeat that the good faith and good will of all States, whether small or great, weak or strong, are the necessary conditions of moral disarmament. It follows from what I have said that, in the future, States should not content themselves with establishing this moral disarmament, this spirit of tolerance, in their respective countries, but should endeavour to realize it on the international plane. That is the first and paramount duty of the State with regard to the establishment of better international understanding, and it implies a cer- tain number of other duties which it will be easy to discover if we examine the measures which must be taken to fulfil this paramount duty. I do not need to mention each of these steps in detail. They are clearly set forth in the form of a vast programme of work in a study carried out at the invitation of the Persian National Commission by one of its most outstanding members, Dr. Sadi- ghi, Professor at the University of Teheran and delegate to this Conference. This study will be published separately so that you may all make yourselves familiar with it. I shall therefore con- fine myself to brief remarks on these steps. As you are aware, they may be divided into three categories: education, science and culture. All educational measures, which in my opinion are   basic to all the others, are the responsibilities of the various educational authorities. They will range from a revision of school syllabi and classics, in which the aim is to introduce a spirit of inter- dependence between the peoples of the world, tolerance and mutual assistance to the exchange of teachers and students and the organization of con- ferences dealing with international questions and explaining the work of the United Nations and Unesco. In the field of science, the most important measure would be the establishment of an indepen- dent Institute, which, in addition to courses and lectures on general history, general geography, comparative literature, general sociology and sociology applied to education, a scientific study of international relations would be undertaken. Such institutes would also help to bring into con- tact those professors and scientists interested in such studies and in the social sciences in particular. In the field of culture, numerous measures are necessary, particularly the translation, reproduc- tion and dissemination of foreign literary and artistic works; the organization of exhibitions of such works; the encouragement of scientific and literary societies in the various countries with a view to bringing them into contact with each other; lastly, the use of the press, radio, films and the stage to make known foreign civilizations and to disseminate the generous ideas of philan- thropy, universal brotherhood, etc. As my time is nearly up, I would like to make one final remark. The text of the subject under discussion gives the impression that identical, “standard” measures could be taken, valid for all countries and all States. I do not agree with this view, for we are all well aware that the peoples of the world have reached very different stages of cultural development. These measures should therefore be adopted to the special conditions and requirements of each country. In this connexion, may l once again stress that the most urgent duty of States where the greater proportion of the population is illiterate is to carry a determined and methodical literacy campaign, to strive earnestly to raise the intellectual and moral standards of their people. The task of these States will be the easier as Unesco is today in a position to give them material assistance, moral encouragement and technical advice. The work carried out by the States in this field will redound first to their own credit as they will thus be repairing a flagrant injustice, an insult to human dignity which they hitherto seem to have countenanced. It will obviously serve the interests of individuals in each community and lastly it will benefit all mankind as these individuals, no longer illiterate, will be able to assimilate the noble ideals of understanding, international fellow- ship and tolerance—in short the high ideals of Unesco. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I thank Rector Siassi for his very eloquent and precise words, and I call on Professor Eugène Dupréel of the Belgian delegation, soci- ologist, Honorary Professor at the University of Brussels and Member of the Belgian Academy. Prof. Eugène-Gustave DUPREEL (Belgium) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian are proud of their reputation of a practical and enterprising people; yet, by tearing a philosopher from his peaceful studies to come and speak before this important assembly, my government has shown that, in order to reply to a question such as we have before us, it is not afraid to delve into abstract theory, into the very foundations of anthropology or sociology. This is in fact the only course the speaker is capable of taking; and he craves your permission, without losing sight of the problem before us, to draw your attention to a point of general sociology; a technical expression, this, the employment of which he ventures to recommend. In introducing these points of pure science I shall adopt the method used by speakers who begin with some well-known, challenging thought, some arresting text. I shall not have to look far for this opening phrase, since it is in a sense the theme of our Conference—to wit, that wars are conceived in the minds of men, and it is to the minds of men that those who desire to abolish war must make their appeal. Whilst endorsing this truth, I wish to expand it in a certain direction. If a particular person approves or desires war, it is not too serious; he must be mad or wicked, but it is a different matter if this mentality is found in a man who has the support of a social group, such as an army over-confident of its own invincibility, a conquered nation seeking vengeance, a group of fanatics dreaming of converting the world, a bunch of business men avid of exploitation. Danger of war arises only when the desire for war is present in men grouped together—but men are all and always grouped together, and readily form themselves into groups directly they have an advantage or a misfortune in common. Here we are faced with the real character of social reality; society is composed, not simply of the sum of self-sufficient individuals, nor simply of the sum of nations, or political, ter- ritorial or military states; the complete human factor comprises the sum of all the individuals       contained in groups of this kind, each individual belonging simultaneously to several different groups—family, religion, political party, trade union and many more. The sociological con- ception which I wish to put before you is this: this sum of intermingled groups, serving both to unite individuals whilst at the same time separ- ating them from their fellows, I propose to designate by the term social symbiosis. The term symbiosis is borrowed from natural sciences and here it means that social groups of differing and frequently conflicting types are agreed not only to exist side by side, but, normal- ly, also to help one another. Many of them owe their very existence to the functions they perform for the benefit of the whole world: such, for instance, are the industrial and economic groups. In fact, in the present state of the world and of technical progress, the whole of Humanity is no more than a single symbiosis, as complex as it is immense. A social symbiosis is not a group—it lacks the unity of a group; there is nothing in its structure either to prevent the rise of antagonisms or to quell them. Cruel as a war may be, it remains a phenomenon occurring within the symbiosis Whereas in a single group, on the contrary, conflicts are accidental, and the means of solving them are thought to be provided for. It must be pointed out that the widely differing groups constituting the symbiosis fall into two categories: there are groups based on force, i. e. groups capable of using force, if necessary, both against the members of the group and against elements outside the group. The main groups of this type, the only “lawful” ones, are armed political States. The other category comprises groups much more numerous and more varied in type, whose cohesion rests purely on the free consent of their members. At the present stage of the social symbiosis, all these groups have renounced the use of force, on the tacit understanding that the State will protect them, using its force for the purpose of keeping such order as to enable all lawful groups to exist simultaneously and usefully. As a corollary to its obligation to enforce law and order, the State is expected, by virtue of its strength and its resources, to discharge such other services as the peaceful groups are unable to discharge unaided. Lacking unity of structure, life in the form of a symbiosis brings in its train various disorders, the most formidable consequence of which is the danger of war. Disturbed by this drawback many are led to advocate the formation of a single, strong unified group, to which all other groups
157 would be more or less directly subordinated. Their theory is that Humanity must pass from the stage of social symbiosis to that of a single social group based, if necessary, on force. What we have to observe, however, is that the chief aim of all these groups is to perpetuate themselves; any desire they may manifest to unite with other groups is inspired, not by the wish to merge, to lose their identity in the whole; on the contrary, they desire to confirm and pro- long their existence. It is thus clearly the duty of all those who understand the need and the virtues of a society comprising multiple groups to work for the organization of social symbiosis. The aim is not to eliminate groups, but to make them more mutually compatible: antagonisms and rivalries cannot be entirely eradicated, but their probability can be lessened, they can be reduced to tolerable limits and even be made to bear useful fruit. But, ladies and gentlemen, you will doubtless have anticipated my words; there is an inner logic which moves faster than I can speak: “What else is Unesco? Basically is it not a manifestation of a symbiosis, an organ designed to bring about that plurality of groups which constitutes social symbiosis.” The aims and endeavours of Unesco are precisely designed to balance the relation between the two types of social groups: groups maintained by force, on the one hand, and groups based on free consent of their members on the other. This great new institution emanates from polit- ical States, from social groups commanding both force and money—the latter being in some sort a portable, divisible substitute for force. The mission of Unesco is to come to the aid of some of the other groups, that is of those groups re- sponsible for the development of the cultural and spiritual life of man. On this point my proposal comes near to a wise recommendation made at one of our meetings by Mr. Carneiro: that Unesco must not lose sight of the close connexion between its programme and that of various cultural groups, many of them of long standing, which also contribute to the main- tenance of values accepted as universal. Neither Mr. Carneiro nor I disagree with the words spoken a few days ago by Mr. Bidault— that Unesco’s work must be directed not towards man in the abstract, but towards the living indi- vidual, with all his peculiarities. That is true. But we must stress once again that man, concrete, real observable man is always the group man. Strip an individual, if you can, of all that he derives from his family, his profession, his education, his moral training—do you get a   complete individual, fit for life? You will have, I am afraid, nothing but an empty husk, a physical framework, with internal organs and appetites, perhaps, but certainly with no values. Man as a member of many different groups, supported and bound by association with his fellows—that is the basic factor of the social symbiosis, the factor to which the guiding acti- vity of Unesco must be directed. In agreeing to the existence of this great new international institution, the nations have indicated their acceptance of the complex social symbiosis as the normal permanent condition of human society. A fully-effective Unesco, will decrease the backwardness of some of the Member States and so, by removing one of the main pretexts for the use of force, contribute to the cause of peace. Have not aggressive nations always pointed to the disorderliness and shortcomings of their intended victims, claiming by subjugation to further their welfare? The aim of Unesco is to eliminate the causes of antagonism in the world; the danger of conflict will be lessened if inequalities are reduced; they can then no longer be used as pretexts for the use of force, with its brutally unifying effect. Surely, ladies and gentlemen, the very fact of having so clearly indicated Unesco’s place in the social symbiosis, situated between the great Powers which founded it, on the one hand, and the spiritual needs of individuals and peaceful groups on the other, itself suggests a very simple answer to the question put to this Conference. At the risk of recalling Mr. de la Palisse and Mr. Josse, the goldsmith, I venture to formulate this answer: the primary duty of the nations in the service of peace and culture is to support Unesco, to enable it to act as befits its place in the social symbiosis, its role as complementary agent in a system in which the nations have agreed to occupy different but compatible positions. At this point I shall stop. All I have done is to make a brief excursion, which has brought me back again to mystarting point. I have tried only to express in different terms facts with which my hearers are already familiar. TI trust that, thanks to my chosen concept of a social technique, I have been successful. To put a point more clearly, without making any addition to it, is, it is true, only half a success; but when we are dealing with the science of man, the most elusive, the most will-o’-the-wisp subject in the world, even a half-success amounts to success. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The very original way in which Professor Dupréel has dealt with the subject before us has undoubtedly deeply interested those present. I now declare the discussion open and I call upon Professor Alf Sommerfelt, member of the Norwegian delegation, Professor of General Lin- guistics at the University of Oslo, Member of the Executive Board of Unesco and Vice-President of the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. Prof. Alf SOMMERFELT (Norway) — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall follow Lord Russell’s example and make very complete proposals. A year ago the United Nations adopted a new Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was welcomed enthusiastically by Unesco at Beirut. We in the Norwegian National Commission thought that it would be a good thing to draw up a declaration of the duties of the State in regard to education, science and culture for the purpose of ensuring a better understanding peoples. At the Florence between Conference the Norwegian delegation will propose the setting up-of a Special Commission to work out such a declaration. In order to give an idea of what this declaration would contain, I shall submit to you some of the articles which we shall propose as a basis for discussion. I shall do so very briefly. Article I: Every State shall ensure that educational establishments, school textbooks, the press and broad- casting services throughout its territory adopt an atti- tude of tolerance and respect towards other States or peoples. Article II: Every State shall, in education or other ways, abstain from extolling its own culture to the detriment of other countries or peoples either by education or by other means. Article III: Every State shall, subject to the re- quirements of the national defence, permit nationals of foreign countries to carry out in its territory research work of scientific or general intellectual interest. Article IV: Every State shall permit the free exer- cise, in private or in public, of all creeds or religions whose practise is not contrary to public morality or public order. We all know that one of the questions which has most envenomed relations between States is the problem of minorities, from a linguistic point of view. There are in fact linguistic minorities in a large number of European states and in other parts of the world. The policy pursued by certain States in this matter has frequently been not only brutal but completely lacking in intelligence. The historian specialized in linguistic history would be able to tell you how frequently attempts to suppress the language of a minority have had     just the opposite effect. We shall therefore pro- pose in this respect, the three following articles: Article V: No State shall impose any restriction on the use of any language in private or commercial relations, in religious affairs, in the press or any kind of publication, at public meetings, on the stage or in films. Article VI: Every State shall ensure the primary education of each minority in its own language, if the number of the members of that minority exceeds a figure to be fixed subsequently, and if a part of it, the size of which shall be fixed subsequently, so desires. No State shall forbid non-official education being given in the language of a minority. Article VII: The Members of racial, religious or lin- guistic minorities shall be treated, in law and in fact, on a footing of equality with the members of the majority. As Lord Russell has already pointed out, in many countries school textbooks have been a powerful factor in creating nationalism and chauvinism. We shall therefore propose the two following articles: Article VIII: Every State shall endeavour to ensure, so far as possible, the accuracy of the statements made concerning foreign countries in school textbooks and works of reference published in its territory. Article IX: Every State shall be prepared to con- clude, or to authorize a competent institution or organization within its jurisdiction to conclude, an agreement with foreign States with a view to elim- inating from school textbooks any matter that is likely to stir up hostile feelings towards other countries. States prevented by the nature of their educational system from concluding, or from authoriz- ing an institution or organization within their juris- diction to conclude, such an agreement shall be pre- pared to take the necessary steps to ensure the revision of school textbooks on the basis of certain recommen- dations. This latter article will include a series of sub- divisions inspired by the existing agreement be- tween the Scandinavian countries. I cannot now enter into details, but I can say that this agreement has been in existence for several years and that it is working very well. Naturally, if our proposal is adopted by the Florence Conference, these Articles would be mere- ly a basis for discussion. They will no doubt be modified, amended and added to. Although such a Declaration cannot compel any States, small or great, to follow the right road, it will serve, as it were, as a “conscience” for them. It would give considerable publicity to the sug- gestions which have been made, and that publicity might transform them into motive ideas. It is relatively easy to kill men fighting for ideas. It is not so easy to kill the ideas themselves.
159 The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] 1 thank Professor Sommerfelt very sin- cerely, not only in my own name, but also on behalf of Unesco, for the extremely valuable contribution he has just made to the development of our programme. He has, as it were, traced out a broad path which we might very usefully follow, and he has indicated with admirable clar- ity and eloquence the aim which our Association should pursue in the immediate future. His contribution is therefore a most important one. I now call upon Professor Stout, member of the Australian delegation and Professor of Moral and Political Philosophy at the University of Sydney. Prof. A. K. STOUT (Australia) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by telling you that to help me in making this contri- bution for Australia to tonight’s discussion, I have had the benefit, not only of receiving carefully considered expressions of opinion about the topic before us from members of our co-operating bodies in Australia—persons of distinction in the physical and the social sciences—but, I have also had before me, a cross-section of opinion from what philosophers are fond of calling “the man in the street”. We have in Australia a Listening Groups Scheme, organized by our broadcasting commis- sions; groups of men and women meet regularly in one another’s homes to listen to broadcast dis- cussions on questions of general and social interest, and then discuss them among themselves, discuss what they have heard. They also receive before: hand printed background material to study and help them in their discussions. Now, in preparation for this very session to- night, they were given a few weeks ago two spe- cial broadcasts on the question: “Should we back Unesco?” These took the form of a discussion between a member of our delegation, who had considerable experience of Unesco matters and, on the other hand, a sceptical critic of Unesco, a perfectly genuine one, not a man of straw set up to be knocked down. The groups were asked to send in their main conclusions to help me, and they have done so. Well, fortunately, as I am not one of tonight's big three who spoke first, I have not, after all, got to try to weave into a single pattern the very varied and sometimes contradictory views that have come to me from experts and laymen alike. If I had tried to do so, the result could only have been a patchwork quilt with large holes in it and jagged edges, if indeed it hung together at all. But one or two main lines of agreement, the constructive and sceptical, did emerge, and I hope   to do justice to some of these in discussing a few of the issues raised by some of the main speakers. I want to begin by raising, what seems to me, and to many of my collaborators, a fundamental difficulty, and it is so fundamental that I propose to spend perhaps rather more than half my time on it. Lord Russell, in his address to us tonight, started from the assumption that the possibility of peace depends very largely on the existence of friendly feelings between nations, and that edu- cation can play the major part in developing such feelings. Now, in spite of what Lord Russell said about all education being only propaganda, from reading his books and from a good deal of what he said tonight, I felt certain that he does not really mean that education is just indoc- trination or the conditioning of minds quite apart from the evidence or from an attempt to discover the truth. I am sure that he means the devel- opment of knowledge based on the evidence of knowledge in one nation about others. Itis thus assumed in his position, as it is indeed in the very existence of Unesco itself, that the more one nation knows of another, the more friendly will be its feeling towards that other nation. That is surely not obvious. It may well be true that ignorance breeds indifference, you can- not love what you know nothing about. But does it follow that knowledge is necessarily followed by liking? Is the colour bar, where it exists, broken down by mutual knowledge and understanding? Do anti-Semites come to live on friendly terms with Jews when they get to know them better or when more of them come to live in their country? I do not think that you can answer those questions outright in the affirmative. Did those countries, which during the war became the hosts of large numbers of their allies, always come to like them better as a whole because of this personal contact? We all know, of course, that many close personal individual friendships were formed in that way, but that is not the point. Was there a general increased feeling of friendship for the peoples of those countries as such? Examples could be multiplied, but I will end with just one extreme example. It seems to me that there might be occasions when knowledge not only does not bring sympathy and friendship, but ought not to do so. Here, I will speak—I want it clearly understood—for myself only. If my grow- ing knowledge of a country led me to believe that in it free speech was being suppressed, indoctrin- ation was replacing education, science was being completely harnessed for the government’s policies, the right of just and open trial was being denied and concentration camps were flourishing, then I cannot see how this knowledge either could make or ought to make me feel friendly towards those whom I believed responsible for these things, or even indeed towards those who willingly accepted them. Please do not misunderstand me, I am not raising this difficulty because I believe it to be insuperable, if I did, I could not work for Unesco, either here in Paris or in my own country. I raise it because I honestly believe that it is one that Unesco must seriously face and keep facing, in its own interest. I believe too, that, in Professor Dupréel’s address to us tonight, there is a sign-post to at least part of the solution, both of the question of principle and of the practical problem for Unesco. He has told us that the guiding activity of Unesco must be directed to “man as a member of many different groups, supported and bound by associ- ation with his fellows”. I take this to mean, among other things, that we should give up talking of the interest of man as man, or, the interest of humanity as such, in Professor Du- préel's words “Man in the abstract”, since there is, in fact, no such common human interest or, at any rate, none that can be so clearly defined or felt as to make it an effective motive for action, and certainly not a strong enough motive for resisting the influences that lead to war. Not only within mankind as a whole, but within each nation, it is the distinct, special and particu- lar interests, that really engage our hearts and minds. I do not mean anything at all mysterious by this, and I do not say, really, that it has all been said by Professor Dupréel already, but, to take widely differing examples, of very varying im- portance, almost at random, I mean such an interest as that in bringing up children, bringing up a family, or the interest of a scientist in a scientific activity, or the interest of an unemployed man in looking for work, or for the houseless in looking for a home, or in a professional activity like forming, or teaching, or medicine, or in sport or gardening, prison reform or keeping pets. None of these interest extends to all the members of any nation, indeed, 1 think it safe to say that there will always be some opposition or hostility to each of them in every nation. But every one of these interests transcends national frontiers. And when we speak of helping one nation to know and therefore to be friends with another, what I think we should mean, is the introduction to one another of these groups that share in those special com- mon interests and who have to face these special common problems. The introduction to them by exchange of persons and of books, through media like the radio and films and, indeed, by all the means which Unesco is urging its Member States to take. If I may indulge a personal interest for     a minute, I would like to say a little about the part that films can play in this introduction of group to group between nations. Films, especially the realist, or documentary films, are, it seems to me, of particular value where the groups whom you want to get to know one another, are relatively unorganized. So far as professional groups, such as farmers or teachers, and the groups of which Lord Russell spoke—so far as they are concerned, they have a certain degree of organization, and the government has an interest in them as such, and it is fairly easy for them—if the governments are willing—to receive State help in interchange of ideas and persons. But it is a good deal harder where the groups are relatively unorganized, as in the case of parents, or househunters, or the unemployed. Yet, it is just the recognition of common problems, of common joys and sorrows in such homely, intim- ate, personal matters that breaks down the fear and suspicions that are based on ignorance. The film is particularly good at bringing us alive to one another, at showing how, in spite of outward differences of environment, the same day-to-day problems arise in different countries. The film can make us feel the similarity below the dif- ferences, not merely know about it, as we know that 2 plus 2 equals 4. Here, I should like especially to refer to the recent series of enter- tainment films made in Italy, in simple and authentic stories, vividly told against a real back- ground, in which we get to know and understand and like the very real and human characters on the screen before us. I have spent too much of my time on this very big problem, though not enough to begin to do it justice. It is with relief that I leave it and turn to say a very few words about Lord Russell's clear and concise list of practical suggestions. Some of them, especially those about exchanges of professors, students and teachers, and about sabbatical years for younger university teachers, and foreign travel for school-children, have a very special appeal to Australians, because of her geo- graphical remoteness. People always tell you “Oh, but Australia is nearer because of air travel”. Re- member that very few can afford to travel by air, if they have to pay their own fares, and that indeed, both the time and the money that is needed for travelling by sea is not available by any means to everyone. Thus, it is not surprising that several of Lord Russell's proposals were made to me by those who discussed this topic in Aus- tralia. We are also strongly agreed on the need to stress the teaching of world history. Here per- haps there is an advantage in being a young coun- try. We have not got so long a history of our own as to allow us to play up our own glory through the ages, so we do, in fact, make a serious attempt to teach history from a world point of view, from the primary schools up to the uni- versities, and, though we are not free from jin- goism, we have perhaps something to show in our history teaching which may help the revo- lution that Lord Russell calls for. With Lord Russell’s advocacy of the use of films in schools for making foreigners human in the eyes of children, we should also be in strong agreement. We use what are known as “back- ground” films a lot in our schools and we use documentary films in our voluntary adult edu- cation activities. What is more, our National Films Board, like those similar bodies in other countries, makes films about the Australian scene and the Australian people, which could well be used abroad with commentaries in foreign lan- guages. That appears to me to be the weakness of Lord Russell's proposal, that foreign films which have been successes in their own country should be used for children in schools, 1 do not know how he is going to get over the language difficulty. There is a possibility of putting sub- titles in their own language, but I think that chil- dren, and more especially, young ones, would find it very difficult to cope with these. If you use a new sound-track altogether, it is very expensive and it really takes awayits flavour, so I think that perhaps the documentary is where we ought to start, because there you can make a commentary in the new language. Lastly, about the suggestion of an international flag and anthem in schools. I am very doubtful about both these ideals. I confess that I tend to find international songs faintly ridiculous—per- haps because they sound forced. And what on earth would a piece of international music sound like? As for the flag, a symbol does not have much point until there is a fairly clear idea of what is symbolized, and it seems to me that it would be a better plan for each school to display in turn the flags of each of the other nations and let the children sing in their own language—as Lord \ussell suggests—one of that nation’s songs on that special day. I end by drawing your attention to a function of education not mentioned by Lord Russell, but one which seems to me fundamental to education in a democracy, and also of the greatest im- portance for preventing war. Education, even at the school level and progressively up to university level, should aim at developing the power to think for oneself, to understand what constitutes   evidence for a belief and to form a critical estimate of such evidence. In other words, to resist one-sided propaganda. Now, when war threatens, governments put out a barrage of propaganda. It used to be patriotic, but that will not work any more and aggressors now present their aggression as in the interest of the enemy: they are giving him a new order, or inviting him into a co-prosperity sphere. So far as it is a government's duty to see that its citizens are genuinely educated, so far it is its duty to develop in those citizens the power to resist propaganda—including its own. This is no doubt a paradox, but it is not the only one facing the States that support Unesco, and it is by just such tests that the sincerity of their support for Unesco must be judged. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] Your applause reveals how deeply you have appreciated the very democratic speech which we have just heard and which has made clear what Australia thinks on the matter. I now call upon Mrs. Inés Segura Bustamante, member of the Cuban delegation and Professor of Psychology at the University of Havana. As she is the first lady to address us, I have no doubt that you will give her all your attention and applause. Dr. Inés SEGURA BUSTAMANTE (Cuba) [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take ad- vantage of the unusual opportunity afforded me by the holding of a general discussion to outline, as a starting-point for the measures which should be adopted to secure better understanding between the peoples, certain notions I have long turned over in my mind on education, the development of the personality and the need for a philosophy of life or view of the world consistent with the maintenance of peace. Transcending the need for the training of the intellect is the necessity for a right view of the world. The influence on education of philosophy, whose function is so much discussed, is invisible but sure. Like every other cultural phenomenon it must fit its own age and our age most urgently demands a new philosophy. The tormented man of the Existentialist school is the Hitlerite, the Nazi man. It is essential that we set up against the philosophy of Existentialism a positive philosophy, that the philosophy of the future oppose to the apprehensions of Heidegger's Dasein confidence in the world itself and in God. However, the philosophical needs of twentieth century man cannot be met effectively through
162 religion. Faith can no longer be a purely reli- gious affair. Religious faith is achieved by indoctrination and for the most part the man of today resists indoc- trination; he thinks and wishes to think for him- self and if he lets faith possess him, it can only enter through the gate of reason. Faith is the only thing able to lift man clear of his present apprehensions, and a philosophic faith is the only kind of faith that the intelligence of contemporary man can unreservedly accept. How the transformation is to be secured we cannot tell as yet; but we do know that only a positive philosophy can bring man to a view of the world calculated to assist the maintenance of peace. Until that view is attained, man is under the continual menace of war. Such a philosophy could provide the basis of the education given to our young people—to young people throughout the world. Education of the personality is an important part of education as a whole and the aspect of it on which most stress must be laid is the incul- cation of a true notion of the world and a proper philosophy of life. We must set up against Existentialism some form of “essentialism”—against the man heading for the void, a man who is a part of the whole and who exists in aeternum (if T may use a paradox) because his moment was predestined before it occurred and after it has occurred, will have existed from all eternity yet can nevercease to have occurred: that is its eternal place in time. Its place was appointed from all eternity before it came to pass and that will remain its place for ever after it has occurred. On 6 August 1949 at noon there was a moment appointed from all ages; noon of 6 August 1949 will remain its place, to all eternity. What happened at that moment remains an event for ever but also it had been in a state of “becoming” fromall eternity predestined for that moment. The fact of there being a time before him and a time after him does not mean that man is a mere existence; what came before, and follows after, himself gives him the tall stature of a being, of a thing-which-is, because that was his appoin- ted place even before he existed and because that will be his place for ever after he has come into existence in Time. All valid definitions up to now make existence a thing subject to the time process; essence is that which is independent of time. Now existence, human existence, man, is a thing-in-itself; time is no more than the notion conceived by our mind to comprehend the thing- in-itself. If we eliminate all that is not real, we shall eliminate time, which is no more than a   notion: we are left with human existence as a thing-in-itself, a thing which is, an essence. This meeting is not concerned with philosophy, and I ask your pardon for touching on a matter rather outside our terms of reference. In my excuse I plead the need for showing the possibility of a counter-philosophy to Existentialism, the need for showing—however sketchily—the possibility of an understandable and demonstrable philosophy of man and his world as an essence, an eternal value. Man only achieves a picture of existence because his analytical mentality which pictures reality ever split up into component parts, can comprehend the sum of them; but reality is not confined to what the human mind can comprehend; it transcends man’s mind and is a whole; and in that wholeness of being, which because entire is eternal, every happening has a place, which, too, is eternal. Man's intuition grasps more than the small com- pass of his reason; by intuition he perceives eter- nity, and in eternity he is a fixed point. His being thus a constant within the scheme of eternity makes him an essence immutable and eternal like every essence; while he continued in the existential phase he underwent an infinity of mutations: but the sum total of his mutations, situated as an immutable fact in the midst of eternity, confers on him the inalienable character of an essence; thither he has come and there he is; he “exists” for a while and the time for which he “exists” situates him in eternity for all ages before and all ages after. In such an essentialist philosophy faith has a most important place. Faith arises as an inevi- table complement to man’s realization of himself as an essence. A man no longer doomed to extinction at once finds all his values changed. He is a part of the whole, and because he is a part of it, all is his. The limits necessarily imposed compel me to pass on to my next point. the metaphysical faith I have outlined, but based on it, we come to a faith attainable by the man in upon me Beyond the street, whose hidden science can investigate. We live in a century in which we can neither accept nor appeal to the supernatural. There is a mechanism of faith and there is a theoretical background determining the laws by which that mechanism is governed and under which it operates. We have seen many instances, and have a thousand witnesses—most of whom we cannot discount—of the so-called miraculous power of faith. In the religious manfaith has a doctrinal basis; powers in the man who thinks for himself its only basis is practical, empirical—he has seen it working and nothing more. Without a background of theory to sustain it, it is not acknowledged openly; intellectually man resists it to a greater or lesser degree and at the best he regards it as a pheno- menon of abnormal psychology. It is for us whose work is modern philosophy and psychology to define the place of faith in normal psychology. Faith is a phenomenon of the normal man. The calm man owes half his calmness to faith in himself, and it is difficult to have faith in oneself without having some sort of faith in the world and in God. The term “God” here means that which unites, the unity of all that is an all that exists, of all that lies on either side of the known world. The man without faith in himself has voids in the integration of his psyche which cannot be filled, and psychological integration is the un- disputed foundation of a satisfactory personality. Thus there cannot be a satisfactory personality without faith which thereby becomes thebasis of man’s ability to achieve mental integration. In the sequence, faith in the self—integration— satisfactory personality, the first of those terms (faith in the self) includes faith in the world and in God; the other, satisfactory personality, in- cludes the ability to co-operate andthe elimination of fear and worthless egoism. The sequence, faith in the self—integration— satisfactory personality, is, like all such sequences, an unreal breakdown of the reality; it is, indeed, an impossibility in its schematic form; the sequence as a whole is much more interlocked, much more integrated and much more natural than the artificial sequence suggests. Here as in every other case, the sequence is an artificial dissection for the purpose of scrutiny and study. Faith operates as a whole within the individual, linked with the intelligence and with instinct, and through its internal mechanisms and con- nexions produces the type of man whom we need to ensure peace. Until every single man is a rampart against war, the danger will persist; and that happystate will only come to pass given a philosophy whose influence may reach right down to the masses, a philosophy able to make the humblest man in the street feel himself in union with his world and his God, sustained in his thinking and defended unshakably by faith. The apprehension, the for- lornness, the loneliness which each man feels in his heart when he pictures himself as cut off from the world, as an atom adrift in the void, is the primary agent of conflict, the raw material of    hostility, in a word the leaven of war. It is fear which makes man attack his fellows even over the smallest matters, the fear of being absorbed, the fear of extinction. The elimination of these deep-rooted sentiments is one of the chief ends that Unesco should set itself, as a body mobilizing education, science and culture for the preservation of peace. Unesco now asks: “Whatare the duties of the State in regard to Education, Science and Culture for the purpose of ensuring a better understanding between peoples, and what practical steps should it take to discharge these duties?” That part of the question which concerns the duties of the State regarding the use of education, science and culture to secure better understanding between the peoples has been answered in the earlier part of this paper. If one of the principal ends which Unesco should set itself is the elimi- nation of those sentiments of separation, ap- prehension and fear in man, then that should be one of the fundamental duties of those States Members who in fact make up Unesco. As for the practical measures which should be adopted in fulfilment of those duties, they are as follows: first and foremost the mass education of the peoples—that fundamental education with which the Organization for Education, Science and Culture is already concerning itself; and there- after, though by no means less important, the education of the personality which so far has been left almost entirely to chance. Chance has made great men or wretches, saints or criminals, bal- anced personalities or neurotics. This brings us to an important part of the question, namely, neurosis. It would be not ex- aggeration to say that the majority of the catastrophes which man has contrived or endured are due to individual or group neuroses. On the other hand, the happy realms of which history tells us are those which were governed by a man who, quite fortuitously, developed a well-adjusted personality. So far, the circumstances governing this have been a matter of chance, but today the State is under an obligation to create them deliberately with the means at its disposal. Mere observation is enough to show us the effects of education. In addition, the advances of psychology up to date show us that, just as the intelligence is one of the elements in man owing most to heredity, so his moral sentiments are the psychological trait in whose determination surroundings have played the greatest part. The fact that the moral qualities, the attitudes of man to his fellows, should be so largely the result of his surroundings opens an unguessed world of possibilities to humanity. The team spirit, the will to act aright, com- passion and the humane feelings are not a thing determined by heredity, and heredity’s influence on them is small. The part of human personality which concerns us is that of the sentiments and attitudes. Having for our purposes practically eliminated heredity from the factors determining personality, we are left with the surroundings as the over-riding fac- tor, and we know already that they are much easier to modify by artificial means. Although the integration of the personality is not dependent solely on the moral element, proper attitudes help in eliminating the conflicts pro- ductive of disintegration, and, in its turn, integra- tion influences attitudes. The programme for the education of personality is a matter for the widest technical discussion; its basis should however be the elimination of fear, fear of the future, fear of the world, fear of lone- liness. We need a change of front on the part of humanity towards the world. The “homo homini lupus” is still accepted by many who fit them- selves to his views; it is for us to demonstrate that this concept is not viable. That has been the worst snag struck by religion in the canalizing of ethics. Religion postulates love of one’s neighbour but makes that postulate on the basis of the unworthiness of human nature. Religion is too scornful of this world to get any good thing from it. As it is unnatural to love what is unworthy, the feelings repudiate the orders given to the reason. The sole way of resolving the conflict lies in the raising of human dignity. The education of the personalty in conformity with the needs of our age is not a thing which can be done in a year or two years; that education must begin from the very first day of life. What can be done, if not to complete it, at least to bring it nearer to what is needed, is to educate today’s adults so that they may know better how to treat, or teach the treatment of, the growing personalities of the adults of tomorrow. That together with the Parent’s Schools, un- doubtedly the most important of all schools, and with intensive propaganda throughout the world, could succeed in bringing it about that satisfactory personalities were no longer as hitherto, the pro- ducts of blind chance. As an elementary example, far from thoroughly worked out, of a university programme for the education of the adults of today who are potential teachers in the school for training parents. I suggest a list of subjects which may be consulted at Unesco House. In the light of the considerations set out above,      and as a delegate of the Republic of Cuba at the Fourth Session of the General Conference of Unesco, 1 submit the following proposal: WHEREAS the preamble to the Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization declares: ‘That since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed’; WHEREAS the training of men’s minds for peace cannot be accomplished merely through intellectual education, since the conditioning of mental attitudes is also necessary; AnD wHEREAS the latest psychological researches demonstrate that the mental attitudes of man, making up the moral element in his personality, are liable to be extensively modified by his surroundings, un- like his intellectual aptitudes in which the hereditary element is dominant; THIS MEETING RECOMMENDS UNESCO,
1 To undertake active research into the condition- ing, throughout the world, of the individual and his mental attitudes, with a viewto the raising of human dignity and the full realization by man of the dignity of mankind; and
2. To regard as duties of the State, not only intellec- tual education but also the moral training of the individual, for which purpose the following practical measures should be adopted: (a) The inclusion in school curricula, principally at secondary school level, of courses designed for the right formation of character; (b) The foundation of schools of a type differing widely from those known hitherto, designed to equip individuals for the proper training of, and avoidance of distortion in the young lives committed to their charge: (ec) Intensive propaganda designed to increase man’s self-esteem as a means of raising his moral level. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I thank Mme. Bustamante for her penetrating and exhaustive analysis of the question, and I call on M. Jacques Rueff, economist and humanist, and President of the International Council for Phi- losophy and Humanistic Studies. Mr. RUEFF (Monaco) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen; if international understanding is a desirable thing, a bond of sympathy between speaker and audience is no less desirable and leads me to believe that you expect me to be brief. I will try not to disappoint you. It will be all the easier because I am speaking at the end of a discussion in which everything has been said on the matter on the Agenda, so that I must repeat what you have already heard or else criticize it. With your per- mission I will adopt the second alternative; not systematically, for I have no criticism to make of all the useful and necessary remarks which have been made; but because it seems to me that it
165 would be useful to consider the subject in relation to the generality of the problems confronting Unesco and to make a few observations on the limits set to it within the framework of Unesco’s programme. It was essential to devote this first discussion to the fundamental question of understanding be- ween peoples. But I think it would be a serious error and a grave danger if Unesco were to give the impression that it regarded its establishment of better international understanding as its whole contribution to the structure of social peace which the United Nations are endeavouring to build. Let me make myself clear. I shall do so in the form of a parable which I feel you will have no difficulty in understanding. Imagine that I come across a hungry lion on the outskirts of a wood. I shall understand perfectly its feelings towards me and the manner in which it will endeavour to act. But nothing will stop me from wishing to destroy it and from doing everything I can to remove the danger threatening me, in other words, the fact that I quite understand the motives of my enemy will not prevent me from wanting to fight it and from endeavouring to do so. That is to say, the problem of peace will not, in this particular case, be a problem of understanding. What will it be? In my opinion, there will be two alternative solutions: either to endeavour to give the lion a meal which it will consider more desirable than myself (and that is a problem of political economy, the economic problem of social peace); or to convince the lion that if it succeeded in carrying out its project, it would experience such disagreeable consequences (known as sanctions) that it would be better for it to forego its meal. I think, gentlemen, that that places the problem of international understanding in its proper place within Unesco’s necessary programme. It is most essential that Unesco should endeavour to implant peace within the minds of men. But I consider that it would be neglecting one of the most funda- mental parts of its task if it did not insist that, over and above this problem of peace in the minds of men, governments are confronted with prob- lems of statesmanship and policy-problems which must be thought out, but which, if I may say so, the present structure of governments does not provide for thinking out. There are few places —if any—where the art of statesmanship is dis- cussed objectively. It seems to me that it should never be forgotten that Unesco is primarily an association of Governments—at the beginning of the discussion regrets were expressed that this should be so—and that in order to carry out its task it should, above all, offer those Governments the wisdom and knowledge which the conditions   in which it works permit it to gain, by bringing together, in calm surroundings which are often not those of governments, men who have been able to devote enough leisure to studying, in peace and quiet, the problems of government itself. Gentlemen, this does not in any way diminish the interest of the present discussions. They were of fundamental importance, and by their fruitful- ness and diversity have made an essential contribu- tion to the problem of the methods which will enable governments to establish better internation- al understanding. But I feel that Unesco should, in future, develop its activity in the direction I have indicated by endeavouring to make the peoples familiar with the study of the methods which will make possible better government and more favourable conditions for maintaining peace. If T am a delegate at the next Unesco General Conference in Florence, I shall make proposals in this matter. Today I have merely wished to point out that it is only by attacking, openly and courageously, this infinitely dangerous problem (for all forms of action are dangerous), this prob- lem of methods and the technique of governments, that Unesco will be able to carry out its task for the good of civilization and culture, and for inter- national peace which is its supreme aim. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] Mr. Rueff has related the present discus- sion to the central theme, namely, Unesco’s acti- vities. I thank him for so doing, for it was most necessary to draw attention to this particular matter. I nowcall upon Dr. Mei Yi-Chi, Head of the Chinese delegation, and President of the Na- tional University of Peiping. Dr. MEI Yi chi (China) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: I think you will understand if I try to be as brief as possible, because many valuable and practicable suggestions have been mentioned by the distinguished speakers who have spoken tonight and also during the two previous nights. I shall then present just one point for your consideration, although it may already have been touched upon by my predecessors. The point which I wish to emphasize concerns not so much what a State should do, as what a State may refrain from doing. For I am of the opinion that, while the action of the State is neces- sary and indispensable for the initiation of art, and for projects involving international co-operation, many things can be accomplished more easily and more satisfactorily if the educational, scientific and cultural agencies, governmental or non- governmental, of the various countries are enabled to associate with each other and make direct arrangements between themselves; provided, of
166 course, that such agencies exist, and are competent to undertake the projects in question. In these days when international conferences of one kind or another are going on almost every week in some part of the world, one is apt to get the impression that anything worth doing now- adays has to be done by the governments or through the governments. Participation by go- vernments is very necessary, especially when the question of larger resources in personnel is in- volved. But if all matters of an international nature ought to be discussed and decided by re- presentatives of governments at meetings where even questions of protocol and of procedure take much time and attention, the result may not al- ways be the most satisfactory, at least in terms of economy and efficiency. Formality may have been preserved at the expense of spontaneity. Hence I think that every State should encourage and give all support to its institutions engaged in educational, scientific or cultural pursuits, so that they may come back to their activities, national as well as international, on their own initiative and to the best judgment of their own governing bodies. The State should give the most liberal allowances, that is to say, in policy, to the institu- tions. They should not direct or control their activities too closely, or too rigidly. For govern- ment control may not only hamper the efficient operation of an institution, but may also cause it to suffer fromthe swings in policy arising from political considerations. International co-oper- ation in cultural projects, though certainly they must not go against the interests of the countries concerned, should have rather long-range objec- tives freed from the influence of immediate urgings and anxieties. Furthermore, the inter- mingling of cultures—if it is to be of permanent value—should at best come as the result of natural contacts of free agencies who are generally inter- ested in the promotion of better understanding among themselves. And again, the free inter- change of ideas between individuals, though limited in scope as far as members go, contributes to the forming of enduring friendships, which will transcend national and racial boundaries and which should form the real foundation for world brotherhood. So, States will act most wisely if they do all they can in providing facilities for, or in removing obstacles to, the free association, the spontaneous give and take in education, in science, or in culture, between their peoples. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] I must answer a note which has just been given to me and which asks: “Is this a public discussion or a discussion before the public?” I must reply that it is a discussion before the public and consequently I deeply regret that, even    if time and circumstances permitted, I would not be able to call upon an outside speaker. That is the way the discussion has been organized and, although on a future occasion, it might be ar- ranged differently, it is unfortunately not possible to change it now. I call upon the last speaker, H.E. Mr. Antonio Castro Leal, Head of the Mexican delegation, for- merly Rector of the National University of Mexico, and former Mexican Ambassador. Dr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, fellow-delegates: The subject under discussion could be exhaustively dealt with only in a long series of debates in which each idea would have to be examined separately. The duties of the State: What are the duties of the State in the field of education? What is meant by better understanding between peoples? What are those steps which all of us—and some of us with a certain disdain—call practical steps? The problem is so complex that it necessitates a whole course in Public Law, a whole philosophy of education and culture, and a planned inter- national policy. As it is impossible to embark on all these studies, we must limit ourselves, as we have done so far, to a few remarks which maygive us at least a general idea, a glimpse of the vast panorama before us. Firstly, the State’s radius of activity in the field of education, science and culture will have to be precisely determined. At present this radius of activity varies in the different countries, and varies between two well-defined extremes. In the one case, higher education and cultural life are independent of the State and their organization and development are mainly in private hands. In the other—and this applies to my country, Mexico— the State recognizes and fulfils its obligation to provide not only elementary, primary and second- ary education but also university and artistic edu- cation, and to maintain the main centres of culture at the expense of the State itself, as part of its national budget. In the first case—that is to say, when higher education and specialized culture are in the hands of private interests and organizations and do not involve any definite obligation for the State—it will be said that the State cannot intervene to give them a definite orientation. But it may be re- torted that higher education and culture by their very nature determine their own ends and will achieve them by themselves much better than if they were directed by a political body like the State. Higher education and culture help to provide a better and more generous understanding of the world. Is it not precisely this understanding of the world that facilitates understanding between peoples” On the other hand there are wise men who point out that there have been occasions in the past when higher education and culture went astray and attained just the opposite goal, namely, international discord. In face of this danger, it might be said that the position was better in those countries like Mexico, where the State has a greater radius of action and intervenes more fully in the fields of higher education and culture. In this way the State can prescribe definite legal norms, to be approved by the legislatures and included, as is the case in Mexico—in its fundamental laws. Article 30 of our Magna Carta categorically lays down that education in Mexico “should develop feelings of international solidarity, contribute to better human relations and defend the ideals of fraternity and equality of rights between all men”. This constitutional principle is at the basis of all our laws and traces out for them a well-defined path. Moreover, the process by which the Federal will is expressed makes this principle almost in- violable and immutable. But in spite of the fact that the State has thus clearly shown its desire that education should aim at international solid- arity, better human relations and the ideal of uni- versal fraternity, it cannot be denied that this declaration of principle leaves unsolved the prob- lem of how this aim can be realized in practice so as to have a real spiritual influence on the minds of students. Even supposing that all coun- tries acted in the same way as Mexico, that is to say included in their political constitutions the duty of directing their educational systems towards better international understanding, there would still remain the problem of applying this principle, the problem of the practical steps to be taken to attain the desired end. The problemis a difficult one. Much has been thought and said about these practical steps. As regards the teaching of history, how can we de- prive it of its dramatic taste for battles and of that charm exercised, on the stage of the past, by conquerors? As regards the teaching of geogra- phy, how can we remove the impression that the greatness of a country depends upon the size of its territory, and that its development proceeds hand in hand with the extension of its frontiers? Lastly, how can we deprive history of its influence without depriving it at the same time of its inter- est? How can we diminish the splendour of its conquests without disparaging the heroism of those who took part in them? How can we make history a power for peace, compare it with present times, and show that it has led us to the situation in which we find ourselves simply because the virtues of courage and heroism were exploited by    political interests which robbed them of their real value and employed them for evil purposes? But will history have the same interest and the same dramatic quality without these antagonisms and rivalries? If it is stripped of them, will it not lose its interest, like a drama without a con- flict? This is unlikely, because the true conflict in our history has been the slow and constant march, the untiring ascension towards higher and higher levels, and the triumph of man against his destiny—a triumph which has only been obscured and retarded by those who resorted to violence. What can be done to organize peaceful relations among men, with a view to their enlightenment and redemption? Supposing that all States and governments agreed frankly to orientate science, culture and education towards international under- standing, it would be necessary to reduce the pres- sure exercised by a past which is overladen with unsound traditions and imperceptibly provokes a desire to solve conflicts by violence. But to return to the question of “practical steps”: How can we make the transition from the bloody battles in which Achaeans and Trojans flung away their lives to the Platonic dialogues on justice, love and beauty? What practical steps can be taken? Since we cannot tear ourselves from the past, we shall have to begin by presenting it in a new light, throwing into relief everything that was exemplary and worthy of admiration, and leaving intentionally in the shade that which should never again serve as a source of inspiration. The vast fresco of history must be so illuminated that its figures are seen in a different perspective and the whole picture acquires a new meaning more in harmony with what we now consider to be our spiritual mission on earth. But again, what are the practical steps? There has been a good deal of exploration in this field, and suggestions have been made for new kinds of schools, new systems of education, different textbooks, different spiritual surroundings and educational techniques, to train the mind to obey only the highest spiritual impulses. In the field of education everything may be reduced, perhaps, to including in children’s and young peoples’ education a living, profound and everlasting truth which nourishes their minds and which, as if by magic, renders them immune to all temptation to yield to injustice and violence. After the Second General Conference of Unesco, which was held in my country in 1947, Mexico proposed that the different Member States should meet and agree to orientate their respective educational programmes, at all levels, towards international peace and secu- rity. The Mexican proposal added, with a view to translating this into practice, that the agreement should take the form of an international conven- tion. This proposal is now going to be carried out. At the end of November next the first meetings will be held under the auspices of Unesco. Perhaps we shall then find that living truth which, if included in children’s and young peoples’ educational programmes, can direct their minds towards peace and security, which are the essential postulates of understanding between peoples. In this field of international understanding the problem and its solution march side by side. To raise the problem is to begin to solve it. To feel the need for examining it on the international plane is to get nearer to its solution, because this desire and intention of the peoples to understand each otheris in itself a modest, but none the less real, form of understanding. The PRESIDENT -—[Translation from the French] On your behalf I again thank all the speakers, and I declare the meeting closed. The meeting rose at 11.30 p.m.