parts of the world, and there would be also at least one speaker whose mother-tongue was French. The printed texts of all speeches would be available later. With regard to the chairmanship of the dis- cussions, it should be remembered that these were plenary sessions of the Conference, and from that point of view the discussions should be presided over by the President and Vice-Presidents of the Conference. The Chairman proposed to take the chair at the first meeting and to invite two of the Vice-Presidents to preside over the others. Three of the Vice-Presidents were speaking in the general discussion and, as Shafik Ghorbal Bey had already taken the chair in other plenary meetings, that left Mr. Gonzalo Zaldumbide, Count Jacini and Mr. Hardman. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked the Chair- man for the work he had carried out. The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the Sub-Com- mittee of Seven was anxious for the Director- General to give an address; but the latter did not wish to speak, though, if need be, he would be prepared to take part in the discussion. The Chairman was sorry for that decision, for an address by the Director-General would have been bound to impress the general public. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) appreciated the Chairman’s suggestion that he should take the chair at one of the discussions, but he declined with thanks. International Federation of Children’s Com- munities (continued). The CHAIRMAN understood that the Executive Board had not approved a previous request from the International Federation of Children’s Com- munities to be granted consultative status. The Official and External Relations Commission desired the Conference to request the Executive Board to consider the matter. The nominal procedure would be for the Conference to make that request after receiving the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission; but, with a view to saving time, the question now arose whether the General Committee, in anticipation of the adoption of the Official and External Relations Commission’s Report by a plenary meeting of the Conference. might already transmit the request to the Board which would then possibly have an opportunity of examining it in the course of the session. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Chair- man of the Executive Board, asked if there were any new facts which had not been brought to the attention of the Executive Board. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) observed that, not being a member of the Executive Board, he had not been, in other cases, averse to making recommendations contrary to those of the Board on occasion; he wished at that moment to say that he thought the General Committee and the General Conference should be very careful not to overrule the findings of the Executive Board in a matter which required such detailed information. He himself would be reluctant to take a decision contrary to the Executive Board's in the matter. The CHAIRMAN assumed that Mr. Allen did not object to the General Committee's inviting the Executive Board to re-examine the question, but in no wayto exert pressure on the Board. Agreed. The meeting rose at 10.40 a.m. SIXTH MEETING Tuesday, 27 September 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: (DIE Organization of the work of the session (continuation). Work of the Programme and Budget Commission and of its Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee (continuation). Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, commented briefly on the progress made in the work of the RonALD WALKER (Australia) Programme and Budget Commission and its Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The powers of the Sub-Committee had been extended and they had to fix a date for it to meet in order to revise the programme and budget. If they were to work satisfactorily, the members of the Sub- Committee should have followed all the discus- sions of the Programme and Budget Commission. But, as it was difficult for the Sub-Committee and   the Commission to work simultaneously, it was necessary that the Commission should first com- plete the general revision of the Programme. Another difficulty was the fixing of an exact ceiling for the Budget, for if the ceiling were other than that laid down in the Budget estimates, a readjustment would have to be made. The Gen- eral Conference had no precedent for a simultane- ous revision of programme and budget. Besides, it was not the Sub-Committee’s business to take over all the various functions of the Conference. As far as its terms of reference allowed, the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission enabled each delegation to form a clear idea of the budget and the programme. Even if the Sub-Committee had to fight out each item in a detailed study, the result would still be negligible. Once the budget ceiling was fixed, the Sub- Committee’s task was to carry out a careful re- vision of the budget. The following time-table of meetings could be arranged:
28 September (afternoon): Completion of the con- sideration of the programme (Commission);
29 September (morning): Determination of the budget ceiling (Commission);
29 September (afternoon): Beginning of the de- tailed work (Sub-Committee);
30 September (morning): Consideration of the Technical Assistance Scheme (Commission). The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had no wish to oppose any procedure for changing working me- thods. But he could not help objecting to the radical change proposed, which ran counter to the negatives votes of the Commission and the Executive Board, and was liable to jeopardize Unesco’s prestige. Over-emphasis on the question of the budget ceiling would belittle the idea of the Organization’s real importance. However, the Director-General would duly defer to any decisions found essential. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairmanof the Programme and Budget Commission, explained that his suggestion was not intended to override the views of the plenary Commission or the Ex- ecutive Board. Nevertheless, he wished to stress the following points:
(1) The Programme and Budget Commission gave all delegates an opportunity of raising objections;
(2) The discussion of the budget for Reconstruc- tion, Social Sciences and Education, for in- stance, proved that the simultaneous consi- deration of the Programme and Budget was more thorough thanat any previous session; If the Sub-Committee were to speed up de- tailed consideration of the programme and budget, it would not help to solve the general problem and an endless controversy would even arise, bringing the Conference no nearer to the final decision. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the Programme and Budget Commission, which had been asked to decide on a concrete proposal for first discussing the Budget ceiling and then en- trusting its detailed consideration to the Sub- Committee, had rejected that proposal. But the General Committee was now expressing its wish to adopt the same proposal. That attitude was at variance with the stand taken the day before when it was argued that the slow pace of the Commission’s discussion (proceeding to the rost- rum, etc.) did not allow for any discussion of minor points. The new stand taken was that the Sub-Committee filled no useful purpose and they were returning to the old tactics: discussing the budget ceiling before the detailed items of the programme. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, replied that the work of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion was certainly necessary for fixing the budget ceiling. If the ceiling had been fixed at the out- set, merely asking the Director-General to defend particular items would admittedly not have helped matters along. But as it was, delegates interested in the budget ceiling would have some basis for explaining their doubts. To fix the ceiling, how- ever, it was not necessary to go beyond a certain point in the discussion. Besides, they would get nowhere if the Sub-Committee were to embark on a long discussion for the reduction of each chapter: either they would obtain only a small number of votes on a few items, hence very few reductions (meaning that the budget ceiling would still remain very high), or they would have merely a compromise vote, as not all Member States were represented on the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. At the close of the discussion, the CHAIRMAN suggested the following plan of work:
29 September (morning): Determination of the budget ceiling. (Up to that date the Sub- Committee would confine itself to drafting problems.) After 29 September: Simultaneous meetings of the Sub-Committee and the Commission, the latter to begin the consideration of the Technical Assistance Scheme. Withthe assistance of the Director-General and the Secretariat, the Sub-Committee would then make the necessary adjustments and submit its report on the morning of Monday, 3 October, to the Programme and Budget Commission.       The budget ceiling would be fixed by a vote. They would then begin the discussion of special sections (a different procedure from that adopted by the Beirut Conference, where the budget ceiling had first been fixed and then discussed by the specialized Sub-Commissions and not by the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission). Mr. CAIN (France) observed that Professor Carneiro had spoken of fixing a budget ceiling after the discussion in the Commission and the Sub-Committee; he thought that the Sub-Com- mittee should set to work immediately. If certain data were assembled without delay, they might help to fix the budget ceiling. Furthermore, certain principles which were still not quite clear needed to be defined in preparation for the work of the Sub-Committee. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, said that the Sub-Committee would immediately begin its work but that it would be difficult for it to do anything before the budget ceiling was fixed: it would have to wait for the results of the vote on the morning of 29 September. The CHAIRMAN pointed out the desirability of members of the Sub-Committee attending the meeting of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion. The Sub-Committee could then take up consideration of the budget: as some items con- nected with fees and travel allowances required separate consideration, the Sub-Committee could deal with those matters and report on them to the Commission just before the discussion of the budget ceiling. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) recalled that his delegation had been in favour of the proposal for members of the Sub-Committee to attend the discussion on the programme before the budget ceiling was fixed. By 29 September, all delegations would have had an opportunity of discussing or raising any points of interest to them. To carry out its work, the Sub-Committee needed to knowthe general structure of the bud- get, so that the matter could be settled by Thurs- day morning. 3 At the close of the discussion, the CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the following proposals:
(1) The budget ceiling would be fixed by a vote immediately the discussion of the Programme was completed;
(2) The Drafting and Co-ordination Committee would not meet while the Programme and Budget Commission was in session, thus enabling its members to keep abreast of the Commission’s discussions; The question of the budget ceiling would not come before the plenary meeting again until the reports of the Commission and Sub- Committee were submitted; The Sub-Committee would meet simul- taneously, with the Commission until the vote on the Budget ceiling had been taken and while the Commission was discussing the Technical Assistance Scheme. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he would refrain from expressing his views on those proposals. The Chairman’s proposals were adopted. The meeting rose at 70.40 a.m. SEVENTH MEETING Wednesday, 28 September 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN suggested convening the Proce- dure Committee for Thursday, 29 September be- tween 9.30 and 11 a.m. in order to approve its report and to consider Item 18 of the Agenda (Draft Amendment to Article IV of the Constitu- tion of Unesco, relating to the steps to be taken Dr. E. RonaLpD WALKER (Australia) with Member States which had not yet paid their contributions). Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium), Chairman of the Administrative Commission, stated that the Administrative Commission would be sure to have finished its work by 29 September. The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Mundeleer for his