TENTH MEETING Monday, 3 October 1949 at 10 a.m. Chairman: Dr. E. Proposed activities in Germany. The CHAIRMAN announced that one particular subject required attention: in the draft resolution adopted by the Joint Programme and Budget and Official and External Relations Commission, at its first meeting, in regard to the extension of certain Unesco activities to Germany, there had been a discrepancy between the English and French texts, which discrepancy had apparently not been noticed when the vote was taken. In the French text, the Director-General was asked to take certain action in Germany in agreement with the Allied Authorities, whereas in the English text the word “Allied” did not appear. He recalled that, when the proposed activities in Germany had been dis- cussed by the Committee of Experts, this Com- mittee had suggested removing the word “Allied” and leaving the phrase more elastic, since they did not know what authorities should eventually be consulted in 1950. The Chairman felt thatthis matter of the proper wording of the resolution should first be cleared up by the Joint Commission at its meeting that afternoon, rather than to have the question possibly arise in a plenary meeting of the Conference. In addition, the Committee had now before it a draft resolution presented by the delegations of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary (document 4C/54), in which it was pro- posed to refer the programme of Unesco’s activities in Germany for 1950 to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The Chairman believed it desirable that the Official and External Relations Commission should also consider this draft resolu- tion, and proposed that both resolutions should be considered by the Joint Commission that after- noon. Mr. CAIN (France), realizing the significance of the information given, wished to know whether the three delegations who had submitted the draft resolution would be attending the proposed joint meeting or whether they would be content to speak at a plenary meeting. The CHAIRMAN was not able to reply at that stage. He recalled that, though the three delega- tions had left the room during the Commission’s discussion, they had since attended several plenary meetings as well as a meeting of the Nominations Committee; the Polish delegation had taken part in the public debate. In any case, the three del-
246 RonaLp WALKER (Australia) egations concerned would be informed of the pro- posed meeting of the Joint Programme and Budget and Official and External Relations Commission and the Chairman hoped that they would attend, although he could give no guarantee. As a point of order, Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) raised the question of the propriety of the introduction of such a resolution as 4C/54 at this late stage of the Session of the General Conference, since it introduced a major change in the programme, not a modification of detail but a proposal to defer completely a large part of Unesco’s proposed programme for 1950. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) had intended to raise the same question. He recalled that a time-limit had been set for the presentation of new resolutions, and questioned whether this resolution could be admitted. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that two proposals, one to withdraw the consideration of the pro- gramme in Germany from the Agenda, and the other to suspend Unesco activities in Germany, had already been made by one or more of the three delegations which now presented resolution
4C/54. In other words, the substance of their proposal had already been admitted for discussion in a Commission meeting. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) recog- nized the validity of the Chairman’s remarks, but emphasized that the very purpose of the action which had been taken to have the delegations make their proposals in writing within the time-limit, had been to assure a good working order of procedure and to avoid the presentation of formal resolutions at the last moment. He believed this purpose would be defeated if that Conference ruling were not adhered to. The CHATRMAN reminded the Committee that, not only had the substance of the matter been mentioned in the Joint Commission, but definite proposals (a proposal by the delegation of Czecho- slovakia that the programme in Germany be taken from the Agenda, and a proposal by the delegation of Poland that the activities in Germany be sus- pended) had been made and a vote taken, both proposals having been defeated. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) then raised the question whether any delegation might   then re-submit proposed resolutions which: had already been defeated, citing as an example a United States proposal which had been beaten by
12 votes. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) pointed out that the vote taken by the Joint Commission might be considered invalid, and the resolution therefore out of order, because of the difference in the French and English texts. The Joint Commission itself should take up that question. The CHAIRMAN stated that the Committee must:
1. Decide on the question of asking the Joint Commission to clear up the validity of its previous resolution;
2. Decide, in regard to resolution 4C/54. (a) if it could now be submitted to the Conference at all, since the date-limit had passed, and (b) if it should first be discussed by a Commission, or come directly before a plenary meeting. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Joint Programme and Budget and Official and External Relations Commission, recalled that the French amendment alone had been put to the vote as only the French text had been submitted to the General Committee and read in the Com- mission. The decision had been taken on that text and he did not know whether, when a single text was submitted, the hasty and necessarily im- perfect translation given by simultaneous inter- pretation could be regarded as authentic. How- ever, he thought it a good idea, to avoid any misunderstanding, to resume the discussion to bring the English text into line with the French, for, he repeated, it had not been discussed in the Commission, where the vote had been taken only on the French text. As for the second point at issue, Professor Carneiro thought that any proposal embodied in the report of one of the Commissions could, under the Rules of Procedure, be taken up again in a plenary meeting; but he did not think it possible to reopen the discussion on that matter in the Commission. Considerable discussion took place at this point as to whether or not the various delegations had had before them the English or the French text, or any text, when voting on the resolution, and the CHAIRMAN pointed out that the French amendment had added a paragraph. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) suggested that action on this question be resolved as follows:
1. Since there had been an obvious confusion
247 on the texts, the Joint Commission should reconsider its resolution;
2. Resolution 4C/54, being a formal one and being submitted long after the date-limit, was out of order and could not be accepted; but the delegations concerned, or any other delegation, could propose the elimination of any item during the final consideration of the Budget. Mr. CAIN (France) seconded Professor Carneiro’s motion and urged the need for reconsidering the first point most carefully at the Joint Commission, in view of the obvious misunderstanding. As for the second point, he called for a reading of those provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Conference, requiring rejection of such a reso- lution in view of the conditions under which it had been submitted. The CHAIRMAN stated that there was nothing in the Rules of Procedure which provided for non- acceptance of the resolution in question, and he read Rule 71 in full. He recalled that the pro- posal to fix a limiting date for the submission in writing of proposed resolutions had been made by the Executive Board in document 4C/BUR/1 (rev.), and had been adopted by the Committee, the limit having been set at midnight of 21 Sep- tember. He had communicated this decision to the plenary meeting on the following morning and had met with no objection. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Chair- man of the Executive Board, agreed that, either the clarification of the Joint Commission’s resolution, or the question as a whole should go back to the Joint Commission; but he pointed out that, when the final text submitted by the Joint Commission would come before the plenary meeting, the text of resolution 4C/54 would be included and would be open for discussion. He emphasized that it was essential for the Committee to bear in mind not only the procedure question involved but also the substance of the matter, and that an effort should be made to effect some kind of reconcili- ation, avoiding antagonisms, even at the temporary sacrifice of some part of Unesco’s activities, if necessary. The CHAIRMAN asked the Director-General to give his comments on this subject. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that in such a difficult situation a prudent solution was re- quired. He agreed with Mr. Allen and Mr. Hard- man that strict observance of the relevant rules would necessitate referring to the Joint Commis- sion the problem raised through the discrepancy between the French and English texts, while the Polish, Hungarian and Czechoslovak resolution   |  could be brought up only at a plenary meeting of the Conference. But the problem seemed to go beyond the scope of mere procedure and the Director-General emphasized the concluding words of the Chairman of the Executive Board. In view of the importance of the problem, he thought that, if the matter were brought up again at a plenary meeting, the Conference had sufficient authority to waive the strict Rules of Procedure; it should display great tolerance and take a liberal stand when dealing with a situation where one of Unes- co’s basic activities was at stake; the Director- General stressed the principle involved in that question relating to Unesco’s future; it had to be admitted that it was a far more important problem than the purely procedural question. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) said that his opinion on the subject had been covered by the Director-General, but suggested one point of pro- cedure, namely, that, since it was a question of tact, the Official and External Relations Commis- sion should consider, alone, not only the question of the confusion of texts but also the substance of the new proposal of the three delegations (docu- ment 4C/54). Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium) remarked that Rule 78 was very vague and would allow any delegation to submit proposals at any time during the Conference. Within forty-eight hours of the close of the session, it was too late to raise the question of admissibility. They had to face the fact that the resolution had been received and dis- cussed in the Commission and there was nothing to prevent it from being taken up again in a plenary meeting; the Rules left no doubt on that point. But he thought the Director-General’s re- marks very wise, adding that it would scarcely be appropriate to reject such an important question by invoking a procedural regulation. Mr. Munde- leer was therefore in favour of having the draft resolution discussed, for, even if the General Committee claimed that it could not be accepted, it was quite in order for the delegations concerned to revert to it, proposing a fairly substantial re- duction in the Budget, as an economy measure, which might take the form of cancelling Unesco’s activities in Germany. He therefore thought that the best solution under existing circumstances would be to put forward, in the Official and External Relations Commission or any other Com- mission thought more appropriate, a resolution which might be presented in opposition to that of the three delegations, meeting with their wishes to a certain extent, but in a form which would be acceptable. Mr. Mundeleer concluded with the remark that the Belgian delegation was bound to vote against a draft resolution which was in flat contradiction with its views.
248 Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) stated that, as the discussion had advanced, it had become clear to him that the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General were right in saying that the question would certainly be dis- cussed at the plenary meeting in any case. He asserted that he was convinced of the sagacity of the Director-General’s solution and believed it should be followed. Mr. CAIN (France) could not agree with the proposal put forward by the New Zealand del- egate, to the effect that the question should be referred only to the Official and External Relations Commission; it had been previously considered by the Joint Programme and Budget and Official and External Relations Commission and it was impossible to withdraw it from that Commission within forty-eight hours of the close of the Con- ference. Mr. Cain pressed for further considera- tion of the question by the Joint Commission. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) again stressed the difficulty of principle in permitting the discussion of a proposal to be reopened in the same body where it had already been debated and defeated. However, he considered it useless to argue further about the procedure on resolution
4C/54, since it could undoubtedly be presented at a plenary meeting in the form of an amend- ment. The CHAIRMANbelieved that, procedurally, the position was now clear, and announced that he would take the following action:
1. He would refer to the Joint Programme and Budget and Official and External Relations Commission on that same afternoon, the question of the use or omission of the word “Allied”.
2. He would consider that resolution 4C/54 was in effect an amendment to the Report of the Joint Commission, and therefore acceptable for presentation to the General Conference at its plenary meeting on the following morning. This was preferable to having this resolution presented from the floor during the final discussion on the Budget. Any other delegation would also have the right to propose amendments. Organization of the work of the session (continuation). Mr. CAIN (France) asked for the time-table of meetings for that day to be altered, by convening the meeting of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee half an hour earlier, at 3 p.m., to enable the Joint Commission to hold its meeting at 5 p.m. The Official and External Relations Commission could thus meet, as arranged, at 3.30 and adjourn at 5 o’clock when it would form the Joint Commission.       The CHAIRMAN announced the following organ- ization of work: The Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee would meet that afternoon at
3 p.m. (instead of 3.30 p.m.); the Official and External Relations Commission would meet as scheduled at 3.30 p.m., and at 5 p.m. it would resolve itself into Joint Commission with the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, to consider only the question of the word “Allied”. The plenary meeting of the General Conference on the follow- ing morning would consider reports from the Official and External Relations Commission and the Programme and Budget Commission, the latter to receive the report of its Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee. The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m. ELEVENTH MEETING Tuesday, 4 October 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Report of the Procedure Committee. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand), Chairman of the Procedure Committee, reported that his Com- mittee had discussed two matters: (1) points of procedure, including a discrepancy between certain Rules; (2) the question of the use of Spanish as an additional working language of the General Conference. On the first question, the Committee decided to refer certain matters of procedure to the Secretariat, hoping that they may be clarified by the time of the Fifth Session of the General Confer- ence; some of these points would be included in the Report of the Procedure Committee to the Con- ference in plenary meeting. On the second ques- tion, the Committee examined the proposals of the delegation of Mexico, Dr. Beaglehole requested the Mexican delegation, and any other delegations interested, to take all necessary measure for com- plete examination of this question by the Director- General, and to have it included on the Agenda of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN stated that the Report of the Procedure Committee would come before the plenary meeting on the following morning. Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN announced a plenary meeting for
10.30 Tuesday morning, at which the amendment proposed by the delegations of Poland, Czechoslo- vakia and Hungary (document 4C/54) would be presented, and also an amendment of the Brazi-
249 Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia) lian delegation. The Programme and Budget Commission, meeting at 3 p.m., would receive the report of its Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee and prepare its own report for the plenary meeting on the following morning. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that he had asked the Chairman of the Executive Board to arrange for a short private meeting of the Board at
3 p.m. to consider certain nominations. As the session of the Board, originally planned to follow the close of the Conference would not be held, one or two outstanding questions could be dealt with at a short public meeting which would follow the private meeting. The Director-General's reason for mentioning the matter was that the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission, which would be sitting in the afternoon, was at the same time a member of the Executive Board. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested that the Programme and Budget Commission should meet at 3.30 p.m., instead of 3, in order to avoid overlapping too seriously with the meeting of the Executive Board. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN announced that two plenary meetings of the General Conference would be held on Wednesday, 5 October; at the morning meet- ing, a report on the Technical Assistance Plan for Economic Development would be presented, besides the Report of the Procedure Committee; at the afternoon meeting, the vote on the Budget would be taken. The meeting rose at 10 a.m.