Section 20. After discussion on the question of how the text should provide for the payment of the cost or a part thereof by the beneficiary countries, including suggestions by Dr. GHOSH (India), Mr. CUM- MINS (Australia) and Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America), the SECRETARY expressed the belief that the statement should be governed by paragraph 4 of ECOSOC Resolution 222 (IX) on page 13. Mr. JAUME (France) proposed replacing the words “direct financial aid”, which were am- biguous, by the word “grant-in-aid”. The suggestion of the delegate of France was commented upon by the CHAIRMAN and by Dr. GHOSH (India), with general agreement. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) suggested that “fi- nancial or material aid” should be stated. Section 20 was adopted with the incorporation of the suggestions made. Section 21. Mr. JAUME (France) thought that the section raised the very important problem to which, during the previous meeting, the Indian delega- tion had referred. He wondered whether they should not introduce a special clause into the resolutions contained in Chapter III. The CHAIRMAN announced that the considera- tion of the problem, and of section 21 as a whole, would be deferred until the afternoon meeting. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. THIRD MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Mr. W. E. F. War» (United Kingdom) Examination of document 4C/8 (rev.) (con- tinuation). Chapter II (continuation). Section 17 (continuation). The SECRETARYsuggested that there should be inserted a phrase to provide for request by the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies. Agreed. Section 21 (continuation). With a view to shortening the proceedings, Mr. JAUME (France) said he had carefully considered the drafting of the paragraphs which remained te be examined. He suggested that Sec- tion 21 should be redrafted and should not be limited to economic development, but should specify that the human factor in any given project must never be sacrificed to the economic factor. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) presented a redraft of section 21, listing a number of factors to guide the selection of projects. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America)
368 stressed the importance of establishing a number of criteria in order to assist the Executive Board and the Director-General in deciding which requests should be granted. He pointed out that the last sentence of the original drafting of sec- tion 21 had been entirely omitted and wondered whether it should not be restored. Mr. GROSS (United States of America) sug- gested that the word “priorities”, at the beginning of the last paragraph, be replaced by some such phrase as “the choice of projects to receive assistance”. Mr. JAUME (France) remarked that the United States delegate had introduced order into the scattered suggestions of the original text. While he himself agreed on the number of criteria men- tioned, he thought that the important question was to know the exact value of the ordrer proposed which in fact re-established the priorities deleted from the heading. The order in which the criteria were presented was likely to give rise to lengthy discussions in the Programme and Budget Com- mission. Criterion (f), for instance, which was in fact the last (as criterion (g) could be deleted), should have more weight, and the countries would be in a better position to ask for help if they       could show that they were able to make a real contribution. Placed as it was now, criterion (f) gave very little weight to the consultations with the requesting country, whereas (and according to the very spirit of the project) the country should have full freedom in the choice of methods, particularly when it contributed to the carrying out of the project. That was why he thought that, by placing paragraph (f) after paragraph (c), they would avoid long discussions in the Programme and Budget Commission. The CHAIRMAN suggested the addition of a sen- tence indicating that the order in which the differ- ent points were laid down was by no means an order of priority. Mr. JAUME (France) said he would like to see the words “ material and social welfare” followed by an expression that was very dear to the French delegation: “the valorization of man”, as the ultimate aim of technical assistance was to assist countries which were under-developed economi- cally to a higher standard of life not only through their economic but also through their cultural development. The French delegation wanted this synchronism maintained in some form, so as to give economic development its full meaning: better conditions of life should be accompanied by the ability to appreciate them. He emphasized that substance meant more to him than mere details of form. After an exchange of views on the terminology to be used in the English text, it was agreed to insert, in paragraph (e) of the Australian amended version, such a phrase as “general living standard” or “social and cultural advancement”. Mr. JAUME (France), reverting to the somewhat abstract term ‘valorization of man”, explained why the words “improvement of the standard of life” were inadequate to express what he wished to convey. Mentioning the native population of Negro Africa as an example, he pointed out that the object was to give them a new kind of life, to some extent imported, and to help them to adapt themselves to it without depriving them of the benefit of their own culture. Such an idea was wider than that expressed by the words “improve- ment of the standard of life”. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America), speaking to paragraph (f) of the Australian amend- ment, suggested that the word “ability” be replaced by the word “willingness”. Agreed. The SECRETARYsaid that the advisability of laying down hard and fast criteria and of taking account of such factors as national budgets had been examined at length by the Executive Board and the Director-General, and that it had been judged impossible to specify such criteria. He suggested that the presentation of a series of numbered paragraphs should be avoided, as some of the points enumerated were conflicting. He described the case on the one hand of an extremely impoverished country with needs of the utmost urgency, but which was in no position to provide any financial contribution, and on the other hand of a relatively wealthy country, which had pre- sented a valuable request and which could con- tribute a substantial portion of the technical and financial means for implementing it. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the sometimes conflicting character of the factors enumerated should be pointed out. Mr. JAUME (France) said that the Executive Board would certainly wish to be guided in its choice by a certain number of criteria, if only to avoid reproaches in the future. In view of the difficulty of drawing upa list of them, he thought it should be indicated that the list was not a restrictive one and that the order of priorities should be established according to different cri- teria, the last paragraph of the original text of section 21 being retained in its entirety: Thus priorities will ultimately be determined by establishing a balance between a number of factors, sometimes conflicting, rather than by the application of hard and fast criteria. In view of the great importance of the question, he wondered if a special resolution should not be added to Chapter III stipulating that: The General Conference relies on the Director-General to establish, in agreement with the Executive Board, the order of priorities to be accorded to the projects submitted to him, in accordance with the criteria contained in annex... Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) pro- posed to leave the task of redrafting section 21 to the Secretariat, which would take account of the remarks put forward by the Sub-Committee, in particular the suggestion that the list of criteria should in no way be restrictive nor represent a fixed order, and that the Director-General and the Executive Board should exercise their own judgement in this matter. Mr. JAUME (France) objected that, if the text were placed in Chapter II, it would not add any- thing new, whereas it would have much more weight in Chapter III. The question remained however as to whether the Secretariat would con- sider it advisable to give such discretionary powers. The SECRETARYstated that a new resolution could readily be inserted in Chapter III, but   doubted whether it would add any force to the report as a whole. Dr. GHOSH (India) remarked that the notion of cultural improvement should be separated from that of economic improvement, and that econ- omically under-developed countries were not necessarily backward from a cultural standpoint. It was agreed that this remark would be taken into account in the redrafting of the section by Secretary. Section 22. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) suggested that in the first paragraph the tense be altered, and drew attention to the word “will” in the second line of the introductory note. He suggested, in para- graph (a), the addition of the word “early” in the fourth line before “success”. The CHAIRMAN noted that section 22 stood almost unchanged except for the omission of para- graphs (b) and (c). Mr. JAUME (France) made a few remarks concerning section 22. He thought that most of its clauses should be deleted, as they were merely informative. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) said that, since the changes suggested aimed at the abbreviation and clarification of the section, he would be happy to refer the new texts to the Secretariat for amalgama- tion. Agreed. The SECRETARY pointed out that Unesco’s usual auditing methods could not be used in connexion with the Technical Assistance Pro- gramme. The length of section 22 was accounted for by the necessity of making clear to the Con- ference the rather complicated financial procedure which would be followed. ECOSOC had also laid down in its resolution of 15 August that the carry-over could be spent in the two ensuing years as long as it was obligated in 1950. Section 23. Section 23, abbreviated to its first two sentences, was adopted. Section 24. It was decided that section 24 (with the substitu- tion of “some” for “many” in line 4) would be integrated with section 23. Section 25. The SECRETARY stressed that shortening this sec- tion might impair its clearness and obscure the fact that the action outlined in it was the sole re- sponsibility of the Director-General. Section 25, with the substitution of “Executive Board” for “Conference” (wherever those words appeared in it) and the insertion of two words in the last clause, was adopted. In reply to Mr. CUMMINS (Australia), the SECRETARY explained that the Sub-Committee’s report would be the only document submitted to the Conference. It would include the two resolutions and two annexes, one including ECOSOC’s guiding principles, and the other a revision of Chapter II of document 4C/8 (rev.). Revised Texts of Draft Resolutions. The CHAIRMAN announced that the finally revised texts of the draft resolutions were now available in French and in English. RESOLUTION I. The Sub-Committee approved the first four para- graphs of the redraft. Mr. ABRAHAM(United States of America) sug- gested that it would be better if the fifth para- graph preceded those beginning with “Authorizes” (fourth and sixth paragraphs). In his opinion, a full stop should be put after “laid down by it”, in the third line, and the remaining sentence of the paragraph combined with sub-paragraph (b) of the fourth paragraph. It was agreed that the last three lines of the fifth paragraph should form the beginning of sub- paragraph (b). The sixth paragraph and sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of the seventh paragraph were approved. With the provision that it might have to be slightly modified, sub-paragraph (d) (1) of the seventh paragraph was approved. Sub-paragraph (d) (1m) of the seventh paragraph, together with the eighth and ninth paragraphs, were approved. RESOLUTION II. Resolution II as, redrafted, was approved. Examination of document 4C/9 (Technical Assistance for Economic Development). Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) said that his understanding was that the Sub-Committee should confine itself to placing the statement of objectives before the Conference without proposing the adoption of any amendments, corrections or
370       changes in document 4C/9, but only submitting observations or comments for the concurrence of the Programme and Budget Commission and transmission to the Director-General. The sub- mitted resolutions authorized action in accordance with document 4C/9, which was broad enough in scope to provide a satisfactory basis of work. Dr. GHOSH (India) associated himself with the views of the United States delegate. The procedure outlined by Mr. Abraham was adopted. It was decided to omit the financial table at the end of the document, since the figures were, at best, extremely provisional, and to concentrate on Part II since Part I—a simple statement of fact— had ceased to be important. Part IT. Section A. Dr. GHOSH (India) asked for some indication of the cost of the programme under Section A (Pro- gramme presented by Fields) as well as under Section B (Programme presented by Methods). Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) pointed out that it was impossible, at present, to assess what the requests would be, and in what fields. He thought it premature, therefore, to try to integrate fields and methods. The CHAIRMAN declared that the United King- domdelegation would prefer not to have total unit costs in Section B, but to leave the Director- General the greatest possible discretion with regard to them. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) agreed whole- heartedly with that suggestion; he had understood that the unit costs would be deleted together with the financial table. Agreed.
1. Technical Education. This was adopted with the comment that Unesco should recruit actively practising technical advisers from outside. II. Elementary Education. This was adopted after the Sub-Committee had agreed that the Director-General ought to be left free to judge on what part of it the greatest emphasis should be laid. HI. Fundamental Adult Education. This was adopted with the same comment. IV. Production and Use of Materials for Education and Mass Communications. This was adopted without discussion. V. Technical Needs for Press, Film and Radio. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) had grave doubts as to the list of needs; funds would be very rapidly absorbed even if a very small part of them were met. It was impossible for Unesco to help in the development of the press resources of a country. The SECRETARYexplained that Unesco's action would be confined to demonstration projects. ltem V was adopted with a comment reflecting Mr. Abraham's views. VI. Training of Teachers and other Personnel. This was adopted after short discussion. VII. Planning and Organization of Research and Training Laboratories. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) thought sufficient information was available about technical and scientific possibilities to give research laboratories a very lowpriority. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that section 21 of Part II in document 4C/8 (rev.) met the Australian delegate’s point. Mr. JAUME (France) thought the question was a rather delicate one. Were theyto give first place to basic education and relegate scientific and technical research to second place? Although this method was logical, it did not seem that it should be applied indiscriminately to all countries. In certain countries where there existed a basis of primary schooling and a structure of technical education, it might be advisable to carry out a campaign in favour of technical education. Instead of establishing a fixed order of priorities, they should allow the competent authorities to have the final say in the matter. The emphasis might be placed on “applied research” rather than on “pure research”. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) was inclined to agree with the French delegate; it was better not to fix priorities. It was agreed to attach a comment to Item VII. raisedVIII. Regional Problems Development. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) thought it wrong to say “Unesco could be responsible for the initial organization and operation of such institutes” within the context of the Technical Assistance Scheme. Caution should be exercised as to the expectation that Unesco could adopt this course. The CHAIRMAN by Industrial suggested that a note of   warning could be added on page 21, in connexion with Scientific and Technical Institutes. Dr. GHOSH (India) pointed out that the Pro- gramme was designed to cover the whole period, and Unesco might eventually be in a position to carry out that activity. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) thought that the problem described in the sen- tence he had quoted would transcend the authority of Unesco alone. The SECRETARY gave the Hylean Amazon pro- ject as a fair example of that kind of activity: a high proportion of its cost was borne by the participating countries. The CHAIRMAN suggested the substitution of “assist with” for “be responsible for”. Mr. JAUME (France) stated that it would not be very wise to encourage great hopes if they were unable to satisfy them. They would protect them- selves by emphasizing the term “initial organiza- tion”. Moreover, all technical assistance should be based on a contract between the Organization and the requesting State, by virtue of which the latter would bind ¡itself to continue any activity encouraged by Unesco. At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was agreed that the Item should be accompanied by a com- ment based on the views just expressed. IX. Protection of Local Cultures The SECRETARY stressed that the Director- General would welcome the comment that the real problem was to stimulate and make known local cultures rather than to “protect” them. Mr. JAUME (France) thought that the word “promotion” would be more apt to express the idea of the Secretariat than the word “protection”. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) was in favour of accepting the Secretary's inter- pretation. The reference to Unesco's three anthro- pological surveys had aroused some fear that a multitude of such studies would follow. The CHAIRMAN emphasized that the essence of Item IX was contained in its second paragraph. A well-meaning Technical Assistance Scheme could nevertheless easily destroy the culture of a country and, therefore, special stress should be laid on the first sentence of the second paragraph. Agreed. Mr. SAGLAM (Turkey) thought that they should add Tourism to the list of the fields covered by technical assistance, for it had the advantage, among many others, of promoting international
372 understanding. It could be inserted at the end of Section A. V., and the heading could be pre- sented as follows: “Technical Needs for Press, Film, Radio and Tourism”. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) thought that the matter mentioned by the Turkish delegate should be related to Unesco’s programme for the Exchange of Persons, rather than to the Technical Assistance Scheme. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) agreed with the United States delegate. Mr. SAGLAM(Turkey) said that, as the text men- tioned Industry and Agriculture only, it would not be illogical to add the matter to the programme. Mr. JAUME (France) emphasized the economic and cultural advantages of tourism, which provided a considerable amount of foreign exchange and “invisible exports”. But the question fell within the field of Unesco’s ordinary activities rather than within the field of technical assistance considered particularly from the point of view of its maximum of cultural efficacy. The Sub-Committee could decide to draw Unesco's attention to the matter through the channel of the Programme and Bud- get Commission. The CHAIRMAN agreed with the United States and French delegates. He suggested that the Sub- Committee might recommend to the Commission that the question of tourism—which was not in its proper place in technical assistance—should be studied by the Secretariat with a view to presenting a report on it to the Florence Conference. Mr. SAGLAM (Turkey) agreed with the French delegate. But it seemed to him that the question of tourism was related to technical assistance, for in certain countries tourism was perhaps the only means of raising the economic standard. If those countries asked for a technical survey to be carried out in that sense, such a survey would necessarily come within the field of technical assistance, whatever the method adopted. The Sub-Committee agreed to separate memo- randa being presented in connexion with Item IX. In view of the lateness of the hour, the CHAIR- MAN suggested that delegations should later present written comments on Section B (Pro- gramme presented by Methods) of Part II of doc- ument 4C/9. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) was in favour of immediate discussion. The “Exploratory Mis- sions”, in Section B, Item I, were the most impor- tant part of the entire programme and therefore it was better to allocate more money to them and to send two or three people to prepare each one of them.       Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) supported the Australian delegate’s statement. He suggested however that the Sub-Committee might agree that comments and changes should form the subject of a later document, drawn up after del- egations had carefully examined document 4C/9. The review of Section A of Part II had yielded very few comments. The SECRETARYproposed that the final report should say in substance that the Sub-Committee had gone through document 4C/9 tentatively and found some ofits parts obsolete, that certain com- ments had occurred to it, which would be enumerated, but that all delegations were requested to send in further comments which would serve as bases for the reformulation of the document. Agreed. It was decided to invite the Secretary to pre- pare a redraft of the whole document constituting the Sub-Committee’s report, and to authorize him to issue it as a Commission document, subject to submission to the Chairman on the following day and to any corrigenda which the Sub- Committee might desire when it gave a final scrutiny to the document at its next meeting. The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Monday, 3 October 1949, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. W. E. F. Warp (United Kingdom) Examination of the Sub-Committee’s Report (document 4C/PRG/14). The CHAIRMANstated that document 4C/PRG/14 was the report of the Sub-Committee as redrafted by the Secretariat in the light of the amendments and suggestions adopted by the Sub-Committee in the course ofits previous meetings. Sections 1 to 7 Sections 1 to 7 were adopted as they stood. Section 8 Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) and Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) stressed that a great degree of latitude should be given the Executive Board and the Director-General in the choice of methods in relation to each project. Mr. JAUME (France) proposed that the last words of Section 8 should be replaced by the words “choice of the various types of activities”. After some discussion, it was decided to delete part of the second sentence to read: “The doc- ument was prepared in April and May 1949....”; to add to the sentence starting on the last line of page 2 the phrase: “and the numberof units also is purely arbitrary.”; to delete the end of the section (after “in consultation with the Executive Board”) and to substitute the words: “in the selection of the methods to be applied to each particular
373 project and the fixing of costs, with due regard to the wishes of the requesting country.” Section 8, as amended, was adopted. Section 9 Mr. JAUME (France) said that the word “Since” at the beginning of Section 9 was incorrect. He proposed replacing it by the word “Nevertheless” which would be deleted in the third line. Agreed. Sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) were adopted as they stood. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America), referring to sub-paragraph (e), suggested the deletion of the word “clearly” (in the first line) and the addition of the words “in co-operation with other Agencies” after the word “institutes” (in the fourth line). Agreed. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) expressed the opinion that the last sentence but one in paragraph (f) had too broad a significance and suggested the addition of the words “may in some cases be” after the word “therefore” towards the end of the sentence. Agreed. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) asked whether it was quite clear that Unesco, under this scheme, would not undertake anthropological surveys in isolation. The SECRETARY gave the assurance requested. Paragraph (g) was adopted as it stood.