Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) supported the Australian delegate’s statement. He suggested however that the Sub-Committee might agree that comments and changes should form the subject of a later document, drawn up after del- egations had carefully examined document 4C/9. The review of Section A of Part II had yielded very few comments. The SECRETARYproposed that the final report should say in substance that the Sub-Committee had gone through document 4C/9 tentatively and found some ofits parts obsolete, that certain com- ments had occurred to it, which would be enumerated, but that all delegations were requested to send in further comments which would serve as bases for the reformulation of the document. Agreed. It was decided to invite the Secretary to pre- pare a redraft of the whole document constituting the Sub-Committee’s report, and to authorize him to issue it as a Commission document, subject to submission to the Chairman on the following day and to any corrigenda which the Sub- Committee might desire when it gave a final scrutiny to the document at its next meeting. The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Monday, 3 October 1949, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. W. E. F. Warp (United Kingdom) Examination of the Sub-Committee’s Report (document 4C/PRG/14). The CHAIRMANstated that document 4C/PRG/14 was the report of the Sub-Committee as redrafted by the Secretariat in the light of the amendments and suggestions adopted by the Sub-Committee in the course ofits previous meetings. Sections 1 to 7 Sections 1 to 7 were adopted as they stood. Section 8 Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) and Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) stressed that a great degree of latitude should be given the Executive Board and the Director-General in the choice of methods in relation to each project. Mr. JAUME (France) proposed that the last words of Section 8 should be replaced by the words “choice of the various types of activities”. After some discussion, it was decided to delete part of the second sentence to read: “The doc- ument was prepared in April and May 1949....”; to add to the sentence starting on the last line of page 2 the phrase: “and the numberof units also is purely arbitrary.”; to delete the end of the section (after “in consultation with the Executive Board”) and to substitute the words: “in the selection of the methods to be applied to each particular
373 project and the fixing of costs, with due regard to the wishes of the requesting country.” Section 8, as amended, was adopted. Section 9 Mr. JAUME (France) said that the word “Since” at the beginning of Section 9 was incorrect. He proposed replacing it by the word “Nevertheless” which would be deleted in the third line. Agreed. Sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) were adopted as they stood. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America), referring to sub-paragraph (e), suggested the deletion of the word “clearly” (in the first line) and the addition of the words “in co-operation with other Agencies” after the word “institutes” (in the fourth line). Agreed. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) expressed the opinion that the last sentence but one in paragraph (f) had too broad a significance and suggested the addition of the words “may in some cases be” after the word “therefore” towards the end of the sentence. Agreed. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) asked whether it was quite clear that Unesco, under this scheme, would not undertake anthropological surveys in isolation. The SECRETARY gave the assurance requested. Paragraph (g) was adopted as it stood.   Section 10 Section 10 was adopted as it stood. Section 11 Mr. JAUME (France) thought that the second clause of Section 11 did not faithfully record what had been said at the previous meeting and that it would be better to say: . while uncertain as to whether tourism is related to Unesco’s ordinary activities or to the programme for technical assistance, invited... Dr. GHOSH (India) did not agree that touristic activities should form part of technical assistance. Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) stated that the United Nations were proposing to undertake certain tasks in connexion with secondary aspects of economic progress, and he therefore advised that Unesco should abstain from considering the development of the tourist industry. M. SAGLAM (Turkey) again pointed out the cultural importance of tourism as a means of bringing the various peoples together and giving them a knowledge of each other’s historical sites and works of arts. He thought that there could be no doubt that tourism came within Unesco's field of activities, and asked the Sub-Committee to express itself more explicity on the matter. After some discussion, it was decided to delete part of Section 11 (from “tourist industry” to “Unesco's own aims”) and to add the word “and” before “invited the Turkish representative...”. Section 11, as amended, was adopted. Section 12 Section 12 was adopted as it stood. * Draft Resolutions submitted to the General Conference. The draft resolutions were adopted as they stood. Objectives and Conditions of Unesco's Parti- cipation. Sections 7 and 2 These were adopted as they stood. Section 3 The CHAIRMAN pointed out that Member States should also make available technical information for the benefit of the Director-General,
1. In final form: below, page The SECRETARYsuggested that, to the end of the first paragraph of Section 3, should be added the words “and should keep them regularly informed of request received and the action taken thereon”. Agreed. Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) thought that the words “in connexion with particular projects” in the second sentence of Section 3 was too vague, but he felt that the Secretariat would succeed in finding an appropriate expression. Section 3, as amended, was adopted. Sections 4 and 5 These were adopted as they stood. Section 6 Dr. GHOSH (India) suggested the deletion of the word “normally” in the third line. Agreed. Section 6, as amended, was adopted Section 7 This was adopted as it stood. Section 8 Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) suggested replacing the word “necessary” (in line 5), which seemed to himto be incorrect, by the word “adequate”. Section 8, as amended, was adopted. Section 9 Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) suggested replacing the words “il est loisible” in the French text (second paragraph) by the words “il est possible”. This suggestion, which did not affect the English text, was adopted. Dr. GHOSH (India) suggested the addition of the words “scheme of” before the word ‘“‘econ- omic”, in the last line but one. Agreed. Section 9, as amended, was adopted. Section 10. This was adopted as it stood. Document 4C/PRG/14 as a whole was adopted. Mr. ABRAHAM (United States of America) suggested that Mr. Cummins should act as Rappor- teur for the Sub-Committee, since the Chairman would have to leave before the report was submitted to the Programme and Budget Com- mission. Agreed. Votes of thanks to the Chairman and the Secre- tary of the Sub-Committee were passed. The meeting rose at 11 a.m.