SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE OFFICIAL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION FIRST MEETING Wednesday, 21 September 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Opening of the Session. The meeting was opened by Mr. Antonio CASTRO LEAL (Mexico), who had been elected Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission on 20 September 1949. Election of the Vice-Chairman. Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) proposed China for the Vice-Chairmanship. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) suggested elect- ing an Islamic country, such as Pakistan. On the proposal of Mr. ABRAHAM (France), it was decided to elect China and Pakistan to the Vice-Chairmanship. Election of the Rapporteur. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) nom- inated Mr. Fulgence Charpentier (Canada) as Rap- porteur of the Commission. Adopted unani- mously. Adoption of the Agenda (document 4C/OXR/1). The CHAIRMAN read a letter he had received from the President of the Conference, requesting the Official and External Relations Commission to include the following item in its Agenda: “Pre- liminary study of the reports of Member States on their activities in education, science and cul- ture during 1949.” The Chairman suggested con- sidering that item simultaneously with Item 4 B (Liaison with Member States and National Com- missions). Adopted. With that amendment, the Agenda was adopted. It was noted that Items 4 A, 8 A and 8 B would be discussed at the meetings of the Joint Pro-
377 Mr. AnTONIO CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) gramme and Budget and Official and External Relations Commission. Lastly, it was decided that an informal meeting of the representatives of National Commissions should be held on the morning of Friday, 23 Sep- tember. Item 5 A of the Agenda: Agreement be- tween Unesco and the United Nations (doc- ument 4C/OXR/5). Mr. SEYDOUX (France) spoke on behalf of the Executive Board, which had instructed him to present document 4C/OXR/5 to the Commission. It concerned a minor revision of the Agreement concluded, as regards the interpretation of Ar- ticle XXII, which stipulated that the Agreement would be subject to revision by agreement be- tween the United Nations and Unesco and that it would be reviewed not later than three years after it had come into force. The Executive Board had observed a discrepancy between the French and English texts of Article XXII, which thus lent itself to different interpretations. Furthermore, the Economic and Social Council, which had held a plenary meeting on 9 August 1949, had recom- mended (document 4C/OXR/5 - Add.) that no measures for revision of the Agreement should be taken for the time being by the Council or the General Assembly. The Executive Board was also of the opinion that revision of the Agreement would be a sheer waste of time and, in agreement with the Director-General, had therefore aban- doned the idea; they were submitting doc- ument 4C/OXR/5 to the Commission with a re- quest for approval of the draft resolution on page 2. The draft resolution was adopted unanimously. *
1. In final form: Resolution 31.    Item 6 A of the Agenda: Directives con- cerning relations with inter-governmental organizations (document 4C/OXR/6). Mr. SEYDOUX (France), on behalf of the Ex- ecutive Board, stressed the desirability of framing regulations for the conclusion of agreements. However, in spite of the limited numberof inter- governmental organizations, there were wide dif- ferences between them, so that it would be fairly difficult to draft general directives. It therefore seemed preferable not to alter the present system, which was to consider each agreement separately. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) drew attention to the resolution of ECOSOC quoted under B on page 5 of document 4C/OXR/6. He expressed a hope that the Commission would instruct the Director-General to comply with this request of the Economic and Social Council, as, having noted the comments of the Executive Board and of the Director-General, he deemedit advisable that Unesco should maintain a constant but flexible relationship with the Union internationale pour la protection de la propriété littéraire et artis- tique. Secondly, he wished to raise a question of gen- eral policy concerning relationships of Unesco with inter-governmental organizations. He con- sidered that no further relationships of a formal character should be established with inter-govern- mental organizations at the present time. He also urged the Commission to recommend that any proposed formal agreements with inter-govern- mental organizations should, in the future, be sub- mitted to the General Conference for approval. Mr. ZUTTER (Switzerland) wished to dispel a possible misunderstanding. The Economic and Social Council, in an exchange of letters with the International Red Cross, had suggested making a few changes in the agreements with the Inter- national Relief Union; but there had never been any question of liquidating that organization, and the problem had been referred to a future session of the Economic and Social Council. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) pointed out that document 4C/OXR/6 - Corr. gave the text of the resolution passed by the Economic and Social Council, which was, in fact, referring the question to its next session. Mr. KHANACHET (Saudi Arabia) thought it desirable to leave the General Conference full dis- cretion in the matter. Mr. SEYDOUX (France) did not entirely agree with Mr. Mulliken. If his ideas were followed out, Article XI of the Constitution might be given
378 a restrictive interpretation. He fully sympathized with the wishes of the United States delegate to limit agreements to a small number of well-estab- lished organizations, since Unesco was a young agency; but the Executive Board, whose members were drawn from eighteen different countries, should act as a guardian angel in that respect. The French delegation therefore thought that, whilst caution should be exercised, no new guar- antees were necessary. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) entirely agreed with Mr. Seydoux; in his view, the past was a guar- rantee for the future. As yet, no State had raised objections over agreements with inter-govern- mental organizations. The United States proposal would make for lack of confidence and slow up the procedure. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) re- gretted that he had been misunderstood and pointed out that it was not his intention to suggest that formal agreements between Unesco and inter- governmental organizations should be limited to those organizations at present in existence. He thought there was no need to establish further agreements for the time being, and besides ex- pressed the hope that the Commission should adopt the view that a policy of caution and careful consideration of formal agreements before their signature was necessary. He therefore stressed the importance of submitting these agreements to the General Conference. He further stressed that, in view of the im- portance of the relationships established by Unesco as a basis for co-operation and a means of im- plementing the programme of Unesco, it was of great moment that the General Conference, as a policy-making body, should be committed to decide on the appropriateness of signing formal agreements. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) observed that, before any agreement was concluded with an inter-governmental organ- ization, the draft was submitted to the Govern- ments of Member States by circular letter, and later to the Executive Board. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) also emphasised that before the conclusion of any agreement, Unesco consulted all Member States, which informed it of their views. Some control was thus exercised by all Member States, and any additional control through the General Conference seemed super- fluous. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) thought that, if the members agreed to the im- portance of the matter under discussion, the Secre- tariat of Unesco should be asked to indicate the         proportion of Member Governments who offer comments on draft agreements submitted to them, the measure of account taken of these comments and the procedure adopted by the Executive Board on occasions where differences of views arise be- tween Member Governments. Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) explained that Unesco had so far con- cluded only three agreements with inter-govern- mental organizations and that a fourth agreement was being negotiated. On the whole, few of the Member States consulted ever commented on an agreement to be concluded. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) then proposed the text of the following resolution: The Commission resolves that agreements between Unesco and inter-governmental organizations be sub- mitted to the General Conference for its approval. Professor EUSTATIADES (Greece) observed that paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article XI of the Consti- tution referred to two quite distinct groups of specialized inter-governmental organizations or agencies. Hence, the resolution proposed by the delegation of the United States of America could, under the Constitution, cover only those organ- izations or agencies referred to in paragraph 2 of Article XI, since the Executive Board was the competent body for deciding on cases mentioned in paragraph 1 of Article XI. After a discussion arising out of the remarks of the Greek delegate, the following resolution was submitted by the Director-General’s representative to the Commission for its consideration: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, Notes the report submitted by the Executive Board on the Directives to be adopted concerning the rela- lions of Unesco with Inter-Governmental Organ- izations, and approves the conclusions of this report. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) with- drew his draft resolution. The proposal of the adopted unanimously. * Director-General was Item 6 A (1) of the Agenda: Provisional Agreement betwee: Unesco and the Inter- national Bureau of Education (document 4C/ OXR/7 and add.). Mr. SEYDOUX (France), seconded by Mr. VER- NIERS (Belgium), moved the approval of the agreement. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) observed that
1 In final form: Resolution 32.1.
379 the agreement was to be concluded for year only, and suggested extending the period. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) emphasized the desirability of submitting the agreements to annual review by the General Conference, and moved the adoption of the resolution as contained in document 4C/OXR/7 - Add. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) concurred. As Unesco had an annual programme and budget, it seemed best to keep to the existing procedure, especially as the agreement would be sure to be renewed. After a discussion between Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) and Mr. ABRAHAM (France), the latter stressing the need for collaboration between Unesco and the IBE and the fact that, in practice, the agreement would be automatically renewed, Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) expressed himself satisfied and the draft resolution (document
4C/OXR/7 - Add.) was adopted unanimously. * Item 7 B of the Agenda: Agreement with the French Government on the privileges and immunities granted to Unesco (document 4C/ OXR/15). Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Rela- tions) related the history of the agreement and said that, in view of the adoption of the General Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies, the time had come for replacing the provisional agreement with a final arrangement. The Director-General therefore submitted to the Commission the draft resolution given on page 3 of document 4C/OXR/15. Mr. SEYDOUX (France) paid tribute to Unesco's skilful handling of the negotiations, which had taken place in an atmosphere of confidence and cordiality. Mr. OGRODZINSKY (Poland) pointed out that the Polish delegation had had difficulty in obtaining its visas and hoped that the situation would be reconsidered. Mr. SEYDOUX (France) replied that the ques- tion had already been discussed and was, in fact, settled. Mr. Arnold had only asked for his visa a short time before arriving in Paris. The French Government was always prepared to grant the necessary visas, and delays were due purely to administrative formalities. As meetings were always announced well beforehand, all steps had been taken for granting the visas.
2. In final form: Resolution 32.2.   The resolution on page 3 of document
4C/OXR/15 was adopted unanimously. * Item 7 A of the Agenda: Draft regulations governing the approval by the General Con- ference of recommendations to Member States and international conventions (doc- uments 4C/OXR/14 and Addendum). Mr. de BLONAY (Head, Bureau of External Relations) reminded the meeting that draft regulations had been submitted to the Third Session of the General Conference, which had not been able to consider them in detail. The draft had then been communicated to Member States but still did not seem quite ready for examination. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) thought the discussion on this matter would be facilitated if the Commission reached a pre- liminary understanding as to the method of pro- cedure. He suggested that, if this session of the Conference agreed on some specific procedure, the Secretariat might, after the close of the session, be in a position to draft formal regulations to be submitted to the Fifth Session of the Conference for its approval. He pointed out that both con- ventions and recommendations were involved in this matter, and suggested that the two problems should be separated. Considering the question of convention first, Mr. Mulliken outlined in chronological order the steps he thought should be taken. He supposed that the idea of a convention would originate in the Executive Board which would then prepare a draft convention, indicating its nature together with some explanatory comment. He suggested that this draft should then be submitted to the Member Governments some time before the meeting of a General Conference. During that Session of the General Conference, the Member Governments would eventually state their approval on the principle of a convention. The Secretariat would then proceed with the drafting of a conven- tion and might call in experts to help with this task. The draft convention would have then reached the stage of a working paper which would be sent to Member Governments with a request to send experts who would examine the document. These experts would then prepare a detailed technical draft which would be sent to Member Governments for their comments. For some governments which had been unable to send experts to the first meeting, this might be the first opportunity of examining the draft. The Member Governments would submit their com-
1. In final form: Resolution 34.2.
380 ments to the Secretariat. If no serioux dis- agreement had been expressed either from Unesco or the Member Governments, the Secretariat of Unesco would undertake the thask of final “polishing-up” of the draft in view of its submission to the General Conference. If any serious points of disagreement occurred at that stage, experts should be convened again. Having thus outlined this method of work, Mr. Mulliken submitted it to the Commission for its approval. Professor EUSTATHIADES (Greece) noted that the procedure proposed by Mr. Mulliken concerned not merely the framing of a convention in con- creto, but also the adoption of general regulations governing international conventions. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) agreed with the delegate of the United States of America. He thought that the procedure outlined by Mr. Mulliken had already been followed by Unesco in the past. He mentioned the convention on the free circulation of audio-visual material. The Executive Board had asked for the General Conference’s agreement as regards the desirability of such a convention. The Secretariat then framed a preliminary draft which was despatched to Member States before being approved by the General Conference in Beirut. Lastly, the General Conference had instructed the Director-General to recommend to Member States the adoption of the said convention. Dr. SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that initial draft regulations, modelled on the procedure of the ILO, had been prepared by the Secretariat and despatched to Member States. But the question had apparently not been quite ripe. A new doc- ument had therefore been drawn up, in the light of the comments received from Member States. A procedure might be adopted whereby, when a convention was desirable, the Secretariat would prepare an initial document, dealing with the technical aspects of the question, describing the relevant legislation in various countries and in- cluding a questionnaire to be filled in by Member States. The document would be sent to Member States for their comments, on the basis of which the Secretariat would then prepare a second doc- ument in the form of a first draft convention for submission to the General Conference; it would be considered either by an ad hoc committee of lawyers or by lawyers belonging to delegations. In short, a preliminary study would have to be carried out and a questionnaire sent to Member States before it would be possible to prepare the initial draft convention for submission to the General Conference. Dr. Saba added that a recommendation might be very useful, as it would have the advantage of being less rigid than a       convention, and its very flexibility would enable certain subjects to be dealt with for which provision could not be made in a convention. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) explained that the aim for the time being was merely to establish principles, on the basis of which draft regulations concerning recommendations to Member States and international conventions would be framed by the Secretariat. An international convention was an unusual and important instrument which had to be most carefully prepared. Unesco’s prestige was bound up with the success of the international conventions it sponsored. The con- vention must therefore be effective and must be voted by a large majority. In Beirut, the General Conference had adopted a convention by too slender a majority. The delegate of France agreed with the procedure outlined by his United States colleague. He urged the necessity for exercising extreme caution with regard to international conventions and, in particular, for respecting the constitutional provisions of individual States; above all, care should be taken to have the treaties and conventions ratified by the correct authority. Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) shared the views of the previous speakers. He pointed out that recom- mendations differed from conventions only in being less binding, the prelimenary work and technical formalities being the same for both. To illustrate his point, he referred to the work of the Committee of Experts on Copyright, which had met at Unesco in July of that year. An inter- national convention had to be based on detailed investigations by experts. Dr. Chediak suggested the establishment of a permanent legal commission to be responsible for framing draft conventions; he thought such a commission preferable to a meeting of experts delegated by States, for not all States could send experts. Reports on the work of such a commission would be communicated to Member States for their comments. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) summed up the discussions. When a convention was desirable, the Secretariat should prepare a report for submission to the next session of the General Conference, where it would be discussed. It appeared from the discussion that the Secretariat would compile a questionnaire to be sent to Member States. On the basis of the replies received and the opinion of a few experts, a draft convention would be framed; the latter would be despatched to Member States, so that it could be profitably discussed and, if possible, approved by the following session of the General Confer- ence. Accordingly, the Secretariat could submit to one session of the General Conference a report proposing the establishment of a convention and then, after full investigations had been carried out, lay before the following session a draft prepared by experts. The General Conference should only consider drafts that had been carefully prepared and perfected in their technical details by experts. The CHAIRMAN remarked that a good deal more time might be required for consideration of the question; he therefore suggested that the discussion should be continued the following day. The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m. SECOND MEETING Thursday, 22 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Item 7 A of the Agenda: Draft regulations governing the approval by the General Con- ference of recommendations to Member States and international conventions (con- tinuation) (documents 4C/OXR/14 and Adden- dum). The CHAIRMAN called upon the Legal Adviser to give some technical explanations regarding the definition of recommendations, in compliance with Mr. ANTONIO CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) the request made by the Cuban delegate at the preceding meeting. Dr. SABA (Legal Adviser) referred to the recom- mendations regarding the programme, especially those formulated at Beirut. Instances were the requests to Member States regarding the issue of certain stamps with a surcharge, encouragement to institutions and organizations in their territories to co-operate more closely with Unesco or to take