EIGHTH MEETING Tuesday, 27 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) later: Mr. Jean PracET (Switzerland) Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 (rev.) and 4C/6). Chapter 4. Social Sciences (continuation). Section 3. standing. Tension affecting International Under- Mr. DUNN (United States of America) supported the proposed programme. He wished to refer to some items, but without any desire to criticize. The United States delegation suggested that every effort should be made to contact institutions already existing and which might be glad to help Unesco in its enquiries, rather than spend large sums on fees to individual experts. Withregard to publications, the United States delegation urged that the Secretariat explore the possibilities of making arrangements with commercial publishing houses wherever possible; there were good possi- bilities of selling some of the publications, and commercial houses would be willing to run some risk in the matter, with a consequential saving to Unesco. The United States delegation was pleased with the way the work of this Department was going, and thought it would turn out an important contribution to peace. Mr. Dunn supported the Amendment (document 4C/32) resolution 4.33. proposal French to the revised Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Sciences) promised to keep the United States del- egate's remarks carefully in mind; they were quite in line with the Organization's Programme. Unesco was anxious for the widest possible cir- culation of its works and would see that they were published as quickly as possible. A new division had been set up in the Department of Social Sciences, and experts and scientists were assisting Unesco. In spite of the very small budget for the Department, it had been possible to do a con- siderable amount of work at verylittle cost. With regard to the amendment submitted by the French delegation, Professor Ramos remarked that it was impossible to separate the fundamental, psychological bases of Fascism from those of racial prejudice. The latter subject would, however, be dealt with in separate studies.
289 The amendment proposed by the French delega- tion (document 4C/32) was adopted. *
4: The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the amend- ment to item 4.412 suggested by the Executive Board (document 4C/5 rev. - Add. & Corr. ). Section Study of International Collaboration Mr. GROSS (United Nations) specified that he was not going to talk about international tensions, but solely about Unesco’s programme. The Economic and Social Council had drawn up a series of plans closely connected with the co- ordination of the work of Unesco and the United Nations; the latter Organization was not, however, an executive body and needed the help of the Spe- cialized Agencies. He therefore hoped that Unesco would have the means to provide the assistance expected. The amendment to item 4.412 (document 4C/5 rev. - Add. & Corr., page 2) was adopted. 3 Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) noted that, in the work plan contained in the Budget estimates (document 4C/6, page 113), it would be seen that the conferences and meetings costs were increased “to provide for meetings on the Sociology of Federalism and Study of Techniques of Inter- national Conferences”. Federalism was not men- tioned in the resolution the Commission was being asked to pass, but the Commission ought to note that, if the resolution was left as it stood, it would be approving work on that subject. No one would doubt the importance of the subject, nor that it would be a very promising approach to the wider problems of world government. However, the United Kingdom National Commission had not so far received any working paper from the Secre- tariat, and Sir John thought that it was rather dangerous to launch into this field at the present business Conference, to which experts had not come. He asked, therefore, whether it would not be best to leave the project out of the work plan and make a corresponding economy in the budget. The question could be reconsidered at the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Resolution 4.32.1. In final form:
2. In final form: Resolution 4.411.   Sciences) stated that no special mention of federalism had been made in the resolution; it was necessary, however, that Unesco should be able to go into the question, for any thorough study would inevitably lead to it. Work of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee and the Budget Ceiling. The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission’s attention to a question of procedure. It had been decided, the previous day, the Drafting and Co-ordinating Sub-Committee should be competent, and should be given instructions, to revise both the pro- gramme and the budget estimates in the light of the discussions in the Commission; that it should be entitled to make new proposals; and that it should consist of twelve members, while all delegations should be entitled to submit sug- gestions to it. A very difficult problem of procedure had nevertheless arisen. How could the Sub- Committee work apart from the Commission and undertake an extremely detailed analysis of the budget proposals (inevitably rather a long proceeding) until the Commission itself had con- sidered the ceiling of the budget? The Sub- Committee would then have to begin its work again once the ceiling had been fixed. The Chairman wondered whether there was enough time for that; he very much doubted it. For technical reasons, he thought it would be better to decide on the budget ceiling before the Sub-Committee began its work, so that it should have the full facts at its disposal. The Chairman had thought it advisable to submit that suggestion to the General Committee, which had approved it that same morning. He therefore proposed that the provisional ceiling for the budget should be fixed at the meeting to be held on the morning of Thursday, 29 September; the Sub-Committee would be able to begin work on Thursday afternoon and to consider the revi- sion of the budget. The Chairman wished to inform the Commission that the Director-General did not agree with him, as he thought it was impossible to fix a ceiling before making a detailed analysis of the programme and budget. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) stressed the need for the frankest possible discussion. He could not understand setting up a higher authority to work in camera. There was no reason why all the nations represented at the Conference should not work on the Sub-Committee and, if that was so, the proposal would merely mean changing the place of the meeting. The CHAIRMAN replied that his proposal to finish the Commission's work first and fix the ceiling afterwards had been designed to avoid that difficulty. Although he had been unable to find any better solution, he had no special pre- ference for the one he had suggested. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) stated that the question of procedure they were being asked to solve was of fundamental importance, and was very strongly under the impression that what they were discussing was the very life of Unesco. No one would wish Unesco, by reason of the debate nowtaking place, to look ridiculous in the eyes of the public. Unesco must be helped, and no one wished to waste money; but he was asking the meeting to pay attention to what had been discussed. In the first years of Unesco, there was an “embarras du choix” for projects, and people wanted to do too many things, though not all were in favour of that. What they should do now was to concentrate the programme; but concen- tration did not mean systematic reduction of the funds and of the means. They should be careful and the programme should be concrete. The tendency, which was becoming more and more evident, to reduce funds could not go on and, while the budget should be considered carefully, reasonable proposals should be allowed to go forward. Dr. Martinez Báez wished to warn those present that there was a danger he foresaw only too clearly. The CHAIRMAN asked if anyone could propose a better means of speeding up the work. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) said they were not discussing a question of principle. They were discussing the best mechanics for the work of the rest of the Conference. The question at issue was a purely procedural and, to him, a per- fectly simple one. The Director-General and the Chairman of the Commission were to be congrat- ulatedin the progress so far made in surveying the programme for 1950. If it had been slow, it had been thorough. On Thursday, 29 September, they would attempt to fix a ceiling—a most practical step, in his view. Afterwards, there would be a detailed examination, in public, by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, and that Sub- Committee, in public, would go into a detailed examination, step by step, of every single clause if necessary, and would then report back, and the Commission would decide then what budget it would approve. Was that a betrayal of Unesco? It was not a betrayal of any organization to make it work, and work efficiently. He regretted that there had been suggestions that the United King- dom delegation in particular had been cheese- paring, and even letting down the Organization in
90    so doing. They had been doing nothing of the kind. He would remind the meeting that Unesco was very much Great Britain's child. They had sent strong delegations to every Conference that Unesco had held. At no time more than the present had Great Britain been more enthusiastic about Unesco. He would assure the Director- General and the Secretariat and his fellow delegates that his delegation came to the Conference with tremendous confidence and a feeling of national strength behind them, and would remain so. Unesco was moretheir child than anything else in the United Nations, and they wished to see it grow from strength to strength. That was their purpose and their determination. They believed that expansion would come to Unesco, but that it should come stage by stage. The present discus- sion was not concerned with anyone's enthusiasm; it was not a question of any betrayal of prin- ciple; it was not a question that concerned the letting down of the Director-General, the Secre- tariat and the Conference as a whole; it was a purely procedural question. Mr. CAIN (France) sympathized with the Brit- ish delegate’s remarks. No one could question the good will of the United Kingdom delegation. Unesco had been born in London, in 1945, during the war. After paying tribute to the heroism of the United Kingdom, Mr. Cain dealt with the question of procedure. The Chairman’s proposal had encountered some objections. It would be necessary to find some solution which would allow the Commission to make its voice heard, and it seemed quite possible to find a means of ensuring that the Commission's proposals were acceptable to the Sub-Committee. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) thought it regrettable that a procedural question should take up so much time, and even more regrettable that into its discussion there should be injected the thought that there were persons present who were taking up a position for or against the life of Unesco. In presenting the views of his delega- tion, he did not believe that anybody would be bold enough to stand before the United States del- egation and say that the United States wanted to kill Unesco. If anyone present had visited the United States and seen the magnificent work of its National Commission, and the thousands who came from every State to its Cleveland meeting among others, he would certainly deny any such allega- tion. The meeting would recall that, at the beginning of the Conference, there had been a discussion about fixing a ceiling before considering the Pro- gramme. The United States delegation had opposed that suggestion strongly, because they
291 felt it would be discourteous to the Director- General and the Secretariat, who had prepared the Programme and made their budgetary estimates. By Thursday, 29 September, the Com- mission would have examined the whole Pro- gramme, and every delegation would have had every opportunity to make proposals for any eliminations or additions to that Programme. The Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee had meanwhile reported that it was unable to start its work unless it had more definite terms of reference. As for the suggestion that it meet simultaneously with the Programme and Budget Commission, the United States delegation felt that the members of the Sub-Committee should follow the Commission’s meetings and hear the debates on the Programme on which they would later maker their judgments. Mr. Allen suggested that, on Thursday, new terms of reference of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Comittee should be fixed; he did not insist that the budget ceiling, which would also be established then, should be absolutely rigid. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) confessed that he did -not understand. It was being urged that the work should be speeded up without becoming sub- merged in details, which would be left to the Sub-Committee. The work of the latter would subsequently be referred back to the plenary Com- mission. On that understanding, it was pro- posed that the Commission should fix the ceiling in the first place, thus taking a preliminary deci- sion on what was to be the Sub-Committee’s business. It would seem more logical to fix the ceiling at the end of the work. Summing up, the CHAIRMAN remarked that the point at issue was whether the Commission should decide on the ceiling before or after the work of the Sub-Committee. When he made his sug- gestion, he had been perfectly well aware of the difficulties. The Sub-Committee’s work would necessarily last some time and would have nothing to do with the fixing of the ceiling. Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) thought it would be possible to reconcile the different points of view, and supported the Swiss delegation’s proposal. The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Swiss pro- posal that the Sub-Committee should meet first and the budget ceiling be fixed afterwards. As the vote on a show of hands was doubiful, the Chairman had the vote taken by roll-call. The result of the vote was as follows: Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, China, Cuba, Dominican republic, Ecuador, France, Greece, Haiti,       Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, Uruguay. Voted against: Australia, Canada, Colombia, Den- mark, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Nether- lands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Syria, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of Amer- ica, Venezuela. Abstained: India. Absent: Argentina, Czechoslovakia, El Salvador, Honduras, Hungary, Poland, Thailand. The CHAIRMAN announced that, as there were
21 votes in favour and 21 against, a second vote would have to be taken at a later meeting, in accordance with Rule 90 of the Rule of Proce- dure. Mr. Piaget took the Chair. Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 5. Philosophy and Humanistic Studies Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), referring to resolution 5.1 (Co-operation with Non-Govern- mental Organizations in the Field of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies), wished to congratulate the Director-General and the Executive Board on the excellent spirit of these proposals and in partic- ular for a move in the direction of associating more and more fully with the work of Unesco the academies and learned societies of all countries, particularly in their international manifestations, so that work in this most fundamental field of philosophy and humanistic studies was not done or thought to be done mainly in Unesco House. Unesco particularly could claim credit for having helped to bring to birth the International Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. Sir John observed that it was suggested that the work under resolution 5.5 (Comparative Study of Cultures) should be wound up. The United Kingdom delegation felt that, instead of being left in suspense, the matter should be referred to the International Council of Philosophy and Human- istic Studies for further development. With regard to resolution 5.31, this work also could be referred to the International Council. In conclusion, the United Kingdom delegation welcomed the Director-General's suggestion that the post of Head of the Philosophy and Humanistic Studies Division should be maintained. Mr. CAIN (France) wished to draw the Com- mission's attention particularly to the section of the Programme entitled “Co-operation with Non-
292 Governmental Organizations”, the importance of which could not be over-estimated. According to the budget estimates, the total expenditure on personnel had been reduced from $33,719 to $23,682. The method of co-operation with non- governmental organizations in the field of philo- sophy and humanistic studies was excellent, and it was desirable that efforts should be concen- trated on a few specially important matters. The French delegation urged that bibliographic work should be undertaken in connexion with humanistic studies The delegation had also taken note of the results of the Conference on science abstracting and suggested that another conference should be held to deal with humanistic studies; although it might not be on such a large scale as the first conference, it might help to co-ordinate efforts, with the assistance of a committee of experts. In addition, Unesco's support should be given to the work of the Brussels Council, partic- ularly in view of the difficult economic situation of several countries. International work would be infinitely more fruitful, and Unesco had an important task to fulfil in that field. A hundred years before, Renan wondered what the future of science would be. The sciences of which the great writer was speaking were those covered by humanistic studies. The French delegation asked that Unesco’s activities in that field should not be curtailed but extended. Dr. FOSSI (Italy) thought the Commission should lay down a general principle for dealing with all questions of fundamental importance. It was necessary that the Director-General, with the assistance of a committee of experts, should specify the ideas and methods to be followed in achieving Unesco’s purposes. First and foremost, it was necessary to create and develop a realiza- tion of the interdependence of peoples, which led to peace. Such a programme would have a very practical purpose. It was not enough merely to combat illiteracy, it was also necessary to educate the peoples generally. Those responsible for the war were peoples of advanced civilization; the question was, therefore, above all, to create a new state of mind. It was a great advantage that Unesco had no political interests to defend. Dr. Fossi asked that the Director-General should be instructed to produce a document setting forth the principles for action in thatfield. Dr. NIEBUHR (United States of America) said that his delegation agreed with that of the United Kingdom in welcoming the expansion of Unesco's work in supporting various societies for human- istic studies; he noted that grants-in-aid had been increased to $72,900, and on the whole this programme of strengthening the work had his   delegation’s approval. He thought, however, that the question of personnel under III. 5. A. 3 might be criticized and wondered if it would be possible to rearrange the budget under that heading so that at least one Programmespecialist would be dealing with the humanities side of the Comparative Study of Cultures. If there was no direction of this par- ticular work in Unesco House, there would be a danger that the general support of all those organ- izations would sometimes go to too specialized studies not sufficiently related to the Programme, and to a philosophical interchange which also was not focused. With regard to resolution 5.7 (Scientific and Cultural History), although the United States delegation had previously been somewhat sceptical about such a project, they had since received the splendid report of Professor Ozorio de Almeida. They had studied it carefully, but asked themselves if it were possible for a committee to write such a history, and one that would make a sufficiently unique contribution as against various significant works already done in that field. The United States delegation would therefore propose an amendment as follows: provided that no final commitments are made upon this project until a subsequent Conference has had an opportunity to examine a full outline of the work, and reactions to it from representatives of the various bodies. Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) remarked that document 4C/PRG/9, prepared by the Secretariat, was so exhaustive that no further advocacy of the project for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind seemed necessary. It remained to be discovered whether the time was ripe for its imme- diate execution. Direct action was required. The project was a typical example of direct action within Unesco’s field, and it was also a test of international collaboration. It seemed pointless to delay; the international atmosphere was propitious and immediate embarkation on the work would be an act of faith in peace. In the past year, the project had been brought to maturity, and to abandon it would be a surrender; the Swiss del- egation therefore proposed that work should be begun immediately. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) seconded the proposal. Professor STOUT (Australia) associated his delegation with the proposal of the United States delegation. The Australian National Co-operating Bodies had discussed to some extent the proposal for a Scientific and Cultural History, and had expressed some doubt as to whether it would be an important contribution to science and culture. He thought that scholars and advanced students
293 would be more likely to turn to standard works, for there were already in existence a number of world histories not written purely from a national point of view, and it seemed questionable whether a number of scholars brought together by Unesco could, in fact, make a better or more important contribution, especially as such people were usually inclined to work independently. The Australian delegation therefore thought that some further consideration of the proposal was neces- sary. M. LE BRAS (France) said that the objections advanced had occurred to almost all the delega- tions. Although it was true there were some books dealing with the evolution of science, there was no treatise or textbook which indicated the contribution each country had made to the ad- vancement of science. It was Unesco’s task to teach students, as well as children, of the progress of science in the various countries. It was not only a question of making a synthesis of knowledge, but also of making an impression on the minds of students by showing that, in all countries, efforts were being made to advance science. In conclu- sion, M. Le Bras emphasized that it was important to support the project, which was in line with Unesco’s activities. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that the matter had been thorougly studied and had in fact originated in London at the Conference of the Allied Ministers of Education, the records of which were in the hands of the Secretariat. With that, and the excellent report of Professor Ozorio de Almeida in mind, he did not see the necessity of postponing the matter and differed from the del- egate of Australia when he said that such a history would contain nothing new. Professor Sommer- felt wished to make a point concerning the project of a handbook for teachers of history which would be a weapon to counteract the influence, by no means dead, of the Nazi and Fascist ideology. It would contain chapters on the falsifications of history, and he did not know of any general work which would give teachers of history that information, so necessary even at the present time. Dr. NIEBUHR (United States of America) em- phasized that his amendment was not to postpone the work, because the Secretariat would continue with its part of the plan, but only to say that the Conference would not make a final commit- ment upon the proposal until the whole matter had been studied. Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) welcomed most heartily the proposal of the French delegation regarding the work of bibliography in connexion with humanistic studies. He also supported those    delegates in favour of the compilation of a Scien- tific and Cultural History. I was true that such work had always been done by individual scholars, without covering the whole field, but considera- tion should be given to the changes taking place in the development of work in the humanistic sciences, for the field was now much too wide to be covered by one scholar. The Austrian delega- tion also supported the delegate of Switzerland's proposals. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. NINTH MEETING Tuesday, 27 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) later: Mr. Jean Prager (Switzerland) Work of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee and the Budget Ceiling (continua- tion). The CHAIRMAN read out Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, laying down that, if a vote should be equally divided, a second vote should be taken within forty-eight hours after the first vote. He asked if anyone objected to postponing the final vote until the following morning. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) was prepared to agree to the postponement, provided that, in the meantime, the General Committee could offer the Commission constructive suggestions which would enable it to take the vote in full possession of all the relevant facts. The chairman’s proposal was adopted. At the CHAIRMAN's request, Mr. Piaget took the Chair. Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 5. Philosophy and Humanistic Studies (con- tinuation) Professor THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) explained that no budget provision had been made for the preparation of the Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (item 5.7), except for the fees of a few specialists. Mr. DUNN (United States of America) stated that his delegation would withdraw its amend- ments (document 4C/30) to project 5.5 (Compar- ative Study of Cultures).
294 Mr. SHALOM (United Nations), referring to the proposed resolution 5.61, indicated that it resulted from Resolution 275 (III) adopted in April 1949 by the General Assembly of the United Nations, and suggested a modification of the text to the effect that “the Director-General should be in- structed to assist the United Nations in the study of the situation of aboriginal populations in Amer- ica”. He pointed out that his intention in sub- mitting this amendment was to make clear that this action was part of a co-ordinated effort. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL saw no objection to accepting the suggestion made by the United Nations representative, and proposed simplifying the wording of the resolution to read “to assist the United Nations in the study, in collaboration with the Instituto Indigenista Interamericano and interested States...”. Mr. SHALMON (United Nations) agreed with that form of words. Subject to the above observations, the whole of Chapter 5 was adopted. * Chapter 6. Cultural Activities Section 1. Arts RESOLUTIONS 6.11 To 6.136 Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) remarked how necessary it was to preserve the productions of folk and popular arts. Taking music as an example, he stressed how desirable it was that popular music, which was disappearing in the more highly developed countries and degenerating in others underthe influence of “imported” music,
1. In final form: Resolutions 5.1 to 5.6.