FIRST PLENARY MEETING Monday, 19 September 1949 at 10.40 a.m. CONTENTS
1. Opening of the Session by the Head of the Lebanese Delegation
2. Establishment of the Credentials Committee, Nominations Committee, and Procedure Committee . Report of the Credentials Committee Adoption of the Agenda . Report of the Nominations Committee and election of the President and Vice-Presidents President: H. E. Mr. AmMHED BEY Daouk (Lebanon), then Dr. E. RonaLn WALKER (Australia).
1. Opening of the Session by the Head of the Lebanese Delegation. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen. The tradition according to which each session of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is opened by the representative of the country in which the previous General Conference was held, reminds me of those Olympic races in which the runners passed the burning torch from one to the other till they reached thealtar of Prometheus, who was held by Greek mythology to be the source of all civilization. I see in this comparison the symbol of each Member State’s duty : to ensure the continued existence of Unesco and the success of its under- takings, to remain actively faithful to its directing principles and to keep alive the burning enthusiasm that attended its birth. That enthusiasm arose from the longing for peace that was felt by all peoples immediately after the war. Thus, in welcoming you last year at Beirut, His Excellency the President of the Lebanese Republic said : The great international organizations were born of a universal longing for peace. If they have not always succeeded, it is less because they lack intellectual power—and may continue to lack it for a long time to come—than because the peoples of the world have not yet learnt to know one another sufficiently, and so to understand and love one another. Though we should at times consent to a mutual or collective sacrifice of certain prerogatives of natural sovereignty, we should, even more, strive for increased know- ledge and understanding between nations, for freer exchanges, both intellectual and material. There lies your domain, that is the lofty task that you have taken upon yourselves, to which all your energies will be bent. Lebanon, which welcomed Unesco in Beirut with such pleasure and pride, is doing everything in its power to further the Organization’s work and, as our President also said, “to spread knowledge, to promote intellectual progress, and thus to serve the cause of peace”. For our country has realized the necessity of giving steady support to your principles, whose essential aim is to safeguard human liberties and to improve man’s condition, in a climate of peace, by promoting knowledge and understanding among the peoples. It is a great honour for me, in the name of Lebanon, to open the present session and so to pass on the torch of Unesco to the delegate who is chosen by your assembly as its President. I ought in this connexion to remind you of France's qualifications to welcome on her soil the General Conference of Unesco. And in so doing I should have to reiterate, however inadequately,    facts that are universally known, accepted and admired. Suffice it for me to say that Paris, city of freedom and noble ideas, the direct spiritual descendant of Athens and Rome is a magnet that attracts lovers of freedom and culture from all parts of the world, who find in her a second home. This city was the cradle of the principles of liberty, equality and fraternity; from here they spread throughout the whole world, and are now blended into the principles of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Paris was therefore an obvious choice as the permanent headquarters of the Organization. In the name of the General Conference, here assembled, I would like to thank France for the hospitality Unesco is enjoying on her soil. Lastly, I am happy to pay a tribute to M. Torres Bodet, Director-General of Unesco, who has given up his important post as Minister for Foreign Affairs in Mexico, in order to devote all his energy and ability to the service of the Organization. In so doing, he is perfectly right in thinking that he has not ceased to serve his country, for the real interests of every country are bound up with those of humanity as a whole. The main lines of our future work are already laid down. 1 hope thatall the States represented here will continue sympathetically to support M. Torres Bodet's actions and proposals and give himall the moral and material help he requires for the successful accomplishment of his task. Let us always rememberthat the cause of peace, Which is our goal, may depend upon the success of Unesco. Each one of us will then rally to the call for co-operation. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare open the Fourth Ordinary Session of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
2. Establishment of the Credentials Com- mittee, Nominations Committee, and Pro- cedure Committee. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] In accordance with the Agenda which has been circulated, and the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the Credentials Committee and the Nominations Committee should be constituted and should meet at once. Under Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, the Credentials Committee shall consist of nine members elected by the General Conference on the proposal of the Acting President. I have the honour to propose to the General Conference that this Committee consist of representatives of the following countries : China, Cuba, Denmark,
38 Lebanon, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Thailand, United Kingdom. Does the General Conference approve this pro- posal? The proposal was adopted. The Credentials Committee will meet, in Room 9, immediately after this meeting is adjourned. I hope that the Committee will be able to make its report when the meeting is resumed, i.e. about 11.30. The Nominations Committee, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, shall consist of the Heads of all delegations entitled to vote in the Conference, will meet in this room immediately after the adjournment of the present meeting. If this Committee approves the recommendations * contained in document 4C/NOM/2, it will be able to submit today to the Conference the names of candidates for the offices of President and the seven Vice-Presidents. If the Nominations Committee could submitits proposals after the adjournment of this meeting, the Conference could then immediately elect the President and Vice-Presidents, and the General Committee of the Conference could meet this evening at 6 o’clock. Finally, Rule 31 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Procedure Committee shall consist of one representative of each delegation entitled to vote in the Conference. I would therefore ask the Heads of delegations to appoint one member each to serve on the Com- mittee, which will meet this afternoon, at 3.30, in Room 11. Delegations have already received the draft agenda and working documents for this Committee under reference number 4C/PRO. Does the General Conference approve my pro- posals regarding the constitution ‘of the Com- mittee? Approved. The meeting adjourned at 10.52 a.m., and resumed at 71.57.
3. Report of the Credentials Committee. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I call upon the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to give his Report. M. J. NIELSEN (Denmark), Chairman of the Credentials Committee — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: The Cre- dentials Committee met at 11 o’clock, consisting of the delegates of the following Member States : China, Cuba, Denmark, Lebanon, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Thailand and the United Kingdom.   The Committee appointed as its Chairman M. Niel- sen, Denmark. The Committee examined the documents issued by Member States whose delegations are present at the opening of the General Conference, submitted by those States to the Director-General of the Organi- zation. It found that the delegates of the following States have been duly accredited, in accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, by documents issued either by the Head of the State or by the Minister of Foreign Affairs : Saudi Arabia, Burma, Canada, Denmark; United States of America, Ecuador, Greece, India, Italy, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Norway, Netherlands, Philippines, Poland, Dominican Republic, Switzerland, Syria, Czechoslovakia, Thailand, Union of South Africa. The Committee recommends that the delegations of these Member States be allowed to take part in the Fourth Session of the General Conference with full voting rights. Credentials were submitted by the representatives of the Governments of the States mentioned below, in the form of telegrams or documents issued either by a Minister (other than Minister of Foreign Affairs) of the country which they represent, by Heads of Diplomatic Missions, by permanent delegates to Unesco, or by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs : Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, France, Haiti, Hungary, India, Iraq, Iran, Israel, Lebanon, New Zealand, Pakistan, Peru, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Uruguay, Venezuela. The Committee recommends that these documents be regarded as provisional credentials for the del- egations of the Member States listed above, subject to the subsequent submission of credentials in due form, and that in the meantime these delegations be allowed to take part in the Fourth Session of the General Conference with full voting rights. Finally, the Committee considered the documents accrediting observers from the following States, which are not members of the Organization : Ceylon, Chile, Korea, Finland, Ireland, Transjordan, Nepal, Nic- aragua, Sweden, Vatican. The Committee proposes that the observers and representatives of the above- mentioned States be admitted to the Fourth Session of the General Conference, without the right to vote. The Committee would be glad if the Procedure Committee could consider the possibility of extending to Ministers other than those for Foreign Affairs authority to sign the credentials of delegations to the General Conference. The Committee will meet at the end of the present session in order to submit a final report to the Gen- eral Conference. That, Gentlemen, is the Report of our Committee. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Are there any comments on this Report? The Report is adopted.
4. Adoption of the Agenda. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] We now come to Item 4—Adoption of the Agenda. In accordance with Rule 13 of the Rules of Pro- cedure, I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board. He will submit the provisional agenda to the General Conference. This document has been circulated to delegations and bears the reference
4C/1. H.E. Dr. S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — 1 have the honour to move Item No.4—Adoption of the Agenda. You will find that document
4C/1 (rev.), Provisional Agenda, includes sug- gestions that have been put forward by the Australian Government. These are included under
14(c)—Arrangements for the appointment of Auditors (supplementary items included at the request of Australia). When it was decided at Beirut to hold the Conference here in Paris, we thought that the Conference was going to be a short business one; but subsequently the question of technical assistance for the economic develop- ment of under-developed areas has also been brought up. That particular item is included under 13—Extraordinary Programme for Technical Assistance for Economic Development. I have the honour to move, according to Article IX D of the Constitution and Rule 5, Rules of Procedure, that this Agenda be adopted. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) — Mr. President, fellow delegates, There are one or two general points that I would like to raise about the Agenda as it is before us, and the reason I am raising these points is not in any way to question the substance of any single item listed in this proposed Agenda. That, obviously, would be out of order. I am not concerned with the character of the items which it is proposed that we should discuss in this order. I am only concerned with a general interpretation of the items as they appear seriatim on this proposed Agenda. It will be noted that the Agenda proposed does differ in an important respect from the Agenda presented to us at the Conferences in Mexico and in Beirut, and no doubt the Executive Board has very good and proper reasons why there should be such dif- ferences. The Agenda of each Conference is a matter for that particular Conference. The points I wish to raise are as follows : I ask for an assurance on three items: first of all, that the Programme and Budget Commission is competent to settle its own Agenda, including the order in which it shall consider Items 12 (a),
12 (b) and 12 (с). These are referred to in doc- ument 4C/1 (rev.). In other words, I would like an assurance that the Programme and Budget Commission can settle its Agenda without being    prejudiced by Items 12 (a), (b) and (c) in the order stated in this Agenda before us; then, Mr. President, an assurance—if it is possible—that the Programme and Budget Commission is competent to establish such sub- commissions and sub-committees as it thinks necessary and to give them such terms of reference as it considers desirable. In other words, the Programme and Budget Commission may decide that it does not wish to set up a drafting com- mittee. I suggest it should be competent for the Programme and Budget Commission to establish whatever kind of sub-commission or sub-com- mittee it desires, in the light of its discussions and experience. And then, Sir, with respect to a third point—an assurance that the General Conference shall agree to assemble in plenary session to consider the provisional proposed ceiling of the budget for 1950, but only at such time as the Programme and Budget Commission have settled upon a provisional figure. My point, Mr. Presi- dent, is that we wish to avoid the Programme and Budget Commission in particular limited by this Agenda being adopted as it stands. I have no right, Sir, this morning, to question the substance of any item on this proposed Agenda, but I do plead for more flexibility and elasticity for the Programme and Budget Commission, and I hope, Sir, that, while the Agenda will be adopted as it stands, the assurances I ask for can be given. Dr. Antoni CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) — [Trans- lation from the Spanish] I would just like to say that the Mexican delegation, noticing the omission in the Agenda of an item concerning the amendment or possible amendments of the Rules of Procedure, wishes to reserve the right to present to the Procedure Committee such amendments as it may deem fit. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Ame- rica) — Mr. President, I have a question to address to the Chairman of the delegation of Great Britain who has just spoken. As I understand his proposal, it is that the Programme and Budget Commission be allowed entire freedom and that, therefore, his proposal is without prejudice either way towards what procedure that Commission will follow when it meets. In other words it might adopt the procedure here or it might not. Mr. D. R. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) — That is an assurance I can give Sir. H.E. Dr. S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India) Mr. President, I think it is open to the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission to settle the order, or adopt the order which is now given here, or alter the order with the complete consent of that particular Commission. So far as the items of the Agenda are concerned,it is open to
40 the General Committee to alter the way in which these items are taken up there, and the same liberty should be given to the Programme and Budget Commission also. Then again, the question whether they are at liberty to appoint sub-commissions or sub-committees with their own terms of reference is entirely a matter for the discretion of the Programme and Budget Com- mission. If they feel that a drafting committee is necessary, they may have it, if they feel that a budget Sub-commission is necessary, they may have it. But if they feel, taking into account the shortness of the calendar, that it is worth while adopting all these measures without reference to these committees, they are at liberty to do so. The plenary session will certainly review all the recommendations and all the decisions reached by the respective commissions before they are accepted; the plenary conference will have a meeting on these things. These are the only assurances I can give you so far as the present Agenda is concerned and the points raised.
5. Report of the Nominations Committee and election of the President and Vice- Presidents. The PRESIDENT — I now call on the Chairman of the Nominations Committee. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of America). Mr. President, the Nominations Committee has met and brings before the plenary session the following candidates for the position of President of the Con- ference and seven Vice-Presidents of the Conference. For President of the Conference the Nominations Com- mittee submits to you the name of the Chairman of the delegation of Australia. For Vice-Presidents, the Nominations Committee presents to you the Chairman of the following delegations : Czechoslovakia, Ecua- dor, Egypt, France, India, Italy and United Kingdom. In presenting this report to the plenary session I will also add that the president of the delegation of France was placed in nomination for the presidency of this Conference, but he graciously withdrew in favour of the president of the delegation of Australia. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia) — Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very proud and important occasion for the Australian delegation and for myself as Chairman of that delegation. We in Australia have taken a very great interest in the work and the development of Unesco and I am sure my government will be deeply sensible of the honour done to my country in inviting Australia to provide the presidency of the Fourth Session of the General Conference. I would like to say furthermore that I am sure my government will doubly appreciate the very graceful way in which the president of the French delegation,   M. Bidault, declined the offer of the presidency of this Conference, on the grounds that as the Or- ganization has decided to return to headquarters every second year, the presidency might on this occasion, and possibly on other occasions, be offered to some country to whichit is less likely that the Organization will be going in the immediate future to hold its annual Conference. I might say that I very much hope that that will not be interpreted as a suggestion that Australia will not at some not too distant date enjoy the very great privilege of a visit from Unesco. Nevertheless, the Australian delegation appreciates very much the gesture, so gracefully expressed at the Nominations Committee, by which the French delegation stood aside and nominated us for this position. I can only say personally, that, as one who has been associated with this Organization from almost the very beginning—I was not one of those who worked under the bombs in London in the days during the war when the first plans were drawn up, but I was fortunate enough to attend the First Constitutive Conference in London— I am very proud to be asked to preside over the work of this Conference. To that I would add that, as an Australian diplomat stationed in Paris, it is a very great pleasure indeed to be proposed for this important office by the distinguished Presi- dent of the French delegation. This is intended to be a working conference and the President will therefore set a good example by avoiding anything in the nature of a lengthy speech. I would only like to say that our Consti- tution provided that our annual General Confer- ence should move from country to country, the idea being that we delegates should have more than a theoretical knowledge of conditions and needs in the various parts of the world in which Unesco works. We have already made a pil- grimage to Mexico, and last year we had the very interesting experience of meeting in the Middle East, in the Lebanon. This year we have returned to our headquarters in France. There is of course no place in the world where one can so readily absorb a universal and world-wide point of view as in this place, and it gives me a very great pleasure to assume the presidency of the Fourth Session of the Conference held here at head- quarters in Paris. The Conference, having adopted the report of the Nominations Committee, the next step in our procedure is to invite the Chairman of the del- egations which have been elected to the Vice- Presidencies of the Conference, to be so good as to indicate the names of the members of the del- egations who will serve as Vice-Presidents. I propose to read the names of the countries which have been elected to the positions of Vice- Presidents, and would be glad if the Chairman of
41 the delegation in each case would indicate the name of the member who will serve as Vice- President from his country : Czechoslovakia: Dr. HERrèIK Egypt: H.E. Shafik GrorsaL Bey Ecuador: H.E. M. GonzaLo ZALDUMBIDE France: M. GEorGES BIDAULT India: Dr. TARA CHAND Italy: H.E. Count STEFANO JACINI The United Kingdom: Mr. Davip HARDMAN. I declare that the gentlemen whose names have been called are appointed as Vice-Presidents of the Conference. The General Committee of the Conference has now been partially set up, consisting of the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Confer- ence. It will be completed, at a later stage, by the election of the Chairmen of the Commissions and Committees of the Conference. However, I would like to invite the members of the General Committee who have already been appointed, that is to say the Vice-Presidents, together with the Chairman of the Executive Board who sits ez officio with the General Committee, to meet this afternoon at 6.15 p.m. in Room 9, for a pre- liminary meeting of the General Committee. I now call on M. Moderow, Director of the European office of the United Nations, who is attending the Conference as representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Mr. MODERON, Director of the European Office of the United Nations — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, It is not only a great honour, that I fully appre- ciate, but also a great pleasure, that I shall not attempt to hide, to offer on behalf of Mr. Trygve Lie, Secretary-General of the United Nations, my sincerest good wishes to the Fourth Session of the General Conference of Unesco. More brilliant speakers than myself have already stated with authority, and will, no doubt, expound further the reasons which make this session one of the most important—perhaps the most im- portant of all—that Unesco has held up to now. Looking back on the remarkable, though unfortunately limited, work of the International Institute for Intellectual Co-operation, and the appreciable, though necessarily modest, results achieved by thy Conference of Allied Ministers of Education during the war, we can surely contemplate with legitimate pride the distance we have come. And we can surely give ourselves the pleasure of . thanking and congratulating those who, under the high authority and untiring leadership of your Director-General are working for the success of an undertaking that has received and deserves the considered and   enthusiastic support of all right thinking, and kind-hearted men. But, my present purpose is not to recall the various stages of that splendid work of which you are both the authors and the legitimate historians. I want merely to outline briefly certain aspects of the confident and fruitful co-operation that has existed between our two organizations since Unesco’s earliest days. Time is too short for me to describe all the results that we have achieved since the conclusion of our agreement, more than three years ago. I shall therefore confine myself to mentioning the most important and the most recent. Firstly, we should note Unesco’s ready collab- oration in the planning of the vast projects of technical assistance that the whole world proposes to put into operation, under the auspices of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies, for the improvement of unfortunate or under-developed areas. The Economic and Social Council, which initiated this important international project, recognized the importance of the social factor, and thus of the part that Unesco might play. I am sure that your contribution will be apprecia- ated at its true worth and that the efficacy of your co-operation will be as outstanding in this field as in so many others. On the subject of assistance, I would recall that Unesco’s active interest has not been confined to programmes of technical assistance; the United Nations appeal to you on behalf of the refugee children, now in such a tragic plight in Greece and the Near East, was not in vain. It is my very pleasant duty to thank Unesco for the assistance it has so promptly given us in these difficult circumstances. In other fields coming more directly within your scope, Unesco has undertaken a number of projects, some of which are closely related to our own activities. For instance, Unesco’s survey on the technical needs of the press, the radio and the cinema has proyided us with a wealth of accurate and important information. Again, a far-reaching study on the cultural situation in the world was recently discussed by the Economic and Social Council. Your Organization had in fact taken the lead in this direction, for its project for a history of civilization, designed to explain the progress and problems of humanity, is about to take con- crete form. During its last session, quite recently, the Eco- nomic and Social Council considered in detail what is called “the problem of co-ordination”. In other words, it made a careful study of the work of all the Specialized Agencies, with a view to avoiding overlapping and to increasing the efficacy of the Agencies by means of definite plans. The
42 few instances of our co-operation that I have men- tioned show how completely and loyally Unesco has carried out the terms of our agreements, and with what zealous care it has followed the recom- mendations of the competent organs of the United Nations in the fulfilment of its task. We have reason to be pleased with this general policy, so productive of useful results, in which the Defence of Human Rights is an essential factor. Nearly a year ago, in this city of Paris —one of the strongholds of liberty—those rights were proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in a Universal Declaration. Unesco has fully realized the significance of this event; it has used every available means to publicize the Declaration and explain its import. Peace is inconceivable without respect for human dignity and individual rights, and I am glad to be able to assure Unesco of our gratitude for the fine work it is doing in the service of our common ideal. Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia), President. — I am sure the Conference has heard with very great interest and appreciation the statement just made and is thankful for the interest of the United Nations in our work. I would also take this opportunity to say how much we welcome the association with us of the other Specialized Agencies in relation with the United Nations and the other international organizations who are present at this Conference. I would like to add to my reference to the meeting of the General Committee this evening, that, whereas the Chairmen of the Credentials Committee and the Nominations Committee have already been elected, those gentlemen are requested also to begin their functions as members of the General Committee and to attend this afternoon’s meeting at 6.15 p.m., along with the Vice-Presi- dents of the Conference. At 4 o'clock this afternoon we shall take up the discussion of the Report of the Director-General on the activities of the Organization for the past year. This Report will be presented by the Chairman of the Executive Board and introduced by the Director-General himself, and after that will be open for discussion by the delegations present. In that connexion I would invite delegations desiring to take part in the discussion on the Director- General’s Report to send their names to the Secre- tary of the Conference, M. Montagnier. So far we have only three delegations that have asked to speak this afternoon, and we would like any others who wish to speak this afternoon to send in their names without delay. Others, who wish to speak a little later, should also submit their names as soon as possible to the Secretary of the Conference. The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.