As his delegation had raised the original ques- tion, Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) announced that it was prepared to accept the information furnished by the Secretariat. The United States delegation still felt, however, that Unesco was involved in a dangerous field, and hoped that Member States would be kept advised of the progress made in the housing problem: it was desirable that Unesco’s banking activities should decrease as soon as possible. The paper presented by the Secretariat on Staff Housing was approved. Item 5 (b) of the Agenda: Annual report by the Director-General on measures taken to implement the Staff Regulations (con- tinuation) (document 4C/ADM/8). The CHAIRMAN recalled that, when the report had previously been discussed, additional information had been considered necessary. He asked the Head of the Bureau of Personnel to give the Commission the further details required. Mr. SELSKY (Head, Bureau of Personnel) said that the United States delegation proposed the following amendment to Regulation 30 of the Unesco Staff Regulation: The Director-General may terminate the employment of staff members holding confirmed indeterminate appointments if the necessities of the service require the abolition of the post or a reduction of the staff. In addition, the employmentof staff members holding temporary contracts may be terminated in accordance with the terms of their appointments. Staff mem- bers may be terminated, regardless of the nature of their contracts, if they prove unable to carry out their duties and responsibilities satisfactorily. Staff Regulation 30, as amended, was adopted. ' The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 11 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Lío MunoeLeer (Belgium) The SECRETARYpointed out that there were two main documents before the Commission for con- sideration, namely: document 4C/ADM/19 (Re- port of the Sub-Committee) and document 4C/ ADM/3 - Addendum (Scale of contributions of Member States for 1950. In addition, document
4C/ADM/18 (rev.) had just been circulated: this was merely a working paper which had been pre- pared in order to give the Commission an idea of the scale of contributions; it did not purport to give the final scale, as the final membership of Unesco was not yet known. Report of the Sub-Committee of the Ad- ministrative Commission (document 4C/ADM/
19% The CHAIRMAN announced that the Sub-Com- mittee appointed by the Administrative Commis- sion to consider questions relating to the contri- butions of Member States had reached complete agreement on every one of the points at issue. Its conclusions were enbodied in the report before the Commission. Mr. SMITH (Australia), Chairman of the Sub-
440 Committee, commenting on document 4C/ADM
19, said that the Sub-Committee was fully aware of the seriousness of Unesco’s position with respect to unpaid contributions and, after debating the matter at length, had formulated certain recom- mendations which they now placed before the Ad- ministrative Commission for approval. These recommendations had been grouped under two heads: (A) The steps which the Director-General was being asked to take immediately; (B) The items which he was requested to sub- mit to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Turning then to the question of the contribution of Sweden, Mr. Smith said that, while the Sub- Committee had great sympathy for the position taken by the representative of Sweden, it had founditself unable to recommend that the Swedish contribution should be reduced. The reasons for this conclusion were set forth in detail in the doc- ument under discussion. With regard to the proposal made by the del- egate of the United States that the benefit accruing Resolution 26.1. In final form:        from the entry of new Member States into Unesco should be shared between Member States contri- buting in 1949 on a pro-rata basis and that the United States should thus receive a reduction in its contribution, the Sub-Committee, bearing in mind the difficult position of countries in which devaluation of currency had occured, automatically increasing those countries’ contributions some- times by as much as 30 per cent, had finally de- cided that no satisfactory proposal could be made as an alternative to the proposal of the United States delegation. On the point raised by the delegate of Australia as to whether the present minimum contribution for Member States was adequate to meet the cost of minimum services rendered to Member States by the Organization, the Sub-Committee had seen no reason for departing from the accepted practice of basing contributions on the United Nations scale and, therefore, had not made any recommen- dation on this point. Document 4C/ADM/19 then covered the ques- tion of currency of contributions and, in parti- cular, the request by the Brazilian delegate that the contribution of Brazil for 1950 should be paid the Sub-Committee, while it had great sympathy in French francs. After considerable discussion, the Sub-Committee, while it had great sympathy for the Brazilian position, found itself unable to recommend that the Brazilian request be accepted. The reasons for this decision were set forth on page 4 of the document. The last subject dealt with was the question of allowances. The Sub-Committee had considered certain proposals concerning dislocation and in- stallation allowances put forward by the Director- General. These proposals were:
1. That henceforth the installation allowance should be paid for 45 days instead of 90 as hitherto;
2. That the rental factor in the dislocation allowance be reduced by 15 per cent. The Sub-Committee had felt that these would be emergency measures taken in view of the pre- sent world monetary position and, as the whole salary and allowance system would be discussed at the Fifth Session of the General Conference, recommended that these proposals be approved as interim measures. The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commission should discuss the report, section by section. I. Arrears of Contributions. Adopted without discussion. *
1. In final form: Resolutions 20.2 to 20.2552.
441 II. Scale of Contributions. A. Contribution of Sweden. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed the following resolution: In assessing Sweden for the year 1950, it is the understanding of the Commission that Sweden’s con- tribution shall be further adjusted if its scale of con- tribution to the United Nations is reduced. This resolution was seconded by Mr. KJEMS (Den- mark), Dr. BENDER (Netherlands), Mr. ROSE- MAN (United States of America), Dr. de los SAN- TOS (Philippines) and Mr. JAY (Canada). Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) could not see the need for a resolution such as that just pro- posed by the delegate of Norway. Any reduction in the scale of the United Nations would automa- tically affect Unesco, and a corresponding reduc- tion would obviously be made for Sweden. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that he had introduced the resolution only in order to make Sweden’s wish quite clear. At the CHATRMAN's suggestion, it was decided that the text proposed by the Norwegian delegate should be inserted in the Sub-Committee's report at the end of Section II A. ? Section II A was adopted. B. Contribution of the United States of America. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) said that many tributes had been paid to the United States for the in- valuable contribution it had made, and was still making, to Unesco and he need hardly emphasize that Canada shared whole-heartedly in these ex- pressions of appreciation. The Canadian delega- tion had given the most careful consideration to all that could be said for and against reducing the United States contribution this year, and had come to the conclusion that they were able to accede to their request. In doing so, however, he wished to draw the attention of the Commission to a few points. The Canadian delegation was pleased to support the United States request this year, because they felt that it was important to observe the principle that the contributions of new Member States should be utilized to reduce proportionately the contributions of all Member States. The Canadian delegation was not either opposed in principle to the eventual establishment of a
33 1/3 per cent ceiling provided, that a com- parable per capita ceiling was also maintained.
2. In final form: Resolution 21.5.   Mr. Sylvestre wished to recall, at this stage, that at the last General Assembly of the United Nations the Canadian delegation had given general support to the ceiling proposals put forward by the United States, but had done so only after a clear under- standing had been reached that the actual ceiling would become effective only in normal times and that it should be reached in gradual stages, as world economic conditions improved. It had also been agreed at that General Assembly that a com- parable per capita ceiling should be placed on the contributions of other Member States. While the Canadian delegation would continue to support this principle of the proportionate allocation to all Member States of contributions from new Member States, it would not be prepared to support further reductions in the United States contribution which would increase the burden on other Member States, that is, until world condi- tions became normal. Both these conditions had been accepted by the United States delegation and had later been incorporated into a resolution adopted by the General Assembly. As the Commission was aware, a similar propos- al to reduce to a 33 1/3 per cent ceiling the United States contribution to Unesco had been raised at the last General Conference and it had then been decided that the United States contribution would be reduced immediately, that is for 1949, from
42 per cent to 38.4 per cent, while the United States continued to pay 39.89 per cent to the United Nations budget for 1949. Mr. Sylvestre wished to submit to the Commis- sion that last year's reduction in the United States contribution to Unesco had been much greater than might have been expected if the United Na- tions formula had prevailed. He agreed with the United States delegate that a 33 1/3 per cent ceiling should becomeeffective in normal times, but the present time could certainly not be termed normal; many countries were still devoting a large share of their resources to re- pairing war damage and many others were having even greater difficulty than last year in securing foreign exchange, particularly United States dol- lars. Further, the recent devaluation of some twenty currencies did not improve the situation. In answer to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) explained that he had intended to make not a specific proposal but sim- ply a recommendation for the future. Section II B was then adopted. * C. Minimum contribution. Mr. FARRA (Syria) was very pleased with the con- clusions contained in the Sub-Committee's report
1. In final form: Resolution 21.12.
442 on this point, for he felt that paying contributions meant great sacrifices for the smaller States. Moreover, he thought it was impossible to assess exactly whether the services rendered to a Member State by the Organization exceeded the value of the contribution paid by that State. Section II C was adopted. III. Currency Contributions. Adopted without discussion. * IV. Allowances. Adopted without discussion. 2 The whole of the Sub-Committee’s réport (doc- ument 4C/ADM/19) was adopted. Recommendations regarding the scale of con- tributions of Member States for 1950 (doc- ument 4C/ADM/3 - Add.). In view of the importance of the question, the CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to examine the resolution to be submitted to the General Confer- ence. In reply to Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt), who had asked whether the term “theoretical” should be retained in paragraphs 2, 4 and 6, Mr. HARPER- SMITH (Comptroller) explained that the wording was based on that used by the United Nations Committee on Contributions. It was decided that the resolution contained in document 4C/ADM/3 - Add. * should be sub- mitted, without amendment, to the General Con- ference. Item 5 (a) of the Agenda: Report on the organization of the Secretariat (continuation) (document 4C/ADM/7). Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) asked whether the Administrative Commission was the proper authority to discuss budgetary implications. Should not questions of that kind be referred to the Programme and Budget Commission? Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) expressed the opinion that the proper authority in such a case would be the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee of the Programme and Budget Com- mission. It was decided that, if that were not the case, Resolution 22.1. In final form:
2. In final form: Resolutions 27.3 and 27.4.
3. In final form: Resolutions 21.2 to 21.4.       the question should be discussed at the next meeting. Establishment of a Headquarters Commis- sion. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) ex- pressed his deep appreciation of Canada’s remarks in praise of his Government’s co-operative attitude; he added that the United States understood per- fectly the enormous financial difficulties facing the majority of Member States. He then proposed the following resolution: That the Conference establish a Headquarters Com- mission for the purpose of reviewing, with the assistance of the Director-General, the problems in- volved in the development and maintenance of Head- quarters accomodations for the current and pro- spective needs of the Organization; That this Commission report to the Fifth Session of the General Conference the results of its enquiry and its recommendations on this subject; That the Commission consist of seven Member States designated by the President of the Fourth Ses- sion of the General Conference. The reasons which had prompted this resolution were firstly the problems which might conceivably arise at the Sixth Session of the General Confer- ence; secondly, headquarters accomodation for Unesco; and thirdly, the fact that, unless a deci- sion was taken at the Florence Conference re- garding the future Headquarters of Unesco, the Organization was likely to remain in Paris for another six years. The Commission should there- fore examine this possibility and draw up a report on the question which could then be discussed at Florence. Mr. SMITH (Australia) warmly supported the resolution proposed by the delegate of the United States; he had nothing to add to it, but wished to stress the fact that, in his opinion, the question should be examined at a very highlevel. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) supported the resolution proposed by the delegate of the United States. Referring to the last sentence, he took the word “designated” to mean that the seven Mem- ber States would be elected by the President. While he agreed with this, he was nevertheless very anxious that the seven Members should have as much authority as possible and he wondered whether they should not be chosen by the General Conference. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) ac- cepted the suggestion with great pleasure. He felt that what Mr. Thomas had in mind was seven Governments, and agreed with this point entirely. The last sentence of the resolution would then read: seven Member States appointed by the Fourth Session of the General Conference. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) did not think that the United States delegate's proposal would encounter any substantial objection from the French delegation. Nevertheless, before giving a definite opinion on the question, which might have a number of financial repercussions, he would like an opportunity of consulting the head of his delegation. He therefore asked that the proposal should be reconsidered at a subsequent meeting. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN congratulated the members of the Sub-Committee, and especially their Chair- man, Mr. Smith, for the speed with which they had reached suchsatisfactory solutions of the dif- ficulties inseparable from the question of contri- butions. Mr. SMITH (Australia) pointed out that his task had been made immeasurably lighter by the under- standing and co-operation of the Sub-Committee members. The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.