gave the figure of $46,607, whereas the document submitted to the Commission mentioned a sum of $58,572. As that question was to be considered by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission, it would not be appropriate for the Joint Commis- sion to approve an exact sum. Dr. BRULL (Cuba) said that all they had at the moment was a skeleton centre. It was the Organization's first step towards the establishment of a working instrument in the Western Hemi- sphere. He drew the attention of delegates, in particular the American delegates, to the fact that they were considering minimumconditions. The Cuban Government had offered to make certain premises and funds available for the Regional Office. It might be stated that the funds re- quested were the absolute minimumfor beginning the work. At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was decided to refer the matter to the Drafting and Co-ordina- tion Sub-Committee of the Programme and Budget Commission. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if, in that case, there was to be no general discussion on the subject of this very important new develop- ment until the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee had reviewed it. He thought it worth while, however, to consider in somewhat more detail exactly what Unesco was doing and what benefits might be expected. Unesco would wish to know what benefit it was receiving from the Regional Office and that, of course, was a matter which would have to wait until the Regional Office had had time to get to work. Secondly, Mr. Cowell hoped that the indepen- dent territories for which the United Kingdom was responsible in that area would be able to parti- cipate in the work of the Regional Office if, in fact, the governmentsofthoseterritories expressed such a wish. Evidence of worth-while results from the Regional Office would be the willing- ness of various countries in the area to see that it was as far as possible self-supporting. He thought that would be a fair test of the intensity of the desire to co-operate with Unesco, of which the new Office was supposed to be a manifestation. At the present juncture of the economic affairs of the world, the question of local help was par- ticularly important for Unesco, in no small measure because those western regions of the world were the ones where hard currencies came from. The CHAIRMAN observed that, as there were no further speakers on the subject, the discussion was closed. The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m. THIRD MEETING Monday, 3 October 1949, at 5 p.m. Chairman: Draft Report of the Official and External Relations Commission and of the Joint Com- mission—Programme and Budget and Official and External Relations (document 4C/OXR/
23). Mr. CHARPENTIER (Canada), Rapporteur of the Joint Commission, indicated that the points which remained to be discussed in document 4C/OXR/23 were item 4.A (Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere) and item 8 (Activities of Unesco in Germany and Japan).
4 A. Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere (Page 2). Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) reminded the Commission
429X Mr. PAuLO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) that his Government was providing premises for the Office and a sum of $10,000 for the initial expenses. He moved that the words “in Havana” be inserted in the first paragraph ofthe resolution. In reply to a question raised by Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the Havana Office had not yet been officially estab- lished, but that all necessary steps for that purpose had been taken by the Secretariat. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) proposed the follow- ing amendmentto the draft resolution: The General Conference instructs the Director-General to continue in 1950 with activities for the establish- ment of this Office.          The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the Office was to be set up before the end of 1949, and Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) accordingly withdrew his proposal. The resolution (document 4C/OXR/23, page 2) was adopted with the amendment proposed by the Cuban delegate. *
8 A. Unesco's activities in Germany (pages 15-20). The CHAIRMAN asked members to limit their remarks to questions of form and drafting, as the report of the Official and External Relations Com- mission was to be submitted to the plenary meeting the following day for the discussion of the two proposed amendments to the draft resolution given under item 8 A. One of the matters for discussion would be the discrepancy between the French and English versions of the resolution; as the French text seemed to be more in keeping with the Com- mission's decisions, the Chairman asked the English-speaking delegations to accept the term “appropriate allied authorities” in place of “ap- propriate authorities”. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) stressed a point on which he said it was important to have perfectly clear understanding. The United King- dom delegation, working from texts circulated before the Conference, had been under the im- pression that “appropriate authorities”—and not “appropriateallied authorities”—were being spoken of. The delegation had however voted for a resolution, presented by the French delegation, in which the words “appropriate allied authorities” were used; his delegation was ready to yield with gratitude to their French colleagues because it agreed that the word “allied” should comein, at least at the present stage. It was the considered view of the United Kingdom delegation that the insertion of “allied” would not in any way limit Unesco's work in Germany during the coming year, or prevent it from continuing. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) was anxious for the French text of point 1 of the resolution (document
4C/OXR/23, top of page 16) to mention “youth group leaders” as the corresponding English text did. After an exchange of views, it was decided that the Secretariat should revise both texts for sub- mission to the plenary meeting the following day, together with the relevant corrigenda, and that the term “appropriate allied authorities” should be used in the English text.
8 B. Unesco's activities in Japan (pages 20-24). The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the omission,
1. In final form: Resolution 30.1. at the end of the first paragraph of the French text of point (1), on page 21 of the document, of two sentences given in the English text (page 20).
6 B 1. Consideration of the list of international non- governmental organizations approved for consultative status (pages 5-7). The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he feared it might be impossible before the Florence Conference to carry through the activities specified by the Com- mission under resolution 33.1 (page 7). He himself hoped for the establishment of better contacts between Unesco and the non-gov- ernmental organizations; but, as soon as the Con- ference was over, the Secretariat would be very busy with the consideration of items for submission to the Executive Board during its ten-day session in November, for the purpose of revision and com- pression of Unesco’s programme. He thought that, in such a short time, it would hardly be possible for the Executive Board to work out practical proposals. However, the consideration of the question of non-governmental organizations should not be postponed any longer, as there would be no other full-lengh session of the Board before it met in February to consider in detail items agreed to in November (in particular, the new budget to cover Unesco’s new programme). The Director-General doubted whether the Ex- ecutive Board and the Secretariat would have time to review satisfactorily the policy regarding non- governmental organizations and to prepare the report, for despatch to Member States, on the structure of those organizations, at the same time as it was carrying out its primary task of revising and compressing the programme. Indeed, the Secretariat would be unable to provide the neces- sary staff and to arrange the consultations required for drafting a well-considered report on the subject for submission to the Florence Conference. The Bureau of External Relations would also need to employ consultants who would have to familiarize themselves with the question. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) endorsed the Direc- tor-General’s remarks. He pointed out that the present wording of resolution 33.1 was already a compromise (it was at the pressing instance of the United States delegation that the decision to review the work of the organizations in question had been taken) and he asked that delegation to postpone its proposal until the General Conference in Paris in 1951. There would be no change in the text except for the substitution of ‘Sixth Session” for “Fifth Session”. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) stated that his delegation had listened with great interest to the Director-General’s and to     —     Professor Verniers’ remarks. It regretted, however, that is was unable to accept the latter's proposal. The United States delegation attached a great deal of importance to the question for reasons which it had given to the Official and External Relations Commission. The resolution in its present form was already a compromise between the United States delegation's views and others”. The matter was vital for Unesco's Programme and organiza- tion; it should be re-examined and established on a firm and continuing basis. The speaker sug- gested that the work load entailed by the resolution was not as great as it might appearat first. The first two paragraphs (page 6) were similar to the request of the Conference at its Third Session: the Director-General was being asked to give the Fifth Session his views on the relations which should exist between Unesco and non-governmental organ- izations. The fourth paragraph (page 7) was drafted after consultation with the representatives of the Director-General. The speaker felt sure that his Government, or any other, would not call on the Director-General to give information he did not already possess and, in view of that fact, he suggested that the resolution—already adopted as part of the Official and External Relations Commission's report—should be maintained as it stood. In sponsoring the resolution, the United States delegation had no desire to encumber the Director-General andthe Secretariat with too much supplementary work. The CHAIRMAN emphasized that the Director- General's comments were merely a forewarning for the information of delegates and that the amend- ments would not be put to the vote until the plenary meeting the following day. The meeting rose at 6 p.m.