attention to Unesco and the important questions that are to be discussed. So I would remind you that, if your delegation desires to submit the name of a speaker for that debate it must be sent in by tomorrow at 12 noon, and that the speakers are invited to a meeting tomorrow at 4 o'clock, with a view to discussing among themselves the best way of organizing the debate. The Meeting rose at 10.55 a.m. SEVENTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 27 September at 9.25 p.m. CONTENTS Discussion of the general subject : “What are the duties of the State in regard to education, science and culture for the purpose of ensuring a better understanding between peoples, and what practical steps should it take in order to discharge these duties?” Speakers: Mr. Bidault, Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr, Prof. E. Zérega Fombona, Prof. Ozorio de Almeida, Prof. Giuseppe Vedovato, Dr. J. C. Beaglehole, Mr. Jamal Farra and Dr. Mariano de Los Santos President:
14. Discussion of the general subject. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Your Excellencies, ladies and gentle- men, we are continuing, in public meeting, our discussions in the General Conference of Unesco. As you know, we have spent several days debating financial matters and questions concerning Unesco’s Programme. This evening, we are embarking on a most important subject and we are anxious to bring our discussions to the notice of the general public; I extend a welcome to all of you who have done us the honour of coming to attend our debate tonight. We are going to discuss together the following subject: “What are the duties of the State in regard to education, science and culture for the purpose of ensuring a better understanding between peoples, and what practical steps should it take in order to discharge these duties?” We shall continue this discussion tomorrow evening and the following evening in this hall. The Director-General of Unesco invited each of the Member States of the Organization to choose a speaker from their delegation to take part in this debate. This evening, I have beside me several speakers nominated by delegations and I have to inform you that we shall follow practically the Dr. E. RonaLp WALKER (Australia). same procedure every night. First of all, I shall call on three speakers to open the discussion, talking for approximately twenty minutes each. The discussion will then be carried on by other speakers, whose remarks will be shorter, lasting only ten or fifteen minutes. The speakers this evening are: M. Georges Bidault (France), Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr (United States of America) and Professor Zérega Fombona (Venezuela). The following will take part in the discussion: Professor Ozorio de Almeida (Brazil), Professor Giuseppe Vedovato (Italy), Dr. Beaglehole (New Zealand), M. Jamal Farra (Syria) and Dr. Los Santos (Philippines). The duties of the President, ladies and gentle- men, include introducing the speakers to the audience. For our first speaker this evening, M. Georges Bidault, any introduction from me to a French and internalional audience is entirely unnecessary. I shall mention only that one of M. Bidault’s titles which is relevant on the pre- sent occasion—that of Head of the French dele- gation to the General Conference of Unesco. Mr. BIDAULT (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, any good examination candidate should, 1 believe, begin by reading the terms of the prob- lem set. Unfortunately, Mr. President, you have    anticipated me, and everybody knows how the problem is worded. 1 shall therefore try, not to solve the problem, but to give an answer to it, without first reading it out. We here are an assembly of States and not an assembly of peoples, which is undoubtedly a dis- advantage. The terms are not quite contradictory, but they are not identical. That will not always be so. The French delegation, at least, believes that international organizations will one day become organizations representing the peoples without the intervention of States. But this will not quickly come about, and we have to begin by noting the state of affairs in which we are placed. In the custom of modern times, ever since the idea of the State grew up, the State is exclu- sively responsible to its own nationals; it is con- cerned exclusively with the advancement of its own nationals; it is, in practical matters and day- to-day business, the only rule, the only end of striving, the only justification for all action; the State is the only practical judge of good and evil, the only source of authority in the territories over whichit exercises its way. In this way, the State is, as it were, an absolute, an imperfect god but still a god on earth. Its decisions are good or must be considered good. What it condemns is evil, the only source of authority in the territories in every country, what we call a right of the State. This is what the State thinks right and finally becomes, perforce, right itself. After these bitter observations, I must however pay tribute to the progress which this state of affairs represents, the progress which this philo- sophy of the State, baleful thoughit be, represents over the ideas of clan, tribe or party. We must realize that, however imperfect the system may be in the world in which we live, the State has been and is still, a very great advance on the practices of earlier times. But the development is not yet at an end. Today, we believe we have discovered two things: in thefirst place, the State is not all or, if it tries to pose as the sole authority, we are on the road to ruin, and, above all, the State is not alone; there are other States in the world, and no single State can live alone. The natural tendency of any organization which is not only political but also economic and social is to regard itself as an end in itself; the means becomes confused with the end. I do not think I shall shock my hearers when I say that, in the mind of the average railway engineer, railways are the most important thing in life, and that, in the mind of the average teacher—which I recall 1 once was—the purpose of the university and of teaching is teaching, so that it comes about that the purpose of the educational system is to train teachers and, on the other hand, the purpose of
115 various industries is to train engineers for those same industries. Let us, then, give thought to this great danger besetting the State itself, which has to master its own infirmities, just as teachers and engineers must do. The State is not an end in itself, the State is only a means to serve men, for men are not there to serve the State. We have to remem- ber that it is the duty of the State, the present national State—which is a substantial advance on the recent past—to defend its men, the members of its populace, of the nation. But we must also not forget that there are other men, the citizens of other States, protected by other States, and that no State can forget that there are other States and that, in those other States, there are other men with rights equal to those of its own people. Nor must any State forget that those men must live together in understanding, and thatit is the State’s duty and mission to ensure that they are at least not prevented from reaching understanding. The State can help in this. In some cases, it decides to do so and determines to overcome its own difficulties, so that it fosters contacts, under- standing, friendship and co-operation between peoples. But it may happen that the State tries to prevent these things, because it is the line of least resistance and it is much more convenient, in each individual case, to pander to what used to be called nationalism and may in any case be called national vanity, to the detriment of understanding between one people and another, and between one people and all the rest of the world. The State is continually tempted to stand its ground, as some statesmen would like, and to decline to admit that other States and other peoples are working in the same way and that, unless we can break this vicious circle, the world may come to grief. We have now reached the point in time, this very day—may I remind you that today is a certain date in the month of September 1949—at which the State must transcend itself, not only for the safety of those in its charge and for that of others for whom it is not individually responsible, but also for its own salvation. It is essential for us to realize that the time is ripe, the seasons are accomplished. The world moves very fast and ever faster; the difficulty which confronts an air pilot is not speed but acceleration; acceleration is continually increasing; in the present period, the world’s acceleration means that ideas cannot keep up with developments. In every country, ours and others, administrative machinery is still designed for the speed of the stage-coach. I ask you to consider the dividing lines between departments, provinces and districts in any one of the countries represented here; it is possible that they mean something more than lines in geography atlases:   e o ._ "” ’”     that these are also some dividing lines between the thoughts of men. Now, however, the idea of the world’s unity is being borne in even upon the mentally lazy, because of the existence of speed—we can go around the world in four days—and of a common danger, not only a common physical danger but a common intellectual and moral danger. It is of course a difficult problem. For each one of us, it entails fundamental decisions, and yet our reflexes are still those of our ancestors in the glimmering dawn of the first days of mankind. We were made to live in small communities, as Bergson said in writing: les Deux Sources de la morale et de la religion—pages which I ask you to allow me to read to you for the encouragement of statesmen and the consideration of others who are not yet statesmen: The closed society is the society whose members stand together, careless of the rest of mankind, ever ready for attack or defence and ultimately forced into a combative attitude. First of all, we must note that man was made to live in very small societies. It is generally admitted that primitive societies were of this sort, but it must be added that now, too, a similar state of mind lurks hidden beneath habits without which no civilization could exist; though repressed and impotent, it yet survives in the depths of consciousness. Although it may not produce action, it is expressed in words. In a large nation, districts may be administered to the general satisfaction, but what sort of govern- ment will the governed describe as good? They will think they are giving it adequate praise when they say that it is the least bad and, in that sense, the best of all. In this instance, discontent is congenital. Incidentally, the art of governing a great people is the only art for which there is no technical prepar- ation, no efficient training, particularly for the highest posts. The dearth of politicians of any stature is due to the fact that they have constantly to solve details of a problem which has perhaps been rendered insoluble by the expansion of societies. If you study the history of the great nations of modern times, you will come across numbers of great scientists, great artists, great soldiers, and great specialists in every subject, but how many great statesmen will you find ? If full knowledge of one another does not necessarily lead to sympathy, it does at least exclude hatred. For instance, take a teacher of German who was as patriotic as any other Frenchman, as ready to sacrifice his life, and even as bitter against Germany; but it was not quite the same thing; there was a corner apart. Anyone who has a thorough knowledge of the language and literature of a people cannot be their absolute enemy. We should keep this in mind when we require education to lay the foundations of understanding between nations—mastery of a foreign language, by opening the mind to the literature and civilization it represents, may break down at one blow the natural prejudice against things foreign in general.
3 “We do not believe”, Bergson added ”in inevi- tability in history.” ( This is an important obser- vation and needed to be made.) There is no obstacle which sufficiently firm determination cannot overcome if it is applied in time. But now the unity of the world has become a necessity and the small communities must make the effort to merge into the single community, for henceforth everything is on a large scale and universal. This means that a new duty for the State has come into being. It has not only to consider its own people; it must consider all, if only for the safety of its own people. What can it do? First of all, it can understand others. Our old friend Montaigne put it thus: Human intercourse means familiarity with foreign countries, not only to bring back reports, as our French nobles do, of the number of steps to Santa Rotonda, or the Signora Livia’s rich sweetmeats, or, as others do, of how much longer or broader Nero’s face on some old ruin of that country is than that on some other medallion, but above all, to bring report of the humour of those nations and their customs, and to polish and sharpen our wits on those of others. I would like well that children should be taken on travel from their earliest years and, first of all, to kill two birds at one cast, through the nations near at hand, whose language is most different from our own and to which, unless the child is trained in it early, the tongue cannot be turned. That is probably not so easy as Montaigne believed. It is not so easy, and it is not self-evident in advance that a person who knows a foreign country will be friendly-disposed towards it. In some cases, this is so. In others, the reverse is true. Knowledge may be converted into love, but equally, ignorance may be nearer to love than knowledge. Nevertheless, ignorance becomes love only through ignorance, and love based on knowledge is always preferable to the other. Thus, when all is said and done, Montaigne was right: it is necessary for us all, assembled here from so many different countries, to try to know one another; it is perhaps more difficult to love each other when we knoweach other, but love without knowledge is a less hardy growth. It is, in any case, essential to understand and, if need be, to show tolerance. Not all differences between countries deserve to be calmly accepted, but nei- ther do they deserve to be rejected. We have to try to bring out the likenesses between our peoples. When Giraudoux sent his Suzanne across the Pacific, he made her a little poem, which I venture to read to you only because he is the author of it: “What have you seen on your travels in Rome, Vienna, Bergamo and Calcutta?” asked Spencer's wife. “Nothing”, he said. “If you wish to discover the world, Rosamond, close your eyes.” That is Giraudoux. But the gentle Joubert put the    idea in almost the same words, in a maxim which, like all good maxims, has been entirely forgotten, when he said: “Close your eyes and you will see.” Man exists in all men; and that is one thing which I think Unesco might proclaim: that dif- ferences are not fundamental and that all men can be found in the mind and heart of every man. There is now the question of the means to be used to achieve our purpose; this is obviously the most difficult problem. It is always most difficult to find the means and easiest to fix our ends. The readiest means is surely this instrument of ours, this Unesco in whose name and presence we are speaking here, this instrument to be preserved and kept, whose work is beginning and beginning well. We must not destroy it. And beside it, parallel to it, there are the modern media which men who strive for peace and freedom should be able to use as they were used before by others; 1 mean the press, the cinema and the wireless. They are not always rightly employed, and no frequenter of the cinema, however occasional, no wireless listener, however sceptical, no reader of the newspapers and the press, however bored, can cherish the slightest illusion on this point; we must defend, through a competent agent, the worthy cause of peace, jus- tice and freedom; we, too, must be able to use these media, since others use them. We have to organize a colloquy between those who are called, wrongly as I believe—and I venture to repeat what I have already said in another assembly—those who are wrongly called the masses, because the masses are men. No mass, as a mass, is worth attention, but there are masses composed of indi- vidual men, and each individual man is worth all the gold of a country. We must remember that, in the world we know, we are confronted with an exchange of mono- logues, in circumstances which you do not need me to describe to you; I have suffered deeply from that exchange of monologues. They are an only too easy solution, and I hope that the procedure elaborated by Unesco will mean that we shall have not only a succession of speeches but, after- wards, an exchange of views, which would be of great advantage to Unesco and to freedom of thought. The colloquy must be organized; it must be possible for all free and independent thought to be expressed and to meet with legiti- mate contradiction or correction from other thoughts. In this respect, we shall probably find ourselves confronted with some difficulty regard- ing the means to be used. This difficulty is not due to cinema, the radio or the press; it is due, if I am to take the word of a great thinker and writer from my country, called Paul Valéry, to history. I am sorry that I must now read you this passage, because I spent at least fifteen years of my life teaching the subject, but this is what he said about history; his words are familiar: History is the most dangerous product composed by the chemistry of the intellect. Its properties are well known: it leads the nations into dreaming, intoxi- cates them, gives rise to false memories, exaggerates their reactions, keeps open old wounds, torments their rest, gives them delusions of greatness or persecution mania, and makes them bitter, arrogant, insufferable and conceited. There is some truth in this, but much falsehood also. For if true history were not there, there would be legend, and the object of Paul Valéry’s criticism is not real history but the memory retained by those who have not learnt it properly. Were it not for history, whose professors and teachers were criticized, in my youth, for the fault of depreciating greatness, we should have nothing but that glorification of leadership from which mankind has suffered so greatly in so many countries. It is indeed necessary to give a complete picture of the whole of history, without neglecting what we used to call “battle-history”. We must not neglect battle-history because, if we do, people will be found to invent it; we shall never be able to pre- vent boys of fourteen from feeling proud of Austerlitz in France, or Trafalgar in England, or any other battle anywhere else. In this connexion, I have no desire that the list of national victories should be reviewed in full but, in fact, it is pre- ferable that this should be done by history rather than by legend. What does it matter? It is reasonable that, besides this battle-history (which is inevitable and which, indeed, may at times be essential, for we have also to teach you men wil- lingness to sacrifice themselves and the acceptance of struggle), there should also be taught the daily history of men. The universities are at fault for not yet having written it—I mean, in full—the history of agriculture, craftsmanship, industry, trades and sciences. It is beginning, but it is only just beginning, and I should not like it to become an enemy of the other type of history; it is, however, the history of every day and, in short, the history of essential problems, and it must be reconciled with the military history on which we have all been brought up. And now, with these means that I believe Unesco should make available to men of good will, what end are we to strive for? For the universal. We are here to face squarely all the difficulties 1 have listed. It would be easy for us, each for his own purposes, to pander to surviving nationalism, but where can that take us in a world which can be encircled in four days? We must realize that we are all of the same race—homo sapiens—
117       invested with the same dignity as men; and, in our separate countries, each of us must convince the State of this, for the State is not a mere abstraction: the State is the body of its citizens. We must either make the world a brotherhood, or the world must totter to its fall. Our ancestors, the Gauls, had, as you know, but one fear—that the sky above them might crash upon their heads. Today, their fear has become ours. We must not, however, live in fear but in hope. It is our task, with the State and beyond the State, to give every man living his chance to help make humanity more conscious of its unity, more just, more brotherly and more confident in itself. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I now call on Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr. Dr. Niebuhris a professor at the Union Theological Seminary, an Institute of university studies, which is famous throughout the world. Dr. Reinhold NIEBUHR (United States of Amer- ica) — Mr. Chairman, Colleagues, ladies and gentle- men: It is obvious that we raised this question —the duty of States to integrate world com- munities through cultural co-operation—for gen- eral reasons, not because we were unsure about the legal commitments that we have made. We know very well the commitments we have made, for instance, in Unesco. We studied the resolu- tions of the Conference and the Board and went to the very heart of the historic situation, which is that national States still have an essentially un- abridged sovereignty, while an inchoate world community is waiting to be born, and requires instruments of integration which cannot be furnished merely by the legal commitments which States are now willing to engage in. We must therefore make an appeal to the conscience of na- tions, and try to recognize the obligations that they have, sovereign as they still are, for the integration of the world community. It is an appeal to conscience, and an appeal to conscience must be an instruction of conscience. In the sixteenth century when John Knox stood before Mary, Queen of Scots, in the course of a memorable interview, she asked him “Do you think that subjects have a right to resist their sovereign ” “When princes exceed their powers, Madam”, answered John Knox, and the Queen replied, “My conscience does not tell me so”. Knox answered, “Conscience, Madam, requires instruction, and right instruction I fear you have none”. If it is not too pretentious we will instruct our own conscience, and the conscience of the nations, about the duty of the state for the creation of a world community, and I should like to speak about the character and the urgency of the obliga- tions to which we call the nations; secondly, the possibility of realizing world community; and thirdly, the resources and the organs for its realization. In regard to the character of this obligation we can say, I think, in this particular kind of international conference, that the cultural integration, or the integration of world community through culture, is a primary task for the nations, though the political integration is a more obvious and more dramatic one, for the simple reason that community must precede all these political instru- mentalities, which otherwise will be ineffective. I think we sometimes do our cause harm by speaking too often of peace rather than commu- nity, because, in common parlance, peace means the absence of conflict, and we do not overcome conflict by cultural co-operation. Overcoming conflict is a matter for the political and juridical organs of a community. When we talk about peace, and we have a right to talk about it, we are thinking of peace in the largest sense of the concord of life with life, in common ends and purposes, and this precedes all political instru- ments. There are people who would create world com- munity through constitutional means alone, or pri- marily so. When they become conscious of the fact that laws do not enforce themselves, they dream of a world police force by which they are going to enforce this law. But unfortunately, even a police force cannot enforce law if there is not a community that wants to obey it. If there is not an integral community the police power is effective only upon a recalcitrant minority: behind the power of a State there is not merely law and the police, but the authority of the community itself, its willing and implicit acceptance of certain standards of justice. The community comes first. We cannot create a world community by law, we cannot create it by police force. We can create it only by the gradual growth of mutual for- bearance within this multi-coloured world society. Now, we must not claim too much for this process, we must not claim that the process of cultural co-operation can obviate the necessities of political arbitration. There are particular kinds of friction in any community, even in national communities, beyond the scope of cultural interchange. They require the intervention of the police or of the courts. The world community also can have its tragic situations in which peace can be maintained only by the preponderance of power on the part of those who want peace, as against those who would break it. I am not afraid to let this idea, which belongs to the very stuff of our common contemporary life, intrude upon the idealism of Unesco. We may be in such a situa-    tion now, and we must not pretend that we have particular spiritual forces which will lift us above it. Nor must we be too cynical when we say that we will maintain peace by the preponderance of the power of those who want peace. Let us remember that this power includes not merely the military might of nations, but the help, which means also the unity, of those who want peace. Thus we are related—the cultural and the spiritual process is related to the political and to the mili- tary forces. We must not claim too much for this great obligation that the nations have for cultural co-operations, nor, on the other hand, must we claim too little. In the second place, we must consider the tre- mendous difficulties, which seem almost to put this whole problem of integrating world com- munities into the realm of the impossible, and we must attempt to define the duty of the nation in terms of its possibilities, for there may be duties which remain duties even if they are impossible to fulfil, but which do not excite the moral sense of mankind. Is this possible? Can we really create world community by asking sovereign States to think beyond themselves, to relate themselves to other peoples, to remove from their textbooks all matters prejudicial to and inviting contempt of other peoples, to throw down barriers and every kind of restraint which prevent people from speaking to one another? Is it really possible to create community in this way, considering that the world community is a hopelessly pluralistic com- munity, and that every community we have known in history had some core of homogeneity, which is what the world community lacks? We are united in our national community by consciousness of kind, by kinship, by a common language, by common memories, and, let us not forget, some- times by the fear of a common foe, which is a very potent source of community in this tragic world of ours. This is what holds a particular community together. Now we are suddenly to move into this world community which has no common language—I have a suspicion it may never have one—and the available instruments are only fair substitutes for a common language. No common language—nor common culture—nor common religion—it is a hopelessly pluralistic world. This is a problem so great, so perplexing, that it might actually—asit has in the case of some sensitive spirits—drive us to despair. Let us not try to solve this problem by cheap solutions. Let us not say, for instance, that we will create a synthetic world culture to take the place of all the historic cultures of mankind. The synthetic cultures that we dream up are usually seen in the end to be the characteristic prejudices of the bourgeois, of the European bourgeois in the final hour of his pride. They will not outlast his day. We cannot have a simple synthetic world culture—nor can we solve this problem by saying, “Let us, all of us, who were brought up in the humanities, in the various disciplines of culture, let us all strive for the objectivity that the natural scientists have, and then we will overcomeall the difficulties in the world community”. The idea that the universal mind is the mind of the natural scientist—he indeed presents a closer approxima- tion to the universal mind than anyof the rest of us—that in his attitude lies the solution of the world problem, is another characteristic illusion of our day. It is true that the natural scientists have an objectivity that the rest of us do not have, and, we must add, that we will never have; for when we judge a star, or a geological formation, then the mind is at the centre of the process, but we ourselves, as anxious selves, as ambitious selves, as fearful selves, are on the periphery. But when we judge each other, in our hopes and in our fears, in our anxieties and in our ambitions, then the mind is on the periphery. Selves judging each other, individual and collective selves, and the encounter between these selves is a much more desperate and difficult encounter than the mere encounter of mind with mind. To create world community is indeed a difficult problem, butit is not an impossible one. Those of us who deal with the problems of Unesco, have had some experience of this, and, we might add, that even if on occasions we should regard the problem as hopeless we may bear in mind that every modern community, though it has a core of homogeneity that the world community lacks, is, at the same time, a much more pluralistic community than anything that was known a hundred or two hundred years ago. I think that in the middle ages it was assumed that there must be a unified culture if there was to be peace. We have proved the mediaeval period wrong, for in every one of our modern nations we have all kinds of ethnic and cultural, religious and linguistic pluralisms. We don’t always get along too well, but we do get along. This marks the path, this means that it is possible—difficult but possible—for the nations to do three things. First, so to encourage international communications, so to destroy barriers, that the encounter between nation and nation, culture and culture will take place in broader and broader, and deeper and deeper terms. Now is it true that this process of communication of itself destroys conflicts, or only mitigates prejudices? One of the basic problems it seems to me, which we are facing in Unesco all the time, is to increase our knowledge of each other, and to love each other. Sometimes of course, the more we know about each other, the more we    mistrust each other. You cannot say that culture itself is a guarantee of place or of community. There is always an encounter with the other man, the other person, the other nation, and in this encounter with the other man, the other person, the other nation, and in this encounter there are always three possibilities—domination, conflict. and mutual accord. The mutual accord is not the only possibility of the encounter, but there can be no mutual accord without the encounter. This is the reason forall our efforts to create world community by assuaging the prejudices of various cultures, and creating some areas of mutual toleration. In the second place, we can ask the nations to facilitate, to encourage, the growth of already existing trans-national communities which are the fabric of a world community. They exist—in organisms of culture there are great trans- national communities of world religion, of science, and of education, and of labour, and every one of these suffers from certain restrictions placed upon it by the national community. We worry about these trans-national communi- ties from the ultimate universalistic standpoint because none of them are absolutely universal. If I may say so, I have noticed, as a theologian, a certain squeamishness in Unesco when I talk about religion; on the one hand religion is a highly unifying force, and on the other hand a sharply dividing force —but then every unifying force is, from the ultimate standpoint, also a dividing one. The nations must facilitate the growth of trans- national communities they must be the woof and the warp of a total community. In the third place we must find in all this encounter and communication some common denominator, some minimal common denomina- tor. We must have some common conceptions of justice, but if we have not—as is sometimes the case today—if some of us are dogmatic equali- tarians and some of us dogmatic libertarians, we divide this whole problem of liberty and equality, which should be treated as one, and make it the basis of civil war in the modern community. There could be a real encounter between liber- tarians and equalitarians, because there is no absolute answer as to how much liberty ought to be sacrificed for equality, and how much equality for liberty. What we have to look for is a minimal common denominator. In this particular problem of finding a deposit of common con- viction we are faced on the one hand with people who want to introduce too many details into this universal law and whenever they introduce a great many details it always turns out that these are their own details; they call them self-evident truths, but these truths turn out to be self-evident
120 only to themselves, or to their age. We cannot afford to do that, but on the other hand we must not fall into the abyss of pure rhetoric either. 1 should sugggest that from a philosophical stand- point this problem of law, norm and relativismis one of the things to which we might well devote ourselves with a great deal of attention. We must find some minimum common ground if we would cultivate this world community. Now about the resources and the organs for developing this encounter, this cultural and spiri- tual encounter between the nations. The first and chief resources are quite obviously the moral conscience of the peoples. Cynics, not without justice, usually interpret the policy of a nation as being governed absolutely by self-interest, as my distinguished predecessor has already suggested. And, we must admit that, on the whole, nations are governed by self-interest, but it is certainly also true that a modern nation and a democratic nation must express the conscience of its people as well as their interests, and there is no doubt that they do have a conscience, a very anxious conscience, about this world community to which they belong, and do not quite belong. This is the primary resource that we have to count upon, but we must have organs for its expression, and here I would like to suggest that in all of our vital democratic communities we already have these organs for the expression of something beyond national interest, and that we have to extend them further in international terms. Every modern university which receives support from the State, but is not immediately under the political power of the State, every radio programme or other instrument of culture in which the polit- ical power of the State is used to funnel the resources of the community into this cultural process, has already given us the particular organs that we require. We must now extend them to the international sphere. That is why I, coming as rather a stranger into the inner circles of Unesco, am tremendously impressed by this one particular institution, the National Commission, without which, I am certain, Unesco cannot finally do its task. For the National Commission represents exactly this—an organ of the peoples projected by governments, supported by governments, but not controlled by governments. It ought to be possible—indeed this development proves that it is possible—for a democratic people to find new organs or elaborations of old organs, in order to do what has to be done to create community beyond the national community. Now when we ask for the creation of these new organs, for the destruction of old barriers, we must not always say that we are doing this for the sake of liberty, for the liberty of the individual, for there is       rarely any lack of libertarian emphasis in our culture. It is indeed true—and this is one aspect of the difference between totalitarianism and democracy—that we ask the State to recognize the individual in his uniqueness and not to reduce him to the level of the community. But our business in Unesco is to ask the State to recognize the individual, not so much in his uniqueness as in his universality, for every individual is at one and the same time more unique and more uni- versal than his national community. What we are asking for, therefore, is liberty for the sake of larger community, so that men may express themselves not only in their uniqueness but in their essential humanity which requires fellow- ship with their brothers. The PRESIDENT — French] [Translation from the Our next speaker is Professor Zérega Fombona of Venezuela, Professor of Philosophy and a Memberof the Spanish Academy. Prof. E. ZÉREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) — [Translation from the Spanish] — Fellow-speakers of Spanish, as our great and splendid language has been duly recognized as one of Unesco's official languages, T have the right—and I might almost say the duty—to speak in Spanish. But as such a large French audience has honoured us withits presence and interest, I feel that courtesy and gratitude demand that I should set forth my remarks in French. > [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as Spanish has been duly recognized as one of the three working languages of Unesco, I should be entitled, and even ought, to speak in Spanish. But, as I have just said to my Spanish-speaking colleagues from the three continents of Europe, America and Asia, I feel that courtesy and gratitude demand that, before the French audience which is honouring us with its presence and attention, I should set out my remarks in French. By drawing the attention of Member States to the duty of creating and fostering better understanding between the peoples, Unesco has induced us to raise the question of human solidarity in the novel and striking fashion at our conferences. The Organization has asked us to look into our consciences and to reflect on this sense of solidarity, seeking the most effective means of carrying into practice the spirit which animates the Organization and the aims which it has set itself. Our topic may seem to be purely theoretical, but it is nevertheless of immediate practical value; it raises a concrete problem which requires urgent consideration. By suggesting that Member States should think about the duty of establishing true and authentic brotherhood among men, Unesco has given proof that it has passed beyond the first stages of its development as an Organization, and that the essential material foundation for international understanding has been securely laid. It is thus now permissible to give critical consideration to the architecture of the upper storeys of the building. Do believe that, in my attempt to answer the question set to us, I do not lose sight of the work which Unesco has accomplished either by its own direct efforts or through the Member States. For fear of failure, we must discard visionary illusions and be cautious of vague idealism. We have to face realities squarely, take due account of human nature, and not lose sight of the constitution and fundamental laws of States, their legislation, their school and university syllabuses, their customs and habits, and the practices and usages associated with the different cultures. In short, we must avoid too much detail and rigidity in regulations, which would tend to subordinate all the nations to oppressive spiritual centralization. We must leave every country complete and absolute freedom in the application of the general principles which it is Unesco’s mission to pro- pound. Let us be satisfied with giving a full and clear definition of the part which we think the State has to play in bringing about soundly-based international understanding. It would be useless and even dangerous to insist that topics of international importance should be included in the syllabuses of primary and secondary schools. We should merely add to the already heavy burden which now weighs upon young people in our schools. Before taking any such decision, it would be better to consider a measure affecting higher education, with which we shall deal later. We must regard with similar distrust resolutions and recommendations designed to make history text-books more uniform, and to set up objectivity, free from national passion, pride and hatred, as the supreme criterion in the teaching of history. Is there anything more human, more worthy of respect, indeed, than patriotism, that assertion of the national ego in the glorification of our own virtues and criticism of the historical development of other peoples? These contradictory opinions will never,—alas— be fully and perfectly reconciled. We have to resign ourselves to this fact and find consolation in Renan's definition of history: “a minor conjectural science”, and in memory of the wonderful definition which Mr. Bidault has just given us: “History is instruction in sacrifice”. It was thought that the universities would provide a more favourable ground for the   development of understanding and co-operation between the peoples. Is not science international by nature and definition? Does it not find its native soil in every land? A famous scientist is as much admired and respected abroad as in his own country, sometimes more, if we believe Christ’s saying that “А prophet is not without honour safe in his own country.” But this scientific fraternity in its various forms—exchanges of teachers, student fellowships and the interna- tional recruitment of scientific staff—can have no influence (or very little) on the growth of a sense of unity in public opinion, unless the creation of an international public opinion is brought about by other means. This sense of solidarity and understanding is indeed already found in statesmen, philosophers, sociologists, scientists, writers and artists who are well-acquainted with the present-day world. These men feel as true members of humanity, they are conscious of the interdependence of mankind, and they can derive happiness, comfort and hope from a fine and noble action or a scientific dis- covery, whereverit takes place. They are tragically and grievously afflicted at the idea of those catastrophes, near at hand or far away, which, if they occur, will not be local or national but general and universal, like those foreshadowed in the Apocalypse. This state of mind and sensibility, which are still confined to a few, must be developed in all human beings by giving them access to the great currents of information and opening their hearts to the emotions of all mankind. That is the duty of the State which Unesco has asked us to define and hopes to see carried out in practice. Having given this tentative definition, I shall now try to analyse and describe in a few words the procedure for carrying out certain practical measures which we think might be possible. Dissipation of effort and lack of co-ordination still mar the presentation of facts which throw light on the interdependence of mankind; studies dealing with economic questions, such as problems of production and raw materials, pure or applied science, or literary or artistic work, fail to stress co-ordination and liaison. The attitude of the twentieth century is oddly reminiscent of the “anarchical” mentality that Auguste Comte denounced in science at the beginning of the nineteenth century and tried to correct in his famous Plan d’intégration des sciences. In his programme, philosophy was refused recognition as a science and was defined as a special section of those special subjects which are the various branches of scientific study. This purely external comparison of the sciences a century ago—sciences with no systematic co-ordination or mutual dependence—with the present state of our know- ledge in the various sectors of human activity indicates the path which will lead us to the solution of this problem of how the State can fulfil its duty in the international education of men. By the creation of special Chairs in Universities and the institution of special lectures in teachers’ training colleges, it would be possible for the philosophers, biologists, jurists, professors and teachers of the future to be given full information by scholars perfectly acquainted with the various activities of international life who, in their accounts, would lay constant stress on the co- ordination and synthesis of these branches of study. The doubts I expressed above about the value of international topics in primary and secondary education would then be resolved, because, in this case, textbooks alone would no longer be responsible for providing children and adolescents with information about international life, and because the teachers themselves would devote their knowledge of facts and their faith in human solidarity to the service of open-minded teaching inspired by belief in the spiritual and material progress of mankind. In this way, we shall have augmented and co- ordinated all our scattered knowledge and come to clear, final and objective conclusions regarding the obligations and duties of each State—con- clusions which may awaken in every individual the consciousness of human fellowship and the interdependence of the nations. Bertrand Russell, the great thinker who has honoured us with his presence at this Conference, has said: However faint may be the hope of finding answers, it is part of philosophy’s duty to continue studying these questions, to realize their importance, identify all the approaches to them, and keep alive this specu- lative interest in the universe. By constantly alert attention and by repeated efforts, we shall achieve this human solidarity in fact. Another great contemporary philosopher who honours Unesco with his support, Mr. Jacques Maritain, said in his speech at Mexico City: Because the goal of Unesco is a practical goal, agreement between minds can be reached spontane- ously, not on the basis of common speculative ideas, but on common practical ideas, not on the affirmation of one and the same conception of the world, of man and of knowledge, but upon the affirmation of a single body of beliefs for guidance in action. This agreement of two thinkers, whose beliefs and methods are so divergent as those of Earl Russell and Mr. Maritain, on the principles and aims of the considerations which I have set forth above, gives the ideological programme and the cultural     project we are putting forward the high authority of their intellectual support. In the inspired words of Ezekiel, we hope, we hope with faith, and await with some anxiety but, in every human being, a heart of flesh shall beat in brotherhood, sensitive to the joys and sorrows of all men as to its own joys and sorrows. The PRESIDENT French] [Translation from the The next speaker is Professor Ozorio de Almeida, of the Brazilian delegation, Professor of Physiology at the University of Rio de Janeiro. Prof. OZORIO DE ALMEIDA (Brazil) — [Trans- lation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, a few of my colleagues and myself have been invited to take part in a debate. We have just heard three very fine speeches containing a wealth of ideas and, naturally, as those three speeches have dealt with an extremely difficult question, it seems rather hard to elicit any conclusion. (In any case, that is not what we have to do today.) It is my duty to contribute to the discussion. I shall not discuss the speeches which have been made but, in setting out my few remarks, I may have to mention some of the ideas put forward. This question that Unesco has now asked us to consider is an old one, and people like myself, who have long left their youth behind them, remember clearly that, in 1932, the first topic selected by the Institute of Intellectual Co-oper- ation as a subject of correspondence between a few intellectuals was just this: What is the rôle of the intellectual “order” in the conduct of big political and international affairs? 1 had to contribute to the first volume of that correspondence. Analysing my work and reading that of my colleagues, I sensed the self-same difficulties with which we are now confronted. We are now faced with a question not far removed from that one. It may be thought that, in the present world situation, States do not know what they should do to secure better mutual understanding between the peoples or, if they do, they do not say so. The duty and responsibility of discussing the question and sug- gesting to States what they ought to do to obtain the results essential for lasting peace falls then, to intellectuals, to the intellectuals now assembled by Unesco. Now, when we consider the problem in greater detail, we see that the State is made up of a large or small number of individuals—I am speaking only of democratic societies—chosen in one way or another and without any sort of pri- vilege, of birth or otherwise. They find awaiting them a type of organization, handed on to them by other statesmen: the constitution of the coun- try, its traditions, mentality and way of thinking. We may ask whetherit is the State which has to promote better mutual understanding between the - peoples, or whether the peoples—since, in demo- cratic countries, the statesmen come from among the people—must lead statesmen to better under- standing. That is the first, and very difficult aspect of the question. Mr. Bidault very rightly remarked that the State is not concerned with the masses—it is concerned with populations, with a body of men— thinking and sentient individuals. The other question which comes to my mind is the difficulty of this task. The problems ofinter- national policy, the problems whichface the State, are now so complicated, so complex and so diffi- cult that a very large number of specialists and general thinkers is necessary to reach any clear understanding—and most of the time, indeed, this result is not achieved. Men and peoples who should understand one another are asked to grasp these problems clearly. It is very difficult for the average man, and even for the educated and cul- tured man, to gain a precise idea of a situation. If two peoples are to understand one another, they must know one another; this point has been dealt with here at length. They must know one an- other, but how are we to ensure that they do know one another? I will not dwell further on these difficulties; there are different ways of get- ting two peoples to know one another. We can- not ask the whole population of a country which has doubts about the intentions of a neighbouring or even a distant country, to travel and visit the people of that country, making personal contact with them and discovering, on the spot, their opinions on a large number of fundamental ques- tions. We are left with the means at present available to us, which have been described by Mr. Bidault: the press, the cinema, the wireless, the media for the communication of thought. But then, the average man finds himself confronted with such a mass of information, the sources of which he can mostly not check, that—as it seems to many of us—he reserves his final opinion. In short, he trains his mind—mnot perhaps to distrust—but to reserve and waiting. Before making up his mind, he waits until the precise facts are known, until they obtrude themselves and become obvious or are explained. These facts are disseminated by such means as the press, films, and the wireless. This brings us to a point which is very important to some of us and, in particular, to me: that it is essential—and this is the first duty of the State—that truth should be respected; any controlled campaign, any controlled news, any method of creating an opinion which might, at one stage, be described as artificial, but which becomes more and more natural, because first thought, then feeling, and finally the actions    of a whole people are affected—all these should be proscribed. We must try to set forth facts as they are; truth must be preserved. This is a commonplace idea, incidentally, but it is constantly forgotten. As a scientist, belonging to one of those groups, mentioned by Professor Fombona, who have facilities for mutual under- standing across frontiers and who make use of one another’s work without distinction of country or of race (I am referring to facilities in theory; in practice, I should be inclined to make some re- serves, for I should not like to give the impression that I am living in Utopia; but, generally speak- ing, it is true)—as a man of science then, as I said, I believe, like all intellectuals, but in par- ticular, scientists—since truth and, above all, ob- jective and scientific truth, is a universal posses- sion—I believe that respect for truth, which is the State’s first duty if it wishes to achieve this splendid result, will make it possible to reach true international understanding. When every nation learns the truth about neighbouring peoples and all the other nations of the world, we shall have the common denominator of which Professor Nie- buhr spoke, and every people will come to the idea that we are now living in a world of men who, in a particular field, are tending towards a certain uniformity of thought and feeling which may be summed up in a single word: brotherhood. It is still a dream, and I do not know whether, in the near future events will bring it to pass, but we must believe that, one day, humanity will rise to the heights of that brotherhood of which men have dreamed for thousands of years. The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] 1 call upon Professor Giuseppe Vedo- vato, of the Italian delegation, Professor of Inter- national Law and the History of Treaties at the University of Florence, and editor of the Revue d’études politiques internationales. Prof. Giuseppe VEDOVATO (Italy) — [Trans- lation from the French] Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I entirely agree with Mr. Bi- dault that the State is there to serve Man. The State must help to perfect the human personality, and this purpose can be achieved only by the co- operation of all members of the international com- munity and the foundation of relationships which will create a community of interests between the peoples—a unity in diversity. The duties of the State for the purpose of ensuring a better understanding between the peoples are fundamental; they involve moral obligations, which to a large extent, may be expressed in regulations in the field of education or of science and culture.
124 Education must be regarded not only as the passive assimilation of acquired knowledge, but also as intellectual activity directed towards spir- itual productivity. The success of the educational process is dependent on subjective and objective conditions. With regard to the former, the State can exercise a preponderant influence by fostering, above all, in the education of its citizens, the social sense— both national and international—of solidarity; a society consists of individuals between whom there are organized relationships for their mutual benefit. If education is to influence the growth of the international spririt, it must be able to rely on carefully chosen teachers, on settled syllabuses, and on the people for whom it is intended. In choosing teachers, the State must not exclude a foreign teacher who is as able, and can fill the same function, as one of its own nationals. Special care should be devoted to syllabuses in civic and political history, so that the history of every country may be presented in relation to, or better still, parallel with, the history of other countries, so as to bring out the part it has played in the evolution leading to the various forms of international association. The pupils, who should include a number of foreign students, must be trained to discover cases of interdependence, con- vergency and collaboration in the social relations between peoples. The more international duties are carried out in practice, the greater will be the influence on the direction followed by public opinion, which has been deceived by “falsely clear ideas”. The State must, therefore, take the necessary steps, or assist those who take them, to ensure that education is extended to more and more people. Among the measures and means to be adopted, we may, for instance, mention the following which have not yet been referred to this evening: Equivalence of degrees, which is almost a reversion to the jus ubique docendi entitling doctors and graduates of the great Universitates Studiorum of the Middle Ages, to teach in every country of Christendom; The institution of educational information centres dealing with the best method of teaching young people the habit of international obligations; The development of instruction in international subjects helping to lead on to understanding and accord between nations; The publication of great international reviews in the language of every country, which would provide a forum for each of them; Easier access to bibliographic centres and public archives, fixing, by international agreement, a uniform opening date for such archives;    The introduction of popular travelling libraries, like those provided in country districts, works and factories; The production of educational films and carefully chosen documentaries for showing and distri- bution abroad; the production and broadcast- ing of special radio programmes. I need not emphasize that these measures and means will have to be proportioned and adapted by each State to the particular conditions of each country, especially where countries with differing civilizations are concerned. The contribution which science can make to improved understanding between the peoples is likewise inestimable. Professor Zérega Fombona mentioned a saying of Pasteur’s: “Though the scientist may have a country, science has not”; we might add the words of Vittorio Scialoja: “To try to introduce nationalism into science is as absurd as to try to study national physics or racial chemistry”. Water-tight compartments in scien- tific work are generally prejudicial to the inter- national community. States, therefore, have a duty to foster scientific co-operation to the maximum, endeavouring to discover and employ factors which may help to bring it about, in particular: pure scientific research, recruitment of scientific workers, and the love of scientific work in the service of humanity. In particular, the State should help in setting up international scientific institutions, either connected with the universities or entirely independent of them, with an international staff. It is also desirable that scientific knowledge should be disseminated internationally for the training of future teachers, and that foreign students should be freely admitted to national institutes of scientific research. Moreover, the State should inspire constant respect for the conquests of science. Science, however, tends towards unity, despite the many special subjects included in it, and the variety of their methods. It is, therefore, the State’s task, either through special organs already in existence or about to be set up, or indirectly through scientific institutions, to stimulate each branch of science to spread beyond its boundaries, thus leading on to the synthesis which almost every specialized science now feels to be necessary. This synthesis may be achieved, principally, by securing effective co-ordination of groups of sciences and promoting international meetings to study some special topic which is of interest to several sciences. A history of science, conceived internationally, would provide a useful inventory for the integration of the various subjects. This international co-operation, which is the rule in the natural sciences, is quite as essential in the social sciences, which tend rather to develop, independently, in every separate country. Co-ordination of all the social sciences in relation to international problems, is at present either non-existent or inadequate. International sociology should be greatly valued because of this capacity for synthesis. The State should carefully organize the collection of sociological material. This material would be made available to scientists in all countries who, in their turn, would not be content with merely making syntheses of it in the form of compiled works. Misunderstanding between the nations is often the result of prejudices and stubborn misappre- hensions, whose origin lies mainly in the super- ficial knowledge they have of one another. Generally speaking, people think they have a sufficiently clear and accurate knowledge of the nature of a peopleif they have in their minds a few conventional psychological patterns given currency by superficial “best selling” books. Mérimée’s story and Bizet’s opera Carmen, have helped to sketch in many people's minds the Spanish type through the ages. The same is true of Loti's Madame Chrysanthème and Puccini's Madame Butterfly, on which many people's ideas of the Japanese are based. In order to eradicate these mistaken ideas which one people holds of another, we must not only replace conventional and inaccurate notions of a people's characteristics with other and truer ideas, but also substitute new and more thorough studies for the methods of investigation hitherto employed. One does not come to know a people by studying its work in the evolution of its own civil and political history, but rather by discovering the causes and motives which gave rise, in that people, to a particular civic or political attitude; civil and political history is not a cause but an effect. Recourse to racial psychology may be very helpful, because that is determined as much by special psychological characteristics as by the particular physical environment in which a people lives and works. The State has the choice of two particularly effective means of bringing the results of psycho- logical study to the knowledge of the ordinary people, with their different cultural levels: The proclamation of decrees instituting competi- tions for the preparation of textbooks for various types of schools giving as true a picture as possible of the most obvious psychological char- acteristics distinguishing the social and economic conditions of the principal peoples of the world; The organization of periodical group travel abroad, to allow those taking part in the scheme—people from the middle classes, and senior officials—to see for themselves the conditions of life in the countries visited.    At the same time, such measures would also help to bring peoples together and to assist them to understand one another’s culture. Civilizations cannot be kept apart in water-tight compartments, and the State must help the growing spread of ideas throughout the world. It must therefore spread a knowledge of the geniuses of every nation who, in their scientific, literary and artistic works, have expressed themselves in universal terms. It must assist the definition of the cultural position of its own country in certain fields, through the good offices of the institutions most appropriate for the purpose in other countries. And, in parti- cular, must organize exhibitions of ancient and modern art by way of interchange. In developing this complete freedom of intel- lectual interchange, care should be taken to avoid dangerous chauvinism, for nothing could be more harmful to contact between cultures, the incipient flow of exchanges and the understanding of diversities. Culture is, as it were, an expres- sion of the feelings of the peoples, which need not be graded like pupils at school. States which are called upon to help peoples living in countries where the civilization is different, should so carry out their mission that the development of the local culture, in contact with a foreign civilization, may result in spontaneous evolution. History teaches us—Dr.Niebuhr was quite right on this point— that it is impossible to improvise a new form of culture, a synthetic international culture, by compounding an enormous cocktail from the cultures of two or more peoples. Literature and art play a fundamentally impor- tant part in the growth of knowledge and understanding between the peoples. Governments and non-governmental institutions should make sure that literature is widely circulated, particularly literature which takes the view that the only worth of words lies in the thought that they express. With regard to art, in addition to the other measures already mentioned, frequent exhibitions, including travelling exhibitions, should be or- ganized; the people of all countries should be given the maximum facilities to visit the museums in which the great treasures of art are preserved; critics and artists of every sort should be assisted to travel abroad and should be allowed to spend longer periods out of their countries; the export and exchange of the products of craftsmanship and industrial art should be encouraged; and efforts should be made to give practical effect to the experimental international regulations regarding measures to be adopted in peace time for the pro- tection of historical monuments and works of art in case of war, for the construction of depositories for this purpose and, if occasion arises, for safe- guarding them by declaring a number of selected centres and localities neutral territory. The same procedure should be followed in dealing with films, which are an astonishing com- bination of literature and art. Lastly, international associations of every type will act as potent stimulants to the development of international bonds. It is the duty of the State to take active steps to help them to develop, to extend their influence, and to increase in numbers. In this way, the State will once more fulfil its mission in the service of the mind, of man, and, as always, of humankind. The PRESIDENTE == French] [Translation from the I call on Mr. Beaglehole, Professor of Colonial History at Victoria University College, Wellington, NewZealand. Mr. J. C. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: In this enchanting and luminous city, this city of air and trees and statues and fountains, this city where in the very streets order and liberty seem to go hand in hand; in this city to which men of fine and sensitive intelligence comewherever may be the land of their birth—as to a native home, impelled, almost, as it were, to kiss the stones; in this city it may well seem to the baffled mind that all the problems of education and science and culture have their solution. Paris, in its serene and gracious maturity; Paris, the capital of a France that is serene, gracious and mature; Paris, the radiant climax of a deep-founded and noble civil- ization, may seem to say to pilgrims from all the ends of the earth : “My children, rest here, be reassured; here is all that the spirit of man can ask for; here is beauty and knowledge and humanity; here is civilization”. Paris may seem to say all that, and to no man more than to a New Zealander like me, born and brought up so many thousands of miles away: and if that were all there were to say, then there would be no need of this discussion in which we are engaged. For without further worry about education, or science, or culture, or the State, or understanding between peoples, we should all become French, we should all understand one another perfectly, and humanity would be saved. But alas! that is not all there is to say, and we cannot all become French. It is possible, indeed, that even if we could, we should have a moral duty —unpleasant as this sounds—not to become French. I mean that, as we live in a varied, a multifarious world, it may be our duty to cultivate not uni- formity but variety. How varied, indeed, is this France itself which we so much admire; how impossible that this Paris, this spiritual home, should arise on a basis of uniformity! If our world is indeed, as Dr. Niebuhr has just said, hopelessly pluralistic, I suggest we should thank      God for the absence of hope. It is necessary, said Candide, at the end of those surprising adventures which he, and his Cunégonde, and his revered master Dr. Pangloss, passed through in the exploration of optimism, to cultivate our garden; and a the end of another two hundred years we cannot very well get away from Candide’s con- clusion—yes, we must cultivate our garden. Now you may ask, not without reason, what on earth has all this got to do with the duties of the State in regard to education, science and culture, as ingredients of a better understanding between peoples? What on earth has it got to do with practical steps in discharging those duties? In trying to answer those questions, I am going to adopt a rather sceptical role. I am going to ask myself as many other awkward questions as possible. I do not really know what will be the outcome. First of all is the question, what is meant by a better understanding between peoples? The phrase is a simple one, used a great deal; and yet as I have walked back and forth between Unesco House and my hotel, it has not seemed so simple. Perhaps it merely means tolerance, a vague benevolence or a more pointed good will? No, that is not enough. Perhaps it infers in a French- man a love for Dickens, and in an Ennglishman a passion for Proust? No, that hardly seems enough either. Perhaps it means the exchange of visits between war veterans, or the entertainment of the children of one another’s policemen, or common sentiments on the atomic bomb: or perhaps it means the conversion of the English to French cooking, or of the French to a belief in the superiority of the English weather? But all these things seem inadequate. Is it then an appreciation of different modes of domestic life, or agreement over foreign policy; is it a knowledge by one people of the facts of another people’s history in architecture or colonization? The more of these questions I ask, the more dissatisfied I become; and if I pass from English and French to Europe and America, or to western peoples and eastern peoples, or to the northern hemisphere and the southern hemisphere, the more I despair of putting any really useful content into our phrase. Does it mean, generally, “seeing one another’s point of view”? But that is another very vague phrase, so that we pass, as it were, from cloud to cloud. Nevertheless, one must not despair; and I suggest that in this conception of the “point of view” there is a little hope. Understanding between peoples has something to do with understanding, on the part of a consid- erable number of the people of one country, why the people of another country have a particular “point of view”, a particular set of habits, a tendency to reason in a particular way on certain subjects they consider important, particular standards of value in cookery or poetry or the driving of motor-cars. It has something to do with the understanding by one people of another people’s culture—not culture merely in the sense of what, for brevity, I shall call the cultivation of cultivated people, but in the anthropological sense of a particular way of life. Now you will agree that in the modern world that sort of culture has something to do with education and science. Well, then, are the main things we need for better understanding more education and more science, or, more accurately, better understanding of education and science? And should I now proceed to ask what is education and what is science? Heaven forbid. I must pass on. But before I pass on I suppose I should add that the notion of better understanding between peoples carries with it the feeling that thereby international peace and security are visibly strengthened. That is the feeling, at any rate, on which Unesco is founded. From what we knowof human psycho- logy, the feeling has something to recommend it; exactly how much I do not know. I suppose we must go on to regard the State as a moral agent, for otherwise how could it have duties?—and our main question refers to its duties. I should prefer to think of States in the plural, States conditioned historically and geographically and economically in different ways; and so, probably, with duties—that is, explicit duties— covering less or more of the community's life. Different States in different communities may well have different duties—unless we accept, quite simply, the Marxist definition of the State. Clear and complete knowledge of the duties of the State, Professor Fombona has said: but I know of no such thing. But whatever the State, of one thing I am quite clear, beyond any question, and that is that for the purpose of ensuring a better under- standing between peoples its duty is educational. This assertion does not in itself carry us very far. The real questions are, who is to be educated; and how, by what processes, is the education to be carried on? Directly, indirectly, in the schools, in the newspapers, over the air, through parlia- ment or pamphlets or posters or preaching? Does it involve a moral programme or an intellectual programme or an emotional programme or a religious programme, or all these? Is a better understanding between peoples something of the nature of elementary arithmetic, which can be imparted to everyone, or almost everyone, so that a child can understand France or Mexico, in the same way as a child can bring home the right change from buying the daily bread? I think not, for one thing involved in international under- standing is a very considerable effort of the instructed imagination, and you (or some agency   of the State) cannot convey the instructed imagin- ation in the same way as you convey the inform- ation that two and two make four. A State, if it controls the education of a com- munity, can do or demand certain things. It can order the revision of the historical and geo- graphical textbooks used in its schools, for example, so thatthey will reflect the best historical and geographical scholarship of the time, in the belief that this process will ensure fair play for other nations—so that all school children, of what- ever nationality, will be convinced that the Battle of Waterloo (let us say) was won by whatever person or persons did actually win it. It may ensure that accurate information is transmitted about rivers and mountains and pastures, and their effect on national economies. It may stress the teaching of foreign languages, or of knowledge aboutforeign cultures, adding to irregular verbs and phonetics a variety of pictures of the Rhine or the Eiffel Tower or Shakespeare or the Taj Mahal. It may institute travelling scholarships for clever young university graduates, or Unesco scholarships to bring foreign students for a while within its own borders. It may foster the discussion of international affairs and national styles of music among organizations for adult education. Well, a State might do all these things. It might even, to use the American phrase, “lean over backwards” in its efforts to do justice to other people, and do less than justice to its own. Perhaps, after a few generations ot this, everybody would understand everybody else. I am not certain that even then we should have sufficient guarantees of peace and security. If ever there should have been understanding between different peoples, it was in the Middle Ages of Europe, when a generally accepted culture, a common language and mode of thought, prevailed for all men who had anyclaim to education. Yet, it has been said, if there is one word that sums up the Middle Ages, it is War; and though no one word can sum up an epoch or a civillzation, yet understanding did not then preclude war. It may have been that too many men understood one another too well. I do not want to carry scepticism to the point of cynicism. I am sure that understanding, of whatever sort, has a value in itself. We could not otherwise believe in scholarships, in learning or in science. But I think, to come back to where I started that, as well as being world travellers (at least in the spirit), we should cultivate our own gardens; and for some of us that will remain our principal duty. It is a principal duty of the State, too, 1 suggest, to see that a country’s native scholarship is partly devoted to verifying its national tradition, that education has for one of its main purposes the strengthening of a society's own individuality. That is the best gift we can give to the international family. become Frenchmen. I have one thing to add, which I think is more important than all metaphor, than all discussion of points of view, than all discrimination between shades of meaning. If I ask, in a final question, what is the highest duty of the State as educator, I find my answeris this, that it is to foster the free and uninhibited mind—whether that mind be Western or Eastern, an English or French or Hindu or Moslem or North American or Ecuadorian or African or Australian or New Zealand mind. I do not mean by that, obviously, a mind undisciplined and wild; I mean a mind trained to the strictest intellectual integrity, which is therefore itself free from prejudice, and immune from the assaults which prejudice may bring to bear upon it, whether in the name of national interest or of a narrow conception of peace and security. To such a mind we may leave with some confidence the understanding of other people, of whatever sort. What I am really trying to put forward as my contribution to this discussion is the idea that if the State educates well, understanding between peoples will look after itself. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 call upon M. Jamal Farra, former permanent delegate to Unesco and Syrian Minister of Education, chargé d’affaires of the Republic of Syria in Belgium. M. Jamal FARRA (Syria) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, the hands of the clock that the architect of this hall set opposite the rostrum, stand already at 11.25. I am bearing this in mind, particularly as I am only the last speaker but one. Therefore, with the permission—and possibly in accordance with the unexpressed desire of the President, I shall have the speech I had prepared published in the document in which the full texts of all the speeches made by Member States in this debate are to be reproduced, and shall confine myself to making a few remarks and observations which occurred to me as I listened to the famous people who have already spoken; I will go even further, and will restrict myself to four or five of the twenty or so comments which I ventured to make in my own mind. Nevertheless, we have to start a debate and, for: that, two people are necessary; there must be a discussion. I admit that I, personally, am not of the calibre of H.E. Mr. Bidault, but since we have a debate, I would say this: at the beginning of his speech, Mr. Bidault spoke of a certain distinction between States and peoples—we here are an association of States and not an association No, we must not all     of peoples. Moreover, he added rightly that the two terms were not entirely contradictory but did not mean quite the same thing. Is it not time that, in our present-day democracies, we should get rid of the two ideas—“peoples” and “States”—and that the two terms should indicate one thing? For true understanding between peoples, we should be glad if there were not the distinction between people and State: the people are the State and the State is the people. I know that many specialist on legislation, jurisprudence and international law could talk at length on this subject; there are traditional definitions which are already familiar, to be found in the paper before all the candidates here. We should be glad, then—and I am sure that Mr. Bidault desires this whole-heartedly—if there were identity instead of opposition between these two ideas. To identify “people” and “State”, would be one of the best means of bringing about international understanding. I have another comment to make on the contrast Mr. Bidault mentioned when he repeated a phrase which we find in many works: men in the service of the State, or the State at the service of men. It is time now that this opposition should be removed. When we have only the single concept of State-people, there will be no more reason to question whether Man is at the service of the State, or the State is at the service of Man. One of the best means of fostering understanding between the peoples, is to under- stand that we are all in the same service: Man for the State and the State for Man. Mr. Bidault said afterwards, if I understood him aright, that Man is made to live in small societies. I wonder whether, scientifically speaking, and taking everything into account, the opposite is not always true. Why should Man be designed for small societies? Tt is true that, as things are at present, there is a certain jealousy, a nervousness —a certain isolationism, in a word—which means that people do indeed feel more comfortable in small societies. This is as true of private life as of international life; but is Man, is the human race, really designed for small societies? Man's nature, constitution, abilities, all mark him out for the only great society: humanity. Later, Mr. Bidault drew a parallel between knowledge, leading (but not always) to love, and ignorance, which sometimes leads to love (or its opposite). I personally believe, however attrac- tive the expression His Excellency used to embody that ingenious idea may be, fromthe literary point of view, that there is only one thing true—that knowledge leads to love. We have a proverb, and I suppose there are similar sayings in a number of foreign languages, that: “Man hates what he
129 does not know”, or, to put it the other way round: “Man loves what he knows”. I cannot believe, that, in some cases, ignorance may lead to love and that sometimes knowledge may lead to aver- sion. I pass over my fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth observations. There is a single race, and all human beings are of the same worth as men. I make no com- ment; we are now speaking internationally. But, before we come to the international level, has this fact always been given credence even at the na- tional level? And, within the frontiers of many States, have all human beings really been regarded always as of the same worth? I make no com- ment. I now turn to the speech made by Dr. Niebuhr, and here I apologize in advance, for, with my somewhat rudimentary knowledge of English, I possibly did not always grasp what he really meant. Much as I admire the work of the inter- preters—those wonders which we find in inter- national organizations—I wanted to test myself, and I tried to follow his speech in English. It is therefore quite possible that I did not catch some of his points. In any case, he spoke—and another reference was made to this just now—of the peace of the Middle Ages. I am definitely not very much in favour of that peace of the Middle Ages. If indeed we conceive of peace in the mediaeval atmosphere, I should really prefer, for the pur- poses of the discussion, that the appealing lofty and cultural concept of peace should not be often associated with the more or less obscurantist views of the Middle Ages. Here I pass over some other comments and come to one idea which I feel I must set forth boldly. Professor Fombona said that the State must have full and complete freedom of action with regard to education, teaching and culture. This is a truth on which we are all agreed. The State must have full and complete freedom: that is the very basis of the idea of State sovereignty. I believe that, in the times in which we are living, when the frontiers of States are already overstepped by the international inspiration of Unesco, by the spirit of understanding between peoples, every State must preserve full and complete freedom if good understanding is to be secured. Neverthe- less, while safeguarding our national interests with a jealous care which all will understand, and with legitimate pride, we mustall sacrifice something in order to endowwith full and complete freedom, not the State but the super-StateHumanity. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The last speaker you will hear is     Dr. Los Santos; I shall then ask Mr. Bidault to give a short reply to the remarks which have been made in the debate. Dr. Mariano de Los SANTO (Philippines), Rec- tor of the University of Manila — Mr. President, fellow-delegates, ladies and gentlemen: If I were to act according to my own wishes, I should not speak on this occasion, as it is late; but if I did not speak, I am afraid that such an action might be interpreted as contrary to the ideals of Unesco, as a protest against a situation for which nobody is responsible. Furthermore, such an action would mean that half the population of the world would remain voiceless in a symposium so impor- tant to peace. If on the other hand, however, I could adhere to my prepared text and read my speech, I am sure that the prayers that have been uttered by so many wise men, coming from four continents, would remain unanswered and that instead of mutual understanding there would be disagreement and discord. So I will limit myself to two remarks. First, I say “Amen” to the eloquent and moving prayers uttered here this evening by brilliant speakers, prayers for international understanding, prayers for peace, and prayers for good will—for that small word is necessary to complete our prayers. Second, I also want to voice here a sentiment that is growing among certain delegations of Unesco. 1 should not be helping the cause of Unesco if I left it unuttered. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in voicing this sentiment, I have only the intention of promoting the cause of Unesco. We consider that it is the responsibility of the State, particularly every Member State of Unesco, to be exemplary in its relation with other Member States and in the treatment of all the citizens of other Member States, in the ways of democracy— more especially in the matter of race equality. Millions upon millions of words have been said or printed preaching human rights, international understanding, tolerance and the brotherhood of men. Member States and their citizens should do more than give lip-service to these principles. It is a fact that many are still obsessed with the idea that there are superior and inferior races, that there are superior and inferior people, notwith- standing professions to the contrary. Two thirds of the human race are clamouring for equality of treatment, which will exemplify real democratic relations. The problem of the under-developed areas is no longer a white man’s burden, it is the burden of all the people inhabit- ing the world, and they should all be given oppor- tunities to help make policies and draw up pro- grammes. What is more important, they should be given the necessary opportunities for their ex- ecution. If they are a little slow, let us not show too much impatience—Rome was not built in a day. Real world democracy cannot be promoted by one-third of the people doing the thinking and planning for the remaining two-thirds. Mr. BIDAULT (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, I am somewhat abashed by Mr. Jamal Farra’s analysis of my remarks, and I can only say two or three things in reply to him, for it seemed to me—as it seemed to him—that I was expressing myself very badly and was not getting my meaning across. I think that he and I are really in agreement. My remarks were a quotation from Bergson; they meant that we have all within us, in the marrowof our bones, in our habits, the recollection of the small societies of the early ages of mankind; we have to master those memories and, in doing so, we have dropped behind the evolution of the world. If I expressed myself badly, I should like to tell him that, in any case, he will never encounter the slightest dif- ficulty from the French delegation—rather the reverse—whenthere is any question of overcoming barriers and healing the scars of history which we call frontiers. I would add that I did indeed make the some- what provocative remark that knowledge does not necessarily lead to love. Mr. Jamal Farra is right in speaking platonically and in thinking that knowledge leads to love and that knowledge is enough for truth. I believe it is better to believe that than to believe the opposite, but it is neces- sary, too, that responsible men, who, though wearied with the difficulties of life, do not capi- tulate to it, should realize that there are instances in which knowledge does not necessarily lead to love and in which love is essential to repair the ills of knowledge. As I do not wish to end on this thought, I should like to say one thing in conclusion—since I have been, somewhat rashly, called upon to speak. At this time of day, which is not really very late and would, I must say, be extremely early for an ordinary public meeting attended only by French- men, I should like to be able to say that the speakers have shown—as we have all understood— that, from the Philippines to France, from Syria to Venezuela, we have a great many things in common. These things will not prevail unless there are men to undertake their advancement and unless there is some institution in which men may be enlisted, and it therefore seems to me that, even at this time, we should make an act of faith in men who have faith, and that there should be an insti- tution to ensure that that faith is not in vain and    that Unesco is a living force. It is, as I have said, and now repeat, an obscure and rather uncouth word; in France, and even in Lebanon last year, people who were most favourably inclined won- dered what that collection of initials might mean; well, those initials represent an institution and that institution must live. Our presence here proves that, in spite of the ill-chosen month and time, it lives in your thoughts and your hopes. We must find a way of making it live tomorrow as it lives today. The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Before closing the meeting, I should like to thank the speakers who have taken part in the discussion this evening, on behalf of all of us here. You have all seen howvaried are our points of view and what great advantage we find in this exchange of views between people from every corner of the world. I should like to express the thanks of the whole audience to ourcolleagues who have spoken this evening, to those who began the discussion and, in particular, to Mr. Bidault who introduced it, and to all the others who made contributions. We shall continue the discussion on the same subject tomorrow evening, with Mr. Zaldumbide, the Head of the delegation of Ecuador and a Vice- President of the General Conference, in the Chair. Speakers from several countries are to take part and the three who will open the discussion will be: Professor Jean Piaget, the Head of the Swiss delegation; Professor H, Hertik, the Head of the Czechoslovak delegation; and Mr. U Ba Lwin, the Head of the Burmese delegation. Afterwards, on Thursday evening, with H.E. Count Jacini, the Head of the Italian delegation, in the Chair, we shall hear Earl Russell, who is perhaps better known as Bertrand Russel; Rector Siassi, of the University of Teheran, the Head of the Iranian delegation; and Professor Eugène Dupréel, of the Belgian delegation. The meeting rose at 11.50 p.m. EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 28 September 1949 at 9.20 p.m. CONTENTS
15. Discussion of the general subject (continuation): Speakers: Prof. Jean Piaget, Prof. F. Her¢ik, U Ba Lwin, Mr. Tara Chand, Prof. Adam Schaff, Prof. Frisch, Prof. Roberto Ibáñez and Dr. B. Ernst Bushbeck 181 President: H. E. Mr. GonzaLo ZALDUMBIDE (Ecuador).
15. Discussion of the general subject (con- tinuation) The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I do not intend to claim your attention for more than a minute, for what I have to say would add neither to the matter of the debate nor to the prestige of the speakers. I just want to thank the public in Unesco’s name for enhancing the importance of these meetings by its presence and for reinforcing Unesco’s interest in this form of discussion. This debate has been organized in order that more direct contact could be established between that part of public opinion which is interested in these subjects, and Unesco.
131 I wish also to thank the speakers who have agreed to put before you without restrictions and with full justice to its importance, this problem of general interest. For reasons of geographical distribution, it has been decided that the order of speakers will be the following: Professor Jean Piaget, Professor Ferdi- nand Herdik, and Mr. Ba Lwin. The first to speak will be Professor Jean Piaget, psychologist and educationist, professor at Geneva University and Director of the International Bureau of Education. I call on Mr. Jean Piaget. Prof. Jean PIAGET (Switzerland) — [Transla- tion from the French] Mr. President, ladies and