SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE DRAFTING AND CO-ORDINATION SUB-COMMITTEE FOR THE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FIRST MEETING Wednesday, 28 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: later: The CHAIRMAN regretted that, on account of the late start of the Sub-Committee's work, * he was obliged to give up the chairmanship, as his pro- fessional duties required his presence elsewhere. Since the powers of the Sub-Committee had been extended to cover budgetary questions, he proposed that Mr. Roger Seydoux, who was also a member of the French delegation and particularly expert in budgetary matters, should replace him in the Chair. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) expressed the Sub-Committee's deep regret at the resignation of Mr. Francois from the chairmanship and pro- posed a vote of thanks and appreciation of the manner in which Mr. Francois had presided and overcome the numerous difficulties which had arisen. In the name of the Sub-Committee, he also extended a warm welcome to the new Chair- man, Mr. Seydoux. Mr. Roger Seydoux took the Chair. The CHAIRMAN read out the resolution adopted that morning by the Programme and Budget Com- mission ? defining the powers of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. He pointed out that, under the terms of re- ference decided by the Commission, the Sub- Committee's competence was confined to the examination of Part IIT of the Budget (Programme Operations).
1. The Sub-Committee had, however, held three meetings (Saturday, 24 September at 9.30 a.m., Mon- day, 26 September at 9.30 a.m., and Tuesday, 27 Sep- tember at 9.30 a.m.) and prepared report 4C/38 which was submitted to the Programme and Budget Com- mission at its twelfth meeting.
2. See Summary Record of the Tenth Meeting of the Programme and Budget Commission, p. 299. Mr. Louis FRANÇOIS (France) Mr. Rocer SEypoux (France) As regards the conduct of business, the Sub- Committee would follow Rules 69-78 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. Owing to the short time at its disposal, however, it was necessary to speed up the discussions as far as possible by limiting speeches to precise questions. The third paragraph of the resolution defining the powers of the Sub-Committee had therefore been amended to read as follows: Members of the Sub-Committee, as well as delegates, who wish to participate in this work may present amendments and make verbal proposals, and may participate in discussions upon invitation of the Chair- man, taking into consideration the directives of the Programme and Budget Commission. The working documents were as follows:
1. For the Budget, documents 4C/6, 4C/6 - Amendments (rev.) and 4C/6 - Amendments 3; For the Programme, documents 4C/5 (rev.) and 4C/5 (rev.) - Add. & Corr.; The provisional summary records of the Pro- gramme and Budget commission (4C/PRG/SR prov.); The various amendments submitted by the delegations. The Chairman then proposed the adjournment of the meeting, for he did not think that the Sub- Committee could usefully begin its work until the budget ceiling had been fixed by the Programme and Budget Commission. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) agreed that the pro- posal was a sound one as far as budget questions were concerned. He wondered, however, whether the Sub-Committee’s drafting work could not be started at once.       The CHAIRMAN did not think that it could be effectively carried out by a Sub-Committee of twelve members. He therefore proposed entrust- ing it to a Drafting Committee consisting of re- presentatives of Belgium, the United States of America, France and the United Kingdom. The Drafting Committee would meet that same day at 4 p.m. That proposal was adopted. It was decided to adjourn the meeting and to request the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission to have a decision taken re- garding the provisional budget ceiling as early as possible. The meeting rose at 3.50 p.m. SECOND MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 4 p.m. Chairman: The CHAIRMAN said that, under its terms of reference, the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee had to make the necessary budget alterations so as to arrive at the total figure of $8,000,000 decided by the Programme and Budget Commission, and, in so doing, to take account of the opinions expressed in the three Commissions of the General Conference. For that purpose, he proposed examining first the amend- ments involving reductions or increases of ap- propriations, after which the members of the Sub- Committee would be able to comment on any other items in the Budget. The Secretariat could then be asked to draft as quickly as possible precise proposals concerning budgetary reductions, Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) asked for an ex- planation concerning the utilization pf budget surpluses for the financial years 1947 and 1948. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the 1947 surplus was applied—in accordance with a resolution of the Beirut Conference—to the payment of the last million dollars of the Revolving Fund, and not to the reduction of Member States’ contributions to the 1949 Budget. This year, now that the Revolving Fund was fully reconstituted, it had been decided to apply the surplus to the reduction of the 1950 contributions of those Member States who had fulfilled their obligations to the 1948 Budget. Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) said that, in his opinion, the reduction would not amount to $140,000. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the further difference was due to the number of new States which had become Members of Unesco in 1948, and to the resulting adjustments.
333 Mr. Rocer SEYnoux (France) The CHAIRMAN observed that all reductions were made on the proposal of the Programme and Budget Commission. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out that the increase from $59,914 to $76,484 for the Book Coupon Scheme was not shown. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERALagreed that the effect of devaluation on the scheme should have appeared; the omission would be rectified. * Mr. EVANS (United States of America) expressed a preference for going through the Budget chapter by chapter. But he did not press his point as long as the Sub-Committee remained free to deal with items other than those presented by the Secretariat. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) supported the proposal of the United States delegate; close investigation might disclose details which could be immediately adjusted, thus gaining time. The CHAIRMAN said that delegations could, of course, at any time propose reductions. Would it not be advisable to begin the general discussion, as that would enable the Sub-Committee to examine all the items concerned? He asked the Deputy Director-General when the Secretariat would be able to submit its new proposals. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, if the Secretariat started on it that evening, the revised paper—which involved many intricate re- calculations—could be ready for discussion on Saturday morning. In reply to a question from M. PIAGET (Swit- zerland) whether the Sub-Committee was in-