SEVENTH MEETING Monday, 3 October 1949, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Antonio Castro LEAL (Mexico) Item 10 of the Agenda: Report to the Gen- eral Conference (document 4C/OXR/23). Mr. CHARPENTIER (Canada), Rapporteur, read the report paragraph by paragraph, with the exception of 4.A (Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere) and 8.A and B (Activities of Unesco in Germany and Japan) which were to be consi- dered by the Joint Commission-Programme and Budget and Official and External Relations meeting later that afternoon. The report was approved, with certain drafting and other modifications which are noted below.
4 B. Liaison with Member States and National Com- missions (page 2 and 3). Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested the word “emphasized” instead of “underlined” in the third line of the first paragraph. Agreed.
4 C. Institute of Cultural Co-operation for South and East Asian countries (page 3). Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) wished the expression “South and East Asian countries” to be replaced by “countries in South-East Asia”. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) proposed that the countries in question should be enumerated, instead of merely indicating the region concerned; that amendment would make the force of the resolution clearer without otherwise affecting it adversely. In that connexion, he recalled that Afghanistan, for instance, was situated geogra- phically in a region of Asia which might be regarded as part of Central Asia or as part of South-East Asia. The culture of his country was Islamic and not Asiatic. If a purely geographical, instead of cultural, division were taken, confusion might arise; it would, however, be avoided if the countries concerned in the project were listed. Mr. COWELL(United Kingdom) had doubts as to the feasibility of the delegate of Afghanistan’s suggestion. He thought that what the delegate wanted to say was that the resolution should state that the countries of South-East Asia did not include Afghanistan. That would be another way of dealing with the problem, instead of attempting to enumerate all the countries involved, which in his opinion was a bad principle to adopt, in legislation at any rate. Mr. Cowell would ask the delegate of Afghanistan to withdraw his objection on the ground that it was generally recognized that Afghanistan was not in South- East Asia. There was nothing mandatory about the resolution; the Commission was merely taking note of a proposal which might be developed later on. U MYA SEIN (Burma) supported the view of the delegate of the United Kingdom. Dr. ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) agreed that the resolution should remain unaltered, provided that it was clearly understood that there was no danger that the wording would cause confusion in the General Conference; the countries should be selected with regard to culture and not to mere latitude and longitude. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) remarked that the French Union was also interested in the project and wished to be consulted when enquiries were being carried out.
6 B 1. Consideration of the list of international non- governmental organizations approved for consultative status (pages 5-7). Mr. OZORIO de ALMEIDA (Brazil) asked that the word “inconsidérément” in the French version of the second paragraph of the preamble should be altered. There was an exchange of opinion on the words “First special review” (in the last paragraph), and Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) proposed the word “general” in the place of “special”. Agreed.
6 B ri. Review of the formal agreements concluded with international non-governmental organizations (pages 7 and 8). Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) and Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) suggested slight alterations in the wording of the French version of the second paragraph of resolution 33.5. As these alterations did not affect the substance of the resolution, it was decided to leave it to the Secretariat to work out the final form of words.   E E N — — p e p e      — —
6 B 111. Report of the Director-General on contracts concluded with international non-governmental organizations and grants-in-aid allotted in 1949 (pages 8 and 9). Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) proposed to substitute the word “concluded” for the word “esteemed”, in the second line of the first paragraph. Agreed.
11). Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), supported by Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America), sug- gested that the word “labour” should have a capital “L”, in conformity with the French text; otherwise the meaning of the resolution was not conveyed. Agreed. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) had no suggestion to make about the form of the resolution. He merely wished to remind the Commission that his delegation had refrained from giving an opinion on the text. Liaison with Labour organizations (pages 9- Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) suggested substituting the words “labour organ- izations” for the words ‘labour circles” in paragraph 2 of resolution II. The SECRETARY mentioned that the words “et de prendre toutes mesures en vue de sa mise en œuvre” should be added to the end of paragraph 1 of the French version of resolution II.
7 A. Consideration of draft regulations governing the approval by the General Conference of recom- mendations to Member States and international con- ventions (pages 11-14). Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) proposed that,
412 to avoid all ambiguity, the end of the French version of paragraph (b), sub-paragraph 1, should be amended as follows: . la session ordinaire qui suit celle à l’ordre du jour de laquelle la question aura été inscrite pour la première fois. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the English text could say the same thing with the word “first” inserted before “placed on the agenda”. Agreed.
7 B. Agreement with the French government on the Privileges and Immunities granted to Unesco (page 14). Alter a discussion between Professor EUSTA- THIADES (Greece), Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France), Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada), Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) and Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium), it was decided that the last paragraph of the preamble should be amended as follows: WHERFAS it is advisable to state in a definite head- quarters agreement the special immunities and pri- vileges which, independently of those mentioned in the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies, should be recognized as applicable to Unesco on French territory, in view of the fact that the Headquarters of the Organization is in France... Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) explained that the term “definite” was relative. It sould not be understood in any absolute sense, but merely as contrasted with the “provisional” nature of an exchange of letters. The meeting rose at 5 p.m.