SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION FIRST MEETING Monday, 26 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Opening of the session. The meeting was opened by Mr. Léo MUNDELEER (Belgium), who had been elected Chairman of the Administrative Commission on Tuesday, 20 Sep- tember 1949. Election of the Vice-Chairman. The CHAIRMAN stated that Dr. Yuan Tung Li (China) had been nominated for the office of Vice- Chairman. The nomination was seconded by Mr. NADI (Turkey) and adopted. Election of the Rapporteur. The CHAIRMAN announced that Mr. P. N. KIRPAL (India) had been nominated for the office of Rapporteur. The nomination was seconded by Mr. SEYDOUX (France) and adopted. Adoption of the Agenda (document 4C/ADM/1 rev. 1). The CHAIRMAN proposed that an additional sub- section (g): “Arrangements for the appointment of auditors”, should be added to item 4 (Financial Questions). With this amendment, the Agenda was adopted. Item 4 (a) of the Agenda: Presentation by the Executive Board of the report of the auditors on the accounts of the Organization as at 31 December 1948 and the first six months of 1949. Financial report of the Director-General for the year ended 31 De- cember 1948 (documents 4C/ADM/2, 4C/ADM/
2 (I) and Corrigendum, and 4C/ADM/2 (III)). Dr. WALKER the(Australia), Chairman of
425 Léo MunpeLeer (Belgium) Finance Committee of the Executive Board, pre- sented, on behalf of the Board, the report of the auditors on the accounts of the Organization as at
31 December 1948, and the report of the Audi- tors on the accounts of the Organization at
30 June 1949, with the comments of the Executive Board attached. The Board’s comments on the year ending 31 December 1948 were not very extensive and covered three main points: the arrangement of the budget, receivable accounts still outstanding, and currency conversion. The Board’s final comment was: There can be no question as to the propriety of these transactions since Unesco’s programme and the nature of its Revolving Fund make them necessary. This showed that, after considering the auditors’ report, the Executive Board realized that the finances of the Organization were being conducted on sound lines and had confidence in the Secretariat’s hand- ling of them. With regard to the Board’s comments on the auditors’ report at 30 June 1949, it was hoped that the General Conference would adopt the policy advocated by the Board at the end of paragraph 1 on page 1 of document 4C/ADM/2 (III) - Adden- dum: In the view of the Board the half-yearly audit may safely be dispensed with in future, and the annual audit of the accounts at the end of each year should prove sufficient. The Board’s second comment concerned a small supplementary measure designed to facilitate the task of the auditors and strengthen the action of the administration. The Board's third comment concerned a complicated question which would not arise if all Member States paid their contribu- tions in the year in which they were due. Atten- tion would later be drawn to the problems arising from arrears and document 4C/ADM/2 - Adden- dum showed arrears in contributions to the Budget at 19 September 1949 and arrears due to the       Revolving Fund at the same date. The Budget surplus at the end of each year was applied to reduce the contributions of Member States in the succeeding year, but that surplus was only real as long as all contributions were paid; otherwise it was a mere paper surplus. The Board's conclu- sion in connexion with the Auditors’ report at
30 June 1949 was contained in the last paragraph of document 4C/ADM/2 (III) - Addendum. The Board had reviewed with the Director-General the present financial state of the Organization and had taken note that the Director-General was bringing certain proposals before the General Conference regarding the treatment of Member States whose contributions were in arrears. The Board had decided to support the Director-General's appeal to Member States. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the Director-General had sent a telegram to all Member States whose contributions to the Budget and the Revolving Fund were in arrears for 1947,
1948 and 1949. Certain replies had been received: Canada and Greece had promised to pay their 1949 contribution in the near future, and one or two other Governments had stated that it would be possible for them to pay by the end of the year. On the whole, however, replies were not very encouraging and some countries had not replied at all. The continuation of the Organization's acti- vities had hitherto been made possible in part by the Revolving Fund; but, if arrears continued, the Fund might not be adequate to enable the Organ- ization to carry out the programme adopted by the General Conference. Mr. SMITH (Australia), on behalf of his Govern- ment, expressed appreciation of the clear statement made of the financial position of the Organization; he wished, however, to make certain comments:
1. On page 3 of Annex A of document
4C/ADM/2, his delegation was concerned at the $439,465 carried forward under Financial Regula- tion 26, as amended at Beirut; as that amount had been intended for activities in 1948, it would have been more appropriate for that amount to have been refunded to Member States and re-assessed in
1949. The Australian delegation was therefore pleased to see on the Agenda the proposed amend- ment to Financial Regulation 26.
2. On page 6 of the same Annex, the Austra- lian Government felt that the advance to the Res- taurant and Commissary should have been recorded in dollars, so that the Organization should sustain no loss in case of devaluation. This pro- cedure should apply to all advances, except those for strictly official purposes.
3. The Australian delegation felt that an explanatory statement on transfers would improve
426 the value of accounts submitted to Member States. For example, $210,000 had been transferred from the Reserve, but only $100,000 of it appeared to have been used to cover increased cost of living; the Australian delegation would therefore appre- ciate an explanatory statement. Mr. Smith referred to Exhibit IV in Annex A of document 4C/ADM/2: the sum of $836,232 recorded under liabilities appeared to be an accounting error, and not in accordance with the resolutions of the Beirut Conference. With regard to the problem of arrears, the Australian delegation was concerned at the effect they were having on the financial position of the Organization, and therefore moved that a sub- committee of the Administrative Commission be set up to investigate arrears of contributions and any problems arising therefrom: the sub- committee would report back to the Commission on its findings. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL, replying to the Australian delegate’s first point, stated that the Director-General would be glad if the Confer- ence amended Financial Regulation 26 and removed the carry-forward procedure. With regard to the figures given in document
4C/ADM/2 - Addendum, he announced that a contribution of $31,060 had just been received from Czechoslovakia. As regards the Australian proposal for a sub-committee he was glad to sup- portit. Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller), replying to the Australian delegate in connexion with the advance to the Restaurant and Commissary, stated that the amounts were kept in dollars if they were dollar advances, and in French francs it they were French franc advances. He pointed outthat, if the sums had not been advanced, they would have been kept in Unesco's bank account and devalued in any case. With regard to the point raised in connexion with Exhibit IV, the surplus on the 1947 budget was, by a special resolution passed by the Third Session of the General Conference, to be surrendered to the Revolving Fund and not to the budget next presented. The Balance Sheet was dated 31 December 1948, and the sum had been surrendered on 1 January 1949 and credited against assessments to the Revolving Fund. Mr. SMITH (Australia) thanked the Secretariat for the explanations given, but asked if the amount of advances in French francs was of such a size that it required the changing of additional dollar holdings into francs. Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) replied that the amount of advances was not large enough to change the over-all holding of French francs;         losses were sustained in the case of devaluation, but they were covered by the currency conversion reserve. The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that the Australian delegation had submitted a proposal that a sub-committee should be set up to consider the position of those countries which had not paid their contributions. He suggested that the sub-committee should consist of seven members. The proposal was seconded by Professor SOM- MERFELT (Norway and by Mr. BENDER (Ne- therlands). Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed that the sub-committee should be composed of representatives from the following countries: Aus- tralia, Canada, United States of America, France, India, Netherlands and United Kingdom. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) thought that Latin America should berepresented on the sub-committee. Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) thought that the sub- committee should include two members repre- senting States that were in arrears with their con- tributions. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, though the sub-committee might usefully establish contact with representatives of the defaulting countries, it was not necessary for the latter to be members ofiit. Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) did not agree, and remarked that the representatives of the defaulting countries would be able to give explanations at meetings, thus greatly facilitating the sub- committee’s work. It was decided that two representatives of the defaulting countries should serve on the sub- committee. Dr. ROJAS (Venezuela) proposed the addition of a delegate from Cuba. The CHAIRMAN thought it would be necessary to substitute two defaulting States for two of the countries originally proposed. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) remarked that the reasons why Canada had not paid its contribution were purely matters of parliamentary procedure. He offered to withdraw from the sub-committee. Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) remarked that Canada’s case was not exceptional and that other countries had encountered similar difficulties with regard to the payment of their contributions. Dr. RUIZ ESPARZA (Mexico) announced that the payment of his country’s contribution to Unesco was outstanding owing to a mere administrative delay, and the situation would soon be rectified The CHAIRMAN was convinced of the good will of all of the States concerned, and thought it un- necessary for the representatives of the defaulting countries to make statements on the matter, since the sub-committee which had just been set up would have special instructions to consider the problem. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France), supported by M. NADI (Turkey), thought that the two repre- sentatives of the defaulting countries should be selected with due regard to geographical distribu- tion. He suggested that one country in Latin America, and Poland should be chosen, mentioning the particular interest which the latter country had in the question. It was decided that the sub-committee should be constituted as follows: Australia, United States of America, France, India, Netherlands, Poland, United Kingdom and Venezuela. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that a telegram had just been received announcing the payment of the balance of Australia’s contri- butions. The two auditors’ reports were adopted. Item 4 (b) of the Agenda: Scale of contri- butions of Member States for 1950 (doc- ument 4C/ADM/3). U. KAUNG (Burma) stated that his delegation found the Secretariat’s formula on page 2 of doc- ument 4C/ADM/3 too rigid. It thought that a simpler form of calculation was needed and that it might be made on the basis of the number of days of effective membership in the year. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the quarterly basis was used rather than a daily basis, because it simplified the calculations and book-keeping of the Organization. Also, the quarterly basis was used by the United Nations. The introduction of calculation on a daily basis would be complicated and might entail some injustices. Document 4C/ADM/3 proposed a diffe- rent procedure from that hitherto adopted, owing to the change in the Unesco Calendar, which meant that the Conference in the Spring would be unable to calculate a scale in accordance with the United Nations scale for the current year. The Director- General therefore submitted to the Conference a formula adjusted to Unesco, but taking into account the United Nations scale. Mr. SMITH (Australia) stated that his Govern- ment’s view was that the Unesco scale could be
427       related as closely as possible to the United Nations scale He asked if there were any comments from the Secretariat, any departures of the proposed scale from the United Nations scale. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the scale was established on the basis of the United Nations scale, but it took into account Unesco’s special membership arrangements. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) asked what effect the joining of new Members would have on the percentage paid by other Member States. He asked the Secretariat to draw up a statement showing howthe new formula would work out in practice. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the Secretariat would produce the necessary paper and proposed that the discussion be postponed until then. It was decided to postpone further discussion until a later meeting. Contribution of Sweden. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) observed that the question of Sweden’s contribution should be handled with great care. The fact that Sweden had been over-assessed in the United Nations had been acknowledged by the United Nationsitself, as shown by its subsequent slight reduction of Sweden’s contribution. Unesco was free to do what it wished, and it should assess Sweden according to her real existing economic situation. He therefore proposed that Sweden's contribution should be reduced from 2.38 per cent to 2 per cent in the Unesco scale. Mr. SMITH (Australia), while sympathizing with Professor Sommerfelt's remarks, thought it would be a dangerous precedent to reduce the con- tribution of any one Member State so that it was not in proportion to the normal scale. He sug- gested that Unesco should go no further than reducing Sweden's contribution in the same pro- portion as that decided by the United Nations. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) pointed out that the reduction of a contribution to the United Nations affected its other Member States, but Unesco was not obliged to increase the contribu- tion of any other MemberState, if it decreased that of Sweden. He considered Sweden's case to be a special one which would not arise again. The CHAIRMAN mentioned that, as a reduction in the contribution of one country would neces- sarily mean increasing the contributions of other States, it seemed difficult to revise the percentages already fixed. He thought that the best solution
428 would be that suggested by Australia, i.e. that, as Sweden had asked for a reduction of its contribu- tion to the United Nations in view of the difficult circumstances of the country, it seemed right that, if Sweden obtained the United Nations” agreement, Unesco should also consent to a reduction. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERALreferred to the report of the United Nations” Committee on Contributions dated 29 August 1949, which recom- mended that Sweden's contribution should be reduced by 0.02 per cent. Professor DURING (Sweden) pointed out that, in spite of the reduction made by the United Nations, Sweden wasstill paying the eighth highest contribution, coming immediately after the perman- ent Members of the Security Council, India and Canada. With its population of 6.9 million, the contribution of Sweden calculated per capita was considerably greater than that of any other country. In authorizing the Government to join Unesco, the Swedish Parliament had emphasized the financial implications and stressed the need for economy. In view, therefore, of the report of the United Nations’ Committee on Contributions which stated that Sweden was over-assessed, and in view of the fact that Unesco’s General Confer- ence was free to make an adjustment which it considered justified, the Swedish Government requested the Administrative Commission to recommend to the General Conference that Sweden’s contribution should provisionally be reduced to 2 per cent. The Swedish proposal was seconded by Dr. BEN- DER (Netherlands) and Miss PEDERSEN (Den- mark). Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) asked whether the Administrative Commission was competent to fix Sweden’s contribution “provisionally”. The CHAIRMAN explained that only the plenary Conference could determine the final scale of con- tributions, but the Commission was competent to make suggestions to the Conference. The question was whether Unesco was willing to allow such a reduction before the United Nations did so. If so, it was to be feared that a precedent might be established which would encourage other countries to make similar requests. In the interests of Sweden, the Chairman sug- gested that the country’s final contribution should be fixed later but that, in the meantime, it should be provisionally set at 2 per cent. That procedure would avoid raising a question of principle. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) asked that the per- centage should be only 1.98 per cent, which was the figure contemplated by the United Nations.        The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that, if Sweden’s contribution were reduced, the contribution of other Member States would have to be increased. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) asked that, in preparing the paper to show how the formula worked out in practive, the Secretariat should take into account that Sweden was provisionally assessed at 2 per cent by the United Nations, showing howthat percentage would work out when adapted to the Unsco scale. The CHAIRMAN asked the Canadian representa- tive to agree to the proposed 2 9%, which was the provisional percentage accepted by Sweden; the proposal was then adopted. Item 4 (c) of the Agenda: Currency of con- tributions by Member States (document 4C/ ADM/4). Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) stated that, although assessed in dollars, the United Kingdom preferred to pay in pounds sterling. The CHAIRMAN replied that, according to para- graph I (1) of document 4C/ADM/4 (page 2), that was the United Kingdom's right. Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked for the transfer of Egypt from group (1) to group (2)—i.e. for authorization to pay his country’s contribution in French francs. Agreed. Document 4C/ADM/4 was adopted. * Item 4 (d) of the Agenda: Administration of the Revolving Fund (document 4C/ADM/5). Mr. SMITH (Australia) stated that his delegation suported the proposed change in name to “Working Capital Fund”, and also the suggestions made on page 3 of document 4C/ADM/5. The Australian delegation wanted an assurance, however, that the Director-General was satisfied that all loans made in 1948 would be paid by
1 January 1950. Tt also wanted an assurance that the fact that the Fund was held in dollars would have no influence on the currency of deposits to the fund which should be the same as that of con- tributions to the budget. Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) stated that all loans which were due to be paid by
1 January 1950 would be paid. With regard to deposits to the Revolving Fund, they would be made in the same currency as contributions to the
1 In final form: Resolution 22. budget and the Director-General would maintain them in dollars. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) said that his delegation hoped that, as arrears decreased, the Revolving Fund would play a decreasing impor- tant part in the finances of the Organization. Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) said that paragraph 2 of the suggested resolution (bottom of page 2) was not quite clear to him. He asked for an assurance that the Revolving Fund would remain at $3,000,000 for the time being, and that Member States who had paid their contributions to this fund in 1947, 1948 and 1949 would not be called upon to make further contribution. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL Dr. BENDER this assurance. gave Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that only new Member States who had not yet con- tributed would be asked for contributions. The ratio of contributons would be the same as contri- butions to the 1950 Budget. The CHAIRMAN drew attention to a proposed amendment in paragraph (m) of document
4C/ADM/5, providing that loans granted in 1949 should be repaid by 31 December 1954 instead of
31 December 1950, and that loans granted in 1950 should be repaid by 31 December 1955. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERALstressed the difficulties of the housing situation in Paris and pointed out that the opportunities for borrowing funds were more limited than in other places. Loans were never given by Unesco without proper security, and experience had so far been good; the Head of Personnel and other members of the Secretariat thought that the advance of funds from the Revolving Fund could increase the means of finding adequate housing for the staff without endangering the Organization. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) said that his delegation did not oppose the suggestion to use the Revolving Fund for staff housing, but thought it would be better if the Secretariat could provide additional information on the situation of loans already made, and a statement on other cred- it resources available to members of the Secre- tariat. He questioned the desirability of loans given over a period of five years. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that there had been no defaults so far. Mr. SELSKY (Head, Bureau of Personnel) replied to the question regarding credit facilities available. When Unesco had first come to Paris, the housing problem had been less acute; but,     with the arrival of the Marshall Plan and the head- quarters of other Specialized Agencies of the United Nations, competition had become extreme. Unesco could not compete with rents amounting to 50,000 frs. or 60,000 frs. a month. In order to achieve some stability, staff members should be enabled to purchase flats or houses. As regards other credit sources available, the Société Générale had informed the Secretariat that no ordinary bank in France would give credit for housing purposes. There was the “Caisse Hypothécaire”, which would give loans, but required very high security, that is, a minimum of 10 per cent on loans. Mr. Selsky therefore hoped that the Administra- tive Commission would give the proposal in doc- ument 4C/ADM/5 favourable consideration. Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked for further information about the proposed method of repay- ment; was the amount repaid at the expiry of the loan, or were monthly deductions made on the pay sheets of the persons concerned? Mr. SELSKY (Head, Bureau of Personnel) stated that reimbursement was effected on a monthly basis and was so arranged that there was no cred- it outstanding at the termination of a contract. Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought that the maximum duration of the loan should not exceed the length of the contract, and asked that that point should be madeclear in the text. Adopted. * Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) regretted that his delegation would be obliged to vote against the proposal in 3 (11), unless the Com- mission had a more specific statement of the con- dition underlying the loans. He proposed delaying action until such a statement was available. It was decided to postpone further consideration of paragraph 3 (11) to the next meeting and to regard the remainder of the document as adopted. Item 4 (e) of the Agenda: Amendments to the Financial Regulations (document 4C/ ADM/6). Regulation 26. The CHAIRMAN read out the proposed amendment to Regulation 26 (document 4C/ADM/6, pages 1 and 2) and drew attention to the fact that the amendment answered the Australian delegate’s remark. Adopted. * Regulation 2. The CHAIRMAN then read the proposed amend-
1. In final form: Resolution 23.
2. In final form: Resolution 24.1.
430 ment to Financial Regulation 2 (document 4C/ ADM/6, page 2). Mr. SMITH (Australia) asked whether supple- mentary estimates would be submitted to Member States in the same way as the ordinary budget, and afterwards be presented to the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN thought that, even if the Reg- ulations contained no specific provision to that effect, there would be nothing to prevent the Director-General from submitting proposals to the General Conference. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) hoped that, when submitting supplementary estimates, the Director-General would also submit a recast of the normal budget, showing increases and decreases. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) said that his delegation questioned the desirability of amending Financial Regulation 2 to allow for supplementary estimates, as it considered that the same end could be achieved in other ways; it was felt that the process of transfers within the budget, which had served hitherto, could profitably be continued. The United Kingdom delegation therefore wished to move the following resolution: That the Executive Board be given powers to transfer sums within the Budget for any one year in order to enable the Organization to undertake such pre- paratory work during the remainder of financial year (A) as may be necessary to implement the pro- gramme of the following year (B). The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERALexplained that amendment to Financial Regulation 2, proposed by the Director-General and supported by the Exe- cutive Board, was an attempt to bring the Finan- cial Regulations into harmony with Unesco’s new calendar. The Director-General prepared the budget estimates, and the Executive Board prepared the programme for 1951 for presentation to the Conference in the spring of 1950, a year or fifteen months in advance of the year in which they were to be put into execution. It was an uncommon situation and, in the circumstances, it was not an uncommon procedure to allow for supplementary estimates. It was quite possible in an Organization like Unesco that the Conference might decide upon a new course of direction for the Organization in
1951, and it would not be wise for Unesco to carry on, for the rest of 1950, a different programme from that envisaged for 1951. The matter had been discussed at great length in the Executive Board, which had at first been against the pro- posal, but had since come to the Director-General's opinion.       The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to agree on the adoption of the proposed text, on the under- standing that no supplementary obligation could be made without the authorization of the Gen- eral Conference. It was possible that devaluation, or the implementation of a new programme, might necessitate the appropriation of larger sums than those originally specified, but there was no question whatever of taking any steps outside the programme laid down by the General Conference. Mr. TALJAARD (Union of South Africa) thought that it was the word “supplementary” which created the difficulty, and suggested that it should be replaced by “revised”. Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) had the impression that what the United Kingdom delegate feared was that the Executive Board or the Secretariat might be authorized to make large transfers within the budget. He was convinced that that was not so, but asked the Chairman for confirmation of the point. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Commission should agree on the following form of words: At that time, he shall submit such revised estimates as he may consider necessary for the current year. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the suggestion would not quite meet the inten- tion of the proposed amendment, which was to make it possible for the Director-General to request supplementary sums. The supplementary esti- mates would have to be submitted first to the Executive Board and then to the General Confer- ence which alone was competent to vote on them. The amendment would thus not increase the powers of the Director-General. The CHAIRMAN stressed that the Director- General entirely agreed that he could not commit the Organization to any expediture without prior authority from the General Conference. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) sup- ported the Director-General’s proposal on the grounds that a budget which had to be formulated eight months in advance had to have some flexibility. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL feared that the situation was darker than Mr. Roseman imagined: the budget would be voted eight months before it came into action, but it had to be prepared five or six months before it was voted. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) pointed out that the United Kingdom resolution aimed at giving the Executive Board and the Director- General powers which they had not hitherto pos- sessed, namely to make transfers when the need arose. Unesco’s budgeting was on a liberal scale and every year, even eighteen months ahead, it could be seen that there would be some surplus funds which the Director-General and the Exe- cutive Board could use for needs that could not be foreseen. Mr. Thomas was afraid that his delega- tion could not accept the Chairman’s suggestion. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that a basic question of policy was involved, viz. how far the powers of the Conference should be delegated to the Executive Board. The latter already had some power of transfer, but the Con- ference could not authorize it to inscrease the total budget. It was for that reason that sup- plementary estimates had been proposed. With regard to surpluses, it was virtually impossible to tell where they would be before the end of a year. The CHAIRMAN was afraid that some delegates were still under a misapprehension; he wished to make it clear that it was not a question of giving the Director-General additional powers, but simply of indicating that, if he thought it necessary, he might ask the General Conference to pass supple- mentary estimates. It was therefore clear that the Director-General would not be able to present the General Conference with a fait accompli, as the Conference alone had power to take decisions. Supplementary appropriations requested for the execution of a programme laid down by the Gen- eral Conference could be refused by the Conference if it did not agree with them. Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) observed that, in his opinion, there were two misunderstandings: on the one hand, there was the question of transfers, and on the other, that of supplementary estimates. In the case in question, it was supplementary esti- mates and not transfers which were concerned, for the latter were already authorized in some instances. Moreover, in order to avoid any misunder- standing, and to be sure that the General Con- ference would remain the final authority on all decisions regarding supplementary estimates, M. Muggli suggested that the amendment should be submitted to a drafting committee, which should be instructed to make that definition clear. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) could not disagree with the Chairman’s argument, but he did not think that they were starting from the same premises. He recalled the slogan in England during the War: “Is your Journey Really Necessary?” The question asked by the United Kingdom delegation was whether supplementary estimates were really necessary. The Chairman     was arguing that they were, and the United King- dom delegation that they were not. Quite apart from the devaluation crisis, the experience of the past three years had shown that the amount of money appropriated by the General Conference was such as to ensure that there were always sums available for the Director-General and the Executive Board, who should be empowered, as they saw the work of the next year developing, to control those sums: therefore supplementary estimates were not necessary. The CHAIRMAN remarked that he himself was not certain that supplementary estimates were necessary, but was simply going on the supposition that a case might arise in which the carrying out of a given programme required larger sums than those originally fixed. It therefore seemed natural that, in such a case, the Director-General should be able to place the question before the General Con- ference; but, once more, the General Conference was the deciding authority. Dr. RUIZ ESPARZA (Mexico) proposed that the Director-General’s amendment be accepted, as the General Conference would always retain the power of accepting or refusing the supplementary estimates. Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked what would happen, if the draft regulation was not adopted, to the proposed alteration in the budget to take account of the effect of devaluation, since it was understood that the budget would have to be revised in 1950 as consequence of the economic position. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the devaluation was the first type of a situa- tion which illustrated the desirability of supple- mentary estimates. He asked the United Kingdom delegate why he was against giving the Director- General the opportunity, in an exceptional year, to present supplementary estimates to the next Session of the Conference. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) said that there was always a danger of arguing from the particular to the general. There was at present the situation caused by the devaluation, but the Organization’s work had not been held up in the last three years for lack of a regulation providing for supple- mentary estimates. The United Kingdom del- egation firmly maintained the view that to open the door to supplementary estimates would be to slacken the annual budgeting of the Organization. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) hoped that it would not be necessary to change the Financial Regulations every year, and again requested that the Director-General, when submit- ting supplementary estimates, should give a recasting of the minuses and pluses in the budget. He moved that the vote be taken on the amend- ment. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL, who still had warm hopes that the United Kingdom del- egate might change his point of view, pointed out that the experience of the Organization in the past three years could not be taken as an argument against supplementary estimates, as the principal reason for asking for them was the change in the date of the General Conference. He added that the Director-General and the Executive Board had proposed the amendment long before there had been any intimidation of devaluation. Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) regretted he was unable to support the United Kingdom delegation, as Canada was opposed to increasing the power of the Executive Board to make transfers. The Canadian delegation therefore supported the text contained in document 4C/ADM/6, but suggested that, when reporting to the General Conference, the Administrative Commission should state that it had noted the Director-General’s promise on page 3 of the document: It is not anticipated that any substantial number of supplementary requests would be made for any one year. Mr. SOLAMITO (Monaco) asked for the deletion of the words “at that time”, for he did not think it necessary to submit simultaneously a proposed budget and supplementary estimates. He also suggested that the words “supplementary esti- mates” should be replaced by “amended budget estimates”; as the sums involved were estimates which would have to be re-submitted to the Gen- eral Conference, they represented an amended budget and not supplementary estimates. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it would be difficult to accept the amendments pro- posed by the delegate of Monaco, as two budgets were involved: the normal budget for the ensuing year, and the supplementary estimates for the current year. M. SOLAMITO (Monaco) asked, if the phrase “supplementary estimate” was retained, it should be specified that it referred to the amended budget for the current year. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL saw no objection, as he assumed that, in submitting the supplementary estimates, the Director-General would, as proposed by the United States delegate, submit corrections in the existing budget, so that the Conference would be completely informed. He          wondered, however, whether it was necessary to add such a clause to the Financial Regulations. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) moved that the matter be put to the vote. The CHAIRMAN took it that first of the proposed regulation was adopted: The Director-General shall submit to each regular session of the General Conference a budget showing the estimated income and expenditure for the ensuing year. He pointed out that an amendment to the second part of the regulation had been proposed by the representative of Monaco, suggesting that the words “at that time” should be deleted and that the phrase “supplementary estimates” should be replaced by “amended budget estimates”. Mr. SOLAMITO (Monaco) withdrew his proposal concerning the deletion of the words “at that time”, as the Deputy Director-General’s explana- tions had set his mind at rest. He would like it, however, to be clearly understood that the adjust- ment applied solely to the current, and not to the ensuing, financial year. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the words “for the current year” appeared at the end of the sentence. Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) asked whether, in the event of the second sentence of the proposed amendment being deleted, and in the event of the Director- General being obliged to submit supplementary estimates to the next Conference, the General Con- ference could grant those supplementary requests. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that, without an amendment, the Director- General could not prepare and submit supple- mentary estimates. The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the following amendment text: At that time, he shall submit such amended budget estimates as he may consider necessary for the current year. The amendment proposed by Monaco was rejected by 19 votes to 3. The proposed amendment to Financial Regula- tion 2 (document 4C/ADM/6, page 2) was adopted by 20 votes to 2. ! Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) asked whether the supplementary estimates would to be approved by the Executive Board.
1. In final form: Resolution 24.2. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the Executive Board was not called upon to approve either the Director-General's budget orhis supple- mentary estimates, but it could submit comments on them to the General Conference. Regulation 4. The suggested amendment to Financial Regula- tion 4 (document 4C/ADM/6, page 4), was adopted. * Item 4 (f) of the Agenda: Reappropriation of certain categories of miscellaneous income (document 4C/ADM/12 rev.). Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) stated that his delegation approved in general the proposed tidying up operations, but wished to make certain comments on paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) on page 4 of document 4C/ADM/12 (rev.). It consi- dered the figure of 25 per cent in paragraphs (a) and (b) to be too low, and would prefer the substi- tution of 75 per cent in both cases. With regard to paragraph (c), it proposed that the word “obligatory” should be deleted in the second line, and that the words “authorized by the programme” should be inserted in the same line after “free distribution”. It was the United Kingdom del- egation’s opinion that something cheaply obtained was cheaply regarded, and it wished to see some brake put on free distribution. Mr. MENZIES (Head, Central Administrative Services) stated that the figure of 25 per cent had been chosen because it represented the price of re- printing a fair number of copies of the work involved. With regard to “obligatory” free distri- bution, it only applied to official distributions to Member States, National Commissions, Co-operating Bodies, etc. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) was reassured by Mr. Menzies’ reply. « Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) stated that his delegation would like the revenue from publications to go into the general budget. If revenues from miscellaneous income ware not expended in the current year, they should be reappropriated in the budget of the following year The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the text did provide for the revenue from the loan of personnel and sale of services to go back into the budget. It was only the revenue from
2. In final form: Resolution 24.3.   publications which went into a special fund, and that only up to the sum of $150,000: any revenue over that amount went back into the budget. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) moved an amendment that funds not expended on publications in one year should go into the next year’s budget. Mr. MENZIES (Head, Central Administrative Services) pointed out that receipts from publica- tions came in nine months to one year after the publication was issued. The Secretariat was anxious to allow for that delay and to safeguard the sum of $150,000, transferable from year to year. Anything over that sum would require carry-forward permission from the General Con- ference Document 4C/ADM/12 (rev.) was adopted as it stood. * Item 4 (g) of the Agenda: Arrangements for the appointment of auditors (document 4C/ ADM/13). Mr. SMITH (Australia) recalled that the proposals had been put forward by his Government, and outlined the reasons for these proposals as stated in document 4C/ADM/13. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) heartly supported the proposals on behalf of his delegation. The Australian proposals were adopted. * The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m. SECOND MEETING Tuesday, 27 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Lfo MunpeLeer (Belgium) Item 5 (a) of the Agenda: Report on the organization of the Secretariat (document 4C/ ADM/7). Mr. SMITH (Australia) stated that his delegation was pleased to see the steps already taken by the Director-General to implement the resolutions of the Third Session of the General Conference in the organization of the Secretariat, and more pleased to note that the Director-General expected to make further progress. He suggested that, as a concrete proposal to be considered, the period of time for allotments of appropriated funds be increased to twelve months. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) indi- cated the full agreement of his delegation with the direction taken by the Director-General, as shown in the report 4C/ADM/7. He believed that a general discussion of this subject might take place in a plenary meeting of the General Confer- ence. He thought there might possibly be some difference of opinion as to the extent to which decentralization should go, but felt that the report as a whole was to be heartily commended. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France), on behalf of his delegation, endorsed the remarks made by the delegates of Australia and the United States of America. The Conference had laid down general principles while leaving the Director-General fairly wide discretion with regard to their application, and the latter was entitled to hold the opinion that it was not desirable to make changes in the ad- ministration which might cause disorganization rather than reorganization before the Florence Conference. The French delegation considered that the few changes suggested by the Director- General were very wise, although it regarded them as only a stage in the carrying out of the Beirut resolutions. Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) associated himself with the approval expressed of the Director- General's first steps towards reforming the organ- ization of the Secretariat. He wished, however, to know whether those first changes were based on what the Administrative Committee of the United Nations had already done in the field in question. He also supported the United States delegate’s request in connexion with the effect of the adminis- trative reforms on the Organization’s budget. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) declared that
1. In final form: Resolutions 25.1 to 25.3.
2. In final form: Resolution 24.5.