THIRD MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949, at 11.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. The CHAIRMAN said that the documents for which the Secretariat had been asked were not quite ready and could therefore not be considered until the afternoon. The Florkin Committee had, however, prepared two documents, which were submitted to the Sub-Committee for examination. Miscellaneous Resolutions outside the Pro- gramme (document AMB — D.1339). The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of the reso- lution concerning aid to victims of the earthquake in Ecuador, which had been agreed to by Dr. Mar- tínez Báez. Adopted. The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of the resolution concerning relief for refugees in the Middle East, in connexion with which Mr. FLOR- KIN (Belgium) said that no contact had been made with the representatives of the Governments concerned. Adopted. The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of the resolution concerning the situation of Greek chil- dren, in connexion with which Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that he had received the assent of Professor Photiades (Greece) and had taken ac- count of the remarks made at the plenary meeting by Mr. Gros (United Nations). Adopted. Draft Amendements for the Second Report of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Com- mittee (document D.1388). Mr. NELSON (Australia) asked whether the drafting committee had considered the Australian suggestion that resolution 2.54 should be incor- porated in 2.1, i.e. that the rôle of the arts in general education should enter under General Edu- cation Clearing House. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) drew attention to the note stating that the “committee decided against transfer of 2.54 to 6.17”, which had seemed more in accordance with the wishes of the General Con- ference. Dr. CHAND (India) asked whether the study mentioned in 2.5222 would be completed in 1950; Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) replied that it was dif- ficult to fix a date for the completion of such work, and the CHAIRMAN agreed: in view of
33 ~ ( RoGER SEypoux (France) the magnitude of the study, the most that could be said was that it should be carried out as rapidly as possible. Dr. CHAND (India) considered that the study would be futile if it were not finished in the near future. The situation of free primary education in this part of the world was very bad, and the Indian delegation would like to see the matter hastened. The CHAIRMAN agreed, but thought that the problem raised by the Indian delegate concerned the substance of the question and should therefore be brought before the General Conference when the resolution was submitted to it for approval. Dr. CHAND (India) wording: “to complete a study in 1950... problems...”. Dr. BRULL (Cuba) proposed the deletion of the words “in 1950”, so that resolution 2.5222 would begin as follows: “To study, jointly with the International Bureau of Education, the prob- lems...” The CHAIRMAN did not think that that would satisfy the Indian delegation, which had asked for a time limit to be fixed. He thought it pre- ferable that the question should be raised at a plenary meeting. suggested the following of the Dr. CHAND (India) preferred the wording of resolution 2.5222 in document 4C/5 (rev.), which he considered to be more precise than the one proposed by the Florkin Committee. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) pointed out that the Sub-Committee was only empowered to formulate ideas emanating from the Programme and Bud- get Commission. He recalled that resolution
2.5222 had not been adopted bythe latter and that objections had been raised by the French and British delegates. The amendments introduced into the text under discussion were those that had been suggested by the Programme and Budget Commission. With the assent of Dr. CHAND (India), it was decided to submit the question to the General Con- ference. Dr. CHAND (India), referring to resolution 5.61,   asked why the study was to be confined to the continent of America, when there were large num- bers of aboriginals in India with problems equally grave. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that the only question which arose was that of the assistance to be given to the United Nations in the execution of one of its tasks. The CHAIRMAN announced that he had to attend another meeting; he asked Mr. Evans, Rap- porteur, to replace him during his absence. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) stated that the word- ing of the heading of Item 6.14 had presented certain difficulties: the English and French headings proposed in document D.1338 were not entirely satisfactory, and he would be glad if the Sub-Committee could suggest better ones. Dr. CHAND (India) did not consider that cul- tural material” gave the meaning of the French text. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) explained that the original term, “unique objects”, had not been acceptable to the Florkin Committee which had decided that all works of art were unique objects. After a long discussion, they had come to the conclusion that “material” was better than “works”. Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) thought that the heading “reproduction d’ceuvres de valeur cultu- relle” would be preferable in the French text. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) did not agree, for the word “œuvres” (works) was sometimes inap- plicable, particularly as regards scientific instru- ments of historical value. What was required was a word that would cover works of art, scien- tific and artistic objects and documentary material. Dr. CHAND (India) proposed “Reproduction of Material of Cultural Importance” in the English text. Adopted. The RAPPORTEUR mentioned that there had also been some difficulty over the wording of resolution 6.21; there had been a difference of opinion about the term “creative writers”. Mr. PADOUX (France) thought that, in French, “écrivains” was better than “littérateurs”. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) thought it should be made clear that “littérateurs” were meant, for the word “écrivains” also covered writers dealing with the popularization of science. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked if “littérateurs” had not a depreciatory sense in French.
338 Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) re- commended the use of “écrivains” in preference to “littérateurs”. Adopted. The RAPPORTEUR pointed out that resolution
6.212 should read at the end “international sym- posia of creative writers”. Agreed. The RAPPORTEUR wondered whether the ex- pression “objects of cultural value” in resolu- tion 6.42 could not be improved. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) considered that the text was perfectly clear and created no confusion. Dr. CHAND (India) asked whether the object of the resolution was to take care of all works of art, or only “objects of cultural value” created by aboriginals. The RAPPORTEUR said that the object of the Netherlands resolution (document 4C/PRG/10) was to protect more than works of art. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) remarked that the text under discussion was the original text of the reso- lution submitted by the Netherlands delegation. Dr. CHAND (India) thought that, if there was a connexion between 6.14 and 6.42, they should have the same wording. The RAPPORTEUR replied that the objects in view were entirely different. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), referring to resolution 7.2113, asked whether “missions” should not be in the singular. The RAPPORTEUR recalled that the Programme anb Budget Commission had indeed been in favour of a single mission. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) drew the attention of the Sub-Committee to the note on page 8, which stated that the number of regional technical co-operation missions depended on budget faci- lities. He imagined that the Secretariat would agree to send one mission first and, if it proved possible at a later date, to do some following-up work, even if this did not constitute a second mis- sion. Mr. SCHNEIDER (Head, Department of Mass Communications) said that, although the discus- sion in the Programme and Budget Commission had tended towards the establishment of one mis- sion, it had been agreed that, if the one mission were a success and the funds were not exhausted, they might be used for other missions if these were requested. The Secretariat would therefore prefer to keep the plural. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium), summing up, said that they preferred the plural form in the       Programme even if it was in the singular in the Budget. Adopted. Regarding resolution 7.22, the RAPPORTEUR thought it would be necessary to explain the re- ference to document 4C/45. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that the drafting committee had considered that the points raised in document 4C/45 already appeared in all the resolutions under 7.22 and, particularly, in reso- lution 7.2242 (text of document 4C/18 rev.) which supplemented the Programme. The RAPPORTEUR mentioned the omission of a comma after the word “production” in resolu- tion 7.2332. He asked whether any decision had been taken on the text of the last paragraph which was marked “not yet finished”. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) read the newtext pro- posed by the French delegation and approved by the Committee of Four at its last meeting; this text took the place of the one in document 4C/48: CULTURAL CERTIFICATES ConsipERING that it is important to encourage by every means the circulation of cultural materials and, in particular, films, recordings, books and art reproductions of a scientific and educational char- acter, THE GENERAL CONFERENCE SUGGESTs to the Director- General that he study, in collaboration with National Commissions, the possibility of giving to these ma- terials a certificate of cultural value. Mr. Florkin took the opportunity to mention a number of points that had been settled at the last meeting of the Committee of Four; he thought, however, that these points could not be dealt with forthwith, as the Sub-Committee was not in possession of the relevant documents. The RAPPORTEUR regretted that there was no English text of the resolution proposed by France. Mr. NELSON (Australia) proposed that it should be examined in the afternoon. Mr. PADOUX (France) thought that the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission was better quá- lified to deal with the matter. As there was no English text available, it was agreed to postpone the matter until the afternoon. Code of Policies The RAPPORTEUR proposed that the Sub-Com- mittee should consider the United States resolution regarding the Code of Policies (document 4C/13) and its relation with the directives approved by the Programme and Budget Commission (doc- ument 4C/5 rev., Part I). Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out that, at its twelfth meeting, the Programme and Budget Commission had adopted the resolu- tion submitted by the United States delegation (document 4C/13); this resolution suggested new lines for the directives and requested the Director- General to prepare a new draft in accordance with these suggestions for submission to the Florence session of the Conference. The Directives had therefore been adopted only provisionally. Sir Ronald drew attention to the danger of issuing provisional directives to National Com- missions, which in their turn would circulate them to schools and colleges. He feared lest, if they were changed in Florence, Unesco might look foolish. That point had not been realized by the United Kingdom delegation when it supported the United States resolution in the Programme and Budget Commission. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) was in favour of referring the matter back to the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, as he felt the danger pointed out by Sir Ronald Adam to be a very real one. Sir Ronald Adam’s proposal to recommend to the Programme and Budget Commission that it reconsider the decision to issue provisional direc- tives was adopted. The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.