TENTH PLENARY MEETING Friday, 30 September 1949 at 10.15 a.m. CONTENTS
17 the admission of new members .
19. the Rights of Man . Report of the Procedure Commiltee Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning
170 Statement of the President regarding the inauguration of the Exhibition of President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia). The PRESIDENT The Agenda for this morning’s plenary meeting contains two items; first, the consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of new members, document 4C/10. The second item is the report of the Procedure Committee, document 4C/PRO/8. This will be a short meeting, and we shall be adjourning early in order that the leaders of delegations may arrive in good time for the opening of the Exhibition on the Rights of Man, regarding which I shall be making an announcement at the conclusion of this meeting.
17. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the ad- mission of new members. The PRESIDENT — We take up the first ques- tion on the Agenda—Consideration of the recom- mendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of new members. I call on Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, Chairman of the Exe- cutive Board, to speak on this point. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) Mr. President, the history of this case is found in the resolution that I have the honour to commend to the General Conference. The Government of Ceylon submitted, on 8 November
1948, an application for membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organi- zation. As provided in the Rules of Procedure, this application was accompanied by the statement that Ceylon is willing to abide by the Constitution, to accept the obligations contained therein and contri- bute to the expenses of the Organization. In accor- dance with another Article of the agreement between United Nations and Unesco, the Executive Board transmitted this application to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.
169 During its Eighth Session that Council decided to inform Unesco that it had no objection to the admis- sion of Ceylon to the Organization. Following this decision the Executive Board decided to recommend to this Conference the admission of Ceylon as a mem- ber of the Organization. So I have the honour to request you to decide that Ceylon be admitted to membership of Unesco. It gives me very special pleasure to propose this, as India and Ceylon have been connected for many centuries in matters of politics, culture and economics. The PRESIDENT — The Conference has heard the proposal of the Executive Board. The actual text of the resolution which it is proposed that the Conference now adopt is on page 2 of doc- ument 4C/10. The text of that resolution would be to admit Ceylon immediately to membership of this Organization. You have heard the pro- posal. Will those in favour of the adoption of this resolution please show it by raising their hand? The proposal is carried unanimously.’ We are very happy to have with us Mr. Sene- viratne, who has previously acted as observer on behalf of the Government of Ceylon, and I would like Mr. Seneviratne to come to the tribune to say a few words. Mr. L. J. de S. SENEVIRATNE (Ceylon) — Mr. President, I have to thank you for two things. Firstly, for giving me the opportunity to speak this morning to the Conference, although I believe I cannot claim, as a mere observer, the right to do so. Secondly, for your kindness in advancing this particular item in the Agenda to this morning’s meeting, because I was anxious to ascertain, before I left for home, the decision of
1. In final form: Resolution 0.5.      the Conference on this application. I am here, of course, for the single purpose of thanking the Member States here present, collectively and in- dividually, for their kindness in unanimously ad- mitting Ceylon to membership of Unesco. Ceylon, as you know, is a very small country, and, compared with the great nations here pre- sent, a very poor country. Though old in its history, and though formerly connected with India both in its religion and in its culture, it is in a very special sense a new country, for it has a new administration, which has to tackle very new problems, or rather, to make a new approach to a number of problems which had previously been settled differently. Among these problems, that of education is the most important, and I know all Member States will be very pleased to hear that Ceylon has given the very highest prior- ity to the further expansion of what is already a fairly well-developed educational system. When, therefore, my Government decided to apply for membership, it was in the highest possible hope that its joining this great body of nations would enable it to tap the experience, knowledge and other resources of the States composing it. The PRESIDENT — We have listened with interest and appreciation to the statement by the representative of Ceylon, and we are very happy to welcome Ceylon to membership of this Organ- ization.
18. Report of the Procedure Committee. The PRESIDENT — We will now take up the next point on the Agenda for this morning—The Report of the Committee on Procedure—and 1 invite the Rapporteur of the Committee to pre- sent the Report. I call on the delegate of the United States, Mr. Mansfield. Mr. Mike MANSFIELD (United States of Amer- ica) — Mr. President, I have the honour to pre- sent the Report of the Procedure Committee to the delegates. The Procedure Committee met on Monday, 19 Sep- tember at 3.30 p.m., on Saturday, 24 September at
10.30 a.m., and on Thursday, 29 September at
9.30 a.m., as well as yesterday afternoon. Point I. The Committee first considered the draft amendment to Article IV of the Constitution of Unesco. The General Conference at its Third Session in Beirut had instructed the Director-General to com- municate this draft amendment to the governments of Member States, an instruction which was carried out by a Circular Letter of 16 February 1949. The Committee noted that this draft amendment had been duly communicated to Member States more than six months in advance in compliance with Article XIII of the Constitution. It further noted that this amendment did not involve any fundamental alteration in the aims of the Organization, or any new obligations for the Member States, and that there was no necessity for this amendment to be accepted on the part of two- thirds of the Member States before coming into force. Lastly, in the course of discussion, the Australian delegate, referring to the second paragraph of the amendment observed that, where the General Con- ference made an exception and authorized a Member State to vote even though it had not paid its contri- bution for two years, such permission should be given for one session only, and the case in question should be re-examined at the following session. The Com- mittee was of the opinion that this was the correct interpretation of the second paragraph and that there could be no doubt on that point. The Committee was anxious to make this inter- pretation quite clear, so that there could be no doubt as to the meaning of the text. The Committee therefore decided to recommend the adoption of this amendment by the Fourth Session of the General Conference, and is accordingly sub- mitting to it the following draft resolution: “THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, Having noTED the resolution adopted at its Third Session on the Report of the Administrative Com- mission, containing a draft amendmentto Article IV of its Constitution, CoNsIDERING that the draft amendment thus adop- ted was communicated to the governments of Mem- ber States more than six months in advance, ConsipERING that this amendment does not involve any fundamental alterations in the aims of the Organization or new obligations for the Member States, Aporrs the following amendment which will become paragraph 9 of Article IV of the Consti- tution; ‘A Member State which is in arrears in the pay- ment of its financial contributions to the Organi- zation shall have no vote in the General Confer- ence, if the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the preceding two full years. The General Confer- ence may, nevertheless, permit such a Member State to vote if it is satisfied that the failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation.’ Point II. The Procedure Committee then consi- dered the problem of securing concurrence between the terms of office of members of the Executive Board and the sessions of the General Conference. There were three possible solutions. The first was to keep strictly to the letter of Article V of the Constitution, and to arrange for newly-elected members of the Executive Board to resign office after serving their full time of three years. But owing to the fact that the Fifth Session of the General Conference is to be held in May 1950, nearly six months before the date of previous sessions, members of the Executive Board elected in May would not take up office until the beginning of December of the same year.    However, since members of the Executive Board are responsible ot the General Conference for the execu- tion of the programme adopted by it, newly elected members of the Executive Board could not control the execution of the programme until the second half of the current year, whereas members whose term of office had expired, would be controlling the execution of the programme for which they had no responsibility. Such being the case, the Committee rejected this first solution. The second solution, namely to extend the term of office of members of the Executive Board by six months, was also rejected, as it prevented the present session from holding an election and presented cer- tain technical difficulties. The Committee therefore adopted the third solution, whereby the term of office of members of the Exe- cutive Board would be shortened so as to coincide with the sessions of the General Conference. The term of office of members of the Executive Board will henceforth be three working years. They will take up their duties at the end of the session at which they were elected and will retire at the close of the third ordinary session of the General Conference following that election. To be carried into effect, this third solution would require an amendment to Article V of the Consti- tution, which would in turn involve a slight mo- dification to Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. By now we have some experience in amending Constitutions, but I should draw the attention of the General Conference to the fact that, if the draft we are considering today is adopted by the plenary Con- ference, it should be communicated to Member States not less than six months before the Fifth Session of the General Conference, to allow time for Member States to consider this draft, which cannot be adopted before the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The rules of procedure affecting the election of mem- bers of the Executive Board will not be changed at this Session. The Committee therefore puts the following reso- lution before the General Conference: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, Having NnoTED the Report submitted to it by the Executive Board regarding the term of office of its members, ConSIDERING that it is desirable for the term of office of members of the Executive Board to expire at the end of an ordinary annual session of the General Conference, InsTrRUCTs the Director-General: (a) To circulate to the Governments of Member States the following draft amendment to Article V of the Constitution, by replacing the first clause of the first sentence of paragraph 3: ‘the elected members of the Executive Board shall serve for a term of three years’ by the following: ‘the mem- bers of the Executive Board shall serve from the close of the session of the annual General Conference at which they were elected until the close of the third ordinary session of the annual General Con- ference following that election; (b) To submit this draft amendment to the Fifth Session of the General Conference for its con- sideration; (¢) To submit appropriate draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference to the Fifth Session of the General Conference for its consideration. Point HI. The Committee also considered an amendment to Rule 33 of the Rules of Procedure for the purpose of making a clear distinction between the respective responsibilities of a future Arbitral Tribunal and the International Court of Justice, re- garding the interpretation of the Constitution. After considering the drafts of the American, Australian, Canadian and Greek delegations, the Com- mittee puts the following draft resolution before the plenary Conference: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, WHEREAS Rule 33 of its Rules of Procedure may give rise to confusion, Decors that Rule 33 of its Rules of Procedure shall be cancelled and replaced by the following provisions: ‘RuLE 33: Interpretation of the Constitution:
1. The Procedure Committee may be consulted on any question concerning the interpretation of the Constitution and of the Regulations.
2. Its decision shall be taken by a two-thirds majority.
3. It may decide by a simple majority to re- commend to the General Conference that any ques- tion concerning the interpretation of the Consti- tution be referred to the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion.
4. In cases where the Organization is party to a dispute, the Committee may decide, by a simple majority, to recommend to the General Conference that the case be submitted for final decision to an Arbitral Tribunal, arrangements for which shall be made by the Executive Board.’ Point IV. Lastly, the Committee noted the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal set up at the request of the Third Session of the General Conference at Beirut. This decision, prefaced by very detailed considerations, is embodied in a very simple, clear text. The Committee accordingly submits the following resolution to the General Conference: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, Notes the following decision of the Arbitral Tri- bunal: ‘An outgoing member of the Executive Board may not be re-elected if he is not a member of his country’s delegation to the session of the General Conference at which such election takes place.’ I should also like to bring before the Committee the fact that the Procedure Committee has also considered a proposal introduced by the Mexican delegation, relating to certain additional changes in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, I move the adoption of this Report of the Procedure Com- mittee.    The PRESIDENT. — The Conference has heard, and the Conference has before it, the document
4C/PRO/8, the Report of the Procedure Com- mittee. The Rapporteur has moved the adoption of the Report. I do not know whether the Con- ference desires to take up separately, one by one, these several Resolutions which are proposed, or whether it would be prepared to take a vote on the Report as a whole. I would, however, from the Chair, like to make a suggestion regarding the first of the matters dealt with, namely, the con- stitutional amendment. That, I think, undoubtedly requires a separate vote of the Conference. I have informed myself of the effect which the adoption of this amendment would have upon the rights of the delegates present at this Conference. I am informed that one delegation, namely Saudi Ara- bia, would be deprived of its right to vote if this amendment to the Constitution were adopted. There are two other delegations which have, as it were, narrow escapes from falling under the penalty imposed by this proposed amendment to the Constitution. I would like to suggest, there- fore, that we postpone the actual vote on the amendment of the Constitution until one of the last of the plenary meetings, for it seems to me that, however much we may agree on the principle of this amendment, it would be desirable not to apply it at this stage of a Conference. If we vote at the end of the Conference, every delegation will know where it stands, and will know that this regulation, this part of the Constitution, will apply to the Florence Conference. Such procedure will also avoid the necessity of our embarking imme- diately upon a discussion as to whether we should take advantage of the second paragraph of this amendment, namely, that which would permit the Conference to take a special vote to allow, as a con- cession, a Member State to exercise a vote if its arrears were due to facts beyond its control. Rather than have any such discussion at this Con- ference, I think it would be wise to postpone the actual vote on this amendment until a subsequent session. Nevertheless, that would not, in my opinion, prevent the plenary meeting from adopt- ing the report of the Committee, although the vote to amend the Constitution would only have legal effect when explicit special vote has been taken by the plenary Conference. Does anybody wish to speak on that first point? The delegate of Czechoslovakia. Dr. Vaclav NAVRATIL (Czechoslovakia) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, on behalf of the Czechoslovak delegation, to add remarks concerning the proposal of the Executive Board in connexion with the contributions, and the amendment on the fulfilment of the obligation of payment. This question, in our view, is a very delicate one. There are many countries that are in arrears with payment because the world cur- rency situation is not stable. That is quite under- standable nowadays. It is therefore beyond the control of some Member States if they are in arrears with payment of their contributions. If you consider the matter from this point of view, it would, in our opinion, not be quite right on our part to deprive these countries of the right to vote, it would not be quite democratic to eli- minate them from co-operating here. Therefore, it would, in our view, be very good if we could postpone the consideration of this point, either until the end of the Conference, or, even better, to the Fifth Session of the General Conference to be held next year in Florence. The PRESIDENT — The delegate of Czechoslo- vakia has proposed that this be considered either at the end of this Conference or at the Florence Conference. My own suggestion from the Chair was that we should discuss the Report now, in- cluding this question of principle if you desire, and, if possible, vote on the Report as a whole, that the vote of the plenary meeting to amend the Constitution, be held over until the end of this Conference. It would have the advantage that Member States would know where they stand at the end of this Conference. If a decision is held over until Florence, then of course the matter would remain in doubt until the Florence Confer- ence. Does anybody else wish to speak on this point? Is there any form of proposal regarding the treatment of this matter, or does the Confer- ence desire to move on the next part of the Report? I think we may move on to the next report relating to the term of office of the members of the Executive Board. There is a resolution on page 3 of document 4C/PRO/8 the effect of which is to circulate to Member States a proposed change in the Constitution, modifying the term of office of the members of the Executive Board: instead of serving for three calendar years, they would in future serve for three working years, and the working year would be defined by the time be- tween annual conferences. If we adopt this, it will not enter into force until it has been circu- lated to Member States, brought back to the next Conference and voted on formally as an amend- ment to the Constitution. But we are invited by our Committee of Procedure to approve the circu- lation of this proposal to Member States, with the recommendation from this Conference that it be adopted at the next Conference. Does anybody wish to speak? May we proceed to Point III in the Report, relating to the respective responsibilities of any
172      future Arbitral Tribunal and the International Court of Justice regarding the interpretation of the Constitution. We have before us, on page 4 of the document, a proposed resolution for the General Conference, deciding to amend Rule 33 of the Rules of Procedure. This change in the Rules of Procedure would make our own Proce- dure Committee the authority for dealing with problems of interpretation, and, unless a decision is taken to refer the matter of the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion as in paragraph 3, or in cases where the Organization as a whole is party to a dispute, provision is made for the reference of the problem to an Arbitral Tribunal, if necessary. Does anybody wish to speak on that proposal? The delegate of Canada. Mr. R. H. JAY (Canada) — Mr. President, fel- low-delegates, I am not sure whether it is neces- sary for me even to be here, but I would rather be safe than sorry. When in the Procedure Com- mittee this item was approved yesterday, it was asked that it be written into the records that this method of approaching the International Court of Justice would not preclude any Member State from rising in the plenary meeting to ask that an ap- proach to the International Court of Justice on any question of interpretation be made. The Canadian delegation thinks that it would be advis- able if a similar remark were written into the records of the plenary session so that it would be quite clear that, though this is one method of securing an approach to the International Court of Justice, it does not preclude any Member State from asking the plenary session—which is the sovereign body—whether it would consider re- questing the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion. The PRESIDENT — The declaration by the delegate of Canada will appear in the verbatim record of this meeting. We proceed to point IV. Point IV merely takes note of the advice that we have had from an Arbitral Tribunal regarding interpretation of a section of the Constitution. This action of ob- taining an opinion was taken on the direction of the Beirut Conference, and we merely have to take note of the advice that we have received, which does affect, of course, the eligibility of certain candidates for election to the Executive Board. The General Conference is invited to note the fol- lowing decision of the Arbitral Tribunal: An outgoing member of the Executive Board may not be re-elected if he is not a member of his coun- try’s delegation to the Session of the General Confer- ence at which such election takes place. Does anybody wish to speak? If nobody wishes to speak, I take it that we have completed the discussion of the Report of the Procedure Com- mittee. With your consent I propose we proceed to the adoption of the Report as a whole, involving the acceptance by the Conference of the resolutions contained in Parts II, III and IV of document
4C/PRO/8, none of which amounts to an alter- ation of the Constitution, but are merely the re- gistering of resolutions by the Conference. If we adopt that procedure, I would propose to consult with the General Committee of the Conference, regarding the date on which we would take the formal vote on the amendmentto the Constitution contained in Part I, that is, the amendment re- garding the voting rights of members who are in arrears. Now, is my proposal clear that we adopt the Report of our Procedure Committee, including the resolutions figuring in Parts II, TIT and IV, which then become Decisions of the Conference, and that we postpone to a later meeting of the plenary Conference the decision on the proposed amendment to the Constitution contained in Part I? Is there any objection to that course being followed? It is taken that the Conference agrees to the course proposed, that the Report of the Procedure Committee is adopted,’ and that the resolutions contained therein are adopted, with the exception of that resolution emending the Constitution, which will be the subject of a separate formal vote on a later occasion during this Conference.
19. Inauguration of the Exhibition of the Rights of Man. The PRESIDENT — 1 propose to close the meeting in a few minutes, in order that we may proceed, in accordance with the arrangements made, to the inauguration of the Exhibition of the Rights of Man. This exhibition is referred to in a document that went to all heads of delegations, 4C/D/2, and it figures also on the last page of today’s Journal. This exhibition, organized by Unesco at the Musée Galliera, will be opened officially at 11.30 a.m. today. For reasons of health, the President of the Republic, Mr. Vincent Auriol, will unfortunately not be able to be present at the inaugural ceremony, as he had kindly consented to be. The President of the Republic has delegated Mr. Yvon Delbos, Minister of Education, to represent him on this occasion. Heads of delegations are asked to meet in the entrance hall of the Musée Galliera at 11.15 sharp this morning. The access to the Museum will be by the entrance at No. 10 Avenue Pierre de
1. In final form: document 4C/Resolutions, Section V.
173     Serbie, that is, not the entrance in front of the Museum of Contemporary Art, but the entrance in the Avenue Pierre de Serbie. All delegates are invited to be present, or to enter the exhibition at 11.30 a.m. following the entry of the Minister representing the President of the Republic. The Director-General hopes that there will be a large attendance at the opening ceremony.
1 have received, on this occasion, from Dr. H. B. Evatt, the Australian Deputy Prime Minister, and President of the United Nations Assembly in Paris last year which adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Resolution which requested Unesco and other Specialized Agencies to propagate this Declaration, a message which, with your permission, I would like to read and which has already been distributed as a document of the Conference, No. 4C/D/1. This is Dr. Evatt’s message: I had the privilege to be President of the General Assembly which adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Paris last year. I believe this Declaration will stand as a lasting monument to the United Nations and to the great city of Paris, especially having regard to its historic association with many past struggles for the liberation of the human spirit. The Declaration was a solemn pronouncement by governments, that power exercised by governments is to be used by them, in trust, for the benefit of those they govern. It is my fervent hope that the efforts of the United Nations will be as successful in propounding a Co- venant and measures of implementation as it was in propounding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I commend the United Nations Educational, Scien- tific and Cultural Organization for spreading know- ledge of and respect for the lofty principles of the Declaration of Human Rights. I will nowclose this meeting, and invite parti- cularly the Vice-Presidents and members of the General Committee, together with the heads of delegations, to be sure of being at the Musée Galliéra at 11.15 sharp. The meeting rose at 10.50 a.m. ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949 at 11 a.m. CONTENTS
20. Election of six members of the Executive Board
21. Decision on the place of the Fifth Session of the General Conference, on the Report of the Executive Board . President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia).
20. Election of six members of the Ex- ecutive Board. The PRESIDENT. — Thefirst item on the Agenda is the election of members of the Executive Board. I invite the Secretary of the Conference to read the relevant Rules of Procedure. The SECRETARY read Rules 95, 96, 97, 30, 87 and 89 of the Rules of Procedure. The PRESIDENT — The Nominations Committee has met and has considered this matter, I call on Mr. Allen, Chairman of the Nominations Commit- tee, to present the Committee’s Report. Mr. George V. ALLEN (United States of Amer- ica) — Mr. President, I have the honour to sub- mit the Report of the Nomination Committee, which held its third meeting yesterday, 30 Sep- tember, to consider nominations for the seats of the Executive Board to be filled at the present session of the General Conference. In its deliberations the Committee took due note of the Report of the Procedure Committee approved yesterday by the General Conference in plenary ses- sion, concerning the eligibility for re-election of Board members whose mandate had expired, and the concurrence of the term of office of the members of the Executive Board and the ordinary sessions of the General Conference. In this latter respect, the