FOURTH MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman:
1950 Budget Summary Table The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERALpresented the new 1950 Budget Summary Table on behalf of the Director-General; he explained that it was an attempt to arrive at an $8,000,000 budget, taking into account all the recommendations and pro- posals of the Programme and Budget, Adminis- trative, and Official and External Relations Com- missions, as well as the recommendations of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The Table was accompanied by a series of individual sheets indicating the corresponding budget item, project total, page number in document 4C/6. objects of expenditure and revised budget total, together with an explanation of the increase or decrease. The Director-General had given very careful thought to the various proposals of the Programme and Budget Commission and had con- sulted with Heads of Departments and Bureaux to see how far it was possible to make adjust- ments. In taking the decisions which had led to the new table, the Director-General had had to make some choices, with which the Sub-Com- mittee was free to disagree. The table showed the adjustments proposed in all four parts of the Budget, and Heads of Departménts and Bureaux were present to answer any questions and explain the programme consequences of the modifications. It would be noticed in Part II that there was no change in the total exceptas far as the Statis- tical Office was concerned. The reason for this was simple: the estimates of none of the services had been cut in respect to personnel; it so hap- pened that in Part II, 75 per cent of expenditure was on personnel who would not be directlyaffected by cuts proposed in Part III. The policy of the Director-General was not to propose personnel cuts: if any cuts were to be made in Part II, they would have to be in the Director-General's travel- ling expenses, those of consultants or items of a similar character which, in any Case, were ex- tremely small. Inevitably, therefore, the percen- tage of the total budget which Part II represented had increased. In conclusion, the Deputy Director-General re- peated that the new documents before the meeting constituted suggestions of the Director-General as to the manner in which it would be possible to reduce the budget figure from $8,847,000 to Mr. Roger Seypnoux (France) $8.000,000, showing the consequences of the adjustments. The Sub-Committee was free, if it wished, to change the table and propose the re- storation of a suggested cut, or an alternative cut. The CHAIRMAN suggested that there should first be a general discussion on the circumstances in which the Secretariat’s table had been drawn up, and that the reductions proposed should then be considered, item by item. General Discussion Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), speaking only as the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Com- mission, had had the difficult task of recording its decisions. in the light of which the Sub-Com- mittee was about to take decisions at the present time. In many cases there had been no decisions in the Programme and Budget Commission and he had therefore had to fulfil the functions of a clairvoyant: he felt it was his duty to say that the new Summary Budget Table did not appear to be in accordance with those decisions which had been taken by the Programme and Budget Commission. He issued this warning in order that the Sub-Committee might protect its flanks against any subsequent criticisms in the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. He would be glad to read his record of the decisions taken if required. The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Pile for his useful remarks and said that his presence would facilitate the Sub-Committee’s task by reminding it, when it discussed the various items, of the views of the Programme and Budget Commission, which would be taken into careful account. Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) reminded the meet- ing that it had been agreed that the adjustment should be made, in the first place by taking into account the amendments adopted by the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission, and then by proceeding to new adjustments on the basis of the Secretariat’s proposals. He said he would like to know what was the total amount represented by the adjustments involved by the Programme and Budget Com- mission’s amendments, and the total amount represented by the adjustments proposed by the Secretariat itself.         Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) feared that the Sub-Committe would enter into the realm of clairvoyance if it followed the suggestion of the delegate of Switzerland. The Programme and Budget Commission had approved only one de- finite cut, all the rest having been left in suspense: he therefore thought that the Secretariat had been perfectly right in preparing the new table, taking into account all the suggestions made by the vari- ous Commissions, and in trying to produce a new budget which, while arriving at $8,000,000, would do least harm to Unesco’s Programme. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) agreed with Sir Ronald that the Secretariat had done its duty in producing a document to serve as a basis for discussion, which represented its own judg- ment of the best way in which the money should be distributed. The CHAIRMAN noted that the Secretariat’s Table was quite satisfactory and suggested that it should be considered item by item, beginning with the reductions that the Secretariat had pro- posed. Consideration of the reductions Part 1. General Policy B. Executive BoArDp The CHAIRMAN drew attention to a reduction of $20,000 under the item “Executive Board”. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked if the devaluation had been accounted for in the figures. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the figure of $575,421 at the bottom of the table showed the total deductions from devalua- tion: it had been impossible, in the time available, to calculate the exact effect of the devaluation on each programme item. Part II. General Administration B. Bureau or EXTERNAL RELATIONS Mr. EVANS (United States of America) said that his delegation felt that External Relations had too large a super-structure including, not only the Bureau, but the New Liaison Office, the Cultural Liaison Service of the Middle East and the Division for the equipment of National Commissions. His delegation reserved the right to bring the matter up again at the Fifth Session of the General Con- ference. E. STATISTICAL OFFICE The CHAIRMAN drew attention to a reduction of $5,000 under the item “Statistical Office”.
341 Mr. EVANS (United States of America) stated that his delegation had studied this item very care- fully and had noted that the increase from the previous year was more than 300 per cent which was considered too high. The United States del- egation had contemplated a cut of $25,000 for this item and, while not criticizing the allocation of $10,000 for a contract with the International Statistical Institute, it would like more informa- tion about the Statistical Office. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that, under its agreement with the United Nations, Unesco recognized the United Nations as the central agency for international statistics, and the United Nations recognized Unesco as the cen- tral agency for the collection, analysis, standard- ization and publication of statistics in the fields of education, science and culture. So far, Unesco had not been able to fulfil its obligations towards the United Nations, which had had to undertake itself the collection and publication of educational statistics: hence the proposed increase of person- nel for the Statistical Office. It was not just a question of collecting statistics, but of showing to the world, by means of statistics, the general educational situation. For example, the problem of illiteracy was growing worse in some parts of the world and people should be informed of this, especially in view of the Fourth Point Programme. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) was very glad to hear Dr. Beeby’s explanation, but still wondered whether the rate of growth of the Sta- tistical Office was reasonable in view of the dif- ficulty of recruiting good statisticians. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out that two kinds of statisticians were required: statisticians to collect the material and then more highly qualified ones to analyse, standardize and publish it. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that the personnel estimate had been based on the recommendations of a committee of experts who had considered that it would be possible to find the statisticians they recommended. A con- siderable amount of work had already been done, and the Secretariat had sent out a questionnaire on educational statistics which should be returned before the beginning of the new financial year. The Statistical Office also had functions within Unesco House, checking all questionnaires before they were sent out and all statistical materials going through the House. The modest team pro- posed could be recruited by the end of the year and they would find more than enough work to keep them busy. Mr. NELSON (Australia) criticized the balance   E e a a AL A E n s I     e e _   of posts in the Statistical Office. He suggested that two high-grade posts and five low-grade posts would be more appropriate. The fact that most of the data came from national sources should reduce the need for staff and work. He was glad that the Secretariat’s suggestion was based on the advice of an expert committee, but thought that the latter might be inclined to inflate needs in its own field. Mr. GROS (United Nations) said that, so far as he knew, the United Nations could not do the very specialized work that Unesco had undertaken. He hoped that the reduction, if agreed upon, would in no way prejudice the result of this work. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) observed that Mr. Nelson’s points were valid in the case of a national statistical unit where statistics were obtained in the raw and then computed. Unes- co’s Statistical Office, however, would have to compare and analyze material already computed, which was not a hack-job and required high ability. In the second place, the Office was also called upon to analyse and compare the statistics asked for by all the Programme Departments, as well as the statistical material within Unesco House, such as cost of living, etc. The CHAIRMAN noted that there was no objec- tion to the development of the Statistical Office, the need for which had been emphasized by the representative of the United Nations, but that some uneasiness had been expressed on the subject of the recruitment of good statisticians. It was for the Secretariat to say whether such recruitment was possible, and Dr. Beeby had given some assur- ances on this score. This said, the Chairman noted that a reduction of some 10 per cent on this item was proposed. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) was satisfied with the explanations given and would not propose a specific reduction; but, if further cuts were later found necessary, he would reserve the right to reconsider that item. Part III.
1 The CHAIRMAN said that here a reduction of $5,600 was proposed. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) recalled that the Programme and Budget Commission had agreed on a reduction of $6,500 under this item and the Secretariat had agreed that the cuts were right; if it later became necessary to make further cuts, Sir Ronald reserved the right to return to this point. Programme Operations B. RECONSTRUCTION CAMPAIGN
342 The CHAIRMAN said it would be possible to revert to this section later, as actually a larger reduction had originally been proposed.
1 The CHAIRMAN said that here an increase of $25,000 and a reduction of $13,000 were proposed. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) asked for some ex- planations with regard to the suppression of con- tracts with non-governmental organizations, which accounted for the reduction proposed. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) recalled that the Conference had decided to increase Emergency Aid by $25,000 in order to continue aid to Arab refugees in 1950, which made it possible to drop the $10,000 pro- vided for a contract with a non-governmental organization to perform educational services for the said Arab refugees. The CHAIRMAN then said that leaf 1.3 of the explanatory file provided for a reduction of $3,000 on the item “International Voluntary Work Camps and Children’s Communities”. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) explained that two reductions had been made, $2,000 on conferences and meetings and $1,000 on contractual printing; there was a considerable demand for Unesco’s publications on work camps which had become out of print: in order to save money, the number of copies re- printed would have to be reduced. Mr. NELSON (Australia) asked why the rental of furniture and equipment, motor-vehicles and building came under this head in 1950, when it had not in 1949. With regard to the foot-note about pamphlets being prepared on a modest basis for restricted distribution, he thought it would be preferable to have fewer and better publications with a wider distribution. Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Department of Re- construction) explained that a seminar for work camp leaders had been held at Royaumont near Paris, which explained the rental items queried by Mr. Nelson. With regard to the pamphlets, they were not new ones, but documents requiring to be brought up to date and for which there was a great demand. C. EMERGENCY ACTION By UNESCO.
9. B. EDUCATION CLEARING HOUSE The CHAIRMAN said that under this item there was a proposed increase of $10,000 and a pro- posed reduction of $38,500. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) referred to educational missions and asked Dr, Beeby       whether it was not very difficult to arrange his budget, since he did know where the missions were to go. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) replied in the affirmative, but said that there were certain indications to help the Secretariat: the missions were unlikely to go short distances and the esti- mates assumed that one would go to Latin Amer- ica, one to the Middle East and one to the Far East. If one went to a place in Europe, the ex- penses would naturally be reduced. Miss LAISE (United States of America) re- called that, when the United States delegate had spoken in the Programme and Budget Commis- sion on educational missions, he had suggested that a reduction could be made in fees: she did not understand why fees for three missions in
1949 amounted only to $47,900, whereas fees for a single mission in 1950 showed a sharp increase. It had been announced that the cost of three mis- sions in 1949 would be about $100,000, but only $47,900 were shown in the Budget estimates be- cause the rest of the money had been carried over from 1948. She asked why the Secretariat had not shown in its Budget estimates the total carry- over from 1948 of $439,000. Mr. WEITZ (Acting Head, Bureau of Adminis- trative Management and Budget) explained that there were two reasons for the failure to mark the carry-over from 1948: in the first place, the column in question was entitled “Estimated Obli- gations for 1949” calculated on the total budget appropriation of $7,000,000 appropriated at Beirut; to have added the sum carried over from 1948 would have only created confusion. In the second place, the fact that missions authorized in 1948 had been carried out in 1949 was due to a peculi- arity in the Financial Regulations providing for a carry-forward procedure. The Finance Com- mittee of the Executive Board and the Panel of Financial Experts had proposed an amendment to the Financial Regulation concerned which, if adopted by the Conference, would eliminate the carry-forward procedure. It had at first been in- tended to insert a foot-note under items for which a carry-over was provided but, as the carry-forward document had been considered by the Executive Board at its Thirteenth and Fourteenth Sessions and distributed to Member States, it had been thought that the foot-notes would be an unneces- sary complication in the Budget estimates. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) requested the Secretariat to produce a short addendum showing the carry-forward figures, so that del- egates could correct their own figures in the Budget.
343 The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, as the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission had voted, by a large majority, in favour of maintaining the figure proposed, there was no point in prolonging the discussion of this item. Miss LAISE (United States of America) observed that she had not been proposing a reduction, but had wished to point out that the carry-forward figures, which affected all the parts of the Budget, were not indicated in the Budget estimates. On the subject of Educational Seminars, Mr. ABRAHAM (France) said that, without wish- ing to make a formal proposal in opposition to that of the Secretariat, he felt he must express regret that the seminar proposed for the Middle East had been suppressed. He recalled that, when the plan for the seminar proposed by Uruguay had been adopted, the French delegation had felt some uneasiness as regards the budgetary implications of that plan. He was glad that Uruguay had obtained satisfaction and that the literacy campaign was being carried on actively in South America, but he keenly regretted the suppression of the seminar which was to have taken place in a part of the world that merited special attention. The CHAIRMAN said that the Sub-Committee shared the regret felt by the representative of France. Dr. SIASSI (Iran) expressed particular regret, and asked that the representative of the Secretariat should give some explanation of why it had been decided to suppress this seminar. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General), refer- ring to the question of the seminar in Uruguay, stated that the $10,000 provided for services covered the collection of documentation for the seminar for Europe and the rest of the world, excluding the American Continent, and the send- ing of experts to the seminar. With its restricted budget, Unesco was unable to meet any other re- quests from Uruguay. The seminar in the Middle East was an unusual one: Unesco had been expect- ing to send a mission to Syria on illiteracy, which was to serve as a preparation for the seminar. The Syrian Government, however, had since found itself unable to receive a mission in 1949: more- over, during the debate on seminars, the Egyptian delegation had voted for the suppression of an additional seminar, so that the Secretariat was henceforth uncertain of the support that might be expected for a seminar in the Middle East. It greatly regretted the suppression of the Middle East seminar, but, under the circumstances, had thought it justified to make a cut under that item.   o o ‎يسستممب е е е   a é m e e t — ] o e z e r e p a s     Mr. EVANS (United States of America) reminded the Sub-Committee that the United States delega- tion had voted for the Uruguay seminar in the Programme and Budget Commission on the under- standing that it would not have any budgetary implications. His delegation had since come to the conclusion, however, that it would be ab- normal for Uruguay and the Organization of Amer- ican States to bear the cost of Unesco’s services to the seminar, and it therefore supported the al- location of $10,000 for the purpose, although this was against the instructions of the Programme and Budget Commission. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) said he was disturbed by what Dr. Beebyhad said as regards the increase in the estimates made for the Uruguay seminar, which had risen from $10,000 to $25,000. He thought, moreover, that when a vote had been taken in the Programme and Budget Com- mission there was no reason to pay any attention to the size of the majority by which the vote had been secured, any more than there was any reason for concluding, from the fact that one country in the Middle East was against it, that the Middle Eastern countries as a whole did not want the seminar to take place. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, remarked that the Commission had decided that Unesco should only participate in the Uruguay seminar on condition that no cost would fall on the Organ- ization. He pointed out that, when seminars were considered, they had not been discussed from the point of view of budget, but of number, and it had been decided that there should be three se- minars and not two. When Dr. Beeby had been asked what the consequences for the Budget would be of a reduction of three to two seminars, he had replied that it would amount to $45,000 per seminar, or $90,000 for two seminars. If the foot- note to leaf 2.3 were followed, resolution 2.21 would have to be redrafted as soon as possible. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) recalled that his delegation had always emphasized the fact that seminars could only produce good results if they were well prepared: if the educational mis- sion to Syria, which was to prepare for the Middle East seminar, was no longer going, his delegation would not be in favour of having a seminar in the Middle East. In view of the need to econ- omize, it therefore seemed advisable to eliminate the Middle East seminar. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said he did not share Sir Ronald Adam's view. While it was agreed that every effort should be made to effect savings apart from those that had been formally decided upon by the Programme and Budget Commission, it seemed difficult to effect savings against which that Commission had formally pronounced. Mr. NELSON (Australia) pointed out that, by adopting the Secretariat’s suggestion, the Sub- Committee would be going against two of the Programme and Budget Commission’s recommen- dations, namely that there should be a seminar in the Middle East, and that there should be no budgetary provision of $10,000 for the Uruguay seminar. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said the question seemed to be whether or not to follow the line laid down by the Programme and Budget Com- mission. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) believed that the Programme and Budget Commission had given the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Com- mittee full authority to re-examine everything it had done and, if necessary, overthrowits decisions as long as nothing was proposed which led to a total budget figure exceeding $8,000,000. The CHAIRMAN said that the Programme and Budget Commission had left the Sub-Committee very considerable discretion. He reminded the meeting that it had been explained, at the first discussion, that attention would be paid first and foremost to the desiderata of the three main Com- missions. Since, in the particular case at issue, the vote taken in the Programme and Budget Com- mission had become the subject of discussion, he, the Chairman, proposed for the present to reserve this point and to revert to it only when the whole of the Budget had been discussed; thereafter it might be possible to find some way of restoring certain appropriations. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) recalled that, in the Programme and Budget Commission on 28 September, Professor Carneiro had stated that the proposal was that the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee should examine the programme and budget in the light of the Com- mission’s general discussions, with entire freedom to make the recommendations regarding changes or additions which it deemed necessary; it was instructed to consult the Secretariat and report back to full Commission. The CHAIRMAN referred to Journal of the Con- ference No. 12, on page 102 of which were certain explanations regarding the method of work deci- ded upon for the Sub-Committee. These suggested that priority should be given to proposals emanat- ing from the three main Commissions. In these circumstances, he thought it would be better to reserve the point at issue and revert to it at the end of the discussion.
2. С. FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION The CHAIRMAN said that leaf 2.4 of the file showed that the proposed reduction of $7,200 re- presented the elimination of one of the funda- mental education experts who were to be sent on mission. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that the point under discussion was con- nected with the previous item: if the Middle East seminar was re-established, the reduction of the fees for the person to prepare the material for the seminar would have to be eliminated. Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked for an explanation of the $20,000 for contracts with non-governmental organizations. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that a non-governmental organization had been set up in Haiti with which Unesco had signed a contract in accordance with an agreement with the Haitian Ministry of Education. The reason for the increase to $20,000 was that an additional sum of $5,600 was to be paid to a person to supervise the Haiti project.
2. D. CHILDREN AND YOUTH Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) ex- plained that the proposed reduction of $1,000 was accounted for by a reduction in the number of replicas of an exhibition on Art and Education that had been suggested. The number of replicas would be reduced by two. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, recalled that little had been said on the subject in the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission. The World Federation of United Nations Associations had in- formed the Commission that a seminar on teaching about the United Nations had already been held in France, that seminars in Italy, Iran and Cuba were planned for the current year, and in Belgium, India and Norway for 1950. It had therefore been proposed that the sum of $5,000 to assist WFUNA should be increased to $10,000. The proposal had been supported by the Belgium delegate, and the Chairman had ruled that the matter would be resolved by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) recalled that, in the discussions in the Programme and Budget Com- mission, the item “Education for International Understanding” had met with approval and that the Commission had agreed that the appropriations for contracts with non-governmental organizations should be increased by $5,000, as the World Fed-
345 eration of United Nations Associations had sug- gested. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, wondered if the rules governing grant-in-aid authorized them to be made in the field. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) proposed that the question should be reserved until the end of the debate, when it would be seen if there was any money available. Agreed.
3. B. FIELD SCIENCE CO-OPERATION OFFICES Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) asked for some explana- tions regarding the reduction in the item “cost-of- living adjustment”. Mr. AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that only one individual would be assigned to the Shanghai office and that it was therefore unnecessary to provide for a cost- of-living adjustment for two persons. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) had no desire to see the Natural Sciences budget cut, but pointed out that the Social Sciences budget had been cut by $49,000, that is to say by more than 10 per cent while the Natural Sciences budget had only been cut by $26,000.
3. C. WORLD CENTRE OF SCIENTIFIC LIAISON The CHAIRMAN said that on leaf 3.2 of the file it was explained that the reduction of $1,000 was in respect of scientific publications. Adopted. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), referring to the engineering sciences (programme item 1 on page 103 of document 4C/6), asked if the alteration of meetings had any budgetary im- plications. Mr. AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that the only result of the change would be to reduce the agenda submitted to the meeting. Miss LAISE (United States of America) stated that her delegation would like to raise a question in connexion with programme item 5, on page 103 of document 4C/6, which provided for the payment by Unesco of some of the expenses of the Permanent Council for the Co-ordination of International Congresses of Medical Sciences. The view of the United States delegation was that the Council was primarily the responsibility of WHO and that Unesco should not be participating in its expenses: a reduction of from $20,000 to $30,000 on contracts with non-governmental organizations was therefore proposed.   Б е н н о ] É T T T T — — — í — — — ] ] [ — — ] ] — — — . — s — — — — — ] ñ ] ] ] —   Mr. AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that it was a question, not of grants-in-aid, but of contracts concluded with non-governmental organizations. Replying to a question from Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium), Mr. AUGER said that all the contracts were first examined by a Committee of the Executive Board and then approved by the Executive Board itself. Miss LAISE (United States of America) wished to know what were Unesco’s responsibilities towards the Permanent Council for the Co- ordination of International Congresses of Medical Sciences and whether the latter was likely to forward Unesco’s Programme. Mr. AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) said that what was involved was $25,000 in respect of a contract with the Council for the Co-ordination of International Congresses of Medical Sciences, which the proposal of the United States delegation would completely annul. This figure had been put forward in agreement with WHO; it involved a from of joint activity under a co-operation agreement which had been registered with the United Nations and which provi- ded that 60 per cent of the expenses should be borne by WHO and 40 per cent by Unesco. As WHO was to pay $44,000 and Unesco $25,000, it seemed to him that these figures were completely in line with the percentages laid down by the agreement. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said it would be well to emphasize the dual nature of the medical sciences, which were involved both in the field of pure science and in that of health and hygiene. Mr. AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that, in the field of the medical sciences, Unesco played the part of a Ministry of Education that was concerned with the Faculties, which had the closest connexion with science; whereas WHO, which was more concerned with the application of medicine with a view to maintaining the health of the world, played, rather, the part of a Ministry of Health. It seemed superfluous to restate that Unesco was interested in the sciences; but, if it was agreed that the sciences were to form a part of Unesco’s work, that work must clearly cover medical activities, which were scientific to the highest degree. Miss LAISE (United States of America) wished to reserve the question for a later stage, as the United States delegation still felt that the item was not one which fitted into the priority programme agreed upon by the Director-General and the Conference. The CHAIRMAN thought that too many ques- tions should not be reserved, for in that event the Sub-Committee would find itself discussing a second budget as well as a first. He therefore asked the United States delegate whether she insisted that this item should be reserved. Miss LAISE (United States of America) pressed for a reservation of the item until it could be seen whether further reductions would be necessary. The CHAIRMAN having asked whether this proposal was seconded, Mr. EVANS (United States of America) replied that the point was that, if further cuts proved to be necessary, the United States delegation reserved the right to return to this item. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) asked that the ques- tion of priority should not arise in this case if it were found necessary to consider fresh reductions. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that Mr. Evans was proposing this reduction only if, after having considered all the savings proposed, the Sub- Committee could not attain the total figure of $175,000 enjoined for the reductions as a whole.
3. D. ENCOURAGEMENT OF INTER-GOVERNMENTAL AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS Mr. PERRIN (France) asked to what exactly the reduction of $14,000 referred. Mr. AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) said that this reduction was in respect of the study regarding the establishment of an International Institute of the Arid Zone and that regarding co-operation with the International Institute of the Hylean Amazon. In the former case, it involved a reduction in the work of the experts in charge of these studies. In the latter case, it had seemed better to wait until this partic- ular institute was established before settling the terms of co-operation with it. Mr. PERRIN (France) said he understood the reasons for the change in the case of the Inter- national Institute of the Hylean Amazon; but he regretted the reduction of activity in connexion with the establishment of an International Institue of the Arid Zone, for he feared that this would delay the setting up of this institute, whose importance had been recognized by the General Conference. He emphasized that the budget of the Natural Sciences Department was decreasing, regularly and considerably, year by year, although the good results of that Department’s work were universally recognized; the proportion of its budget to the total budget had decreased from 26 per cent in 1947 to 15 per cent at the present time and whereas
346         that Department’s contribution towards the saving of $175,000 requested should, proportionately, be some $18,000, a reduction of over $26,000 was now proposed in its case. He did not ask for any restoration of its appropriations this year, but he hoped that the Department would be better treated in the future. Mr. AUGER (Head, Department of Natural Sciences) said that the reduction was not really so considerable as it might seem at first sight; in the case of the International Institute of the Arid Zone, it was only of the order of 20 per cent ($8,000 instead of $10,000), and $8,000 seemed a sufficient sum wherewith to carry on the work properly. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said he shared Mr. Perrin’s view with regard to the International Institute of the Hylean Amazon, and emphasized that it should be understood that the question should be raised again once the Institute was established.
3. E. POPULARIZATION OF SCIENCE Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, recalled that one of the items whose reduction had been proposed and not challenged by the Programme and Budget Commission was that of the reduction of five mobile scientific exhibitions to two, which would mean a reduction of $20,000 on the Popularization of Science. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) added that the possible reduction had not been dis- cussed. The CHAIRMAN stated that this question would be taken up again if it was not found possible to achieve the total figure for savings proposed. EB. SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION IN THE SOCIAL The CHAIRMAN said that the total reductions here proposed amounted to $19,000. Profesor SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked what the consequences of the reductions would be for the new organization. Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Sciences) explained that, under this item, five lectureships had been proposed, which would have enabled professors to be sent to give lectures in countries where relatively little progress had been made in the social sciences; the number of these lectureships had been reduced to three.
4. C. TENSIONS AFFECTING INTERNATIONAL UNDER- STANDING The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the reduction of $13,000 had been decided upon in accordance with the suggestions of the Programme and Budget Commission. Mr. NELSON (Australia) asked if account had been taken of the suggestion made by the United States delegate in the Programme and Budget Commission that fees might be reduced by enlisting the voluntary services of social scientists in Member States. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that the substantial cuts had been made because of the comments made in the Programme and Budget Commission. Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Sciences) explained that the appropriations originally proposed represented fees for ethno- logical experts who were to prepare a series of monographs. The reduction proposed would not have the effect of suspending these studies, since it merely affected their volume. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) having asked for explanations regarding the reduction of contracts, Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Sciences) said that it was a question of fees for expert consultants who were to prepare publica- tions which were already under way. The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Depart- ment of Social Sciences was suffering the greatest reduction in relation to its original budget, since that reduction amounted to $49,000,
4. D. APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCE ACTIVITIES The CHAIRMAN said that the proposed reduction here was $17,000. Mr. NELSON (Australia) drew attention to the footnote at the bottom of the leaf concerning the Study of International Collaboration which stated that, as the study of federalism was to be postponed until the 1950 Conference, the fees budgeted for reports and a conference scheduled on the study of Dynamics of Federalism were reduced. In view of the postponement, he wondered why the fees were not eliminated instead of being reduced. Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Sciences) said that it was proposed to postpone the meeting on federalism and to submit the question to the Florence General Conference. Mr. PILE (United Kingdom) requested infor- mation regarding the duties of the four people   provided for in the section. He noted that fees were to be paid to experts for analysis of the data and that the documentation was to be printed outside; he therefore wondered what the residual duties of the Secretariat would be. Professor RAMOS (Head, Department of Social Sciences) explained that two meetings had been contemplated—one with twelve experts from overseas countries, who were to spend four days at Unesco House, and the other for the purpose of dealing with Federalism (it was this latter that was affected by the proposed reduction). Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) repeated Mr. Piles’s question regarding the activities of the staff of the section. Mr. SARP (Secretariat) explained that the work involved not only the collection of research work done, but the planning and stimulation of new types of research. The budgetary statement did not include the fact that a brochure of a hundred pages was being published, containing suggestions for research by social scientists in various fields, in the hope that they might be encouraged to do new kinds of research with new techniques. An example of new research being carried out was that of the study of international conferences, requiring the co-operation of social psychologists and cultural antropologists. One meeting was provided for to review the findings of research carried out in 1949. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) expressed his satisfaction at the explanation given.
5. Pmmosopay AND Humanistic STUDIES Mr. EVANS (United States of America) recalled that the United States delegate in the Programme and Budget Commission had requested that pro- vision be made for the continuation of the work under a new title. He asked if that provision had been made under the new budget. Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) reminded the meeting that a proposal had been adopted under which a member of the Secretariat was to continue this work in co-operation with the International Council for Philosophy and Human- istic Studies and with the National Comissions, but said he thought it was unnecessary to con- template a special appropriation for that purposes.
6. CULTURAL ACTIVITIES The CHAIRMAN said that there was a proposed reduction of $1,000 as regard the Unesco Library (involving a reduction in the number of sub- scriptions to publications). On the other hand, two increases were proposed for the Cultural
348 Activities section, one under the item Letters ($2,000) and the other under that of Libraries ($10,570). Adopted. т. In reply to a question from Mr. EVANS (United States of America), Mr. CARTER (Head, Depart- of Exchange of Persons) said that the reduction of $40,000 involved ten fellowships. Adopted. B. EXCHANGE or PERSONS Mass COMMUNICATIONS - TECHNICAL NEEDSDL Mr. NELSON (Australia) asked if any contribution to the missions was received from Member States. Mr. SCHNEIDER (Head, Department of Mass Communications) drew attention to the words “with their financial co-operation” (resolution
7.2112), which meant that Member States con- cerned were expected to contribute, although the proportion was not yet fixed. It would probably be possible to get the expenses borne roughly in the same way as for educational missions. The reduction of $20,000 was adopted.
7. E. Mass COMMUNICATIONS - ACTION THROUGH RaDio, Fims AND PRESS Mr. PILE (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission, reminded the Sub-Committee that it was part of the United States motion in the Programme and Budget Com- mission that any saving on missions should be credited to this item. He noted that $40,000 had been saved, but only $5,000 credited to this item. Mr. SCHNEIDER (Head, Department of Mass Communications) pointed out that the figure of savings was $20,000 and not $40,000. The increase of $5,000 was adopted.
7 The proposed reduction of $5,000 was adopted without comment. F. PROGRAMME PROMOTION т, The proposed increase of $26,190 and reduction of $19,701 were adopted without comment. FIELD OPERATIONS Part IV. Common Service Costs Miss LAISE (United States of America) stated that her delegation questioned the amounts spent on rent, utilities and maintenance of building, although it would not press for a reduction before the Fifth Session of the Conference. Unesco was the only international organization to furnish office space and utilities to nationa] delegations and non-governmental organizations without re-           imbursement. Unlike most other organizations, it did not require payment for rooms lent. The question was whether Unesco should assume these costs which meant that, with the expansion of its ownstaff, it had to hire other premises. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that, as it was a question which would be raised at the next General Conference, there was no need to explain at the present time why it might be desirable to continue the arrangements. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) also criticized Unesco’s expenditure on hospitality. While Unesco found it necessary to spend $35,000 on hospitality, the United Nations only spent $20,000, and the Library of Congress 15 cents. He would not, however, press the point at the present time. The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat could present to the Florence General Conference two very interesting documents on the questions raised by the United States delegation. Part IV was adopted without discussion. Reserved Items The CHAIRMAN asked the Sub-Committee to take a decision on the items that had been reserved. He suggested beginning with the items in respect of whichit was contemplated restoring the original appropriations, viz. Educational Seminars Mission of Expert Ad- visers to the Near East (restoration of Exhibitions on the Arts in General Education Fundamental cation (restoration of $25,000); $7,200); (restoration of $1,000); Edu- (restoration of $7,200). The Sub-Comittee would then proceed to consider the points reserved regarding the reductions re- quested either by the Florkin Committee or by the Sub-Committee itself, viz.: E Reconstruction Campaign (reduction of $6,500): Liaison between Unesco and WHO (the United States delegation had proposed a reduction that was not specified but $23,000) ; Popularization of Science (if it was simply a ques- tion of suppressing two exhibitions, a reduction of $11,000; if the reduction was to be on a larger scale, $20,000). Mr. EVANS (United States of America) wondered if the Chairman’s calculations were really neces- might be assessed at sary, since the Sub-Committee had approved everything except the increase of $10,000 for the Uruguay seminar (2. B. 3). Mr. ABRAHAM (France) thought that the ques- tion was a dual one: on the one hand, $10,000 were asked for the Uruguay seminar, and on the other hand it was proposed to suppress the Middle East seminar. He reminded the meeting that he had not asked for the appropriation for the Middle East seminar to be restored, and that the project that remained might therefore be considered more favourably. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) moved that the Sub-Committee adopt the allocation of $10,000 for the Uruguay seminar. Dr. MARTINEZ BAEZ (Mexico) seconded the motion, which was adopted. Mr. EVANS (United States of America) sup- ported the Secretariat’s proposal that no seminar should be held in the Middle East in 1950. Agreed. Returning to 1. B. (Reconstruction Campaign) reserved at the request of the United Kingdom delegation, the CHAIRMAN asked Sir Ronald Adam if he would withdraw his objection in view of the fact that funds were available. Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) withdrew his objection as the reduction was not necessary. Miss LAISE (United States of America) having withdrawn her delegation’s objection to Unesco aid to the Permanent Council for the Co-ordination of International Congresses of Medical Sciences
(3. C. 3), the $25,000 allocation to the Council was adopted. As the reduction of the sum for Mobile Science Exhibitions (3. E.) was not necessary, the reduc- tion of $20,000 for that item was rejected. In reply to a question from Mr. FLORKIN (Bel- gium), the CHAIRMAN said that the increase of $5,000 that had been requested for the World Federation of United Nations Association was not included in the total for upward adjustments. He asked whether Mr. Florkin maintained his proposal and, in that case, whether there was any member of the Sub-Committee who would second it. Mr. NELSON (Australia) thought that the state- ment made by the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget Commission on the useful activities of WFUNA was worthy of attention. The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the motion to assist WFUNA. It was rejected by 3 votes to 2, and 3 abstentions. Mr. MUGGLI (Switzerland) noted that the Sub-   Committee had adopted the Secretariat’s plan in its entirety, and he thought the Secretariat should be thanked for the excellent work it had done. The CHAIRMAN associated himself with this tribute, and asked the Florkin Committee to meet the following day so that its report could be pre- sented to the Sub-Committee the day afterwards. The meeting rose at 7.35 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Monday, 3 October 1949, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: The CHAIRMAN announced that the Florkin Committee had met to prepare its report; however, as the Rapporteur must have sufficient time to study that report, he, the Chairman, suggested that the Sub-Committee should hold a meeting on Tuesday, 4 October, at 9 a.m. Adopted. The CHAIRMAN suggested that in the meantime the Sub-Committee should consider two doc- uments presented by the Florkin Committee. Consideration of document D.1343. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) presented document D.1343, which proposed new wordings for certain programme resolutions; the words underlined had been inserted by the Drafting Committee. The proposals regarding resolution 1.39, 2.1 and
2.21 were adopted without discussion. Mr. EVANS (United States of America), Rap- porteur, stated that, in accordance with the decision taken at the previous meeting, all reference to the Middle East Seminar had been deleted in resolution 2.211. Adopted. The text proposed for resolution 2.53 was adopted without discussion. Mr. NELSON (Australia) having pointed out that the English and French texts of 2.711 did not concur, Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) explained that there was a copying error; the text adopted by his committee was that in the right-hand column of page 13 document 4C/5 (rev.). Adop- ted. As regards resolution 2.714, Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) recalled that it was difficult to draft it, and hoped that the French delegation would agree with the new text. It should be noted that, in the English text, the words “may arrive at” should read “may ensure”. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) said he agreed with the text proposed.
350 Mr. Rocer Seypoux (France) The new text of resolution 2.714 was adopted. Mr. NELSON (Australia) suggested that, in the interests of simplicity, the English text of 2.85 (Principles Concerning Education) be modified to read: “The Director-General is instructed to encourage Member States and National Commis- sions to invite the attention...” Adopted. The proposals regarding resolution 3.82, 5.4, and 5.41 to 5.43 were adopted without discussion. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) pointed out that in the French text of resolution 5.5 the word “civilisations” had been replaced by “cultures”, no change having been made to the English text. After a discussion (in which Messrs. ABRAHAM (France), FLORKIN (Belgium), SOMMERFELT (Norway), BARBEY (Switzerland) and the CHAIR- MAN took part) on the respective merits of the word “civilisations” in the French and the word “cultures” in the English text. The text proposed for resolution 5.5 was adopted. The proposals regarding resolutions 6.9, 6.91,
6.911, 6.92 and 6.93 were adopted without dis- cussion. As regards resolution 7.4 (Cultural Certificates), Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) explained that the words “instruments de culture” had been inserted in the French text at the request of the French delegation. The corresponding word in the English text was “materials” adopted. The proposals regarding resolutions 7.5, 7.6,
8.2, 8.4 to 8.42, and 8.5 were adopted without discussion. The whole of the proposals in document D.1343 were accordingly adopted, subject to certain amendments already recorded. Consideration of the proposed new texts of resolutions 1.7, 1.71 and 3.7. Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) presented a typed sheet