publications which went into a special fund, and that only up to the sum of $150,000: any revenue over that amount went back into the budget. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) moved an amendment that funds not expended on publications in one year should go into the next year’s budget. Mr. MENZIES (Head, Central Administrative Services) pointed out that receipts from publica- tions came in nine months to one year after the publication was issued. The Secretariat was anxious to allow for that delay and to safeguard the sum of $150,000, transferable from year to year. Anything over that sum would require carry-forward permission from the General Con- ference Document 4C/ADM/12 (rev.) was adopted as it stood. * Item 4 (g) of the Agenda: Arrangements for the appointment of auditors (document 4C/ ADM/13). Mr. SMITH (Australia) recalled that the proposals had been put forward by his Government, and outlined the reasons for these proposals as stated in document 4C/ADM/13. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) heartly supported the proposals on behalf of his delegation. The Australian proposals were adopted. * The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m. SECOND MEETING Tuesday, 27 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Lfo MunpeLeer (Belgium) Item 5 (a) of the Agenda: Report on the organization of the Secretariat (document 4C/ ADM/7). Mr. SMITH (Australia) stated that his delegation was pleased to see the steps already taken by the Director-General to implement the resolutions of the Third Session of the General Conference in the organization of the Secretariat, and more pleased to note that the Director-General expected to make further progress. He suggested that, as a concrete proposal to be considered, the period of time for allotments of appropriated funds be increased to twelve months. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) indi- cated the full agreement of his delegation with the direction taken by the Director-General, as shown in the report 4C/ADM/7. He believed that a general discussion of this subject might take place in a plenary meeting of the General Confer- ence. He thought there might possibly be some difference of opinion as to the extent to which decentralization should go, but felt that the report as a whole was to be heartily commended. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France), on behalf of his delegation, endorsed the remarks made by the delegates of Australia and the United States of America. The Conference had laid down general principles while leaving the Director-General fairly wide discretion with regard to their application, and the latter was entitled to hold the opinion that it was not desirable to make changes in the ad- ministration which might cause disorganization rather than reorganization before the Florence Conference. The French delegation considered that the few changes suggested by the Director- General were very wise, although it regarded them as only a stage in the carrying out of the Beirut resolutions. Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) associated himself with the approval expressed of the Director- General's first steps towards reforming the organ- ization of the Secretariat. He wished, however, to know whether those first changes were based on what the Administrative Committee of the United Nations had already done in the field in question. He also supported the United States delegate’s request in connexion with the effect of the adminis- trative reforms on the Organization’s budget. Mr. THOMAS (United Kingdom) declared that
1. In final form: Resolutions 25.1 to 25.3.
2. In final form: Resolution 24.5.
434       his delegation associated itself with the favourable opinions expressed by the previous speakers and would look forward to receiving a further report fromthe Director-General in regard to the progress achieved in the reorganization of the adminis- tration, at the next General Conference or later. Mr. KIRPAL (India), Rapporteur, stated that the Administrative Commission noted great satisfaction at the report of the Director-General on the im- provement and decentralization effected in the organization of the Secretariat. He suggested that an additional report on the geographical distri- bution of the Secretariat be issued that afternoon, if possible. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL, under- standing that the Rapporteur referred to a list of the personnel broken down on a geographical basis, expressed his belief that this list could be ready in time for the meeting of the Commission at 5 p.m. Mr. TALJAARD (Union of South Africa) raised a question in regard to the second item of the im- provements made by the Director-General in the functioning of the administrative system (doc- ument 4C/ADM/7, paragraph 2, page 2), and stated that he would be glad to have more informa- tion on this point. The CHAIRMAN remarked that there was agreement on the proposals submitted, and thought that delegations would all wish to thank the Secretariat for the action taken on the lines laid down by the previous session of the Confer- ence. Document 4C/ADM/7 was approved. Item 5 (b) of the Agenda: Annual report by the Director-General on measures taken to implement the Staff Regulations (doc- ument 4C/ADM/8). Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) stated that his delegation had found some difficulty in its study of the Director-General’s report, because it did not have a copy of the Unesco Staff Manual. He suggested that all Governments of Member States be supplied with relevant sections of this Manual. In regard to the termination of indeter- minate appointments, he believed that it should be clearly indicated that the Organization had the right to terminate any such appointment, for example, for reasons of unsatisfactory service or for conditions of health making the performance of duty impossible. He suggested that the Direc- tor-General be authorized to terminate any ap- pointment because of unsatisfactory service. This was a technical point, but worth calling attention to. Jo The CHAIRMAN stated that the Staff Manual would be distributed. He asked the Head of the Bureau of Personnel to answer the United States delegate’s point concerning the provisions in the Staff Regulations regarding the termination of contracts. Mr. SELSKY (Head, Bureau of Personnel) called attention to the fact that the Staff Regulations required action by the General Conference, making necessary a proposal from the floor, following which action the point would be included in the Staff Regulations and implemented in the Staff Rules. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) stated that he would submit a written proposal in that connexion to the Commission at its next meeting. The CHAIRMAN therefore held over the vote on this point until the next meeting. The other provisions of document 4C/ADM/8 were adopted. Item 5 (c) of the Agenda: Joint study by the United Nations and Specialized Agencies of the salary and allowance system. Report by the Director-General (document 4C/ADM/
9% Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) expressed disappoint- ment that a more definite report on the salary and allowance system could not be submitted at this session of the General Conference, although he respected the reasons given by the Director-General for the delay. He called attention to the fact that this matter had been very carefully discussed by the Administrative Commission of the Third Session of the General Conference, of which he was a member, and that he would be disappointed not to see properly carried out, and as promptly as possible, the decisions reached at that time. He asked to be informed on three questions: (1) if the Committee of Experts referred to in the report had met only on 5 July, as stated, or if that meeting had been longer than one day or followed by other meetings; (2) whether or not a re- presentative of Unesco from the Paris Headquarters had taken part; and (3) the outcome of the discussion by the Committee of Experts. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the Director-General had expressed regret at the delay which had taken place in the appointment of the Committee of Experts, which delay had made it impossible for him to implement com- pletely, by this time, the instructions of the Third Session of the General Conference. He explained that the delay had been chiefly due to the United Nations’ difficulty in finding and engaging the        experts, since the most competent persons, in some cases, were unable to serve because of other obligations. He asked Mr. Weitz, of the Secre- tariat, to relate briefly what had been done. Mr. WEITZ (Acting Head, Bureau of Adminis- trative Management and Budget) explained that there had been several meetings since that of
5 July. A representative of Unesco had been present at the preliminary work of laying out the schedule for the Committee of Experts, at Lake Success, after which it had been found impossible to get the Committee together to begin its work before 5 July, and a Unesco representative had left Paris only the previous day (26 September) for the United States in order to continue the work with the Committee of Experts. The Director- General had expressed regret that no report had been made available from the Committee of Experts up to the present time. However, a first report was now in New York and would be made available at an early date to the United Nations Secretariat and to Unesco. According to the present schedule, the Committee of Experts should finish its delibera- tions within the next two weeks, after which a report would be submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The report should reach the Director-General of Unesco by mid-November and, on that basis, he would prepare a final report on the subject. Mr. SMITH (Australia), referring to the report to be made by the Director-General to the Fifth Session of the General Conference under the terms of the draft resolution (document 4C/ADM/9, page 2), made two concrete suggestions:
1. That the report should include a comparison between the salaries paid by Unesco and those paid by other organizations also located in Paris;
2. That it should include the possibility of terminating the dislocation allowance after two years of service, in view of the number of inde- terminate appointments now being made. Mr. Smith also made two other suggestions:
1. The elimination of the reimbursement of national income tax payments, with the substitu- tion of a staff assessment plan;
2. That it would be desirable to make available to Member States copies of the contract of the Director-General, which had not been published in the Proceedings of the Third Session of the General Conference. Mr. WEITZ (Acting Head, Bureau of Adminis- trative Management and Budget) referring to the delegate of Australia in regard to a comparison of the salaries paid by Unesco with those paid by other organizations located in Paris, asked if the delegate desired that all grades of employment should be included, from labourers to the higher levels. In regard to the question of the reimburse- ment of the income taxation, this problem had been
436 thoroughly studied. A partial reimbursement had been recently made for personnel from certain countries. However, only a very few members of the Secretariat were required to pay national income taxes at this time and, although the matter was under consideration, it had not been consi- dered advisable to undertake an internal staff assessment plan for those few. Mr. SMITH (Australia) said that, in stressing a comparison of salaries, he had not intended that the highest grades of personnel should be included. On the question of national income taxes, he fully appreciated the explanation given by Mr. Weitz. Due note being taken of the Australian delegate’s observations, the Director-General’s report (doc- ument 4C/ADM/9) was approved. * Item 5 (d) of the Agenda: Report by the Director-General on the Benefits Scheme (document 4C/ADM/10 and Add.). Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) believed that the Medical Benefits Scheme should not be adopted too hastily. It amounted to a rather complete insurance plan, and he believed that the various Governments would prefer to have their experts examine its soundness, before action was taken. The CHAIRMAN emphasized how useful that suggestion was, and announced that the matter would therefore be referred to the next session of the Conference; in the meanwhile, the Secretariat would provide Governments with all the requisite information. Document 4C/ADM/10 was approved. Item 5 (e) of the Agenda: Joint Staff Pen- sions Fund (document 4C/ADM/11). Mr. SMITH (Australia) raised a question in regard to the deficits in contributions which Unesco might be called upon to meet under the plan. Mr. SELSKY (Head, Bureau of Personnel) explained that assurances had been given that there would be no deficit. There would, however, be retroactive payments of 7 per cent of each Staff member's salary, back to the date of his appoint- ment. This retroactive payment would be added to the 7 per cent set aside for Provident Fund, thus making a 14 per cent contribution by the Organ- ization. The Staff member would contribute an additional 7 per cent.
1. In final form: Resolution 27.         The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that two technical corrections should be made in doc- ument 4C/ADM/11:
1. Use the title Unesco Staff Pensions Com- mittee” instead of “Unesco Staff Benefit (or Bene- fits) Committee”, and
2. Change the date given for the Organization to become a member of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, as stated in paragraph 3, from
1 August 1949 to 1 October 1949 or later, because
1 August had already passed and time must be allowed for the necessary negotiations to work out the details. Document 4C/ADM/11 was approved. Election of members of the Staff Pensions Committee. The CHAIRMAN announced that the Commission hadto elect the membersof the Staff Pensions Com- mittee, the composition of which was to appear in the draft resolution to be submitted to the General Conference. He informed the Commission of the following proposals which had been received: Members: Professor Paulo de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil) M. Guy Ladreit de Lacharrière (France) Mr. Kenneth Holland (United States of America) Deputies: Dr. Alberto de Clementi (Italy) M. Henryk Birecki (Poland) Mr. Paul Mathews (United Kingdom). Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) asked if the nominations were on the basis of individuals or of the positions occupied, for example, the inclusion or not of members of the Executive Board. As a matter of principle, he considered it preferable that the members should be selected by position rather than as individuals. Mr. SELSKY (Head, Bureau of Personnel) stated that the plan did not provide that there should be any particular official connexion between members of the Staff Pensions Committee and the Organ- ization, the only criterion being that the persons on the Committee should have some sort of back- ground in insurance or a similar experience. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) believed that a chief concern should be that these persons would be available for the operations involved, that is, certain to be in Paris. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that all had been selected for nomination because they ware competent and that they were all part of the permanent personnel of the permanent del- egations to Unesco and would, therefore, be in Paris. Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) with- drew his objection. The nominations announced by the Chairman were unanimously adopted. * On behalf of the Commission, the CHAIRMAN congratulated the members of the new Staff Pen- sions Committee on their appointment. The meeting rose at noon. THIRD MEETING Tuesday, 27 September 194%, at 5 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Léo MunpeLeer (Belgium) Item 4 (b) of the Agenda: Scale of contri- butions of Member States for 1950 (con- tinuation) (documents 4C/ADM/3, 4C/ADM/15 and 4C/ADM/16). Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) stated that his delegation was very much surprised at the issue of document 4C/ADM/15, which proposed a single scale of contribution only. He
437 had understood that the Commission was to be presented with alternative scales, and he assumed that the document in question was only one of several illustrations which could be provided. The CHAIRMAN explained that document
4C/ADM/15, which had just been distributed, contained the information regarding the scale of
1. In final form: Resolution 28,