The Sub-Commission has full powers to recommend to the Programme and Budget Commission adjust- ments and possible modifications which appear neces- Sary (LO йе. Members of the Sub-Committee, as well as delegates, who wish to participate in this work may present amendments and make verbal proposals, and may participate in discussions upon invitation of the Chairman, taking into consideration the directives of the Programme and Budget Commission. In reply to a question from Mr. ABRAHAM (France), the CHAIRMAN gave an assurance that the Chairman of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee would maintain the closest contact with the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission. The Sub-Committee’s terms of reference were approved: The meeting rose at 7 p.m. ELEVENTH MEETING Wednesday, 28 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Professor PAULO DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 7. Communication (continuation) Section 2. Mass Communication (continuation) Mr. GROS (United Nations) expressed his Organ- ization's thanks for the work done in that field by the Commission and the Secretariat, and recalled that resolutions had been passed by the Economic and Social Council, congratulating Unesco on the invaluable co-operation it had furnished. Mr. SCHNEIDER (Head, Department of Mass Communications) referred to two points which had been raised that morning in connexion with the Section under discussion: technical missions, and the proposed International Institute of the Press. With regard to resolution 7.2112, it had been suggested that, as this was an experimental field, it would be wiser to limit the technical co- operation missions to one in the current year; both the United Kingdom and the United States delegations had made that point, and Mr. Schnei- der welcomed the United States proposal which specified, not only that there should be a single mission, but also that any money left over should go back into the Mass Communication budget. With regard to the proposed International Institute of the Press, Mr. Schneider agreed that, if the proposal was “dead wood”, it should be lopped off. But the Secretariat had studied the question for many months, and a great deal of
304 favourable comment had been received: it there- fore seemed that to drop the proposal without further trial would be a waste of much good work. Mr. Schneider referred to a resolution passed by the Ninth Session of ECOSOC, welcoming Unesco's efforts in this matter, and to the United Nations Conferences on Freedom of Information which had expressed the opinion that there was a need for an international institute of the press. Mr. Schneider stated that the idea of the Secretariat was not to go forward with the establishment of the Institute, but to call a meeting of a small committee of experts in 1950 that would present final findings to the Florence Session of the Conference, which could then either delete the item from Unesco's Programme, or make definite arrangements for the Institute's establishment. The CHAIRMAN mentioned that an amendment had been proposed by the French delegation (doc- ument 4C/43) and suggested that it should be considered in connexion with item 7.2113. Mr. ROLLIN (France) mentioned that the crea- tion of an International Institute of the Press and Information had been given preliminary considera- tion by three successive conferences of experts, whose conclusions had been in favour of the establishment of an Institute. The French representative proposed that, as the Executive Board and the Secretariat suggested, a final conference of experts should be convened to consider whether the project could be carried out as proposed by the Secretariat, taking into account not be very expensive. The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's atten-     tion to the amendments to resolution 7.21 con- tained in document 4C/5 rev. - Add. & Corr. and mentioned that they merely involved changing the order of certain items and made no change in the Executive Board’s proposals. He said that the Austrian delegation had submitted an amendment to resolution 7.22 (document 4C/45) and that the United Kingdom delegation was proposing a numberof alterations to resolutions 7.22 to 7.2224, relating either to the wording or the order of the resolutions (document 4C/50). Lastly, the delega- tions of Belgium and the United States of America had submitted a draft amendment to resolu- tion 7.2242 (document 4C/18 rev.). Dr. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq), referring to resolu- tion 7.22, expressed the opinion that the removal of obstacles to the free flow of information constituted a vital issue for the carrying out of Unesco’s aims. He stressed the importance of ideas, especially in the modern world, so that everyone sensitive to the cause of international understanding and peace should give importance to resolution 7.22 and offer constructive sugges- tions. Speaking from experience gained in the Near and Middle East in endeavouring to obtain freedom of the press, Dr. El-Hashimi believed that there was still a considerable amount of control over the press and speech of the world; he had met examples, in different parts of the world, of the influence of certain groups of vested interests on the press; he had also seen examples of free thinkers being denied platforms in universities of so-called free countries of the world. He had discovered, however, that the Secretariat of Unesco was doing its utmost to promote freedom of expression, and so his remarks were only intended to emphasize certain suggestions. Unesco might prepare comprehensive inter- national papers and magazines, available to all free citizens, reflecting good will and showing facts in a manner free of any national bias. It might also found an international expert body in the field of social studies, economics and psychology, to serve as Unesco’s censors of the world press, analysing articles and sifting out all trends dangerous to world peace. The proposed International Institute of the Press and Information might fulfil that function; if it were not set up, there should be some international body, above nationalism and self-interest, to analyse current events and indicate dangerous trends for the benefit of the average citizen. Independent papers, like The Times, might co-operate to that end. The delegation of Iraq would also welcome any positive steps towards making the cinema and the radio more effective tools in the promotion of thefree flow of information, and would be ready to consider, if necessary, an increase of funds for this section. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) wished to say a few words on the whole set of resolu- tions 7.22 (Removal of Obstacles to the Free Flow of Information). The British amendments (doc- ument 4C/50) were an attempt to simplify the text, which it was felt was not so brief or happy as other parts of the Draft Programme; when co- operating with non-governmental agencies, it was important that Unesco should show itself to be a business-like and clear speaking Organization. Nobody could feel satisfied with resolutions 7.22 to 7.226. It was important to show under a few clear headings what the Conference wanted MemberStates and the Director-General to do. Withregard to the substance of the resolutions, very important work had been done since Beirut towards achieving some agreement on the exchange of publications. Many delegations at Beirut had felt that Unesco was not at its best when dealing with the Agreement for Facilitating the International Circulation of Visual and Audi- tory Materials: the procedure for drawing up conventions had not beenestablished, nor had the text of the draft agreement been submitted in advance to Governments, so that it had been voted by only a narrow margin, and few Governments had signed it, the United Kingdom Government being one of those which had not felt that it could do so. The work, however, had since taken a happy turn: a draft agreement had been sub- mitted to the meeting at Annecy, which had introduced amendments; the result was a very promising draft, which should be submitted as soon as possible for comments to Member States. Sir John said that he hoped that the Director- General would consider the comments when they came in, and produce for the Florence session a good text which would lead to the signature of the Agreement, thus facilitating the flow of published matter. The United Kingdom delegation felt that the resolutions under 7.22 contained too many pious exhortations to Member States and that, in the future, Unesco should be austere in its recom- mendations to Governments, only asking them to carry out specified tasks. Of all fields in the Unesco Programme, this field of Removal of Obstacles had been the least satisfactory. In 1948, there had been much disagreement about it in the Budget Sub-Commission, which had finally decided that the work should proceed if it did not cost more than $25,000. In the Budget Estimates for 1949, it had been proposed to spend $73,500 on the section, and it was at present suggested that the sum should be raised to $84,500. The money would be well spent, if it brought about positive results by the Secretariat and the bodies concerned in Member States, Sir John thought it    would be helpfulif the Director-General would tell the Commission the result of the work which had cost $73,500 in 1949, and particularly the result of the request to Governments that they should take measures in their own sphere to remove obstacles to the free flow of information. The matter had been treated seriously in many countries, and the United Kingdomdelegation would like to know the result of the enquiry. In conclusion, Sir John Maud hoped that the language of the resolutions under 7.22 would be ruthlessly pruned, so that Unesco would not be thought to be content with airy resolutions which the common man considered impracticable. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) spoke to the British amendments contained in doc- ument 4C/50, stating that he had onlyreceived the document at the opening of the present meeting, and had not therefore had time to study the serious substantive changes which it appeared to involve. He did not think that the Commission should refer them to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee without having examined all the pro- posed changes of substance; he therefore proposed that the document should be referred to the Director-General and the Executive Board, re- questing them to report on it to the next session of the General Conference. The CHAIRMAN suggested that no decision should be taken on the British proposal other than to refer the document to the Executive Board and the Director-General for consideration when papers for submission to the General Conference in 1950 were being prepared. He asked the Commission to confine itself to general considerations which fight assist the Executive Board and the Director- General in that study. The Chairman's suggestion was adopted. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) asked the United Kingdomrepresentative to re-read the draft resolu- tion submitted jointly by the delegations of Bel- gium and the United States of America (doc- ument 4C/18 rev.) and to tell him whether the suggestion put forward by his own delegation in connexion with resolution 7.42242, on page 1 of document 4C/50, did not seem to be contained in the joint proposal of the Belgian and American delegations. The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that it had been decided that the United Kingdom's amendments (document 4C/50) should not be examined in detail at the current meeting. The other amendments would therefore be studied without reference to the British proposal, which would be examined by the Executive Board and the Secretariat.
306 Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) drew attention to the draft resolution pertaining to point 7.22 proposed by the Austrian delegation (document 4C/45). No country had welcomed more than Austria the suc- cessful steps taken by the Secretariat towards the conclusion of an internationl agreement to fa- cilitate the international circulation of publica- tions. Austria and other countries under the Nazi heel had passed through many years of spiritual isolation, and they therefore particularly welcomed the report contained in document 4C/PRG/T. Austria was glad to support the resolution contained in document 4C/18 (rev.), aiming at the earliest possible conclusion of the agreement. The Austrian resolution was prompted by the fear that, while negotiations were being carried on, Member States would do nothing. Dr. Zeissl was well aware that the text was open to Sir Maud’s crit- icism regarding “airy resolutions”; but in this case it was necessary to draw the Conference's attention to the fact that Member States should not simply wait for the agreement to come into effect, but should take practical measures meanwhile. The Austrian resolution also aimed at drawing attention to obstacles to the free flow of publica- tions existing in “territories subject to military control of Member States”, which might otherwise be forgotten. In such territories, rulings had been made which proved serious obstacles to the free flow of information and were prejudicial to their whole intellectual life. Dr. Zeissl therefore recom- mended the Austrian resolution for approval. The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that it had two amendments before it, one from the Austrian delegation, concerning resolution 7.22, and the other submitted jointly by the Belgian and American delegations, relating to resolution
7.2242. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) proposed a slight amendment to the text of the Austrian resolution, which was accepted by the delegate of Austria. He then pointed out that the best way of implementing the Austrian resolution would be for Member States, pending the signature of an agree- ment of the importation of educational, scientific and cultural materials, to sign other conventions already existing, such as the Agreement for Facilitating the International Circulation of Visual and Auditory Materials. Only the United States and two other countries had so far signed that Convention. Mr. Eisenhower asked that the drafting change made by his delegation in the Austrian resolution should be referred for final drafting to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Agreed. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), referring to           the draft resolution proposed by the delegations of Belgium and the United States (document 4C/18 rev.), hoped that the Director-General would say a few words on the budgetary implications of the proposed meeting, which he feared might impose a further burden on the Secretariat. He had not seen the joint proposal before submitting his own delegation’s amendment to resolution 7.2242, but it still seemed to him that the procedure suggested by the United Kingdom delegation might be the better way. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) paid tribute to what the Secretariat of Unesco had already done to secure the conclusion of an international agree- ment to facilitate the circulation of educational, scientific and cultural materials. He thought it would be a pity to hesitate about taking a further step, and was convinced that the representative of United Kingdom would agree that his proposal did not in any way conflict with the suggestion in the draft resolution put forward by Belgium and the United States of America. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the proposed meeting would not entail any particular drain on the budget, as the representatives of Mem- ber States would pay their own expenses. He thought that, from the legal point of view, it would be desirable to secure the conclusion of an agreement and considered that the suggested meeting would produce better results than an exchange of correspondence, which might not go far enough. The draft resolution submitted by the Belgian and United States delegations (document 4C/18 rev.) was adopted. * Sir James SHELLEY (New Zealand) referred to the amendment proposed to resolution 7.226 by the Executive Board. His chief criticism of it was that it was diametrically opposed to the whole spirit of Unesco: it aimed at making effective a prohibition equivalent to curtailing the freedom of the press. He agreed that the radio should be used to promote Unesco’s ideals, but to aim at checking a medium which overshot all national boundaries, whose effect was immediate and so extensible that it covered the whole world at once, would be a very dangerous procedure for Unesco. In some countries the radio was in the hands of private institutions, tolerant only of their own point of view, and whom no government would dare to touch; the fact that the radio did not recognize any sovereignty made it a unique means of communication, for good or for ill. Those in charge of the radio during the war knew their power very well: for example, the success of the B. B. C. in those years depended on the fact
1. In final form: Resolutions 7.226 to 7.2262.
307 that millions of people in occupied territories were listening to it in spite of their governments; such a thing could not be stopped. The New Zealand delegation wanted the radio to be used for Unes- co’s aims, it would like Unesco’s instructions and advice to be broadcast to under-developed countries long before their people had learnt to read, but it did not want Unesco to embark on a project con- trary to its ideals. It would be far better to undertake, with the co-operation of United Nations radio people, a positive project for the spreading of tolerance and mutual understanding by means of the radio. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) thought that Unesco’s task was to carry out research and disseminate information on obstacles to the free flow of information, but only to go into action in co-operation with the United Nations and ECOSOC. He therefore wondered why Unesco was proposing to go into action by itself in the field of radio. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL believed that resolu- tion 7.226 was the result of a recommendation advanced by the International Telecommunications Conference (which had been held at Mexico City in October 1948) and by the Inter-American Telecom- munications Conference (which had been held in the United States of America), designed to ensure that wireless broadcasts were not employed in a way likely to prejudice international under- standing and tolerance. He recalled that the Inter- national Institute of Intellectual Co-operation had tried to ensure that the wireless should not be used as an instrument for war propaganda or for fomenting hatred among the peoples, and that plans had been made or agreements which contemplated censorship measures. The Director-General had been deeply impressed by the New Zealand representative’s statement, and was prepared to abandon the project if it was likely to pervert, in part, the spirit of the Organ- ization; Unesco was indeed trying to secure com- plete freedom of information but was also seeking to prevent the use of means of communication for purpose harmful to international understanding. He therefore thought that it would possibly be better to delete the draft resolution and to leave the Executive Board to consider, in consultation with the Secretariat, the wording suggested by the representative of New Zealand. An informal recommendation that international understanding should be fostered by means of the radio had been communicated to governments, but it included no undertaking with regard to specific measures. It therefore seemed advisable to urge that it should not remain confined to the realm of theory.   The CHAIRMAN thought the Commission would agree with the Director-General that resolution
7.226 should be deleted from the programme and referred to the Executive Board for revision on the lines suggested by the New Zealand representative. Agreed. Mr. SCHNEIDER (Head, Department of Mass Communications) drew attention to document
4C/PRG/4, which supplied the information called for under resolution 7.2213. The doc- ument gave an account of the work of the Divi- sion on the Removal of Obstacles during the past months. Report of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Mr. SEYDOUX (France), Chairman of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee explained that, after only a few minutes’ meeting, the Sub- Committee had felt it necessary to adjourn in order to draw the Commission’s attention to the difficulties it had encountered.
1. It had seemed pointless to examine the programme and budget unless the budget ceiling was first fixed as, without that valuable piece of information, the Sub-Committee might draw up a purely theoretical budget, and would be obliged to begin its work again if the ceiling decided on by the Commission was higher or lower than the total figure of the Sub-Committee's estimates. M. Seydoux therefore asked the Commission to fix a provisional ceiling for the budget as soon as it had finished considering the programme. The Sub-Committee would begin its work imme- diately it was informed of the figure, and would do its best to submit its report by 3 October.
2. Mr. Seydoux also asked that the Sub- Committee’s powers should be extended to include consideration of parts I, II, and IVof the Budget. He thought that, if it was necessary to make cer- tain adjustments in part III, dealing with the Programme, the Sub-Committee should be able to do likewise in the other three parts of the Budget. The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to con- sider separately the questions raised by the Chair- man of the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it would be useful to communicate to the Sub-Committee the Administrative Commission's report concerning the Budget. In the absence of the Chairman of the Administrative Commission, he asked Mr. Verniers if it would be possible to let the Sub-Committee have that report.
308 Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) said that the Admi- nistrative Commission had almost finished its work and that it would be possible to communicate the report to the Sub-Committee in time. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Commis- sion should meet the following day to decide on the ceiling of the budget. In agreement with the Director-General, he also proposed that the Ad- ministrative Commission be asked to transmit its report on its own work concerned with the budget to the Sub-Committee. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) assumed that the proposal henceforth was to reply in the affirmative to Mr. Seydoux on points 1 and 2, while wisely adding, at the Director-General's suggestion, that it might help the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee to have at its disposal not only the results of the Programme and Budget Commis- sion’s consideration of Part III of the Budget, but also those of the discussions of the Administrative Commission on Parts I, II and IV. With that assistance, the Sub-Committee could proceed in the way it thought best, and come forward with recommendations to the Programme and Budget Commission on the whole Budget. The CHAIRMAN explained that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee would have to take account of the recommendation of the Adminis- trative Commission as well as of the Programme and Budget Commission itself. With regard to the other matter raised by the Chairman of the Sub-Committee, it referred to item 9 of the Agenda (Fixing of a provisional ceiling for the budget) which the Commission would discuss at its next meeting. Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6). Chapter 7. Communication (continuation) Section 2. Mass Communication (continuation) RESOLUTION 7.2113. The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on resolu- tion 7.2113, and the Cuban delegation's amend- ment (document 4C/37). Dr. BRULL (Cuba) observed that the part played by the State in private life continued to grow, and had entered fields formerly strictly reserved to private enterprise. In education, State and private systems had always run parallel and been to some degree complementary; but, until recently, this was less true of science and culture. Statesmen's appreciation of Bergson's view of moral values was      the basis for exchanges conducive to the growth of a peaceful atmosphere, and led to the founda- tion of the International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, the first attempt on an international scale to teach States that their duty to educate their peoples could only be fully met by cherishing all the elements making up a people’s culture. Its success was the justification for Unesco’s foun- dation. At the present time, despite some progress, the world was still far from the true spirit of peace which would make war unthinkable. The process was undoubtedly a slow one, but need not be if man could find a way to speed it up. Unesco offered a short cut; but, for it to be effective, people must use it, and the more they did so, the greater would be its value, and to the most people. Unesco should be made the “trade-mark” for all exchanges vital to human accord; then, as its scope increased and its efforts grew stronger, the feeling of security, the antithesis of the warlike spirit, would grow in every citizen. States, therefore, should take formal legal steps to acknowledge explicitly their duty to encourage education, science and culture, and forge them- selves an instrument to publicize and expand Unesco’s work. To that end, the Cuban delega- tion moved the resolution contained in doc- ument 4C/37, advocating the institution of a “Unesco Journalist’s Diploma”. The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in view of the scope and importance of the project, it should first be examined by the Executive Board and the Director-General, and that a report on the question should be submitted to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that there were already a great number of questions to be prepared for the 1950 Conference, and asked that the Secretariat should be left free to report to a later session of the Conference, not necessarily that to be held in 1950. He thought that fine understanding might be prejudiced if the time for their preliminary study were too restricted because the programme of work was too full. The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Cuban del- egation agreed with the Director-General’s sug- gestion, so that no date would be fixed for the submission of the report by the Executive Board and the Director-General on that question. RESOLUTION 7.2251 Mr. CAIN (France) hoped that, before the 1950 session of the General Conference, the States on which the results of the resolutions depended would be made aware of their responsibilities. He read out item 7.22561, to which Member States’
309 attention should be draw. He emphasized how impatiently the restoration of the free circulation of books, scientific apparatus and films was awaited, and said that, in his opinion, Unesco would be judged largely on the results obtained in that particular field. He suggested that, if he thought it necessary, the Director-General should ask the General Conference for fresh resources to achieve that purpose. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL mentioned how interesting he had always found the question, which he had already discussed with the Annecy Group; he acknowledged that such recommenda- tions were, unfortunately, only of limited value from the legal point of view. He reminded the Commission of the aid furnished, for more than six months, by the Annecy Group in preparing a draft convention, which it would probably be possible to submit to the General Conference in
1950. He also recalled that the Secretariat was at the moment considering the problem of the general force of recommendations, but he did not think that it would be possible to take an immediate decision on that matter which, in his opinion, would be extremely important in the life of Unesco. It was necessary to decide on the duties of the State not only by debate but also by estab- lishing a verystrict criterion for recommendations: it was important that they should be distinguished from mere expressions of desire, having mandatory force and committing the States concerned. The Director-General thought that the convening of another committee of experts would produce little result, and that the organization of a special conference would require much time and money. If, however, it was not possible to achieve results in time for the 1950 Conference, it would be possible for that Conference to ask for the holding of a special conference on the matter in question. Resolution 7.2251 was adopted. * RESOLUTION 7.23 The CHAIRMAN announced that there were two draft amendments, one submitted by the French delegation (document 4C/48), and the other by the United Kingdom delegation (document
4C/49). Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) made some general comments on resolution 7.23 (Action through Radio, Films and Press). All those who had followed Unesco’s history would remember that there had long been a feeling that this field offered great promise of creating ways to carry out Unesco’s ideals, and Member States, National Com- missions, the Director-General and the Secretariat
1. In final form: Resolution 7.2285.   had been searching for the means whereby Unesco could influence in the right way those new means of commnunication. The United Kingdom del- egation had hitherto found results disappointing, and it was therefore a great pleasure for Sir John to be able to say that it now found two encouraging signs. In the first place, the Unesco Radio Division had succeeded in a creative effort to provide new material which was being used thoughout the world’s networks; Sir John wished to thank the Director-General for that achievement. In the second place, the Press Division in Unesco House had learnt its lesson from the Radio Division and had initiated Unesco Fortnightly Features, which were proving very successful. With regard to Films, the United Kingdom delegation felt less happy; achievements there were not comparable to those in the other two fields. Yet there was one very encouraging fact which showed that people in the film world in Member States were beginning to co-operate with Unesco: the fact that the United States had included in its delegation one of the most distinguished personnalities of the film word, Miss Myrna Loy. Members of the Commission were proud to have her with them and, in 1950, the United Kingdom delegation would endeavour to copy this initiative and to include an artist of Miss Myrna Loy's distinction in their team. His words were intended not as personal flattery, but to point to this positive evidence of progress made in the field of films by Unesco. Making two other comments on films, Sir John referred to former resolution 7.23311 (document
4C/5 rev., page 35) and asked what results had been obtained from consultations with the Film Production Committee, and what matters would be dealt with under the new resolution 7.23311. He asked if specialists were to be brought to Unesco House, and whether that was likely to lead to good results, or whether it would not be preferable to send people out from Unesco House. Secondly, Sir John referred to the United Kingdom amend- ment contained in document 4C/49, whose purpose was to incorporate into resolution 7.2332 the thought that Unesco ought not, at the present stage at any rate, to produce films itself He did not know the budgetary implications of the resolution before the Commission, but thought that it might be cheaper to proceed in the way suggested by the United Kingdom delegation. Miss LOY (United States of America) thanked members of the Commission, and in particular Sir John Maud, for their warm welcome. She had carefully studied the problems of films in relation to Unesco’s purposes, and had a great deal of faith that those problems could be overcome. The main trouble seemed to be that Unesco was timorous in
310 its thinking; it approached films with trepidation, feeling that its ideals and enormous responsibilities would be well-nigh impossible to interpret on the screen. Yet many people in the film world were enthusiastic about Unesco, and anxious to help it to spread its ideals through films. The funda- mental difficulty was that of making goodness interesting and attractive; a good man was gen- erally not thought very interesting, yet a very good man was in fact the most interesting thing in the world. Unesco must therefore find the means to present very good ideas and themes in a way that appealed to the public, combating the attractiveness of violence by making tolerance and constructiveness themselves attractive. It need not debase itself by trying to attract public attention; Mahatma Ghandi, for example, when he went down to the sea to extract its salt, knew that the eyes of the world were upon him, yet he wasa very good man. That was Unesco’s problem. Mr. Sedar SENGHOR (France) considered that resolution 7.23312, 7.2332 and 7.235 formed an introduction to the recommendation put forward by the French delegation (document (4C/48). He asked the Executive Board to consider that recom- mendation and to submit a schemeeither to the General Conference in Florence or to another session of the General Conference, specifying no precise time limit. He drew attention to the unsuspected influence exercised by the cinema, forill as well as for good, and gave a few instances illustrating the increase of crime in French West Africa. He thought, that the censorship exercised in most States left much to be desired, for it was only a material and math- ematical censorship, with no regard for the inter- ests of art; in his opinion, the question whether or not a film was moral could be judged only on that level. The only means of taking action against bad films was to produce cultural or scientific films which would be shown in the first half of the programme in order to take account of commercial considerations and the problem of covering costs. The French proposal was designed to institute a sort of Unesco certificate of approval, on the understanding that it would be only a moral en- dorsement. Mr. Sedar Senghor would also agree to the extension of Unesco’s moral approval in this way (as he believed the United States delegation intended to propose) to books, records, etc. Mr. Sedar Senghor thought the United Kingdom amendment had the advantage of brevity, but he did not agree to the substitution of the word “exhibition” for “production”. He thought the word “production” was extremely important, as it was a question of advising on the making of films for backward countries. He referred to an     article which had appeared in the Revue interna- ticnale de filmologie, indicating that 280 films had been specially produced for showing to African audiences. Mr. Sedar Senghor pointed out that films intended for the native peoples of Africa re- quired the use of special language and cinemato- graphic style and that, very frequently, certain films had a bad effect in a certain country merely because the means used to bring out the moral were not everywhere the same. It was therefore extremely important that the word “production” should be retained. In conclusion, Mr. Sedar Senghor emphasized the educational and moral function of the cinema, particularly where largely illiterate populations were concerned, and recommended that Unesco should take the necessary steps to encourage the production of educational films. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America), referring to the United Kingdom resolution 7.2332, intended to replace resolution 7.2332 in doc- ument 4C/5 (rev.), stated that his delegation agreed that Unesco should not attempt to make films itself, but thought on the other hand that Unesco should encourage the making as well as the distribution of educational, scientific and cul- tural films. The United States delegation there- fore preferred the wording proposed by the Ex- ecutive Board. It would, however, be prepared to accept the United Kingdom resolution if the word “production” were added in the first line before “distribution”. With regard to the French resolution (doc- ument 4C/48), the United States National Com- mission had initially been very enthusiastic about Unesco awards, and had even suggested that Unesco should endowthe title of “World Citizen”, accompanied by an international passport, on the two men every year who, in Unesco’s view, had most contributed to international understanding. Subsequently, however, the difficulties which might be raised by Unesco awards had become evident, and the United States delegation feared that Unesco might thereby make more enemies than friends. The French amendment, however, only asked the Director-General to study the possi- bility in connexion with films, and the United States delegation would be prepared to accept it if it were made a little more extensive by the addi- tion. in the first sentence of the words: Whereas the making of books, recordings, art repro- ductions and films... Mr. SYLVESTRE (Canada) observed that, as some countries had as yet no National Commis- sion, it would be better to say, in the last para- graph of the French recommendation that: The General Conference recommends the Director-
311 General to examine, in agreement with Member States and National Commissions, the feasibility of granting educational and scientific films a certificate testifying to their cultural worth. Mr. SCHNEIDER (Head, Department of Mass Com- munications), replying to Sir John Maud, said, with regard to former resolution 7.23311, that the meeting with a film production committee was planned only for the second part of 1949 and had not yet taken place. With regard to new resolu- tion 7.23311, the idea had been to consult with a Film Commission on proposals such as that put forward by the United Kingdom in document 4C/
49. By dropping the word “production”, it had been thought that the scope could be widened. With regard to resolution 7.2332, the words “the making” had been kept because the Secretariat thought that, while it was not advisable for Unesco to go into film production, it should en- courage the production of appropriate films, of which Mr. Schneider gave examples. Sir John Maud had said that the United King- dom delegation was not happy about the results achieved in the field of films: Mr. Schneider echoed Sir John’s remarks on behalf of the Secre- tariat. The main reasons for the disappointment were that the film medium was slower and more costly than that of the press and radio; secondly, the Projects Division had concentrated first on radio and next on the Press; he assured the Commission that film activities would follow. Mr. Schneider gave a brief account of Unesco’s achievements in the fields of radio and press, stressing the fact that Unesco’s ultimate goal was not to produce, but to stimulate the production of others. The French delegation had suggested that regionalization was necessary in films: he agreed with this point of view, but stated that the Department of Mass Communications would have to wait until its budget was big enough to deal with regionalization. The CHAIRMAN thought the United Kingdom delegation would agree to insert the word ‘‘pro- duction” in its draft and that the French delega- tion would accept the small additions suggested by the representative of Canada and the delegation of the United States of America. It was decided that the amendments (doc-
4C/48 and 4C/49) should be revised on those lines by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Com- mittee. Section 3. Provision and Exchange of Informa- tion. The CHAIRMAN announced that there were no amendments to section 3. A new proposal had been submitted by the Lebanese delegation, to be е о р е A h D E ك و و ‎    numbered 7.5. The proposal was concerned with “the teaching of international understanding and collaboration as part of the syllabus of training colleges” (document 4C/46). The Chairman con- sidered that the proposal was already covered by the programmeas it stood, and asked the Lebanese delegation to leave the Executive Board to take the necessary measures. Agreed. Chapter 8. Miscellaneous Section 1. Universal Declaration of Human Rights The CHAIRMAN mentioned that two amendments had been submitted in connexion with the section, one by the French delegation (document 4C/31), and the other by the delegation of Monaco (doc- ument 4C/34). Mr. AUREGLIA (Monaco) wished to explain the considerations that had inspired his delegation’s amendment. He referred to the importance which Unesco attached to the problem of Human Rights and which was shown in many measures due to the Director-General, such as the Human Rights Exhibition which about to be opened in Paris. Mr. Aureglia considered that the problem was the corner-stone of the edifice that Unesco was to build, and that the securing of world-wide respect for the fundamental freedoms was the most im- portant purpose set for Unesco in its Constitution. He reminded the Commission of the wonderful result achieved by the United Nations, which had proclaimed a Universal Declaration of Human Rights endorsed by nations with widely differing ideologies. Mr. Aureglia believed, however, that the De- claration of Human Rights would remain incom- plete and uncertain unless means of guaranteeing those same rights were devised; he had no doubt that the combined efforts of the United Nations and Unesco would discover a solution to that im- portant problem. Mr. Aureglia did not wish to go into the details of the complicated and diffi- cult problem, but the delegation of Monaco be- lieved that, as Unesco was in process of defining its policies, the opportunity should be taken to make a definite reference to that question of guar- antees, since Unesco was the moral guardian of individual freedoms, and everything concerning those freedoms came within the Organization's field of activity. Mr. Aureglia pointed out that, although one of the youngest of Unesco’s Member States, Monaco could pride itself on the fact that the name of the Principality had long been associated with the ideal of human brotherhood, for it was thanks to the efforts of one of its Princes, a scientist and philanthropist, that the first international institute of peace ever established in Europe, and possibly
312 in the whole world, had been set up fifty years earlier. Moreover, Monaco had always respected the dignity of the individual; it had enshrined the fundamental freedoms in its Constitution, defended them even under the occupation of the totalitarian armies in the last war, and guaranteed them by a special Court responsible for punishing infringe- ments of them from whatever quarter they came. Mentioning that Unesco had already expressed similar views on many occasions, Mr. Aureglia re- ferred to a statement recently made in the United Nations about a system of international under- takings safeguarding the dignity of the individual, which provided justification for the ideological and legal considerations which had impelled the delegation of Monaco to submit its amendment. The CHAIRMAN read out resolution 8.1 and drew the Commission’s attention to the fact that the resolution merely specified a number of tasks connected with the application of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The proposal made by the delegation of Monaco concerned a different problem—the investigation of means to provide effective guarantees of individual freedoms; that matter came within the field of activity of those departments in Unesco which were concerned with such investigations. He asked the delegation of Monaco whether it would not be better to submit the project to the Executive Board for consideration in connexion with the work of either the Department of Social Sciences or the Department of Education. Agreed. The CHAIRMAN read out the French delega- tion’s draft amendment (document 4C/31). As the amendment involved the budget, he proposed that the draft should first be considered by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Commission. Mr. EISENHOWER (United States of America) feared that he could not let the French amendment pass without a comment. There were a great many international agencies doing work of interest to Unesco which would like to have their meetings partially financed by Unesco. The United States delegation was in favour of saying that Unesco’s participation should take the form of a token pay- ment of not more than $1,000. Dr. ALZONA (Philippines) announced that her delegation supported the French proposal. The International Federation of University Women was composed of thirty-four internationalsocieties and, when Unesco was only a dream, it was a reality inspired by peace-loving women working for inter- national understanding. It had started its acti- vities after the first world war and they were in complete harmony with Unesco’s Programme. The Federation was worthy of Unesco’s sympathy and support.         Miss PEDERSEN (Denmark) observed that the comment of the United States delegate had made it necessary for her to add a few words to those of Dr. Alzona. The Federation at present had
130,000 members, all of them with university de- grees and exercising professions as doctors, teach- ers, etc. and some of them active in parliaments. The Federation had been working for Unesco's aims for years, for example, in promoting the ex- change of women students and teachers, in raising money for international fellowships, in giving help to women in war-devastated countries and in run- ning homes for university women. Most of the workers were voluntary. The Federation had long been concerned with human rights, and had de- cided to make the dissemination of the recent Uni- versal Declaration of Human Rights the theme of its meeting in Zurich in 1950. There was no mem- tion of the money required in the French proposal, and the United States delegate had suggested the sum of $1,000: that amount would be in- sufficient and the Federation was hoping to obtain $10,000: the sum of $2,000 for speakers and experts coming from Australia and New Zealand, $4,000 for delegates coming from distant or war-devastated countries, and $4,000 for publications and the distribution of the records of the meeting. Miss Pedersen concluded by re- commending the French proposal for approval. The CHAIRMAN assured the reprensentatives of the Philippines and Denmark that the Commission would bear their appeal in mind. He announced that the whole programme, the general examination of which had been completed by the Commission, would be referred to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee, which would report to the Commission on the conclusion of its work. Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), speaking as a member of a delegation which had raised many objections, expressed his appreciation of the manner in which all members of the Commission had been given every possible chance to express their opinion. He thanked his fellow delegates. and especially the Chairman and Professor Piaget, for their patience and for the excellent way in which the meetings had been conducted. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. TWELFTH MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Professor PauLo DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Fixing of a provisional ceiling for the Budget for the financial year 1950. The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that it was necessary to fix the total budget figure to serve as a guide to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee in making the necessary reduc- tions and adjustments. Once the budget had been fitted to the requirements of the programme, it would come back to the Commission for final consideration. The Chairman emphasized that the final budget would be fixed by the Com- mission itself in the light of the discussions, after an examination of the programme and con- sideration of the Sub-Committee’s recommenda- tions. Dr. CHAND (India) stated that the delegation of India had given careful thought to the problem of an increased budget, realizing that India was in the grip of a dificult economic situation, as
318 some others also were, and that it was a very delicate matter to make a decision which would increase the financial responsibilities of these na- tions. In regard to the fixing of a budget ceiling at this time, he recalled that a ceiling had been fixed at the last session of the General Conference, and pointed out that the Commission must decide whether it would be wiser to give a flat mandate to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee to cut the budgetto fit the pattern imposed by a fixed ceiling, or to ask the Sub-Committee to con- sider all details of the Programme, with the cor- responding Budget allotments, and, if necessary, to make cuts on the basis of comparative merit. If all items proved to have merit, he would approve the recommendation of the Director- General that the Budget be increased to $8,740,000, readjusted to $8,170,000 as a result of devalu- ation. In comparison with last year’s Budget of $7,780,000, the increase was really not very