SIXTH MEETING Monday, 26 September 1949, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Professor PauLo DE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The CHAIRMAN said that as a result of its meeting that morning the General Committee had proposed that the discussions of the Commission should continue to be of a general nature; that the scope of the Drafting and Co-ordination Committee and of its proposals should be widened; that the mem- bership of the Sub-Committee should be increased from seven to twelve, andthat full freedom should be given it to propose to the Programme and Budget Commission such budget amendments as it thought fit. Were the delegates agreed to add five represenlatives to the Sub-Committee as proposed by the General? Adopted. The CHAIRMAN proposed adding to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee representatives of the following countries: Australia, Cuba, India, Norway and Switzerland. Adopted. Simultaneous examination of the Draft Pro- gramme and Budget for 1950 (continuation) (documents 4C/5 rev. and 4C/6) Chapter 2. Education (continuation) Section 4. Fundamental Education tion) The CHAIRMAN indicated the amendments proposed by the Secretariat to the budget cor- responding to this Section. It was decided to refer the examination of these amendments to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Section 5 (Children and Youth) RESOLUTIONS 2.51 and 2.52 Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) stated that his del- egation did not wish to propose any changes in the resolutions under 2.5, but that it advocated the use of the method outlined in 2.5221 (“to continue an international study of the successful methods employed in different countries to over- come the barriers to education for all”). With regard to resolution 2.5222 concerning the hold- ing of a conference of Ministers of Education in 1951, he wished to ask the Executive Board to give further study to the question, to see if the proposed conference could be given a more con- crete and manageable subject; such a conference could not last more than a very few days, as (continua- Education Ministers could ill afford to be absent from their normal work for a longerperiod. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) pointed out the difficulty of altering the programme laid down by the Executive Board, and suggested that the point made by Mr. Ward would be met by cutting out, in the third line fromthe end, the word “primary”, thus enabling the same conference to examine both aspects of the problem: the exten- sion in time and scope of the prolongation of education. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) seconded the United Kingdom delegate's point of view. The French delegation could hardly approve the project for the Conference of Ministers of Education or of other competent authorities in the form envisaged by the Secretariat. It felt that the Conference, even if prepared during 1951, would not meet the hopes placed in it, and for the following reasons:
1. An international Conferenceof Ministries of Education already existed. (Many countries did not send their Minister to it, but their Under- Secretary of State for Education.) The confer- ence envisaged by the Secretariat therefore risked overlapping with it.
2. A distinction had to be made, on the one hand, between the question of the generalization of primary education and the question of the lengthening of the school period, and, on the other hand, between the problem of education in coun- tries where illiteracy was widespread and the problem of lengthening the school period in countries which were already educationally advanced.
3. Lastly, apart from the fact that it was not certain that the Ministers expected would come to the conference, they would be unable to take any steps without the authorization of the Minister of Finance of their respective countries, who would have the final say in any matter. He therefore asked if the project could not be re-examined in the light of the objections made. Count JACINI (Italy) and Dr. SIASSI (Iran) warmly seconded that proposal. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) pointed out that other Ministers had frequent occasions of meeting, but no such opportunities had been created for the Ministers of Education. The    Director-General wished to provide a central ral- lying point where they could come together and resolve some of the broad educational problems which arose from time to time. Mr. SMITH (Australia) said that his delegation wished to support the principle underlying resolution 2.5222, but doubted whether such an important decision should be taken at a “busi- ness” Conference. His delegation was in favour of the proposal of the United Kingdom delegation to refer the matter back to the Executive Board for further study. With regard to resolution 2.54 (the Arts in General Education), Mr. Smith thought Unesco could best serve its purpose in this field by stimulating action in the Member States, and he proposed that the activity should be included in the clearing-house work of the Department of Education, and that the budgetary implications of the transfer should be examined by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. With regard to resolution 2.522, Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) said, on behalf of the French delegation, that it would be better to draw up a Declaration of the Rights of Young People rather than of children only. The principles of such a declaration were included in the preamble of the Proclamation of the Fourth Republic and given practical application in a number of activities (canteens, scholarships, elc.) in certain overseas territories. But a Declaration of Rights should be accompanied by a Declaration of Duties. The question was of considerable importance for over- seas territories and for backward countries in which the élite tended to be out of touch with people. Certain practical steps had been taken to combat that attitude. Fellowship holders, for instance, were obliged to enter into an agreement to serve the territory in question. Mr. ENNALS (World Federation of United Nations Associations) said that WFUNA had collaborated with Unesco during the past year in connexion with point 2.514. Following the inter- national seminars on teaching on the United Nations organized by Unesco, a French seminar had been organized by WFUNA this year in Paris the collaboration of the French Ministry of Education and of the French National Commis- sion. It lasted two weeks, and the fifty participat- ing teachers worked out methods of teaching about the United Nations to be used in French schools. The success of this seminar had led to the pro- posal for three more seminars to be held in Italy, Cuba and Iran. The speaker was very glad to see that the Programme and Budget proposed to the Conference contained provisions for this type of activity; and, since India, Norway and Belgium
278 had shown interest in holding similar seminars, he hoped that the programme item would be approved together with some increase in the budget, which would enable Unesco to meet the newrequests. Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) supported Mr. Ennals’ request. The CHAIRMANstated that the budgetary impli- cations of resolution 2.51 were set out in doc- ument 4C/6, pages 88-89. It was decided to refer the Belgian proposal for increasing the credits for project 2.514 to the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. The proposed amendments to project 2.513 (doc- ument 4C/5, rev., p. 12) were adopted. * The CHAIRMAN then referred to the proposals made concerning resolution 2.5222. The Austra- lian delegate wished the resolution to be referred to the Executive Board after the text had been examined by the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub- Committee. The proposal would therefore be to postpone the conference envisaged for 1950 until
1951. Mr. SMITH (Australia) wished to make it clear that he suported the views of the United Kingdom delegation in suggesting re-examination of the matter by the Executive Board with a view to making further recommendations to the Florence Conference. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) sait that the French delegation supported the Australian proposal. He pointed out that the Ministries of Education were meeting at the International Conference of Min- istries and not at I.B.F. The CHAIRMAN proposed that resolution 2.5222 should first be referred to the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee for examination and possible inclusion of the proposed amendments, and then to the Executive Board for re-examina- tion. Adopted. REsoLUTION 2.53. Science in General Education Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) proposed replacing the word “par” in the Frenchtext by the word “dans”. Adopted. RESOLUTION 2.54. The Arts in General Education Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) explained that resolution 2.54 had been retained in ‘“Educa- tion” but, administratively, it was entirely under the control of the Department of Cultural Activities directed by Professor Thomas. Mr. SMITH (Australia) realized that fact and he Resolution 2.513.1. In final form:    could see no reason for not incorporating the work of this section in the Department of Education. To “continue research and disseminate information on the rôle of the Arts in general education” was the type of activity which the clearing house per- formed in the other branches of education; the Education Clearing House had budgetary provi- sions for publications, circulation of exhibitions, of materials, etc., and could take over the activities outlined under 2.54. The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stressed that, while the clearing house in the Department of Education dealt with practically all of Unesco’s essential clearing-house functions, it was not equipped to perform such work for the Cultural Activities. He submitted that the organization of the Secretariat must reflect the Director-General’s opinion as to the best location of certain activities. Dr. MARTÍNEZ BÁEZ (Mexico) recalled that the question was raised in London in 1946, when the importance of the clearing-house activities had been recognized. The Arts, however, had an exceptional importance of their own on account of the very valuable contributions made to them by nations whose level was otherwise less high. Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) agreed in principle that the Secretariat should organize its own activities, although he would have preferred to see resolution 2.54 in the Education chapter. He believed the seminar envisaged for 1951 was the only one for that year, and stated that the United States delegation would have liked—without pro- posing it at that stage—a seminar on Modern Lan- guages held in 1951. Mr. JAY (Canada) wished to draw attention to the last item of the Budget Estimates on page 90: he thought it strange that a total budget of some $27,000 should include a sum of $8,000 for “other contractual items” and suggested that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee should consider if that sum was really necessary. Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) explained that the Norwegian proposal for an addition to resolution 2.54 (document 4C/33) had no budget implications. It simply drew attention to work that had been going on with great sucess for some years in his country. It was showing the masses that there were other values than purely material ones. Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) thought the Norwegian delegation’s proposal most interesting. In view of resolution 6.1331 relating to the distribution of fine colour reproductions, and as Unesco was already deeply involved in the carrying out of that resolution (particularly as
279 regards travelling exhibitions nowvisiting various countries), he asked the Norwegian delegation to incorporate its resolution in resolution 6.1331 so that they could consider them together when dealing with the Department of Cultural Activities. Professor SOMMERFELT the suggestion. (Norway) accepted In answer to the question raised by the Canadian delegate, Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director- General) said that the expression “other contractual items” was often used to cover special expenditure. In the present case, it corresponded to item 3 of the working plan (document 4C/6, page 91): “To organize and circulate to Member States two exhibitions of materials relating to art in general education”. The whole of resolution 3.54 was adopted,* subject to the examination by the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee of the budgetary ques- tions raised by the Australian and Canadian delegates. RESOLUTION 2.55. Language Teaching The resolution was adopted without discussion. * Section 6. Work with Universities As there were no objections, the resolution was adopted. * Section 7 Adult Education Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) stated that, if the procedure at Commission meetings had not been altered, the Commission would have had the rare experience of hearing a British delegate propose an increase in the Budget: he was referring to Unesco’s work in Adult Education. The work was of the greatest value and he wished to congratu- late the Secretariat on it. He hoped it would continue and be extended, and he was glad that a carry-over materially increased the relevant appro- priation, thus making an increase unnecessary. He wished to propose that the Commission should consider the Executive Board’s proposal in such a manner as to encourage Unesco to continue and extend the work that was being done. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) wished to dispel a slight misunderstanding: there was no actual carry-over, but the Secretariat would be able to enter into a contract financed from 1949 funds, the fruition of which next year would meet the point raised by Mr. Ward. The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the three RESOLUTION 2.71.
1. In final form: Resolution 2.551.
2. In final form: Resolution 2.62.
3. In final form: Resolutions 2.631 to 2.633.   proposed amendments to resolution 2.71 (doc- ument 4C/5 rev., page 13, right-hand column, and document 4C/15). Mr. MARROU (France), introducing the latter document, asked for the deletion of the title “Education des adultes”, as the expression was not commonly used in France. With regard to back- ward countries, adult education could be consi- dered from two points of view:
1. Campaigns against for instance;
2. Education of adults in the nique, hygiene, etc. But the expression was not applicable to coun- tries which were educationally advanced. It would be preferable to use the expression “Education populaire”. Full agreement on that point had been reachedat the Elsinore Conference. Popular Education beganat the age of 14 and continued in the different branches (Trade Union Associ- ations, etc.). A distinction had therefore to be made between the urgent problems of backward countries and the democratization of culture in highly developed countries. Resolution 2.714 should therefore be amendedas follows: illiteracy, as in India, fields of tech- To foster the organization of national associations of workers in adult education in orderto provide, thanks to these and with the help of the national public services responsible for adult education, an essential basis for co-operation in this field. Public services entrusted with popular education did in fact exist and their contribution was by no means negligible. Mr. GIBSON (Liberia) was very glad to associate himself with all the praise which had been voiced with respect to Unesco’s work in Adult Education, for which there was the greatest need. Hefelt sure that Unesco’sactivities in that field would produce invaluable results Liberia had started an intensive adult education programme, but many problems still awaited solution. Professor BRANCA (Italy), on behalf of the Italian delegation, congratulated the Director- General on Unesco’s activities in the field of adult education. He was glad to submit the results of the efforts by the Italian Ministry of Education to combat illiteracy and he mentioned the courses and school established for that purpose.
1. A school for special categories (soldiers, prisoners, hospital patients);
2. Courses for pupils having just completed their elementary schooling;
3. Courses for pupils showing special talents;
4. Courses for girls from working-class districts instruction received from 12 to 16 years of age on the rearing of children, housekeeping, etc.) ; of persons
5. Courses for illiterate as well as for educated adults; Courses for emigrants; Special courses in science, languages, etc.; Courses in teaching for future teachers and refresher courses for country school teachers. Such courses, which had at first been limited to the Rome area, had later been extended to the whole of Italy (Law of 17 December 1948). During 1947-1948, a milliard lire had been allotted to such work, and 10,950 courses had been organized (3,258 in Northern Italy, 2,619 in Cen- tral Italy and 5,073 in Southern Italy). During the school year 1948-1949, 13,119 courses had been organized. Professor Branca also mentioned the national enquiry containing 213 questions which had been carried out in public and private schools, cultural, medical and tourist associations, etc. The results had been presented to the National Commission and could be summed up follows: Popular Education represented a synthesis of all activities coming within the field of education and public welfare and aiming at raising the cultural and professional standardof the people. Consequently, the Italian delegation warmly approved the pro- posed amendments and the French proposal (document 4C/15). With regard to the amendment proposed by the French delegation, Mr. ROSA (Brazil) thought that the expression “highly developed countries” was not a very happy one. All countries were in the process of developing, and cultural development went hand in hand with political and social deve- lopment. The distinction should rather be made between advanced and backward countries. The Brazilian delegation therefore proposed the dele- tion of the expression “highly developed coun- tries”. But priority should be given to countries where illiteracy was widespread, for their needs were greater. But that was merely a suggestion and the Brazilian delegation did not wishto indicate a definite choice of method or of terminology. as Mr. MARROU (France) agreed to the amend- ment proposed by the Brazilian delegate. ; The amendments proposed by the Executive Board (document 4C/5 rev., pages 13-14, right- hand column) and by the French delegation (doc- ument 4C/15 thus amended) were adopted. * The CHAIRMAN observed that there budgetary proposals concerning resolution 2.71. Dr. SOLANO (Colombia) stated that the delega- tion of Urugay had asked him to present to the Commission the memorandum (document 4C/35) were no
1. In final form: Resolutions 2.71 to 2.74.
80    which set forth the Urugayan Government's inten- tion of bearing the entire cost of a seminar on elementary educationif it were held in Montevideo. The speaker praised the precedent thus created of not burdening Unesco with the cost of a project of more particular concern to a country or a region. Dr. MARTÍNEZ BÁEZ (Mexico) felt that the applause with which the Commission had received the Uruguayanproposal left no doubtof its accept- ance. It was a wonderful responseto the Director- General's appeal and he approved it whole- heartedly. Dr. ALZONA (Philippines) congratulated the Uruguayan Government on ils initiative, which had the fullest approval or her delegation. Dr. BARBAGELATA (Uruguay) stated that his delegation confirmed Dr. Solano’s declaration. and the fact that the proposal it contained would in no way affect Unesco’s budget. His Government felt sure of the support of the Organization of Amer- ican States and was asking for patronage only on the part of Unesco. He hoped the example given by the Quitandinha Seminar—which his Gen: ment wished to emulate—would be followed by all nations that had progress and the welfare of humanity at heart. Mr. ABRAHAM (France) agreed with the Colombian delegate and welcomed the organizing of a seminar in Montevideo. But he pointed out that:
1. The organization of teaching staff, even if furnished by Uruguay, would certainly require the aid of the Secretariat;
9 The draft resolution in the Frenchversion was not very accurately worded and was not in accord- ance withthe text of the Uruguayan memorandum. It had also to be kept in mind that U ruguay was not making any appeal to Unesco for financial help. Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) expressed their gra- titude to Uruguay for its proposal and their pleasure in seeing the seminar continue the work of the one held last summer. The CHAIRMAN said that, with regard to the Montevideo Seminar, the Secretariat should be given full freedom to make more precise alloca- tions. He asked the delegates if they wished to express their opinion on the principle of the seminar, leaving it to the Drafting and Co- ordination Sub-Committee to decide on the methods to be adopted.
281 The Commission warmiy approved the principle of the Uruguayan proposal and decided to refer document 4C/35 to the Drafting and Co-ordina- tion Sub-Committee for examination. Vocational Guidance Educational Oppor- RESOLUTIONS 2.72 and 2.73. and Technical Education. tunities for Women The resolutions were adopted without discussion.’ RESOLUTION 2.74. Handicapped Children. Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) stressed that the new resolution dealing with Handicapped Children extended the action of Unesco to all handicappedchildren, and not to war-handicapped Children only. This important departure in Unesco's work raised the serious question that most of the problems to be found among handicapped children were physical ones and, as such, were for WHO to remedy. The tendency, at the present time, was to include them, so far as possible, with other children and, therefore, the amount of money suggested for Unesco's enlarged activities was too small for effective results. In consequence, Dr. Zook proposed that the formertitle of the resolution be retained, and that the extension of Unesco's action should not be undertaken at that stage. Very considerable sums would ultimately be required; every State had to deal with the problem and Unesco's contribution was too small to make any difference in such a large under- taking. Dr. BEEBY (Assistant Director-General) pointed out that, in the whole section which concerned war-handicapped children, Unesco had to go defi- nitely one way or the other The problems of that category of children were those of the “normally” handicapped ones in an exaggerated form, and he thought it almost impossible to separate the two groups. With regard to the scale of the problem, he hoped that the Florence Conference would consider whether Unesco could make a worthwhile contribution or not, on the basis of recommen- dations which the Director-General would then submit to the Conference. Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) wondered if the answer to that major problem—which might be rendered even more difficult by the inclusion of all handicapped children—was not to limit Unesco's action to the war-handicapped ones, and wait for the decisions of the Florence Conference. The CHAIRMANstated that the discussion would be resumed in the afternoon. The meeting rose at I p.m.
1. In final form: Resolutions 2.75 and 2.76.