THIRD MEETING Friday, 23 September 1949 at 9.30a.m. Chairman: Dr. E. RovaLp Warker (Australia) Organization of the General Discussion (con- tinuation). The CHAIRMAN invited the Director-General to speak informally on the three evening meetings which had been planned for the following week. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was afraid that as so many persons (twenty-two) had notified their desire to speak, the discussion was likely to be a failure and suggested arranging for two meetings to hear addresses, followed by a third final meeting in the form of a “round-table” discussion of the general ideas put forward at the first two meetings. Count JACINI (Italy) shared these fears and therefore passed on a suggestion he had thought acceptable: as the difficulty was due to the lack of premises, arrangements could be made to hold six meetings (instead of three) in the General Conference hall. Naturally, not so many people would be able to attend, but he supposed that in a larger hall their numbers would automatically fall off as their interest flagged. The CHAIRMAN explained that he had proposed an informal discussion because the Director- General wanted to suggest the possibility that some of the speakers might decide to withdraw their names. Mr. SEYDOUX (France) thought that, to con- form to the Beirut resolution and the wishes of the French delegation in particular, it would be necessary, in the interests of the general public, to arrange a discussion between a small number of distinguished speakers. They should try to avoid having twenty-two monologues reminiscent of a plenary meeting. Count Jacini’s suggestion was an interesting one, but the public might be wearied by too many meetings. There was no doubt that the general public preferred listening to a small number of speakers, either in person or on the wireless. Above all, it was looking for- ward to hearing arguments reflecting the differ- ent cultures of the world. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL put forward the following proposal: as it would be difficult to ask some of the prospective speakers to with- draw (there were now twenty-three), they might do well to appoint a leader, who would draw up a kind of “code of speeches” fixing their order and time limit. The meeting would last approxi- mately two and a half hours. A fresh meeting, to be held towards the end of the General Confer- ence with six or seven speakers selected by the leader and each representing a cultural group, would conduct a “round-table” discussion on the ideas put forward at previous meetings, but it would be before the General Conference instead of the public. That meeting could be held on 3 or
4 October. Provision could even be made for two debates—one for French and another for English speakers. That would facilitate the broadcast, but would admittedly have the drawback of reducing the public's interest in the discussion. However, it would be possible to admit more people than to the plenary meetings, for once the delegates’ working tables were removed, there would be enough room for some 400 outsiders. Mr. MUNDELEER (Belgium) thought it prefer- able to limit each speaker to a quarter of an hour. Two meetings would then be sufficient, rounding them off with a third meeting for a “round table” discussion. Each speaker would be careful to treat of hard facts and basic ideas likely to attract popular interest. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) thought that the reputation of Unesco wasat stake in the matter. He was sorry that Shafik Ghorbal Bey had with- drawn his name as one of the speakers, because two things were wanted: (1) the considered views —in print—of the leaders from different parts of the world, and (2) to focus popular attention and interest on subjects of major interest. Among those who wished to deliver an address, some, like Earl Russell, expected to speak for about one hour; and the other distinguished men who would take part in the symposia ought to agree to have three brief discussions of general and popular interest. The CHAIRMAN explained that, in Australia, several meetings of the National Commission had been broadcast after the speakers had carefully studied the background of the debate and it was, therefore, very difficult to ask such speakers to withdraw their names. Professor Stout, who was a broadcasting expert, had grave apprehension con- cerning the technical problem of organizing that kind of Round Table on the air.
228       Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) approved the Director-General ’s suggestion and thought that the speaker appointed by his country’s delegation would willingly fall in with it. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) wished to emphasize that a really efficient Round Table of views was exceedingly difficult to organize: a complete technical breakdown was likely to occur if the people taking part in it were not trained in that form of broadcast. Although his own name was down as one of the potential speakers—and he was ready to withdraw it—he was going to propose that afternoon to ask the speakers themselves to choose three people to deliver the principal speeches on each of those three evenings, for instance Earl Russell at the first meeting. The other speakers should volunteer to put their names in the hands of the Committee, of another group or of the Director-General, who would choose those most likely to make a real contribution to the debate. He thought his suggestion might meet the Director-General's and Mr. Hardman's points. The CHAIRMAN felt that the distinguished group of speakers should be told as early as possi- ble by the General Committee what was being sug- gested. There seemed to be two main approaches to the problem: (1) adhering to the three sched- uled evening meetings with an inaugural speech by a chosen speaker on each occasion, while the other speakers made shorter statements, or (2) to have at Unesco House a set series of straight speeches, which would be published—very valuable material for the National Commissions—plus three meetings at the Maison de la Chimie, with speeches by selected orators, with the help of broadcasting experts. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL approved Mr. Hard- man's solution. He urged the need for forming groups of speakers to choose their leader, who would then contact the Secretariat. Provision could then be made for three meetings at Unesco House (two on Monday, 26 September, afternoon and evening), where all the addresses would be given, and time allowed for the discussions. Then, for the three evening meetings at the Maison de la Chimie, four or five outstanding speakers, chosen by their colleagues, would deliver speeches, each to be broadcast inits original language and, in the interests of the public, they would reflect the important discussions previously held. The CHAIRMAN felt that, in view of lateness of the hour, the discussion shoul be limited to those two proposals, so as to arrive at a definite decision before that afternoon’s meeting of the speakers. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) pointed out that the Committee had made a volte-face since
229 its previous meeting, when it had been in favour of leaving the final decision to the speakers them- selves. He suggested letting them hold one or- ganizational meeting to see what they thought of the two proposals. The President of the General Conference might be asked to assist them. Mr. SEYDOUX (France), anticipating the diffi- culty of organizing a meeting of twenty-two persons, suggested setting up a small committee to contact the speakers for organizing the discus- sion. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed that the President of the Conference should preside over that committee, passing on to the speakers any suggestions put forward, and informing the Gen- eral Committee of any changes that might be made. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Chair- man of the Executive Board, understood that it was intended to print all the speeches. He pointed out that, if at each meeting the first speaker was allowed half and hour and all the others fifteen minutes each, they would all be able to speak. The CHAIRMAN noted that the feeling of the General Committee was to adopt the Director- General's proposal. He stated that he would bring back, next morning, to the Committee the decision taken at that afternoon’s meeting of the speakers. Agreed. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) said he felt rather optimistic as to the result of the procedure adopted. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) asked the Committee's views on dilemma by which he was faced: should he represent, at the speakers’ meeting, Earl Russell, who would not arrive until
5.30 p.m. on Saturday? Mr. SEYDOUX (France) and Professor NIEL- SEN (Denmark) indicated that neither Mr. Bidault nor Dr. Frisch would be able to attend the speakers’ meeting. The CHAIRMAN thought it essential that they should be represented, and it could be done best by their countrymen who were members of the General Committee. Agreed. Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN stated that the day's programme was already in operation. The morning’s meeting of the Official and External Relations Commission was really a session of representatives of the National Commissions. It was proposed to hold next day—morning and afternoon—a joint meeting   of the Official and External Relations and Pro- gramme and Budget Commissions to discuss Ger- man and Japanese questions. The Procedure Com- mittee would also meet in the morning and in the afternoon. There would be a meeting of the potential speakers (at the evening symposia) at
4 p.m., and another next day at the same time. The Programme and Budget Commission would decide itself as to the meetings of its Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee. Date of the meeting of the Nominations Com- mittee and of the plenary meeting for the election of the new members of the Exe- cutive Board. The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Nominations Committee might meet on Friday 30 September in the afternoon, and the election take place on Satur day. In the General Committee agreed, the Journal of the Conference would publish a full list of the members of the Executive Board in order to facili- tate the choice of candidates, while respecting the principle of adequate geographical representation. He recalled that, according to Rule of Proce- dure 95, the only candidates to be considered at the plenary meeting were those nominated either by the Nominations Committee or by two delega- tions before the ballot. The procedure outlined by the Chairman was adopted. The meeting rose at 11 a.m. FOURTH MEETING Saturday, 24 September 1949 at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Dr. E. Ronan WALKER (Australia) Organization of the work of the session (continuation). The CHAIRMAN stated that the organization of work for Monday, 26 September, required discus- sion. Present arrangements were for meetings on Monday morning of the Official and External Rela- tions Commission, the Programme and Budget Commission, and the Administrative Commission. On Monday afternoon, the Programme and Budget Commission would meet again. For Tuesday,
27 September 1949, no meeting was scheduled for the Programme and Budget Commission, but he believed it necessary to provide one, as this Com- mission was planning to make a report to the General Conference on the rôle of Unesco in Technical Assistance for Economic Development, in addition to its report on the Programme and Budget in general. Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) expressed the opinion that the General Committee, in organ- izing the work of the General Conference, should ask itself two questions: (1) Is it satisfied with the rate of progress of the work? (2) Is it satisfied with the way in which the work is being done? In regard to the second of these two questions, he believed that the details of the Budget were not being examined with sufficient care. In order to make an effective study of each item and of the expenditure involved, he thought that it would have been wise to use the method which had worked out so well at the sessions of the General Conference in Mexico City and in Beirut, and wished to propose that such a procedure might still be adopted. Mr. ALLEN (United States of America) recalled that some members of his delegation had raised the same question, and that it would, perhaps, have been best to follow the Beirut procedure. With that in view, he believed that the Drafting and Co-ordination Sub-Committee of the Pro- gramme and Budget Commission should be given sufficient powers, and the opportunity, to put together a working plan as the general work of the Conference proceeded. Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) strongly suported the suggestions of Mr. Hardman, but believed that the problem might be solved as the work proceeded along its present lines. In this connexion, he reviewed the schedule of meetings for the following Monday. The CHAIRMAN referred to some instances of voting which he had observed, in which the small