SECOND PLENARY MEETING Monday, 19 September 1949 at 4 p.m. CONTENTS
6. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of international Fourth Session Establishment of commissions discussion thereon: non-governmental organizations to the
8. Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Director- General’s Report on the activities of the Organization during 1949 and Speeches by the Director-General and delegates of Cuba, Greece, Uruguay, and Switzerland 44Iraq, Afghanistan President: The PRESIDENT — I declare the meeting open. We shall proceed to Item 6 of the Agenda—Con- sideration of the Recommendations of the Exe- cutive Board concerning the admission of inter- national non-governmental organizations to the Fourth Session. I call on the Chairman of the Ex- ecutive Board, H.E. Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan.
6. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admis- sion of international non-governmental organizations to the Fourth Session. H.E. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — May I, first of all, before we read the reso- lutions, express to you the gratification of myself and the members of the Executive Board, on your election as President of this Fourth General Con- ference? Now as to Item 6, which relates to the ad- mission of international non-governmental or- ganizations to the Fourth Session. The relevant document is 4C/11 (rev.). You will observe that the first paragraph concerns the admission of in- ternational non-governmental or semi-govern- mental organizations admitted by the Executive Board to consultative status with Unesco. In ad- dition to the 82 organizations which have been invited to send observers, the Executive Board at its Seventeenth Session approved the admission to consultative status of a further nineteen organ- izations, under the terms of paragraph E. Article IV, paragraph 13, and recommend the admission of observers from the Carnegie Endowment for In-
43 Dr. E. RonaLp WALKER (Australia). ternational Peace and the Rockefeller Foundation, whose activities are of international scope, and, in the opinion of the Executive Board, of particular importance to Unesco. The resolution which I have the honour to put before you says: THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, Having regard to Article IV, Paragraph 13 of the Constitution, Having regard to Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure, Having regard to the recommendations of the Exe- cutive Board, Drcrprs to admit observers of the Carnegie Endow- ment for International Peace and of the Rockefeller Foundation to the Fourth Session of the General Conference. The PRESIDENT — Does anybody wish to speak on this recommendation from the Executive Board? The recommendation is seconded by the delegate of the United States. If there are no further observations, and no objections, we may take it that the Conference approves the recommendation of the Executive Board, and that observers of the Carnegie Foun- dation for International Peace and of the Rocke- feller Foundation are invited to be present at our meetings.
7. Establishment of Commissions. The PRESIDENT Item 7 of the Agenda, relating, to the establishment of commissions, will be dealt with tomorrow after the General Committee of the Conference has considered the   proposed organization of the work of the Con- ference; that consideration will take place at the meeting of the nucleus of the General Committee, which will be held this evening at 6.15 p.m.
8. Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Director-General’s Report on the activities of the Organization during 1949 and discussion thereon. The PRESIDENT — We pass therefore to Item 8, presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Director-General's Report on the activities of the Organization during 1949, and discussion thereof. I call on the Chairman of the Executive Board. H.E. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — Mr. President, it is my privilege, in presenting to the Fourth Session of the General Conference the Report of the Director-General on the acti- vities of the Organization in 1949, to make the following comments on behalf of the Executive Board. It is the unanimous opinion of the Board that the Report is an encouraging record of achieve- ment. In the Board’s opinion the successful work here reported is, in large measure, due to the leadership, energy, courage and faith of Dr. Jaime Torres Bodet. The General Conference may well congratulate itself on its fortunate choice of Dir- ector-General at the last Session. Dr. Torres Bodet has made an outstanding personal contribution to the success of the Organization. This is clearly evidenced, both by his work at headquarters in Paris, and by the influence that he has been able to exert during his visits to Member States of Unesco. Everywhere he has made a deep im- pression upon Governments, National Commis- sions and cultural leaders. In this fine work the Director-General has been supported by an able and devoted Secretariat to which the Executive Board wishes to be the first to express its deep appreciation and gratitude. I wish to draw the special attention of the Con- ference to the frank and comprehensive study made by the Director-General of the relations be- tween the Secretariat and the Governments, Na- tional Commissions and other organizations upon whose willing co-operation the effectiveness of the Organization directly depends. It is my duty to emphasize the Director-Gen- eral's very just observations that Unesco is more than a Secretariat in Paris. Its mission can only be fulfilled if Governments and National Com- missions whole-heartedly play their part. Un- fortunately, the activities of many Member States do not extend beyond attendance at sessions of
44 the General Conference. It is obvious that at the national level there is a breakdown in the means of implementation of Unesco's programme. There are still many countries where National Com- missions have not yet been formed, and some which have been formed still only exist on paper. This is an exceedingly grave danger to the whole future of the Organization, and I call earnestly on all delegations to address themselves seriously to this matter. The Board believes that the Director-General's most important activity has been his attempt, during 1949, to concentrate upon those parts of the programme which are particularly vital to the purpose of the Organization. It is, however, necessary to point out that, whatever system of priorities the Conference or the Executive Board may work out, the hope of further progress along these lines must now lie with the General Con- ference which votes the programme; and the Board believes that, at the Fifth Session, a meth- odical yet radical reorganization of the pro- gramme must be achieved so that in future years a balanced and incisive body of work may be presented. The Board will itself endeavour to present to the Conference at its Fifth Session some guidance as to criteria for evaluating programme projects and proposals, and it is confident that its hopes in this matter will be realized. The world is in a state of revolution against conditions which many of us are too slow in altering. We cannot think of maintaining our standards of living at the expense or sacrifices by other peoples. When these disparities are wide the situation becomes desperate. Wherever we have widespread poverty, squalor, technical back- wardness, the situation becomes ominous. Econ- omic realities are more important than political ideologies. The scheme for technical assistance, which is designed to raise the standards of living in the under-developed areas of the world, will not only rebuild the world’s shattered economy but also contribute to peaceful reconciliation. The Board notes gratefully the thorough way in which the Director-General and his staff have proceeded to study the tremendous problem of technical assistance and economic development, in so far as it relates to Unesco. We feel that this new programme may. offer extraordinary opportunities for service not otherwise available to Unesco. It should also be a means of extending the already active co-operation between Unesco and the other Specialized Agencies of the United Nations. Unesco, which is charged with the task of changing men’s minds, educating them to re- cognize and accept a new and compelling loyalty, is a great venture in the international field.     In the war which is going on today, the war for men's minds, Unesco must assert itself as a major spiritual power. Neither poverty nor hunger nor disease by itself would suffice to drive men to war, if their spirit had not already been corrupted. Masses of people are not only im- prisoned in ignorance, but are fed on organized lies. When our passions are excited we forget all the lessons of intellectual discipline, the loss of elegance, the meaning of truth. The world is faltering and confused. Its great need is our chal- lenge; we must restore the scrupulous conscience, the care for truth, the sense of honour. For- midable enemies are lying in wait, curbed pas- sions, loud voices, violent desires; the spirit of man has long known these enemies, and with less powerful allies than we possess has often con- quered them before. Education, science and cul- ture, respect for justice and freedom—these are the ideals to which is directed the long march of man through all the stages of painful growth, slow maturity, difficult achievement, the sum of what we call “Civilization”. If we face our pre- sent problems with reason, not passion, if we resolve that the evil powers of this world shall neither corrupt nor intimidate us, we shall be able to play our part in one of the great movements of human history. With faith in the spirit of man, let us look forward confidently to the long future of our Organization as a powerful formative influence in the development of civilization. The PRESIDENT — сай on the! Director- General. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gent- lemen, may I say how deeply grateful I am to the Chairman of the Executive Board. His eloquent speech, when presenting my Report to the General Conference, fills me once more with gratitude, first to Sir Sarvepalli himself, who has so brilliantly summarized the Board’s comments on the Report, and then to all the members of the Executive Board, not only for the generosity they show in their comments, but also for the unfailing help they have given me. In granting me the benefit of their experience, they have at the same time given proof of their attachment to Unesco’s mis- sion. It is nine months since I took up my duties as Director-General. Nine months is a short time in the history of an organization, and often no more than an episode in a man’s life. But no period is short for one who must use every single moment for the maximum amount of action. As I drafted the Report you are about to discuss, I thought at every stage of the seriousness of this
45 occasion, in which I meet the General Conference of Unesco face to face. And so this will be on my part an act of self-examination; Unesco would be but a mere bureaucratic mechanism if it did not also provide the opportunity for frank and fruitful exchange between those who have faith in its future. I will not here reiterate my Report. You will, in looking through it, have become sufficiently aware of our endeavours and of our failures. I might dwell on the former, but feel it my task rather to stress the latter, so as to conceal nothing of the obstacles we have so far failed to overcome. This is, of course, scarcely the usual way for a managing director to give an account of his stewardship to his board; but Unesco is no com- mercial undertaking. Investments in this ven- ture—the contributions of your peoples, the work of our Secretariat—have, as their single purpose, to assure to every man access to education, cul- ture and science, to the end that every man may in this way reach true personal fulfilment; thus understanding others better, be enabled in more enlightened fashion to serve the cause of human brotherhood. Such benefits are not reckoned in francs or dollars or pounds; and yet, without this unseen dividend, how precarious is the sig- nificance of the others! These material attributes of peace, war can destroy at a stroke; even in peace they may be endangered should a mechanical inter- dependence of material forces prevail over a faith and a hope based upon the moral solidarity of mankind and free co-operation of men’s minds. Facing these prospects, which Unesco may only ignore at the cost of self-abdication, you will un- derstand why I am less struck by results achieved than by obstacles not yet overcome. We must act quickly if we are not only to reach our nearest goals, but to strengthen the moral authority of our Organization. In the course of my various travels this year, I met many who knew nothing of Unesco. They were forthright and honest men who would not wish to judge us with the elegant scepticism adopted by certain high priests of culture; they were modest, vulnerable men like ourselves; our brothers, for whom Unesco was created—and yet to whom our very purpose is unknown; men to whom we have not stretched out our hands to draw them to us, though they would be our most devoted and ardent helpers and friends, if they could only be made aware of our existence. This, gentlemen, is my real report to you. The document you have in your hands details our work in these past months; it is the Director-General’s account. But I am now adding my report to you as a man; and this I can do in a handful of words: Unesco is still for the most part a blueprint, and     to bring it to full and effective fruition we must redouble our efforts. Each year in conference we trace anew on the blueprint the outlines of the building, we adjust some detail of the fabric or the plan, we debate the niceties of departmental functions, we sum up what the Secretariat has achieved and regret that it has been unable to do more. But Unesco is not a Secretariat alone; it is an institution whose influence must extend over the whole world, the Secretariat being no more than as it were the nerve centre. Of course it has its own part to play; but first of all it should help the other parti- cipants, above all the Member States, to play their parts. Its tasks are to receive and pass on the views for the National Commissions, to see to it that no requests and no replies go astray. We cannot conceive a nerve centre except in terms of the living organism whose cohesion and action it ensures. Yet in our case it is often as though, by some strange physiological paradox, the ner- vous system were still in search of its physical organism. There are already, it is true, a number of Na- tional Commissions. But how many of them meet regularly? How many have attempted to start local branches? How many answer our en- quiries, or endeavour to carry out our programme? Observers may say that we are asking too much; that our questionnaires are too numerous and end by becoming a burden. And there is no doubt that we must still improve the methods of work of the Secretariat. Our documents would gain by being more concise, and we should allow more time for answers to reach us. I will do my best to bring about these improvements. The Secretariat should keep in constant touch with those bodies which are the sources of its strength and authority. Where National Commissions are active and powerful, Unesco has begun to break down the blank wall of general indifference. Where Commissions do not exist, or are out of touch with the realities, Unesco is no more than a token. The very nature of this Organization demands that the peoples of all its Member States make a similar effort—though graded to their means—to participate in our work. Hence I feel it my duty at the outset of this Fourth Session of the General Conference to make an appeal to you. Your dis- cussions will give me guidance and lines of policy. Your decisions on the most important items on the Agenda, such as programme priorities—which govern the distribution of the budget—the total of the budget itself, the plan for technical assis- tance for the economic development of the less fortunate countries, will be of excellent impor- tance for our future. But the fundamental prob-
46 lem remains untouched: how are we to breathe purposeful and varied life into these various na- tional Unescos in the several countries, whose steady participation can alone enable the inter- national Unesco to develop? You are about to examine the duties which fall upon the State in regard to education, science and culture, for the purpose of ensuring a better understanding be- tween peoples. May I here stress once again what I wrote at the end of the Report which is before you, and say once again how much benefit Unesco may draw from your debates on this theme? Of two truths I am convinced—and neither is complete without the other—of the historic mis- sion of Unesco, and of the sincerity of the coun- tries which have undertaken to carry out that mission. I hope therefore that no one will mis- understand the frankness with which I underline weaknesses which are temporary and remediable. I trust rather that you will mark in this outline of mine, far from any pessimism, which I would deny, my concern for objectivity. I have a deep faith in Unesco, and that is why I will not have it regarded as a collection of sym- bols and a laboratory of illusions. The idealism expressed in our Constitution is not a smoke- screen, designed to conceal the hard facts of reality from the simple-minded. We are not merchants of day-dreams. The campaign we have launched against the economic obstacles which impede the free circulation of printed material is not an abstract struggle waged with phrases and speeches, but a concrete undertaking employing concrete means, namely, international agreements sub- mitted to Governments for signature. Our Book Coupon Scheme, designed to enable soft-currency countries to obtain books and periodicals published in hard-currency countries, is hardly a meta- physical speculation. Our educational missions to the Philippines and to Thailand have had—just as the one now in Afghanistan—to get hold of the human truths underlying the problems they were sent to solve. Whether or what action will be taken as a result of their findings is not for us to determine. But the eager and trustful welcome accorded to these missions in these countries which had asked for them encourage us, since it demonstrates that frontiers are not always im- passable barriers to positive international action. There is nothing illusory, either in the work of our scientific co-operation offices. The requests for information and for advice which they receive, the facts they have provided, the contacts they have established, are all realistic and beneficial achievements. And what could be more practical than our efforts to increase the number of fellow- ships, than our surveys of technical needs of press, film and radio, than our endeavours to improve   the techniques of fundamental education, or to mobilize private organizations on behalf of the rebuilding of devastated countries? Without claiming undue credit for such emergency help as we have ourselves been able to afford, I should like to remind you that this very year, thousands of Arab and Greek children have learnt to utter the name of Unesco with affection. Thus we do not work in the abstract. And yet we must acknowledge that, through inadequacy of means, our action is sometimes so restricted as to appear merely symbolic. In an undertaking such as ours, world-wide in scope, quantity is often the pre-condition both of quality and of reality. Stated in another way, the question we face in our work is not so much that of taking initiatives, as of having the means—means in terms of men, technicians and experts, in terms of finance, cash and materials. Without a concurrent and com- bined increase in all these means, what we call the concentration of our Programme could not but lead to sheer surrender. To concentrate is not to contract; even less is it to paralyse. I should not forgive myself if I allowed the slightest doubt to exist as to my view of this matter. I am in favour of concentration of our Programme; we have been straining for months towards that end. Even if we should concentrate all our projects into a single resolution—for example, for the provision of fundamental edu- cation, which hundreds of millions of men and women still lack—Unesco’s existence would still be justified. But it would no longer be justified if having confined ourselves to this single field, we further limited ourselves, as we have far too often had to do in other parts of our work, to the drafting of memoranda, the despatch of pros- pectuses and bulletins, the sending hither and thither of experts unprovided with the means to carry out the educational campaigns drawn up on paper. We need only thus reduce the notion of concentration of Programme to its absurd con- clusion to see how vital it is to give Unesco’s work firm roots, and to go to the heart of situa- tions which we have hitherto done hardly more than catalogue. There are still not very many fundamental edu- cation specialists, some may object. But it is not for us to direct necessary fundamental edu- cation campaigns on the national level. This re- quires a political authority which we do not possess, and financial means, to which we cannot aspire. What is expected of us on the interna- tional plane is that we should help in planning campaigns, in perfecting techniques and above all in increasing the number of specialists. That is indeed our purpose. Before the Economic and Social Council’s resolution of 4 March 1949, we
47 had already devoted much time and a not incon- siderable part of our resources to technical assist- ance tasks. Yet if we are to train qualified experts in sufficient numbers to avoid a tragic failure to meet the world’s needs, we must prepare for im- mense efforts, have the necessary time, and be given increased financial resources. If our moral authority is to be recognized, there- fore, the first requisite is that our work be effec- tive. And there can be no effectiveness below a given minimum of means and of support. But there is another equally vital condition, concerned not with the weight of the power of our action but with its purrpose, its significance. The deeper we go into the problems which at first we had to be content merely to skim, the more clearly we realize that if Unesco is to serve the cause of peace, it must concentrate on man- kind’s concrete needs. It must be neither an acad- emy preaching the virtues of theoretical pacifism without considering the ways of attaining peace, nor an institution which, in the name of the primacy of the intellect, regards culture as an end in itself, artificially set apart from the economic and social factors which govern its growth. Our mission then is both militant and practical. It rules out all “conformism”. There is nothing less conformist than the programme of our Or- ganization. Is our aim to enable all men to read and write a conformist one? Or our effort to make the Rights of Man known in every teaching establishment? Or our campaign in favour of the free circulation of ideas? If there is such a thing as a cultural force of social change, then we are indeed the instrument of that force. If there is a bold courageous kind of peace—the antithesis of a peace of resignation—then it is indeed that heroic peace prescribed for all men in the Final Act signed in London in 1945; not a truce imposed by weariness, but a real peace, based on justice and understanding, a peace built on the sense of responsibility of each and all. Let me dwell on this point. The concord which it is our duty to cement through education, science and culture will be as nothing if the peoples of the world do not found it on freedom—freedom for all men. But can we imagine effective freedom unless all men are invested with genuine re- sponsibility? Let others dangle before the un- knowing the illusion of freedom unearned, or rights without duties, of unconditional happiness. We are incapable of such deceit. For our duty of all duties is to understand, and to make it understood, that all the problems of mankind merge into the one problem of man’s freedom; and that every freedom implies, whether for the community or the individual, inescapable re- sponsibilities. It was in Paris under siege that   the aged Michelet repeated, with all the conviction of his youth, his famous utterance, that admirable profession of faith in the fertility of free will and self-decision: “I believe in the future, because I make it.” But how can we inspire in every man the con- sciousness of his responsibilities, if we do not our- selves begin with a definition of those which fall to this our own Organization? All those assembled here know and feel how necessary Unesco is. More than ever before, the clauses of the Constitution acquire the strength of commandments. Neither politics nor ambition, nor even the thirst for knowledge nor love of the arts have brought us together. What binds us together is the belief that the peoples must un- derstand and help one another. But it is vital that this belief should remain continually alive within us and should inspire all our views and policies. Unesco, which will one day become the living Republic of Minds, the organic bond between all men serving truth consciously, is as yet in many respects no more than a piece of administrative machinery. We know the danger that has always beset all administrations. They all too easily degenerate into soulless mechanisms, where life is stifled; where words swallow up meaning, the letter destroys the spirit, other men’s faces fade into mere concepts, the most moving experience dissolves into a speech, into vague and lifeless affirmations. Our first duty, in this mission which is assigned to us, is vigilance. We fight against the force of habit. The vigil on the eve of battle is doubtless often an occasion of austere grandeur, but nobler still is the determination of those who are conscious, and we must all be con- scious, of taking part in the night-watch that precedes true peace. Our eyes must remain wide open. Every item in the Programme must remain living, a fraternal inspiration. It is in that spirit that the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of the Rights of Man. The authors of that document did not see themselves as historians, submitting for the applause of specialists a survey of our legislative inheritance. They threw down a chal- lenge; and in that challenge, though in the lan- guage of lawyers, lives the cry of man. Every right is a basic demand of the individual, or of society; it is an act of defiance to the forces of injustice. These rights do not flow down from Olympus as mysterious gifts of benevolent law- givers. They spring from the peoples’ needs. They voice the peoples’ deepest desires. And it follows the we are faced with a Declaration of Duties, an obligation laid upon all of us to achieve man’s rights, on our behalf and that of all other
48 men—an obligation we cannot deny without betraying the universality which every freedom demands. When we enumerate man’s rights, we are also enumerating duties to be accomplished. None touches us more nearly than the right to edu- cation. Who can remain unmoved on reading Article 26 of the Declaration: Everyone has the right to education. ...Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations... To these words, in our conscience others echo: two-thirds of all men are illiterate, two-thirds of the children alive today still await schools and teachers to help them to become responsible citizens, to make them free. They still await the time when the right to education, which now they are unable to claim in writing, ceases to be a phrase and becomes a reality. Perhaps they look to Unesco for just this. Only, it must be clearly understood that this Unesco to which the eyes of mankind are turned is not a house in the Avenue Kléber, nor a team of technicians, nor a gathering of learned people, nor an academy of thinkers: it is, first and foremost, fifty Governments. What is true for education is similarly true for culture and science. Article 27 of the Declaration states: Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits. Men need culture, in fact, as much as they need bread. They want their share of mankind’s spir- itual inheritance, they desire themselves to live its change and growth, to attempt to enrich it. That must come to pass if they are to be, in the full sense, men, if the culture of their countries is to be something living. The future historian may admire our poets, our painters, our mu- sicians; but it is to be feared that he will add: these great men were isolated individuals, living apart, unknown of the people—of the “masses” as the saying was. Those “masses” were born, worked and died without sharing in a culture for the sake of which they were nevertheless asked from time to time to surrender their possessions and their lives. As to science, it is true that research has blossomed impressively in certain lands and brought them a plenitude of well-being and power. But it is far from having developed equally every- where. There are other lands in which all that is known of modern science is the havoc which its wrongful use can cause. The task is therefore   in the first place to spread the benefits of science everywhere and still more to foster the desire for science everywhere, to nurture the scientific spirit, to build the foundations of science everywhere. To do this, it is not enough to distribute manufactures and to familiarize people with mere techniques. What matters is that all peoples should be able to equip their own laboratories and libraries, train their own specialists, inspire their own research workers. Until these aims are achieved, there can be no talk of the equality of men before science. What are you going to do, gentlemen, to meet such great needs and such high duties? I can only listen to your debates with tense expectancy. But this expectancy will be more than the natural concern felt by every international official for the future of his organization; it will be the anxiety born of the faith which I have placed in the will of the people and the respect I hold for the in- domitable hope that fills men’s hearts. There are doubtless hundreds of millions of men who know nothing of the aims of this Conference or of the very purposes of Unesco. But it is demanded of this Conference, as it is demanded of Unesco as a whole, not to answer these millions unknowing- ness by knowing them not. There is here a living presence which governs all our tasks: Twentieth-Century Man, for whom we must open the path of intellectual and moral solidarity, which our Constitution proclaims as His pre- It spurs us the essential foundation of world peace. sence, though unseen, is our spur. because it commits us; and committing us, will judge us. The PRESIDENT — Fellow-delegates, having heard with the greatest of interest the statement by the Chairman of the Executive Board, and the remarkable speech of the Director-General, it is now the duty of this Conference to proceed with the discussion of the Director-General’s Report. Three delegations have asked to speak this after- noon and it may still be possible to take other speakers if they send their names to the Platform during the discussions. The first delegation on my list is the Cuban delegation. I call on the delegate of Cuba. Dr. Mariano BRULL (Cuba) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, Mr. Director- General, fellow-delegates; after previous and care- ful examination of the Report on the activities of the Organization, presented by the Director-General at the present session for discussion by the Assem- bly, the Cuban delegation wishes first of all to express its optimism and faith in the future of a work like Unesco’s which maintains an almost perfect balance between realism and idealism. Its dynamic development marks a stage of progress in the work of Unesco, as is amply testified by the Director-General in his Report. The Cuban del- egation cannot but feel satisfied at the way in which the complex problems of such a diverse and heterogeneous work have been examined and solved. It is a characteristic of this international mission that, although it makes a newsocial contribution to the fields of Education, Science and Culture, it must employ the methods and procedures already in use until it works out perfect technique which can serve as a reliable instrument for carrying out an exemplary cultural policy in its widest sense. The first thing which strikes one when studying the Reportis that, in spite of the apparent diversity of its elements, all is directed towards the same goal, keeping ever in sight a cultural policy which shall be for the good of all men. I have spoken of a cultural policy. Let me make myself clear. I do not think that there is anything more ambiguous or dangerous than a cultural policy, whether partly or generally ob- served. Whatever its doctrinal content, it will fall sooner or later into the dogmatic impasse of some kind of totalitarianism or into sterile frag- mentation. This shows the initial difficulty with which we are confronted when we endeavour to determine the exact nature of a cultural policy which does not involve contradictions or am- biguities, for the greatest service we can render culture is not to make a policy of it, and to free it from its most constant and insidious enemies: ignorance and indifference. Fortunately, this qualified conception of cultural activity has prevailed in our Organization since the beginning of its work, but has been thrown into greater relief during the past year. Both in the work done and in that which is being done, the modus operandi has endeavoured to adapt itself to the nature of the problem grappled with, and, without losing sight of its noble ends, has endeavoured to reconcile the terms of the con- tradiction between what should be done (which always seems too little) and what should not be done (which always seems too much). This raises the question: to what extent does Unesco’s work meet the situation? I would not hesitate in answering that it has carried out its work in a manner which redounds to its credit and which makes a general contribution to the cause of peace. I refer to that constructive peace which gives confidence and faith in the future. We do not wish this peace to belong to any one nation but to all peoples. It will necessarily be based on international co-operation, provided that this co-operation is freely consented to and based on good faith and good will.    The chronic malady of the times shows that the peace of the world depends mainly on these two moral factors: good faith in proposing and ac- cepting solutions, and good will in carrying them out. In the present state of the world, when nations are either on the offensive or on the defensive in their international relations, there is no possibility of solutions which are not vitiated from the start. He who is on the offensive or on the defensive lacks the independence necessary for impartial solutions, which presuppose inter- national good faith and good will. We are living in a period of transition, when the dead weight of the past still hangs upon us, by force of gravitation, while that which is new has not yet become part of the principles and values in current use. But since life passes in a procession of facts and functions, our generation ignores principles and tends to become every day more factual and functional. Since our daily life consists mainly of facts and functions, every wise rule of conduct naturally tries to accommodate itself to them in order to achieve practical results. In the light of the foregoing, the Director-Gen- eral’s Report shows that the good faith and good will which constitute the moral assets of our Or- ganization have been zealously maintained and sincerely used. In dealing with tasks imposed on him by the programme, he has not lost that sound realistic sense of judging events and things accord- ing to their capacity for producing practical results. We see here a constant effort of co-ordination to adapt means to ends. I do not think that a better idea of Unesco’s aims can be given than in the Director-General’s statement that it must win the confidence of the intellectual élites and satisfy the hopes of the masses. When he drew up the working programme, he rightly declared that priority must be given to bettering the conditions of the masses, which is undoubtedly the most urgent task of our times. When the masses are able to enjoy more fully the benefits of culture, many other social problems will find a more just and adequate solution. In the directives of the Report there is an inten- tional repetition of the terms of a technique of action, free of all unnecessary dialectical ab- straction, but emphasizing those forms of service which are of most practical value. Thus here again it is seen that, in order to consolidate peace, the most helpful projects are those which, instead of dissertating about man, try to do something for him. The Cuban delegation has preferred to examine the Director-General’s Report in its broad outlines, because a document of this kind should not be judged according to its detail but according to
50 the manner in which it has respected its working methods and according to its steadiness in en- deavouring to adapt means to ends. Holding that the end proposed has been effec- tively achieved, the Cuban delegation recommends to the Conference that the Director-General’s Re- port be approved in its entirety. The PRESIDENT — I call upon Professor Alex Photiades, delegate of Greece. Professeur Alex PHOTIADES (Greece) — [Trans- slation from the French] Mr. President, fellow- delegates, after two very fruitful experiences in Mexico and in Beirut, it is at our headquarters on French soil that we have come together again, for France has always been a home not only for those bent on discovering or examining scientific and moral values, but also for those whose mission is to propagate them and to assist in their appli- cation by developing international solidarity. Our present task is to despatch current business, but, before deciding on the work of a Conference of this kind, we must anticipate innumerable new topics, many of which are of the greatest interest. This Conference is in fact, as it might have been in law, an annual Conference in accordance with the prescribed rules of our Constitution. Those who, since the idea of Unesco was first put forward at the Inter-Allied Congress in Oxford in 1942, have participated in its establishment and closely followed its growth, cannot but be deeply satisfied at noting that we shall be assuming tasks which were advocated by our Greek delegation during the London Conference of 1945, and even much earlier. The essence of these tasks is to be found in Articles 6 and 7 of the Instrument in the Final Act on which our Constitution is based. This important step we are taking—a happy con- sequence of President Truman’s deeply moral and humanitarian ideas—is concrete proof of tremen- dous moral progress, from the pragmatical point of view, as well as of a wider understanding of our mission. Our active solidarity with the sister Organizations of the United Nations cannot but increase, thanks to the new activities which are contemplated, even if it be only as a result of the wise decisions which will be taken, I am sure, in favour of an appropriate division of labour be- tween the different Organizations. It is impossible to discuss the main lines of the Director-General’s Report, after a previous ex- amination of it, without offering him our con- gratulations, for he was able, with the unanimous approval of the Executive Board, to see at once what activities were most necessary for realizing our high aims, and, thanks to the unremitting efforts of the Secretariat whom he inspired by his own example, not only was he able to carry out   such activities in extremely short periods of time, but he also succeeded in presenting extremely use- ful suggestions concerning those projects which we are going to discuss. He brings us order and progress and is fully entitled to our confidence. But what has most deeply stirred us today, the first day of our Conference, has certainly been the moving appeal by the Director-General to our Na- tional Commissions. I can assure you that this appeal has already mobilized the Greek National Commission which was established hardly a month ago, from the moment, that is, that a burst of sunshine drove the shadows from our ruined temples. Gentlemen, bearing in mind what the great Condorcet wrote about the progress of civilized people, we might say that, instead of establishing theories before having gathered facts, and instead of constructing before observing, Unesco has made certain of its first steps before attempting others, and it has done so by drawing profit from the knowledge of others and particularly from yours, Mr. Director-General. But what better motive could animate our Organization than the desire to fight against the decay of learning amidst the amazing scientific progress of today? The finest learning is undoubtedly that which lays stress on the humanitarian side of our work, for it throws more clearly into relief the characteristics of kind- ness and justice which are so yearned for by suffering humanity. Our Organization has suc- ceeded in acquiring certain of these characteristics by frequently taking compassionate interest in the lot of the children of today. Gentlemen, our children are extremely touched by the symbolic gesture, whose significance was fully grasped by our colleague, Professor de Berredo Carneiro, during his noble mission in Greece—a mission accomplished with abnegation, zeal, objectivity and authority which were recognized by all. Our children express to you, the Head of the Brazilian delegation, their deep gratitude, and have only one desire, namely, that the youth of our sorely tried generation shall be happier than they are themselves. It is these men of tomorrow in all our Member States, and not simply in any one State, who more and more every day have need of our tenderest care. Helped by the educators, philosophers, scientists, men of letters and artists who are watching our efforts with growing inter- est, the young people of our respective countries, drawn towards Unesco, will certainly be able to give our Organization the affection it deserves. Let us never forget that it is these young people who will be able to create much better than our- selves the spirit of understanding to which we aspire, for they will know far better than we do how to gather the olive branch and thus howto offer Peace to mankind with the deepest feeling. The PRESIDENT — 1 call upon H.E. Dr. Abelardo Saenz, delegate of Uruguay. Dr. Abelardo SAENZ (Uruguay) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, Mr. Director- General and fellow-delegates, as Head of the Uru- guayan delegation I wish to extend cordial greetings to the representatives of the various nations at the opening meeting of this august Assembly. I feel I must first of all refer to that great cer- tainty which is shared by all of us, namely, the certainty of the ultimate success of Unesco’s mis- sion. I seize the occasion to point out that in Uruguay all Unesco’s activities are supported by the State and by the whole of the people. In proof of what I say, I will mention one isolated incident: Just a year ago, at the suggestion of the Honorary President, our distinguished friend, Pro- fessor Houssoy, the Congress of Latin American Scientific Experts, which met in Montevideo from
6 to 10 September 1948, made a recommendation to Unesco for the establishment in our capital of a Field Science Co-operation Office for Latin Amer- ica. I can assure you on behalf of my govern- ment that this Office after a few months has al- ready produced excellent results, and, in spite of the short period of time (I draw particular atten- tion to this), has completed the working plan mapped out for it by the Congress of Experts 1 mentioned. Proof of its efficiency is to be found in the publications, which give a detailed and faithful picture of the scientific movement (as regards men and institutions as well as research work) in Latin America during the last few months : books, pamphlets and articles of a technical nature. Further proof of this efficiency is given by the Director-General who, in his comprehensive Re- port, states that the beginnings of the new Office have been very satisfactory. He also mentions the co-operation given by the Office in Programme activities carried out in Chile and Peru, as well as the rapidity with which requests for scientific co-operation have been met. Some of these came from other areas; one, for instance, came from British East Africa. This activity has won the praise of all Latin American Scientists. In thus evoking the work being done in Uru- guay under the auspice of Unesco, I have been able to give concrete proof of our deep feelings of solidarity with this international organization. If what we have done is a source of legitimate pride for us, it is nothing in comparison with what we are prepared to do. To develop fully, every great undertaking requires continuity, and    we hope to be able to count on such continuity in order to fortify our intention to co-operate with Unesco as far as we possibly can. Consequently, Uruguay, convinced that it will receive the same confidence which has been shown to it up to the present and which it has done everything it could to merit, will continue to contribute to a task which has only just begun. The experience acquired will no doubt be of great help for future activity. With such a hope—it is really a con- viction—we shall be able to devote ourselves to the cause of Unesco, which is the cause of Peace, Culture and International Co-operation. To sum up the work done, I do not think it would be exaggerated to say that, thanks to the Montevideo Office, whose influence is undoubtedly felt throughout Latin America, an atmosphere of enthusiasm for intellectual and spiritual activities has been created. Men of science have co-operated ardently and untiringly with it for the establish- ment of better understanding between men. In conclusion, I again extend greetings on behalf of my Government to the delegations pre- sent, and I do so as the representative of a coun- try in which Unesco finds a natural and propitious soil for the development and realization of its aims, because we have always endeavoured to honour and to defend inall their purity (and this is perhaps our greatest pride) the principles of Culture, Liberty and Democracy. The PRESIDENT — Are there any other del- egations which would like to speak on the Dir- ector-General’s Report this afternoon? I call on the delegate of Iraq. Dr. K. M. EL-HASHIMI (Iraq) — Mr. President, honourable fellow-members of Unesco, I should like first of all to say that none of the remarks I am going to make should be in any way regarded as criticisms of the Report of the Director-General of Unesco. I come from a part of the world which has certain affinities with the culture to which the Director-General belongs, and we have shown the same spirit of appreciation and support of the Director-General of Unesco in the Conference at Mexico as has been shown by the delegates of Lebanon and Egypt who represent the Arabic- speaking countries and the Middle East. We also showed that same spirit at the Beirut Conference. Anyone who is acquainted with administration —especially on so large a scale as that of Unesco, with its big budget, with such a large staff— should be conscious all the time that it is the vital aims—the important objectives which this Organization aims to realize—which should always be borne in mind by the responsible people in charge of such an Organization. There is the
52 danger of slackness, of being too preoccupied with unimportant details rather than with vital and important issues. There is the danger of bureau- cracy; of too many publications which might be interpreted by some as mere show, as designed to create the impression that Unesco is achieving most of its ideals and goals, which people all over the world are so eager to see realized. Then there is the danger of the “horizontal” pattern of administration, as in the case of Unesco—so many equal heads for so many sections—the danger of each department working as if it were indepen- dently of the other sections. There is hence the risk of overlapping and lack of co-ordination, of insufficient concentration of responsibility—and of fewer results—obtained by this kind of admini- stration. I wish, therefore—as a precautionary measure—to drawattention to these various dan- gers implied in such a type of administration. I suggest that we consider a model founded on a competitive basis, like the kind of administration which we see in large business corporations and companies. I am glad to say, of course, that the Director-General of Unesco is aware of that, and knows that if we want to reorganize the personnel of Unesco, we should base that reorganization on competition. He has promised that in this Re- port, and I am sure that his delay in taking such steps is due to the fact that he wishes first to become familiar with the personnel of Unesco. We need such a reform, based on competition, as found in the many corporations and companies which work successfully on this basis. The Per- sonnel Department of Unesco should have a thorough record of all the staff, of their merits and demerits—as is always the case in admini- strative bodies, government or otherwise—a thorough appraisal of every member, putting to his credit all the things he achieves and debiting him with his failures. Disciplinary committees might, if necessary, look into each case and judge it accordingly. Another point that has come to my attention is that Unesco, and the administration of Unesco, has still a great deal to achieve towards real- ization of the aims embodied in Article 1 of the Constitution. I met a statesman here who said to me, “Unesco is flooding us with pamphlets and literature”. I said, “Why not? That might be taken as a sign of activity, as a sign of achieve- ment”. He said, “Yes, but it could be interpreted quite differently also; it could be mere show, without concrete results and achievements”. So let us not give the people, the public opinion of the world, the impression that this literature of ours is mere show or pretence, but rather that it represents actual surveys in every field, concrete work and action in every field where Unesco is   most needed. In the days of the old League of Nations everybody used to receive too much liter- ature. People had no faith in all that literature. It was mainly theoretical, mere black and white that could not be interpreted into action and into results. Perhaps I may mention also the absence of Unesco in parts of the world where the need is most urgent? What has Unesco done in Ger- many? What has Unesco done up to now in Japan? What has Unesco done in China? What has Unesco done—except perhaps a very little— in the Near East? I regret that I was unable, because of my poor knowledge of French, to follow all the splendid speech of the Director-General, but 1 suggest that he wants more work, more action, more results, especially those results that fit in with the ideas and aims prescribed clearly in Article I of the Constitution of Unesco. Ladies and gentlemen, we have attended many similar conferences over a long period of time. I remember attending a conference—the new Edu- cational Fellowship Conference—which took place at Nice some twenty years ago. Educators and cultured people thought, at that time, that the Educators of the world should come forward and actually participate in dealing effectively with the social problems of the world. How much have we achieved within the last twenty years towards this purpose? 1 think that the educators, scientists and cultured people of the whole world should do more, should achieve better and more concrete results. If they do not use their power now, if they sit back doing nothing, not for the sake of humanity, taking an active part, when will they take part? The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of Afghanistan. Dr. Mohammed ANAS (Afghanistan) — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I have the honour of expressing my sincerest thanks to Unesco for sending a mis- sion of educators to my country with a view to promoting its educational development. I hope that the assistance given by this mis- sion to the cultural development of Afghanistan will lead to practical measures and will not be limited to theoretical and abstract advice. A survey of the educational organization of a country requires the necessary time and experience to grasp all the nuances of the problem and to become familiar with the needs of the people. I am certain that the mission now in my country will make numerous suggestions and will bring us methods which have been tried out in the more advanced European countries. But it will be very difficult for this mission, during the short time at its disposal, to get a complete idea of our needs and of the penury from which we suffer in this field. I ask the General Conference not to con- sider this mission, which is instructed to give us advice, as theoretical, but rather as a mission for reconstruction. I recently learnt that this Conference is to study a programme of reconstruction and technical assistance for under-developed countries. If Unesco’s mission in Afghanistan devotes itself to the discovery of the means of giving that country technical and concrete help, I am certain that the results of our co-operation will be more fruit- ful and more useful for the development of a universal system of education. In this way, members of other nations will be given concrete proof of Unesco’s real potentialities. Such an example will in itself be answer to crit- icisms that Unesco’s work is purely formal and theoretical. As regards the Reports of Member States, I gather that very few have been handed in and that no country has presented its report in due time. The preparation of such reports is easy when they relate to real and concrete matters, but, when they have to comply with certain formalities and conform to a special phraseology, they become more difficult. That, I think, is the reason why the various States have not handed in their reports in time. It is sometimes said that, even if Unesco did not exist, these matters would have been examined and measures would have been taken. It is most essential to distinguish those matters which depend entirely upon Unesco and which would not have been dealt with without Unesco’s recommendations. If we carefully examine the reports to see what these matters are, I do not think we shall find very many. That gives us an idea of the value of the co-operation which took place last year between the Member States of Unesco. In my opinion, Unesco should insist upon the reports containing precise and concrete elements relating solely to the work which it has under- taken and which are also of general interest in order to throw that work into relief. In drawing up their reports, many countries have only repeated what they had already done and drawn attention to principles applied in the past. I should now like to raise another question which perhaps lies beyond the scope of the present meeting. I refer to the venue of the Conference. Every year or every second year a different coun- try is chosen as the seat of Unesco’s General Conference. The principal reason for this measure seems to be the desire to give an oppor- tunity of becoming familiar with the educational system of the country chosen. I do not know if    the delegates at the Conferences in Mexico and Beirut had time to study the educational systems of the countries where those Conferences took place. We are now in France, in Paris, one of the world’s great intellectual centres, and the dele- gates to this Conference will be able either during or after the Conference to get a general idea of the educational system of the country and to visit its principal educational centres. The country which receives Unesco's delegates will be able to explain its educational system to the representatives of the visiting nations. These meetings will be particularly useful to the dele- gates of countries where education is inadequately developed. They will be able to gatherinteresting information by visiting countries which are cul- turally advanced.
1 do not think that this point of view has been considered up to the present. I submit it to the Members of the General Conference for their ap- proval. The PRESIDENT — I call upon Professor Piaget, delegate of Switzerland. Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President and fellow-delegates, the Swiss delegation is glad to be able an active part in this year’s work. Upto the present it was merely a spectator; but this did not prevent it from approving or disapproving as the case required. It did, however, prevent it from saying why it approved. I would now like to give the impressions of a former spectator who is today among the actors. The Swiss del- egation is particularly pleased that the first Con- ference in which it is actively participating is being held on the territory of a neighbouring State with which Switzerland is united by bonds of traditional friendship and close cultural col- laboration. French-speaking Switzerland has al- ways been nourished on the intellectual wealth of France more than any other country. As to the other parts of Switzerland, they know as well as the French-speaking cantons what the whole of our country owes to the dissemination of French culture and to the generous ideas which France has always embodied even when exposed to the greatest dangers and during its severest ordeals. The Swiss delegation has examined with special attention the Director-General's Report and it is glad to see Unesco entering on the path of con- crete achievements and appraising so realistically the difficulties of the noble task it has assumed. The central idea of the fine report by M. Torres Bodet—to whom we are happy to express here in public, our admiration, our complete confidence and ourgratiture for his visits to our country and
54 for the visits he has promised to make on the oc- casion of the coming meetings of our National Commission just established—is undoubtedly that Unesco must do less, that is to say, refrain from trying to do at the same time all that it possibly can do, but to do it better, that is to say, develop as far as possible its practical achievements. If we compare the present Conference with the pre- vious Conferences which I had the privilege of attending, we are aware of a complete change of attitude. At the beginning, we asked the question: What are we going to do? Even the observers were asked behind the scenes to suggest plans of projects or ideas of projects, and the result was a vast accumulation of frequently heterogeneous proposals. Today, on the contrary, we are won- dering how to select so as to be certain of choosing those matters which are most vital. This seems to me to require a few general remarks on Unesco's aims. I would like to make such remarks on the occasion of the admirable Report which has just been presented to us. Unesco’s aims seem to be threefold:
2. International research;
3. Direct action, direct intervention, on the international plane. But what is the respective importance of these three aims? The general discussion should endeavour to answer that question. Firstly, as regards co-ordination, everyone cer- tainly expects Unesco to carry out co-ordinat- ing work, which is an indispensable activity: co- ordination in the fields of education, humanistic studies, social sciences, bibliography, libraries, etc. But such an aim is certainly not enough and raises three kinds of difficulties. Firstly, as regards public opinion, it is unsuitable for arousing the enthusiasm of the masses; it is un- suitable for arousing it, because, if you will allow me to use a familiar expression, it is not very “photogenic”. Secondly, in a large number of cases specialists co-ordinate their activities for themselves. Not all of them: I know of some who take a long time over it and in the field of education, for instance, I think we should wel- come the existence of this co-ordinating activity, the idea of which has been so well championed by Dr. Beeby and which meets an undeniable need. But in other fields, the specialists them- selves do the necessary co-ordinating. The third danger of pure co-ordination is that it is frequently illusory, that is to say, it gives the illusion of acquiring real power, although that does not al- ways correspond with the facts. 1 remember numerous discussions, between the two world wars, between international associations with regard to the allocation of work. One was told   to do one thing, a second was told to do another, and a third was instructed to co-ordinate. To be asked to co-ordinate is not to be asked to do very much. In short, co-ordination is the first and indispensable aim but it is not sufficient in itself. The second aim is research. Unesco must ob- viously carry out all kinds of research. It is not only normal but indispensable for it to conduct innumerable surveys with a view to co-ordination and direct action. But here again there are two dangers. The public becomes alarmed by too many surveys, and an excess of questionnaires gives rise sometimes to bewilderment and scepti- cism. When questionnaires have to be sent to specialized technical services, such as public ser- vices (for instance, the Ministry of Education) or private services, scientific associations, etc., they must be drawn up with great care if the patience of the unseen interlocutors is not to be exhausted. It was said by someone that the best kind of questionnaire would be of postcard size. When addressed to the public or to such active organi- zations as the Press, Radio, etc., some surveys are dangerous. I am not thinking of any parti- cular case, but 1 refer to a certain bewilderment which I am told is sometimes met with. The second difficulty is that the specialists sometimes feel that they should have done the same research work. In such a case, Unesco has adopted the extremely wise and laudable practice of instructing the specialists, whenever possible, to carry out such research work themselves. In the field of education, for instance, much research has been carried out by the Teachers’ College of New York, the London Institute of Education, etc. When- ever possible, Unesco instructs institutions to carry out research work. This is not only of greal profit to it, but saves its reputation if the results are not entirely successful. I now come to the third aim, which is certainly the most fundamental and to which the first two are subordinate, namely, direct international action. That is what we expect from Unesco. Unesco alone has the means and ability to act in a concrete way in a great number of fields where needs are greatest. Take, for instance, the prob- lem of education. Since the war, education has been passing through a period of intense growing pains. From the quantitative point of view, there have never been so many students; all the uni- versities are overcrowded. There have never been so many pupils in the primary and secondary schools. Moreover, there is the vast problem of illiteracy. All this education effervescence needs a body to direct and guide it. Unesco must be at the head of this movement or organization and reform. It is from Unesco that we expect a gen- eral plan of battle so as to bring order into what is frequently chaos. Unesco has already taken a series of highly desirable measures for that pur- pose. I have in mind the seminars such as the one I had the privilege of attending this summer in Brazil. It was an extremely moving seminar and the practical results obtained were very en- couraging. As regards illiteracy, it might have been thought enough simply to co-ordinate all the groups dealing with the problem or to arrange for mere information and research. But Unesco wisely adopted an active policy of seminars in- tended themselves to arrange school missions and campaigns against illiteracy. I have in mind those school missions about which the delegate of Aghanistan has just spoken to you in such moving terms. As regards such missions, it is to be hoped that the experts designated by Unesco will not always be chosen in the biggest countries, in the countries which are most advanced from the cultural and educational points of view, but will be frequently selected from countries similar to those it is desired to help or advise, countries which have experienced the same difficulties and problems and which have been able to solve some of them. Otherwise it is to be feared that there will be too great a disproportion between the situations to which those designated are accustomed and the situations which they will have difficulty in understanding in so short a time. I am thinking of the circulation of teaching materials, and of the book coupon system, which, if it succeeds, will have considerable repercussions. Unesco has attacked this problem in the most practical and realistic fashion, by abstaining from making speeches and by devoting its attention to the technical problems involved, e.g. customs and economic problems. I also have in mind the technical assistance plan and the problems of relations with Germany, two questions in which my country is particularly interested. In short, I consider that Unesco’s real mission consists in direct action. The practical conclu- sions are obvious, and are three in number. Action requires infinitely more time than research work or co-ordination. In this respect, I am in complete agreement with the Director-General's remarks. In the first plan, numerous Conferences and the preparation they involve demand too much time (a partial remedy has already been found by providing that every second Conference shall be held in Paris; but it may be asked whether there are not still too many Conferences in view of the working plans which Unesco has prepared). In the second place, the burdens imposed by the working programme assume what I may call a sort of mental hygiene among the staff of Unesco.    The latter is overworked and the Director-General was quite right, in my opinion, to stress the problem of holidays and of working conditions. Regular work can be done only under normal conditions where there are sufficient guarantees of stability, and by avoiding this overwork which has become chronic in the last few months at Unesco. The second consequence is that selection is necessary. If an active policy is embarked upon, there must be fewer projects. To push on with them, a choice must be made. Such a choice is difficult but necessary. Today, there seems to me to be a kind of inflation in international problems and meetings. I know of at least three congresses which are being held at the present moment in three different parts of Europe and which all bear the same name. Order must be introduced and a certain hierarchy of achievements must be estab- lished, as the Director-General made very clear to us. Thirdly—and it is a fundamental point—action costs a lot of money; it grows like a rolling snowball. I am thinking of the seminar on illi- teracy which I mentioned a moment ago. It is only a first step. Obviously the problems raised by illiteracy are mainly problems relating to the training of teachers and to the refreshing of their knowledge. Who will provide for this training and refreshment? Can the States alone assume the responsibility, or must we not also think of a kind of international centre of information or schools, travelling schools perhaps? In any event, it is a project that grows like a snowball. Action once embarked upon, if it is not to come to a standstill, implies developments with possibly far- reaching results. Naturally, from the budgetary point of view, a balance must be struck between points 1 and 2, which I spoke about a while ago, and point 3. I ask your indulgence for these few remarks. They were intended to make it clear that my country will co-operate cordially in our collective task and to show our deep interest in the Director- General's Report and our belief in Unesco's future. The PRESIDENT — Before closing the meeting I would remind the heads of delegations that there is a Nominations Committee meeting tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. in the Conference Hall. The plenary meetings will be resumed at
10.30 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we shall continue the discussion of the Director-General’s Report. I already have several speakers on the list, beginning with the delegate of India. The first meeting of the. Programme Commis- sion will be tomorrowafternoon at 4 o'clock. I would also like to remind members of the Gen- eral Committee, that is to say, the Vice-Presidents of the Conference and the Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee and the Credentials Committee, that the General Committee will meet at 6.15 p.m. in Room 9, at the conclusion of this present meeting. That concludes the proceedings for to- day. The Meeting rose at 6 p.m.