Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) expressed his agreement with the point raised by the del- egates of Canada and Australia, and proposed that the word “annual” be inserted in front of “General Conference” in the sixth and seventh lines of sub-paragraph (a). The text would then read: . from the close of the session of the annual Gen- eral Conference at which they are elected until the close of the third ordinary session of the annual General Conference following that election. Professor EUSTATHIADES (Greece) saw no objection to the amendment of the paragraph under discussion on the lines proposed by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Nor did he think there was any need to dwell upon the objection raised by the Canadian delegate, since the amendments made by the Procedure Com- mittee concerned a text which was governed by the provision of the present Constitution. If it were decided to make such an important amend- ment to the Constitution as that mentioned by the Canadian delegate, it would of course also be necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure. Dr. BRULL (Cuba) asked whether they should not provide a special clause for maintaining in office retiring members when new members of the Executive Board were unable to enter into office immediately after the close of the session of the General Conference. Mr. JAY (Canada) felt that the point which the delegate of Cuba had just raised could be disregarded, for members of the Executive Board could have alternates sitting for them and thus, in effect, the members would be sitting for their whole term of office. The CHAIRMAN remarked that the point raised by the delegate of Cuba was already covered by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) wished it to be made quite clear that the modifi- cations which had just been suggested to sub- paragraph (a) were not intended to replace the whole of the sentence of paragraph 3. Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) wished to know whether “three working years” meant “three financial years”. Dr. SABA (Secretariat) pointed out that the amendment proposed to the Committee was based on an annual meeting of the General Conference, which was the rule established by the present Constitution. The point of the amendment was that members of the Executive Board would be enabled to participate in three complete sessions of the General Conference. The term of office should therefore begin at the close of the session of the General Conference at which the new members were appointed, and end at the close of the third session after that appointment. He thought that it would be better to retain the word “years” which was in harmony with the spirit of the rule of the annual holding of the Conference. Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) agreed on the principle; in practice, however, the periods were “financial years”. Dr. SABA (Secretariat) admitted that the shift- ing of the date of the General Conference from the Autumn to the Spring created a special situation during the present year. Thatsituation did not, however, in any way change the principle of the annual holding of the Conference, which still remained the general rule. After a few remarks on drafting points, the whole of the report 4C/PRO/8 was unanimously adopted *. The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m. FOURTH MEETING Thursday, 29 September 1949, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Dr. J. C. BeacLenoLE (New Zealand) Amendment to Rules 52 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure (continued). The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that the Mexican delegation wished to have discussed,
465 under the heading “Other Business”, amendments to Rules 52 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure. The chairman had gone carefully into the Rules
1. In final form: document 4C/Resolutions, Section V.    of Procedure with the Secretariat, and the position, as it appeared to them, was that, on the Pro- cedure Committee, a member could bring forward for discussion any subject he liked under the heading “Other Business”; and, if he brought it forward, it could be discussed. This was not the case with the General Con- ference Agenda, which was governed by Rules 9,
11 and 14. Rule 9 stated: The provisional agenda shall be drawn up by the Executive Board on the basis of items submitted . . . not later than one hundred days before the opening of the session. Rule 11 (1) stated: Any member may, at least thirty days before the date fixed for the opening of the session, request the in- clusion of supplementary items on the Agenda. Rule 14 (1) stated: During a session of the General Conference, items may be amended and items may be deleted from the Agenda by a majority of the members present and voting. New items may be added to the Agenda by approval of a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting. The effect of this was that, though the present Committee could discuss the question now, it could not itself insert a new item in the Agenda of the General Conference. It could, as a result of its discussion, adopt what might be called a “provisional resolution” to be reported to the General Conference, or it might decline to adopt such a resolution. Under Rule 14, the General Conference might decide to discuss the matter as a new item added to its Agenda, or it might not. Similarly, the Chairman of the present Committee could report to the General Committee that the Committee had discussed the subject, and could inform the General Committee of a “provisional resolution”, if it had been passed. But that did not bind the General Committee to anything. The Chairman wanted to make it quite clear that the Committee could commit the General Conference to nothing. The delegate of Mexico had referred to guarantees given him by the General Conference that this matter would be discussed. Whatever might be felt about the Mexican delegations case, those guarantees were not officially before the Committee. So far as any assurances or guarantees that the Chairman had given were concerned, they had not gone beyond this, that on this Committee the Mexican delegate would certainly have the opportunity of putting his case forward, so far as that was possible within the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
466 On this understanding, the Chairman called on the delegate of Mexico to speak. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico), dealing first with the question of procedure, drew the attention of delegates to Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure relating to “amendments, deletions and additional items”. He recalled that, at the first plenary meeting, the Mexican delegation had reserved the right to submit to the Procedure Committee a draft amendment to Rule 52. As no objection had been made to that proposal in the plenary meeting, it should have been included in the Agenda of the present Committee. Under paragraph 3 of Rule
14, the Committee could have requested the advice of the Executive Board as regards procedure. As regards the substance of the question, Mr. Castro Leal said that the chief argument put forward at the Second and Third Sessions of the General Conference was no longer valid, since the United Nations had adopted Spanish as a working language. He added that, for budgetary reasons, the Mexican delegation did not in any way wish the same place to be given to Spanish as to French and English. In order to limit the expenses of the various services concerned, he proposed that, for the General Conference only, documents and records (with the exception of the Journal) should be published in Spanish. In this connexion he emphasized the geographical im- portance of the Latin American countries, the size of their population and their contribution to culture. He said that the adoption of the Mexican proposal would involve an increase of $47,000 in the budget of the General Conference. Mr. JAY (Canada), quoting Rules 14 and 18, intervened on a point of order, saying that it seemed to him that, before the Committee could discuss the merits of the Mexican delegation’s proposal, there should be a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting, to enable it to be placed on the Agenda. He was of opinion that the question should be left to the consider- ation of the Fifth Session of the General Con- ference. The CHAIRMAN thought that Rule 48 did not apply to the Committee’s discussions, so that the delegate of Canada was out of order. The SECRETARY said that Rule 48, which had been mentioned by the Canadian delegate, referred to Sections X-XV of the Rules of Procedure, and the Chairman's interpretation was therefore upheld. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) stated that, in order to include a new item in the Agenda of a committee, it was necessary to obtain the assent           of the Conference in plenary meeting. He thought that, though the Mexican delegation had, at a plenary meeting, reserved the right to propose an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, it did not follow that the delegation was now entitled to propose a particular amendment. The CHAIRMAN observed that no resolution coming from the Procedure Committee would necessarily be binding on the General Conference. Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) pointed out that the Committee’s competence was confined to the examination of questions referred to it. By nature and by definition, it could not refer questions to another body. The CHAIRMAN stated that, under the agenda item “Other Business”, he thought the Committee could include the proposal made by the Mexican delegation. Dr. MENESES (Venezuela) agreed with the Chairman and emphasized that the object of the first part of the Mexican proposal was supported by more than twenty countries and by about
130,000,000 persons. The CHAIRMAN understood that the French delegation differed from his ruling. He would ask the Committee whether it upheld or differed from that ruling. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) sympathized with the point made by the delegate of Canada. If Rule 48 referred specifically to the proceedings in commissions and committees, and also to Sections X to XV, it seemed that, before an item could be accepted for discussion on a substantive basis, there should be a vote to admit that item on the Agenda. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) explained the method followed by the Mexican delegation. After consulting the members of the General Committee, the delegation had received a definite assurance that the question could be laid before the Procedure Committee and that such a pro- posal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure could be raised at one of the forthcoming plenary meetings. The same applied to a similar pro- posal by the United Kingdom delegation. Mr. NICHOLAS (Australia) considered that Rule 32 was the governing rule. If that Rule stood alone, it seemed to him that the Com- mittee would be at liberty to deal with the Mexican delegation’s proposal; but Rule 14 pre- vented its consideration, except under certain circumstances. In his opinion, Rule 14 did not prevent the Committee from discussing the resolution before it. He thought the Committee could decide on the matter there and then. It was in the Committee's power to abrogate the tules he had mentioned if it so wished. If it did not wish to discuss the Mexican proposal, it could say that the Rules were not abrogated, that the proposal could be postponed or that the prescribed majority was required. Mr. MEDEIROS (Bolivia) emphasized the need for not prolonging the present discussion. He pointed out that, under Rule 73 relating to points of order, it was for the Chairman to determine whether the Committee was competent or not. The CHAIRMAN agreed that he bound by Rule
73. He would nowask for a vote on the question of whether or not the Committee agreed with the ruling he had given in reply to the point of order raised by the delegate of Canada. Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) observed that if, at the beginning, the Mexican delegation had made a reservation expressly concerningthe point in question, the plenary meeting would have given a definite opinion on the inclusion of that ques- tion in the Agenda of the Procedure Committee, thus avoiding the present confused discussion. He drew the attention of delegates to Rule 78 (pro- posals and amendments) and said that, under paragraph 2, a proposal could be discussed only if a copyof it had been circulated to all delegations not later than the day preceding the meeting. Moreover, under paragraph3, that principle could only be waived in the case of counter-proposals. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) pointed out that the terms of Rule 78 were not applicable to the question under discussion, since the latter had already been mentioned by the Procedure Com- mittee and examined that very morning without any question of procedure having been raised. The CHAIRMAN stated that the appeared to be confused; vote at once. situation he proposed to take a Mr. CARRERA ANDRADE (Ecuador) stated that the Mexican proposal was not a draft resolution but an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and that, under Rule 103, the Procedure Committee was authorized to report to the General Conference on any proposed amendment to those Rules. The CHAIRMAN asked again whether the Com- mittee upheld his ruling or not. A vote was taken and the result was a tie (11 for,
11 against). Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) emphasized   the important financial consequences that would arise from the adoption of the Mexican proposal. He requested the suspension of the discussion, under Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, so as to enable a larger number of delegations to give their opinion on the substance of the question. The CHAIRMAN said that, if he accepted the application of Rule 90, he was bound to adjourn the Committee and ask the General Committee to arrange for a further meeting at which the matter could be re-discussed. Mr. NICHOLAS (Australia) said that, since the meeting was to be adjourned, some information should be made available to the Committee, before it met again, on the cost involved by the Mexican proposal. The CHAIRMAN agreed that this should be done. The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Saturday, 1 October 1949, at 11.30 a.m. Chairman: The CHAIRMAN said that he had informed the General Committee that morning of the fact that, at its last meeting, the Procedure Committee had not finished its business in relation to: (a) The request put forward by the delegate of Mexico for discussion of his delegation’s amendment to the Rules of Procedure; The obscure position concerning the Rules of Procedure. (b) The General Committee had asked that the Pro- cedure Committee should discuss, without pre- judice to any rule of procedure involved, the pro- posed amendment of the delegate of Mexico, and that its Chairman should report the feeling of the Committee on that question. If the Committee wished, it could approve a resolution; but such a resolution could only have for effect to inform the General Committee on the discussions. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, the Procedure Committee had been asked to discuss the matter; the object of that discussion would be to report to the General Conference with a view to having the situation clarified. The Chairman said that he had carefully studied the Rules of Procedure, in consultation with the Secretariat, and his recommendation was that the Committee decide that the Rules be submitted to the Secre- tariat, which would be asked to make a report and submit it to the Fifth Session. The Chair- man now opened the discussion on this point. Proposed amendment to the Rules of Pro- cedure of the General Conference. Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) proposed that, in
468 Dr. J. C. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) view of the diversity of arguments put forward and the contradictions they contained, the Secre- tariat should make a summary of the points at issue and present a report on the question to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America) sup- ported the delegate of Mexico's suggestion, and also the adoption of the general procedure outlined by the Chairman. He thought the only satis- factory method would be to have the Secretariat prepare draft amendments to be submitted to the Fifth Session, and that it would take into account the difficulties of other Commissions and Com- mittees in the same respect. Mr. JAY (Canada) was prepared to withdraw the objection he had made at the previous meet- ing. He agreed with the delegate of the United States that the tangle of procedural difficulties should be referredto the Secretariat. He also pro- posed that the Committee discuss, on the terms suggested by the General Committee, the Mexican delegate's proposed amendment concerning Rules of Procedure 52 and 55. The CHAIRMAN thought that four queries arose from the discussion at the last meeting: (1) what was the definition of a new item on the Agenda?
(2) what was or should be the exact procedure involved in the adding of a newitem to the Agenda of the General Conference? (3) what was the exact procedure involved in adding a newitem to the Agenda of a Commission or Committee?
(4) was a new Rule of Procedure necessary where- by all new items which involved budgetary