combination of two proposals from the Secretariat,  which they had combined at the request of the  Executive Board. Studies had already been carried  out in European countries and found very useful,  and they had thought it would be a good idea to  extend them to other countries in a lower stage  of industrialization. This explained the fee con-  tracts, which applied to the Far East, the Near  Fast and Latin America. The task of studying  how to obtain a smooth transition to modern  technology in the more backward countries was  one which they thought would be more usefully  left to the non-governmental organizations. The  Secretariat was studying which of these should  be employed for the purpose, and he would prefer  not to state at the present stage which ones would  finally be selected.  NINETEENTH  [61] Item 3.22 was adopted unchanged.’  The CHAIRMAN postponed consideration of the  Yugoslav proposal (document 5C/100) until the  next meeting.  Appointment of a Sub-Committee (Draft  Agreement on the Importation of Educatio-  nal, Scientific and Cultural Material) (con-  tinued).  [62] At the request of the Canadian delegation,  it was decided that the membership of the Sub-  Committee appointed at the Fifteenth Meeting  should be enlarged to include a representative of  Canada.  The meeling rose at 1.05 p.m.
1. In final form: Resol. 3.231.  MEETING  Thursday, 8 June 1950, at 9 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. C. E. BeEesy (New Zealand)  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part IT]
3. Social Sciences (continued).  SECTION 3.2 (STUDIES or SociAL TENsIoNs) (con-  tinued).  Item 3.22. Draft resolution submitted by the  Yugoslav delegation [document 5C/100] (con-  tinued).  [1] The CHAIRMAN remarked that, as the pro-  posed resolution was a separate one and not an  alternative to item 3.22, its budgetary implica-  tions had to be considered. In accordance with  the rule laid down by the General Committee, the  Chairman asked the Yugoslav delegate if he  could give the Commission any idea of the bud-  getary implications of his proposal. He had  understood him to say at the morning meeting  that his delegation was willing to divide the pro-  posal into two parts. If, however, the text were  split after the words “relations with one an-  other”, the second part in itself would not con-  stitute a motion.  [2] Mr. MARIC (Yugoslavia) confined himself
383  to recalling once more that a certain number of  items in Chapter 3 (Social Sciences) had been  rejected. The funds which had been allocated to  them could be used to finance these studies.  whose cost it was difficult to estimate.  [3] The CHAIRMAN observed that, even if the  draft resolution were passed, its adoption could  only be provisional, as it would have to be re-  ferred to the Budget Committee. He asked whe-  ther Mr. Marié wished to maintain his resolution  as a whole.  [4] Mr. MARIC (Yugoslavia) was not opposed  to the division of his motion into two parts, of  which the second was chiefly intended to explain  the first, but pointed out that the text of the  amendment as a whole explained the proposal  more clearly.  [5] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that  the Yugoslav delegate was in a rather unfair  position: he had agreed that the Commission  should vote on item 3.22, although, as a matter  of regular procedure, he could have asked that  a vote should first be taken on his amendment.              He had had every reason to believe, when he  presented his amendment, that it might benefit  from the funds, amounting to $26,100, provided  under item 3.22. In the present circumstances it  was quite clear that sums of such magnitude  could not be provided. The funds which might  finally be allocated for carrying out the Yugoslav  amendment would be in the neighbourhood of  $13,000-$15,000.  [6] Mr. HERRING (United States of America)  thought that the Yugoslav draft resolution should  be considered in the context of the whole section  on studies of social tensions, because it intro-  duced a somewhat different point of view. In  item 3.22 and the other items relating to those  studies, a certain similarity of attitude could be  discerned. It should also be remembered that a  good deal of preliminary work on the subject had  already been done. Before, therefore, attempting  to make any change in the emphasis, the meeting  should consider the work to which Unesco was  already committed. It would be unwise, without  some preliminary study, to shift the emphasis  that had been developing in the tensions project,  as well as in research connected with it.  [7] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) thought the proposal to  study political tensions was interesting in theory  but could not be achieved in practice. He  wondered whether such a study would contri-  bute to international harmony or would, on the  contrary, increase friction between States; whe-  ther it would not lead to Unesco’s being the op-  posite of a factor for harmony between nations.  [8] Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican Re-  public) felt some uncertainty about the Yugoslav  proposal. In the first place, and in view of the  complex character of international relations, it  should be drawn up in much more general terms,  for example by inviting Unesco to study the social  tensions arising from interference of one State In  the politics of another. He also wondered how  such a proposal could be carried out in practice.  It would involve preliminary enquiries which  Unesco was not in a position to undertake, any  more than it was entitled to condemn political or  economic domination by any given country. He  would therefore vote against the project, which  could not be carried out.  [9] Mr. FEBVRE (France) agreed with Mr. Her-  ring in considering that the Yugoslav proposal  implied a change of principle in the concepts  which had inspired the tensions project. The  French delegation reserved its position pending  the submission of its amendment to item 3.27,  but wanted to make it clear that its abstention
384  was not based on a question of principle. The  delegation merely considered it difficult to under-  take an enquiry of such magnitude.  [10] Mr. STEWART (Union of South Africa)  said that his delegation felt obliged to vote against  the Yugoslav resolution, primarily because of the  inclusion of the second half; by including it,  objectivity was lost by prejudging the issue.  [11] Mr. MARIC (Yugoslavia) stressed the need  to face the problem under discussion, which was  of capital importance for the defence of peace.  Unesco should not allow itself to be held up by  considerations of secondary importance. There  was nothing to prevent an impartial and objective  study being made of the relationships between  different States and of the flagrant inequalities  which were brought to light by commercial,  political and cultural treaties. If this study gave  proof of constraint, it was both proper and  necessary to expose the fact.  The Yugoslav draft resolution (document
5C/100) was rejected by 18 votes to T7.  Item 3.23.  [12] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) took the view that this  item belonged either to Science or to Education,  and that it was out of place in the present context.  [13] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was glad that  that question had been raised, since it enabled  him to deal with the general problem of the co-  ordination of Unesco’s tasks. Although there  were many Separate specialized departments,  Unesco had one general mission. He thought that  item 3.23 was entirely in its right place. So far,  Unesco’s Department of Social Sciences had not  developed in the way that, as Unesco’s conscience,  it should have done. In any case, the Commis-  sion had just approved item 3.22, and item 3.23  was merely a complementary text which would  be indispensable in the application of the scheme  for technical assistance.  Resolution 3.23 was adopted unchanged.?  [14] Dr. AWAD (Egypt) asked why the study  had been restricted to countries in process of  industrialization. It seemed to him that there  were other areas far more deserving of such a  study.  [15] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that  the item had its logical place in a group of re-  solutions specially concerned with problems of  industrialization. There were already two items
1. In final form: Resol. 3.232.                                    on that subject, and it was both right and logical  to study the incidence of industrialization on popu-  lation problems.  [16] Dr. AWAD (Egypt) still did not see why  the study was restricted to countries in process  of industrialization.  [17] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) drew attention to item 3.25,  which referred to the study of problems in over-  populated countries; thus the matter had not  been neglected.  [18] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom),  on behalf of his delegation, proposed an amend-  ment, to include the words: “the effect of popu-  lation problems on education, science and culture  in countries in process of industrialization”. The  reason for that proposal was that the United  Kingdom National Commission was somewhat  concerned to see Unesco entering into such a  very wide and complex field as that of population  problems, having regard to the fact that a number  of other bodies, including the United Nations, had  done a good deal of study there, and also to the  fact that this project did combine two distinct  types of problems—that concerned with demo-  graphic studies and that concerned with cultural  and sociological studies. For the same reasons,  the United Kingdom delegation also had some re-  servations about item 3.25. Before putting the  amendment formally, the delegation would like  to know whether in fact there was close co-  operation with the United Nations on the matter.  [19] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Depart-  ment of Social Sciences) had spoken that morning  with a member of the Secretariat, who had just  returned from attending the Population Commis-  sion at Lake Success; that person had talked the  question over thoroughly with the Population  Division at the United Nations, which quite  agreed that Unesco should undertake the studies  and in fact was anxious it should do so. There  was no problem of overlapping or disagreement  about division of labour. A meeting about the  studies was planned for early July and the United  Nations representative had consented to be pre-  sent at the meeting.  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) was  satisfied with the Secretariat’s answer to his  query.  [20] Dr. ZEISSI, (Austria) asked whether the  study of population problems did not fall within  the scope of WHO and whether Unesco should  not work in co-operation with that Agency.  Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department of  Social Sciences) replied that the resolutions were  all under the heading of Social Tensions, and that
385  Unesco would not concern itself with the health  aspect, or similar aspects, of population prob-  lems.  Item 3.24 was adopted unchanged.?  Item 3.25.  [21] Professor VITO (Italy) believed that, to be  clear, the item should have added to it some such  words as: ““. tensions resulting from over-  population and obstacles to the movement of  goods, capital and population”.  That amendment was seconded by the del-  egates of BELGIUM, EGYPT and LIBERIA.  [22] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) thought  that the Italian delegate’s view was justified, but  that the factors under consideration were included  in the idea of over-population. It would appear  more logical to adopt a general formula and to  speak merely of the different factors of over-  population.  [23] Dr. AWAD (Egypt) having asked the del-  egate of Italy whether he was agreeable to the  word: “including” being inserted in his amend-  ment before the word “obstacles”, Professor VITO  (Italy) agreed.  [24] The CHAIRMAN read the text of item 3.25  as amended:  To organize or to continue the study of tensions  resulting from over-population, including obstacles to  movement of goods, capital and population.  The amendment was adopted by 18 votes.
125] Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican Re-  public) thought that the resolution did not give  a sufficiently complete list of the causes of social  tensions. The question of frontier zones, for  example, had not been dealt with. Some front-  iers separated countries where social and demo-  graphic conditions were fairly similar, while  others separated countries of which one was over-  populated and the other under-populated, and  whose social customs showed very marked dif-  ferences. There were also certain countries which  had a tendency to overstep the limits of their  territory. The Dominican delegation asked that  the resolution should be amplified on those lines.  [26] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL regretted that  that proposal, interesting though it was, could  not be carried out, for budgetary reasons.  [27] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that allow-  ance was made in the proposals approved within  the framework of the Basic Programme for
1. In final form: Resol. 3.241.  TIE  A E   er  g ag   H C N   e u t   Hi   S n :   E a r   i   =   =  E  = e   =  .
0  :  o t   T h e   ‘  L L   ob  ca m  N E   B o g e  LA   il.   +;   =   A      inclusion of the Dominican Republic’s proposal at  a later date. Dr. Sanchez might therefore put his  suggestion before the Director-General as a speci-  fic item for a future programme.  [28] Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican Re-  public) had not thought that his proposal might  have budgetary implications. In view of the ex-  planations given, he agreed to withdraw it for the  time being, on the understanding that it could be  brought forward again as soon as budgetary con-  ditions made it possible.  [29] Professor PHOTIADES (Executive Board)  stated that, for budgetary reasons, the Executive  Board had had to adopt the same attitude, re-  serving that proposal for later study.  Item 3.25, as amended, was adopted.?  Item 3.26.  [30] In reply to queries by the delegates of  AUSTRALIA, IRAQ and LIBERIA as to why Japan  had been mentioned specially in that item,  Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that the resolutions con-  cerning Japan appeared under different chapters  of the 1951 Programme, there being two in the  section on Social Sciences. In other words, all  the draft resolutions concerning the activities of  Unesco in Japan during 1951 were repetitions of  the 1951 Programme. The relevant text would be  found in section 4 of Part IV of document 5C/5
(1). Rev.  Item 3.26 was adopted unchanged.?  Item 3.27. Draft resolution presented by the  French delegation [document 5C/102].  [31] Mr. FEBVRE (France) pointed out that,  when the question of social tensions had arisen,  the French delegation had unreservedly supported  the proposals submitted to it, which aimed at  throwing light on the effect of states of tension  on the individual or on the psychology of the  individual. The delegation had thought that  such studies would produce valuable results. But  if they were to study the incidence which social  tensions might have on peace, it was very clear  that the major tensions would have to be studied,  although these had hitherto been excluded from  the programme of studies. Such a study was in-  dispensable if the surveys were to make any con-  tribution to the cause of peace. Those were the  reasons that had inspired the French draft  amendment, which could not have large bud-  getary implications.  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) sec-  onded the French draft amendment.
1. In final form: Resol. 3.242.
2. In final form: Resol. 3.25.  [32] Professor PHOTIADES (Executive Board)  feared that this extended study would involve ad-  ditional expenses which were not provided for  in the budget.  [33] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  observed that his delegation had supported the  French proposal, although it was perhaps un-  necessary, as presumably the Secretariat would in  any case do what was proposed in the amend-  ment. The study was a scholarly one, and if  certain conclusions were reached through it, he  supposed that they would be stated, irrespective  of any political or social challenge that they  might raise. It would be the duty of those  making the syntheses to put down the truth.  [34] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) also sup-  ported the French proposal. It was both logical  and natural that studies should have been carried  out hitherto on a micro-sociological level, but the  same work should now be carried out on a more  general scale.  [35] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) was rather perplexed by the  turn of the discussion, because, as Professor Piaget  had said, Unesco had been working on a micro-  sociological level in studies of “stereotypes”—the  mistaken ideas which some people had about  others. If the French draft resolution were  adopted, he feared that it would prevent the  Secretariat from making a synthesis of those  studies, which was exactly what it wanted to do.  Item 3.27 was not a prospective but a retrospective  resolution. The Secretariat wished to bring to-  gether in final form the separate studies which  had been made.
136] Baron Van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) con-  sidered that, in view of the explanations given by  the representative of the Director-G-neral, In  future at any rate the emphasis would have to be  put on major tensions.  [37] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) did not think that the  French resolution ran counter to what Dr. Angell  had said, but that it merely emphasized certain  aspects of the study. Dr. Jamaly considered that  the word “alone” should be deleted. He also  wondered whether the syntheses should be made  in 1950, or whether it would not be better to wail  until the following year.
138] Mr. MARIC (Yugoslavia) thought that the  French proposal was very important and touched  on a basic problem, but he regretted having to  raise certain objections of principle. In the first  place, the proposal did not specify which studies  were to be synthesized; secondly, if these studies  were entrusted to a sociologist who was not 1m-                                    partial, his conclusions would have no objective  value. Again, if the accent was to be put on  major tensions, it seemed difficult to include  ideological conflicts. For the most part, ideolo-  gies merely provided a pretext for the pursuit of  some interest. Thus, in the seventeenth century,  Spain had launched a vast programme of ex-  pansion under the Catholic banner, against the  will of the people, whilst Cardinal Richelieu, ad-  vised by Father Joseph, did not hesitate to ally  himself with the Protestants. Many more recent  examples could be given to show that ideologies  were, in reality, merely secondary causes. It was  entirely possible to ensure and maintain peace in  spite of ideological differences. Yugoslavia, a  Socialist State, could perfectly well live at peace  with other countries without abandoning any of  her doctrines.  In the same way, it was not necessary, in order  to ensure peace, to take into consideration the  social tensions caused by conflicts between the  different classes: these were internal phenomena  which played no part in international relations.  The real threat to peace lay in the inequality of  relationships between States and in the struggle  for power between groups of nations.
139] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was in agree-  ment with the capital importance that the French  proposal sought to give to major problems, when-  ever it was a question of the contribution which  Unesco could make to the maintenance of peace.  It was, however, important not to forget the syn-  thesis already made by the Department of Social  Sciences. It would be a pity if Unesco were de-  prived of the possibility of publishing these doc-  uments, which were of considerable value, even  though they bore on minor problems. They in-  cluded, moreover, studies, whose conclusions  should not be overlooked, on the problems of race  and over-population and on the impact of tech-  nical progress. If the Conference thought the  moment had come to make a synthesis of more  essential problems, it was for the Conference itself  to draw up a list of definite problems to be in-  cluded in that category.  [40] Mr. VERHOEVEN (Netherlands) merely  wished to remark that the Yugoslav delegate’s  comments on Spanish policy in the seventeenth  century were not in accordance with historic  facts.  Mr. MARIC (Yugoslavia) had never intended  to criticize the religious views of the Spanish  people. He had spoken of the foreign policy of  the Spanish monarchy, which was not at all the  same thing.  [41] Mr. FEBVRE (France) found himself in  the difficult position of having to defend himself  on two fronts. He must, however, state from the  outset that he had neither the intention nor the  time to follow the Yugoslav delegate in an ex-  cursion into history.  The ambitions of the French delegation in  drawing up this modest amendment, which was  designed merely to take account of contemporary  facts, had not been so vast. He was therefore a  trifle surprised at the assurance with which the  Yugoslav delegate had asserted that ideological  conflicts, class strife or the antagonism of rival  myths should not be considered among the causes  of major tensions. That was precisely the ques-  tion raised by the French amendment: were those  conflicts, rivalries and antagonisms potential  causes of war, or not?  With regard to the Director-General's pre-  occupations, the French delegation wished to make  it clear at once that it was not in the least un-  aware of Unesco’s activities, and had absolutely  no intention of obstructing the synthesis of the  sudies of social tensions already made, or in pro-  cess of completion. The French delegation  merely asked that major tensions should be added  to that programme of studies. Apart from that,  it was perfectly willing that the final drafting of  the text should be entrusted to a drafting com-  mittee.  [42] The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat  felt that the matter was not just one for the  Drafting Committee, and he would therefore put  the proposal to the vote.  [43] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  considered that everything the French delegation  wanted was already contained in item 3.27, to  which its amendment merely gave weight.  [44] The French draft resolution (document
5C/102) was adopted by 15 votes to 10, thus be-  coming part of item 3.27.  [45] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that the Board would like to add, at  the end of item 3.27, the words: “especially on  racial problems”.  That amendment, formally moved by the del-  egate of PAKISTAN and seconded by the delegates  of FRANCE, AUSTRIA and BRAZIL, was adopted.  [46] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) suggested that the French del-  egation might like the word “synthesis” in the  plural instead of the singular, if that was in  accordance with their intention: the matter could  be considered by the Drafting Committee.  [47] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) noted  that the French delegation was in no way op-  posed to the idea of disseminating the conclusions
387  |           of the studies already begun. He wondered whe-  ther the delegation would agree to an amplifica-  tion of its amendment on the following lines:  “to disseminate wherever suitable the conclusions  of those studies and syntheses ”  [48] The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of  France whether his delegation intended, by its  proposed resolution, to eliminate the second por-  tion of item 3.27, which provided for a dissemi-  nation of conclusions.  Mr. FEBVRE (France) entirely agreed to the  synthesis and dissemination of those studies, but  pointed out that it would be necessary to await  the results of some of them which had not yet  been completed.  [49] The CHAIRMAN said that, if the Commis-  sion agreed, the point would be met in the sense  which had been given by the delegate of France,  and the text would include a final section on the  dissemination of conclusions.  Item 3.27 was adopted, with the amendments  proposed.  Item 3.28.  Adopted without discussion.?  Draft resolution presented by the Italian delega-  tion [document 5C/71].  [60] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Italian  draft resolution had been transferred to the  chapter on Cultural Activities (item 4.125).  BunceT TasLe 1I11.3.C.  page 150].  [document 5C/5 (II),  Adopted without comment.  SECTION 3.1 (Amp TO INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COL-  LABORATION) (continued).  Item 3.13 (continued).  [51] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) asked  whether he might raise a question on item 3.13,  concerning the surveys to be undertaken in ten  countries on methods of teaching in the social  sciences. That item had been adopted at the  morning meeting, but after a short discussion the  Commission had restricted the survey to four  countries. Professor Piaget feared that this ill-  considered assessment had resulted from the  speed of their debates, and that the Commission  was now in the position of one who, having  decided after much reflection to buy a car, begins  by provisionally buying only the two front
1. In final form: Resol. 3.26.
2. In final form: Resol. 3.27.
388  wheels. However, the resolution had been adop-  ted. He wondered whether there was any pos-  sibility of putting it to the vote again.  In accordance with the CHAIRMAN'’s ruling,  a vote was taken on whether item 3.13 should be  reconsidered, and Professor's Piaget's proposal  was rejected.  SECTION 3.3 (STUDIES OF INTERNATIONAL CO-OPER-  ATION).  Item 3.31.
1562] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom),  on behalf of his delegation, proposed an amend-  mend which it considered very important. It  consisted of substituting for the first two lines of  item 3.31 the words: “to encourage the study of  various types of inter-governmental co-operation  with a view to exploring methods ...”, and of  adding at the end: “... and of the regional organ-
1zations which are directed to the support of its  purposes”. The United Kingdom delegation’s  view was that if item 3.31 were left as it was, it  would tend to a dispersion of effort. If “fed-  eralistic systems” were left in, an entirely dif-  ferent class of organization would be included.  It was felt that the simpler resolution would  enable the Secretariat to make a complete study  of the various types of inter-governmental co-  operation between sovereign States.  The proposed amendment was seconded by the  delegate of the UNITED STATES of AMERICA and  supported by various other delegations.  [53] In reply to a question from Dr. WALKER  (Australia), Sir Charles WEBSTER (United King-  dom) said that ‘regional organizations” meant  all regional organizations such as the Council of  Europe, OEEC, etc.  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) having asked whether the  United Kingdom delegation dismissed the possi  bility of a world federation, Sir Charles WEB-  STER (United Kingdom) replied that he did not  think that was relevant to the point in question.  Item 3.31, as amended by the United Kingdom  proposal, was adopted.?  Item 3.32.  [54] Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) said  that his delegation had some doubts about this  item, which would certainly result in a difficult  and delicate investigation. He wondered whe-  ther the Secretariat had any particluar organiza-  tion in view and whether the members of that  organization were willing to be the victims of  certain investigations.
1. In final form: Resol. 3.31.                        [55] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) replied that there had been in-  formal consultations with senior officials of the  United Nations and several of the major Special-  ized Agencies, who had shown active interest.  There was reason to believe that plans could be  worked out for a study of one of the Specialized  Agencies of the kind proposed.  [56] Mr. HERRING (United States of America)  moved the deletion of item 3.32 on the grounds  that, at the present stage of the work of the  Department of Social Sciences, it was perhaps  hardly appropriate to undertake a study of that  kind, and that the corresponding work plan did  not seem very satisfactory.  The CHAIRMAN inferred that the United States  delegation would not make a formal motion for  deletion, but would simply vote against the item.
157] Mr. VERHOEVEN (Netherlands) asked  whether the English word “semantic” was equi-  valent to “linguistiques” in the French text, and  the CHAIRMAN replied that the Drafting Com-  mittee would study that point.  [tem 3.32 was adopted unchanged.?  Item 3.33.  [58] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the French  delegation had submitted an amendment (doc-  ument 5C/102) requesting the deletion of the  item.  Mr. FEBVRE (France), explained that it was  a question of eliminating an experiment which  was both too ambitious, since there were insuf-  ficient data available for a thorough study, and  too expensive, since the fund allocated for the  purpose in 1949 had amounted to $30,685, while  those proposed for 1951 amounted to $59,147.  Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) thought,  on the contrary, that that study, which was to  deal in particular with the factors affecting the  constitutional and administrative development of  certain Specialized Agencies, was of great im-  portance to the progress of international co-  operation.  [59] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  sald that he would support the French amend-  ment; if it were lost, he had an amendment to  propose on behalf of the United Kingdom del-  egation which felt that Unesco should not under-  take such a task without much greater planning.  [60] The CHAIRMAN read out the amendment  proposed by the United Kingdom delegation:     l. In final form: Resol. 3.32.
389  To invite the Secretary-General of the United Nations,  in agreement with the Specialized Agencies, to prepare  a plan for a comparative study. . .  Mr. HERRING (United States of America) and  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) supported the delegate of the  United Kingdom.  The CHAIRMAN said that he would treat the  French motion as a substantive one.  Mr. FEBVRE (France) was anxious to show  good will and therefore supported the British  amendment.  [61] Mr. DURAN (United Nations) announced  that there were three bodies of the United Nations  that could undertake the proposed study, if the  motion of the United Kingdom delegation were  carried. One was the Administrative Committee  of Co-ordination, the second the Interim Com-  mittee of the General Assembly, whose work was  to implement Article 13 (a) of the Charter,  whereby the General Assembly was authorized to  initiate studies and make recommendations for  the purposes of promoting international co-oper-  ation in the political field. If the study were  adopted by the Interim Committee, it would have  a direction and a significance completely dif-  ferent from the direction which Unesco intended  to give to it. The third body was Ecosoc, partic-  ularly the Social Commission; that Commission  would probably not be prepared to undertake a  study of the nature proposed in item 3.33. There-  fore Mr. Durän did not think that the Secretary-  General of the United Nations would welcome  the United Kingdom amendment.  [62] Dr. WALKER (Australia) did not consider  the United Kingdom amendment as a pro-  gramme resolution; it was an instruction to the  Director-General to write a letter. Also, it did  not fall within the general programme of the  work of the Social Sciences Department, since it  would contribute nothing, as far as Unesco was  concerned, towards arousing the interest of social  scientists in the problems of international co-  operation. Further, as the United Nations repre-  sentative had pointed out, and as Dr. Walker  knew from his own experience of the United  Nations, it was extremely unlikely that any of the  three bodies mentioned by Mr. Durdn would wel-  come the United Kingdom amendment with  much enthusiasm. Dr. Walker therefore op-  posed it.  [63] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  pointed out that the United Kingdom proposal  invited the Secretary-General, in agreement with  Specialized Agencies, to prepare a plan, because  the United Kingdom delegation felt that for such  a study, plans should be made by all the bodies  concerned. If those bodies did not want to be               considered, then the study would be of no use.  He did not see why the Secretary-General could  not be asked to have a committee to do that  planning together with the Specialized Agencies.  [64] The United Kingdom amendment was re-  jected by 15 votes to 11.  Item 3.33 was adopted by 17 votes to 4."  Item 3.34.  [65] The CHAIRMAN recalled that, also in doc-  ument 5C/102, the French delegation had re-  quested the deletion of this item.  Mr. FEBVRE (France) explained that the  French delegation considered the text to be too  ambitiously worded and disproportionate to the  results that might be expected. However, since  the studies had already been carried out, the  French delegation would not oppose their pub-  lication, but asked that these “systematic” studies  should not be indefinitely expanded.  [66] Mr. HERRING (United States of America)  thought that the study seemed an appropriate one  for Unesco to undertake and in the spirit of the  resolution already adopted by the Commission.
1. In final form: Resol. 3.33.  TWENTIETH  The work that had already gone into the study  should be borne in mind; it would be a pity if  the good start that had been made were lost.  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) supported the French del-  egation’s viewpoint.  [67] Dr. WALKER (Australia) shared to some  extent the French delegation’s concern over the  working, but did not support its suggestion that  item 3.34 should be deleted. He wondered whe-  ther Mr. Fébvre would be prepared to maintain  the item if the words “to conduct systematic  studies, etc.”, were replaced by the words “to  encourage and assist the conduct of case studies,  »  by social scientists . . ..  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) sup-  ported the views of Mr. Herring and Dr. Walker.  [68] The Australian amendment was adopted.  Item 3.34, as amended, was adopted.’  Bupcer Tassie II1.3.D. [document 5C/5 (ID),  page 155].  Adopted without discussion.  The meeting rose at 11.35 p.m.
1 In final form: Resol. 3.34.  MEETING  Friday, 9 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. Roger SEypoux (France)  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part 11].
2. Natural Sciences (continued).  SECTION 2.1 (continued) (DEVELOPMENT OF INTER-  NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC CO-OPERATION).  Draft resolution presented by Italy [document
5C/35 (Rev.)].  [1] SirJohn MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  had no comment to make, since the Italian draft  resolution had no budgetary implications. He  still thought, however, that it was unnecessary to  include this new item in the 1951 Programme,  and he hoped that the Italian delegate would  leave the matter for the Director-General to study,  and would not insist on maintaining his proposal.  [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the  [talian delegation’s original proposal [document
5C/35] had had certain budgetary implications  which were not involved in the new proposal.  He thought that the project would be of much  value both to Unesco and to research workers.  [3] Professor COLONNETTI (Italy) thanked the  Director-General for the favourable manner In  which he viewed the new Italian proposal, and  emphasized that it was for Unesco to render that  valuable to science throughout the world.