throughout the report, it was decided to delete  the first line of the comment on this item.  Annex V was adopted with this amendment.  Annex VIII (External Relations Service).  HranquarTERSs [III.8.A(1)].  [22] It was decided to delete the first line of  paragraphs (a) and (b).  Division or LEGAL Arrairs [II1.8.D].  [23] It was decided to delete the first line of  the comment.  Annex VIII was adopted with these amend-  ments.  Annex IX (Documents and Publications).  [24] It was decided to delete the first line of  the comment on III.9.A.  Annex IX was adopted with this amendment.  Annex X (Statistical Service).  [25] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) and Sir Ronald  ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out that the  word “revised” in line 7 appeared to be an error,  and suggested that this should read “various”.  Annex X was adopted with this correction.  Annex XI (Part I: General Policy).  [26] On the suggestion of Mr. WEEDEN (Aus-  tralia), it was agreed to change the word  “questioning” at the end of the first paragraph  to “consideration”.  SEVENTEENTH  [27] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  pointed out that the Committee only had autho-  rity to indicate possible areas for later considera-  tion, whereas in paragraph (a) they appeared to  be making a specific suggestion. He therefore  proposed the substitution in this paragraph of  “Length of the Sixth Session”. Agreed .  Annex XI was adopted as amended.  Annex XII (Part II: General Administration).  [28] The CHAIRMAN felt that the comments of  the Committee on this section should be more  detailed.  After discussion, the following new text was  adopted:  The Committee was concerned with the possibility of  economics in this section. The following matters  were noted:
(1) Without going into functions in detail, the  Committee questioned duplication of responsibility  between officers in the office of the Director-General,  and the Directors of Departments and Heads of Services  and Bureaux;
(2) The Committee felt that there appeared to be  duplication of functions between the three adminis-  trative bureaux;
(3) The Committee will examine at a subsequent  meeting the possibility of the integration of Archives,  Unesco Library and Registry.  Annex XIII (Part IV: Common Service Costs).  [29] On the suggestion of Sir Ronald ADAM  (United Kingdom), the following new text was  adopted:  The Committee proposed to examine in detail the  budget of Part IV at a later meeting.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 7 June 1950, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman:  Recommendations with regard to the future  procedure of the Budget Committee.  [1] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) sug-  gested that the report on this point be based on  Dr. F. BenpeEr (Netherlands)  the assumption that the next session of the Gen-  eral Conference would be held in Paris. He asked  that the following questions be considered:
(1) Was it constitutionally possible for the  Budget Committee to be established and to meet
524                                               a few days before the opening of the General Con-  ference ?
(2) Could the Secretariat make available all  the information required by the Budget Com-  mittee before the opening of the General Confer-  ence and not, as at present, only after three or  four days?  [2] The CHAIRMAN added that it would also  be necessary to arrange for delegations to submit  new resolutions before the opening of a session.  [3] Dr. EVANS (Executive Board) explained  that the Executive Board had considered the first  question raised by Sir Ronald. They had agreed  that it would be quite in order for this session  of the General Conference to nominate the coun-  tries which would be represented on the Budget  Committee at the next session. The countries  so nominated would then be required to appoint  a delegate at the appropriate time, i.e., shortly  before the opening of the Sixth Session.  Alternatively, the Fifth Session could nominate  a Budget Committee to meet before the Sixth  Session, and the Sixth Session could then dissolve  this Committee and constitute a new one. He  emphasized that there was no connexion between  the work of the Executive Board on financial  questions and the work of the Budget Committee,  so that there was no danger of overlapping.  [4] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con-  ference Planning and General Services) confirmed  that there appeared to be no constitutional reason  why the procedure outlined by the Executive  Board could not be followed. The Fourth Session  had designated the Headquarters Commission on  the same basis, and this procedure had also been  followed in the United Nations and other Special-
1zed Agencies. However, he felt that it would be  necessary to insert a paragraph outlining this new  system in the Rules of Procedure. It would also  be necessary to refer in the Rules of Procedure to  the time-limit for the presentation of new resolu-  tions by Member States, i.e., a fixed period before  the opening of the General Conference.  [5] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  pointed out that arrangements would have to be  made to enable the Secretariat to ensure an earlier  distribution of Conference documents, in particu-  lar the Programme and the Budget Estimates.  She suggested that, in making this new proposal,  delegates should carefully consider the extra  burden on the Secretariat.  [6] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) agreed, and added that  It would also be preferable if delegations requir-  Ing additional analyses of information not normal-
026  ly contained in the Budget, could make these  requests to the Secretariat before the opening of  a session.  [7] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer-  ence Planning and General Services) agreed with  the Committee that it was most desirable that the  Budget Committee should meet in future years one  full week before the opening of the session of the  General Conference. He stated that the Secre-  tariat could ensure a sufficiently early distribu-  tion of Conference documents, provided arrange-  ments could be made for the Executive Board to  consider the Programme and Budget Estimates  four months in advance of a General Conference,  instead of two and a half to three months as at  present.  [8] Dr. EVANS (Executive Board) agreed that  this could be arranged without difficulty.  After further discussion, it was agreed that the  Secretariat should prepare a draft report to the  Programme and Budget Commission outlining the  foregoing proposals.  Information Annex to the Budget Estimates  for 1951 [document 5C/5 (II), pages 15-26].  [9] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  asked whether experience confirmed that the  average lapse in filling new posts amounted in  fact to 25 per cent [III.A.2., page 19].  [10] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) replied that a  careful analysis of recent figures showed that this  estimate was actually too high. Twenty-five per  cent represented a 90-day lapse on recruitment.  Present figures showed an average lapse of 75 days  for posts over grade 8, and 31 days for posts under  grade 8. The Secretariat did not propose to alter  the present estimate (25 per cent) before carrying  out a careful check over a further period, but it  was possible that a reduction of this estimate  might be considered justifiable by the next  Session.  [11] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  expressed the concern of her delegation that,  whereas the Fourth Session had authorized a  maximum of 774 posts, the Director-General had  authorized the establishment of 50 new posts dur-  ing the vear, so that the total was now 824. There  appeared to be greater flexibility for the transfer  of funds within the Organization to cover in-  creased personnel costs than was generally  believed by Member States.  [12] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) explained that     the Director-General had made changes in the  proposed staffing pattern for 1950 and had permit-  ted certain transfers of funds in order to relieve  some critical areas in the Secretariat, and he was  now satisfied that a better balance had been  achieved. The Secretariat was still learning from  experience and certain staffing changes often  became necessary during the year.  [13] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) also pointed out  that, although it should be expected that the  Organization would increase in efficiency with  experience, the Director-General appeared to anti-  cipate a decrease in the volume of work with, at  the same time, increased personnel costs.  [14] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) explained that  the personnel costs showed an increase, although  it was not proposed to increase the actual number  of staff members, because it was necessary to add  each year a sum sufficient to cover within-grade  increments as these became due to present staff  members, and other related personnel costs.  [15] Dr. EVANS (Executive Board) felt that it  would be unreasonable to assume that the in-  creased efficiency of the Organization each year  would be sufficient to offset the payment of  within-grade increments as these became due.  [16] Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) and Mr. WEE-  DEN (Australia) both suggested that the Secre-  tariat be asked to study and report on questions  of work-methods, efficiency and output—especial-  ly on the administrative side of the Organization.  Future procedure.  [17] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Budget  Committee should discuss the procedure to be  followed in the light of the existing situation.  The Programme and Budget Commission had ap-  proved a provisional budget figure of $8,200,000.  On the one hand, there was the Director-General’s  budget of $8,149,000, and on the other, a number  of supplementary proposals accompanied by bud-  get statements which were more or less fictitious,  since the Programme and Budget Commission had  not accepted some of the proposals.  [18] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) observed that  the Programme and Budget Commission had  referred a number of matters to a drafting com-  mittee, so that the Secretariat only knew un-  officially which resolutions had been changed.  He suggested that the best method would be for  the Secretariat to report orally to the Budget Com-  mittee on the changes made by the Programme  and Budget Commission, as and when they were  made. In the meantime, the Committee might  proceed with its detailed consideration of the Bud-  get, chapter by chapter, tentatively agreeing on  modifications; unless the Programme and Bud-  get Commission added a large number of resolu-  tions, the Budget Committee would not be in  danger of having to make any subsequent drastic  changes to its original estimates. Towards the  end of the session, the Committee could hold a  few meetings in order to make any adjustments  rendered necessary by the decisions of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission. Such a pro-  cedure would save the Budget Committee from  going through the programme twice, first on the  basis of an assumed figure, and again when the  results of the work of the Programme and Budget  Commission were known.  [19] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) having pointed  out that, while the Budget Committee was bound  to produce an appropriation resolution not exceed-  ing $8,200,000, it was not bound to produce one  closely approaching that figure if the Programme  and Budget Commission should consider that the  programme could be carried out for $50,000 or  $100,000 less, a discussion arose concerning the  terms of reference of the Budget Committee.  [20] Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) suggested that  the best method would be to examine each  chapter, deciding where economies could be made  and costing new resolutions adopted by the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission; the Committee  could then report back to the Programme and  Budget Commission, giving its considered opinion  of the new total thus reached. Agreed.  Detailed consideration of the Budget [docu-  ment C5/5 (IT].  [21] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) thought that a  general decision should be taken to make a per-  centage reduction of certain items, such as travel,  which occurred in all the chapters of the Budget.  [22] Supporting Mr. Weeden’s proposal, Sir  Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) suggested that  “Personnel Costs” be combined with “Travel”. He  noted that, while there were a large number of  secretaries in all the departments, there appeared  to be no typists or clerks. He had the impression  that many secretaries could be cut out. He pro-  posed that, in its final report, the Budget Com-  mittee should make a strong recommendation that  the question of travel and personnel be thorough-  ly examined, with the suggestion that economies  could be made on both items. Agreed.
1. Education.  PROGRAMME Costs [III.1.A].  [23] Approved without comment.  IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATION THROUGH THE EXCHANGE  OF INFORMATION [III.1.B].
(1) Educational Missions.  [24] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) thought that the  Organization should be consistent in its treatment  of educational missions, technical advisers and  technical assistance operations, and that it would  therefore be desirable for technical advisers to be  sent to given countries on the same terms as the  staff of educational missions. If his principle  were accepted, the figure of $9,300 for travel  [paragraph 11, page 81] appeared to be a little  high.  [25] Mr. ELVIN (Head, Department of Educa-  tion) recognized the logic of Mr. Weeden's point,  but remarked that a precedent existed and that  it would be difficult to change present practice  without notice. He feared that, if the practice  proposed by Mr. Weeden were adopted, some  Member States which needed technical advisers  would feel unable to pay for the service.  [26] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) agreed that it  was a risk, but pointed out that less expensive  technical advisers could be sent.  [27] Mr. KIRPAL (India) shared Mr. Elvin’s  point of view and asked that no decision be taken  in 1950, but that the matter be reviewed at the  next session of the Conference.  [28] In reply to a question from Mr. BRUNS-  WICK (France), Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of
527  Administrative Management and Budget) stated  that the figure of $9,300 which Mr. Weeden had  mentioned included both tickets and per diem, as  throughout the Budget. If Mr. Weeden's . sug-  gestion were adopted, the cost to the host gov-  ernment would be approximately $1,000 per man,  consisting of board and lodging at a first-class  hotel, and an allowance of $10, $12 or $15 per  day for miscellaneous expenses.  [29] Recalling that technical advisers were  brought to Paris to be briefed before being sent  out, Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) had no objection  to Unesco’s paying their per diem allowance dur-  ing that period, but was strongly opposed to  Unesco’s paying the $1,000 in the host country.  Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) strongly  supported Mr. Weeden.  [30] Mr. GUITON (Department of Education)  explained what the Secretariat had done in the  current year: it had had the choice of adopting  technical assistance conditions and offering key  experts a fee of approximately $1,000 a month,  plus a living allowance based on the cost of living  in the host country. In view of the budgetary  limitations, however, it had been decided to pay  a basic fee of $700 per month and a living allow-  ance of $300. He pointed out that the Technical  Assistance Board had decided that the salary of a  first-class expert should be fixed at a sum which  was higher than the salary paid to Unesco staff  at grade 16.  [31] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia)  satisfied that all technical assistance experts  needed to be paid at the same rate. He proposed  that a cut of $4,500 should be made on that item.  Agreed.  was still not  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.