SEVENTH MEETING  Friday, 9 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. Luis A. BARALT Y ZACHARIE (Cuba)  Report of the sub-committee for relations  with international non-governmental organ-  izations to the Official and External Rela-  tions Commission [document 5C/OXR/21].  Annex I (continued).  SECTION lI.C (SCOPE QF ARRANGEMENTS FOR CON-  SULTATION AND INFORMATION) (continued).
(1) (a) Individual consultations (continued).  [1] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the United  States delegation had proposed amendments to  paragraphs (v) and (vi), on which discussion had  begun at the previous meeting.  [2] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  pointed out that the last sentence of paragraph (v)  already contained a mention of the possibility of  the Board being consulted. This point had been  discussed fully in the Sub-Commission, and it had  been agreed that if a non-governmental organiza-  tion had a grievance, the Board could consider it,  but that it would not be available for all questions.  The United Kingdom delegation wished to see  paragraphs (v) and (vi) maintained.  [3] Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the  Sub-Committee) pointed out that the relations  between the Board and non-governmental organiza-  tions had always been excellent, and that the Board  would not deliberately refuse to hear an organiza-  tion if there were an important issue to be decided.  [4] Professor MURALT (Switzerland) subscribed  to what Sir Charles Webster had said. Every  possibility had been left open for non-governmental  organizations to present their case orally. He  therefore moved that paragraphs (v) and (vi) be  maintained as they stood.  [5] In reply to Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of  America), Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Rela-  tions Service) stated that the only official ruling  governing the right of a non-governmental organ-  ization to be heard by the Board was in Article V,  paragraph B.10 of Unesco’s Constitution.  [6] Mr. ENNALS (Chairman, Conference of  Observers of Non-Governmental Organizations)  pointed out that the Conference of Non-Goveru-  mental Organizations had adopted a resolution by  which a non-governmental organization would be  enabled, at its request, to be heard by the  Executive Board. While he was sympathetic to  Sir Charles Webster's comment, he felt the com-  promise proposals suggested by the United States  delegation would go far towards meeting the  request of non-governmental organizations, and  would reserve the right of the Executive Board not  to be disturbed too frequently. This procedure  worked efficiently in the Economic and Social  council, in FAO, WHO, and ILO.  |7] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  pointed out that the situation was not the same as  in the other Specialized Agencies, since there  existed the National Commissions of Unesco. He  hoped that the United States delegation and  Mr. Ennals would accept the text of paragraphs (v)  and (vi).  The United States amendment was rejected.  [8] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium ) proposed  changing paragraph (11) on page 5, so that it  would read:  May be invited by the Director-General to participate  in expert meetings, technical conferences or semin-  ars.  [9] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) pointed out that in practice it might be  difficult to give effect to this proposal. It was  only in so far as Member States had not used all  the places reserved for them that the non-govern-  mental organizations would be entitled to occupy  them.  The Belgian proposal, seconded by Mr. MULLI-  KEN (United States of America), was adopted.  Paragraphs (a) and (b) (pages 5-7) were  adopted subject to this amendment.
(2) Formal agreements.  [10] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  proposed an amendment ot the third paragraph  on page 8, calling for approval by the General  Conference instead of by the Executive Board. The  paragraph would then read:
95        Such formal agreements shall be circulated in draft  form to the governments of Member States for com-  ments, prior to their submission to the General  Conference.  [11] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  asked whether the United States delegation would  be prepared to accept the text:  prior to their approval by the Executive Board,  which would subsequently be ratified by the General  Conference.  This would leave the onus on the Board.  [12] Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the  Sub-Commitee) thought that submission to the  General Conference only, might cause delays in  important matters.
113] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  agreed to accept the United Kingdom amendment.  [14] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) recalled that, under Article XI of Unesco's  Constitution:  Any formal arrangements entered into with such  organizations or agencies shall be subject to the  approval of the Executive Board.  The United States amendment was rejected.
(3) Informal relations.
1156] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  recalled that he had already suggested at an earlier  meeting that any reference to informal relations  should be deleted from the present directives, as it  seemed to him to detract from the importance of  consultative arrangements. He now raised the  question of the formal Register, and proposed  deleting the second paragraph of this section, and  also the words “listed on the Register” in the  fourth paragraph.
116] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) seconded this  proposal, but Sir Charles WEBSTER (United  Kingdom) opposed it, considering that a register  should be kept and be available for consultation  by the United Nations.  The United States proposal was rejected.  [17] Dr. KADHIM (Iraq) proposed the deletion  of the word “specialized” in the fourth paragraph  of this clause (line 3).  Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the Sub-  Committee) wanted the word to be retained, since  the organizations listed on the Register were only  interested in specialized meetings.  The Iraqi proposal, seconded by the delegates of  INDIA and ITALY was rejected.  Sub-Section 1I.C was adopted, subject to the  Belgian amendment to paragraph (11) on page 5.  SECTION III (SUBVENTIONS).  A. Definition.  [18] Dr. KADHIM (Iraq) asked the meaning of  the phrase “to a limited number ol international  non-governmental organizations’.  Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the Sub-  Committee) explained that a distinction had been  made between subventions and contracts.  [19] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) emphasized that, in accordance with the  general tendency to concentrate Unesco's efforts,  only a small number of organizations capable of  making a useful contribution towards those efforts  should receive subventions. Moreover, it was for  the Director-General to associate international non-  governmental organizations in the implementation  of certain projects, by concluding contracts with  them.  [20] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission had discussed  international scientific groups. The Official and  External Relations Commission might therefore  wish to reserve their decision until they heard the  result of the discussions in the former Commis-  sion.  [21] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) said that a new  resolution 2.25, submitted by the Executive Board  [document 5C/5 (I) (Rev.)-Add. 2], had recently  been discussed in the Programme and Budget  Commission.  Such a recommendation had been found neces-  sary because no provision had so far been made  on behalf of certain international laboratories  which had previously received funds, and which  acted through the International Council of Scien-  tific Unions. Mr. Cummins had been asked by  the Programme and Budget Commission to prepare  a new clause, and he suggested leaving this para-  graph open.  [22] The CHAIRMAN stated that the Commission  could either approve the paragraph provisionally or  hold it over pending official information from the  Programme and Budget Commission.  Sub-section A was provisionally approved.  B. Beneficiaries  [23] Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the  Sub-Committee), explaining the detailed defini-  tions contained in this section, said that, since the  present document was a directive, it had seemed  better to have clear statements, even if it meant  a repetition.  [24] Professor von MURALT (Switzerland)  pointed out that the second paragraph of clause (1)
596                                           corresponded exactly to the introductory sentence  of clause (2) of Section I1.A (page 3). Since there  were financial implications, it would be as well  to re-consider the conditions.  [25] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  recalled that there had been an extended discussion  of this matter in the sub-committee. The impor-  tant issue was whether an organization should have  consultative arrangements with Unesco in order to  receive money from the Organization.  He proposed amending the second paragraph of  clause (1) to read:  Save for the exceptional category under (2) below, an  international organization shall enjoy consultative  relations before receiving a subvention, and shall  comply with the following criteria.  [26] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) pointed  out that the four criteria set out in sub-paragraphs  (a) to (d) in clause (1) merely repeated the con-  ditions governing the admission of organizations to  consultative status in Section II.A. He therefore  proposed amending the opening of clause (1) to  read:  International non-governmental organizations ap-  proved for consultative arrangements which make an  essential contribution. .  HQ The second paragraph, beginning “Save for the  exceptional category. . .” would be deleted to the  end of (d).  [27] Mr. MONTEL (France) said that the four  conditions governing the admission of organiza-  tions to consultative arrangements were necessary  but inadequate. Consequently, the Belgian del-  egate’s proposal would tend to limit the number  of organizations to which subventions could be  given. The French delegation was in favour of  maintaining the present text.  [28] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) recalled that hitherto, only an organiza-  tion approved for consultative arrangements could  receive a subvention. On several occasions, the  Director-General had been obliged to conclude  contracts with organizations whose collaboration  Was needed, but which had not been approved for  consultative arrangements and were consequently  not entitled to subventions. Consequently, the  Executive Board had recommended greater  flexibility in the conditions governing the granting  of subventions, so as to permit stricter application  of the conditions for obtaining consultative  arrangements.  °C \ — = . > .  [29] Referring to the similarity between the  criteria at present under discussion and those in  Section II.A, Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) thought  |  that the last sentence of the first paragraph  (“Organizations which, by their statute, are con-  fined to a limited region of the world are  excluded”) implied that certain other regional  organizations not confined to a limited region  would be entitled to receive subventions. He there-  fore suggested adding a phrase to the second para-  graph, so that it would read:  Save for the exceptional category under (2) below,  international non-governmental organizations shall  enjoy consultative arrangements and shall comply with  the following criteria.  [30] Professor von MURALT agreed that some  flexibility was desirable. If a non-governmental  organization wanted to have a subvention, it could  be transformed into the sort of organization to  which the Director-General would be able to give  a subvention. He seconded the United States  proposal.  The United States amendment to clause (1) was  rejected.  [31] Mr. CUMMMINS (Australia), seconded by  Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) proposed the addi-  tion of the words ‘‘or regional, as defined above”  after “Be international” in paragraph (a).  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  objected that that amendment would be incom-  patible with clause (1).  Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Ser-  vice) explained that regional organizations were  incomplete international organizations in the sense  that their representation throughout the world was  not adequate. They were therefore not eligible for  subventions or consultative arrangements.  [32] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  moved the deletion of the sentence in the first  paragraph of (1): “Organizations which, by their  statute, are confined to a limited region of the  world are excluded.” Regional organizations  which had qualified for consultative status would  then be included.  [33] Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the  Sub-Committee) explained the difference between  organizations whose statutes and tasks were  regional, and those which, although international  in scope, were continued de facto to a limited part  of the world. He did not think the Sub-Com-  mittee was against including such incomplete  organizations.  [34] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) recalled that the  meeting had previously approved certain regional  organizations [Section II.A(2) (a)], and had  favoured a provision for granting them subven-  tions. He therefore proposed inserting “regional  or international, as defined in Section 11.A".         E.  ne  ‘  +  _  | ry  [2 4  F  n  pos  Le  A
4  A  ]  F a n .   T R   T O   T a   A R E   T T   T E
135] Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) suggested  that it would not be proper to exclude regional  organizations altogether.  Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) thought the proposal  of the United States delegation did not clarify the  position. He therefore suggested dividing up sub-  section 1I1.B as had been done with IL.A, giving  exact definitions under (1) and (2).  [36] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  was of the opinion that this amendment would  probably have to be made in addition to the one  already proposed by him. The question at issue  was whether regional organizations were to be  eligible for subventions. He thought Mr. Cum-  mins point could be met by adding to the text  of paragraph lIIl.B(1) (a) on page 9 the word  “or”, followed by the text of paragraph I1.A(2) (a)  on page J.  Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) agreed, but suggested  adding ‘or be a regional organization’ between  the texts instead of merely “or”. Agreed.  [37] In reply to Mr. CUMMINS (Australia),  Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the Sub-  Committee) explained that the sub-committee had  intended to exclude from eligibility for subven-  tions those regional organizations which were  limited by statute.
138] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  pointed out that if it were not decided to adopt his  motion to delete the sentence ‘Organizations  which, by their status, are confined to a limited  region of the world are excluded”, it would be  impossible for Unesco to make a grant-in-aid to  the Organization of American States in connexion  with the fundamental education programme, one  of Unesco’s major projects.  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  pointed out that it would still be possible to enter  into a contract.  [39] The United States proposal, seconded by  Dr. FAWZI (Egypt) was adopted.  Sub-section B was adopted as amended.  C. Purpose for which subventions may be granted  by Unesco.  Clause (1).  Adopted without comment.  Clause (2).  [40] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  moved the insertion of the words ‘educational,  cultural” before “scholarly, scientific or profes-  sional objectives” in the fifth line of paragraph (b).  Agreed.  Clause (2) was adopted.  Clause (3).  It was agreed to alter ‘“‘governing board on its  committees” to “or” in the second line.  Clause (3) was adopted.  Clause (4).  Adopted without comment.  Clause(5).  [41] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  proposed the insertion, at the beginning of the  paragraph, of the words “In exceptional cases”,  since he was of the opinion that, if a non-govern-  mental organization had any stability, Unesco  could reasonably expect it to finance the expenses  of its normal permanent activity.  [42] Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the  Sub-Committee), pointed out that this proposal  was not the majority view. Organizations working  in Europe were meeting great difficulties at the  present time.  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  proposed adding to Mr. Mulliken’s suggested  phrase the words: “provided that these are related  to Unesco’s activities”.  The United States proposal, seconded by  Mr. HEWITSON (Union of South Africa) was  rejected.  Clause (5) was adopted.  Clause (6).  [43] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) moved the inser-  tion of a new clause (6), relating to certain inter-  national laboratories for which funds had been  made available through the International Council  of Scientific Unions, as follows:  Part of these expenses of a limited number of  existing laboratories of international standing spon-  sored by organizations with which a formal agreement  has been concluded, provided that the work of these  laboratories is related to Unesco’s activities.  [44] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) stated that the Australian pro-  posal amounted to re-introducing a clause that had  been deleted. Formerly, the funds allotted to the  three international laboratories in question had  been paid to them through ICSU which, as an  organization approved for consultative arrange-  ments, could receive funds directly. Under the  present text, the three laboratories were regarded  as non-governmental organizations; but they  could not receive a subvention, because the cri-  teria established were not applicable. It was to get  around this difficulty that the Executive Board  had adopted a special resolution.
98                       [45] Professor von MURALT (Switzerland)  remarked that the High Altitude Research Station  at the Jungfraujoch, the Zoological Institute at  Naples, and the Oceanographic Institute in Monaco  were doing excellent work for Unesco. He warmly  supported Mr. Cummins’ proposal to insert a new  text as clause (6).
146] Professor AUGER (Director, Department ol  Natural Sciences) stated that, in order to avoid  legal difficulties, it should be clearly indicated  that the funds would be paid by Unesco to ICSU,  which would hand them over to the three  laboratories.
147] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  asked for detailed information about the institutes  mentioned. He wanted to know whether they  were private organizations, in what manner they  contributed to the purpose of Unesco, and what  activities on the part of Unesco were envisaged  by this resolution.  [48] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) pointed out that a partial answer  was given in the last sentence of clause E(1) on  page 12:  It is understood that organizations receiving such  subventions shall make every effort to increase pro-  gressively their own share in the financing of the  activities for which Unesco has granted a subvention.  Professor von MURALT (Switzerland) explained  the constitution of the Jungfraujoch station.  [49] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) felt that any  international laboratory which fostered good will  and the interchange of ideas was something at  which Unesco was aiming. Unesco should make  available funds which could be passed to such  bodies. He added, in reply to Mr. MONTEL  (France), that the matter had referred to the Com-  mission by the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion.  Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) suggested changing “sponsored by organ-  izations” in the text of the resolution to “through  organizations”.  The Australian proposal, seconded by Dr. FAWZI  (Egypt), Professor KRUYT (Netherlands) and  Sir George THOMSON (United Kingdom), was  adopted as clause (6).  Clause (7) [formerly (6)].  Adopted without comment.  Clause (8) [formerly (7)].
150]' Mr. HEWITSON (United of South Africa)  explained that the Executive Board had laid down  the principle that funds should be made available  for administrative expenses only in very exceptional
599  circumstances. He therefore suggested altering the  words ‘‘where such help appears to be in the  interests of Unesco in furthering its objectives”  to “appears to be essential to the furtherance of  Unesco's activities”. Agreed.  Clause (8) [formerly (7)] was adopted.  Clause (9) [formerly (8)].  [51] Mr. HEWITSON (Union of South Africa)  proposed altering the last two lines of the second  paragraph to read: ‘‘to carry on an activity which  would otherwise have to be assumed by Unesco”.  Âgreed.  Clause (9) [formerly (8)] was adopted.  Sub-section C was adopted as amended.  D. Duration.
1562] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  proposed adding a third paragraph, as follows:  At the same time, it is the policy of Unesco that the  subventions granted shall constitute a progressively  decreasing proportion of the total income of an  organization.  [53] Professor SOMMERFELT (Chairman of the  Sub-Committee) suggested a modification, such as  the insertion of “where possible”, so as not unduly  to restrict European organizations.  Professor von MURALT (Switzerland) thought  that decreasing subventions should apply only  where the work had been completed. He there-  fore moved the adoption of the original text.  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  thought the insertion of the words “where pos-  sible” would meet this case, and he therefore  seconded the United States amendment.  Mr. MONTEL (France) thought that Unesco  would be led to increase, rather than to decrease  the subventions. He would oppose the amend-  ment.  The United States amendment to insert a third  paragraph was rejected, and Sub-section D was  adopted without change.  E. Conditions and procedure.  [54] A proposal by Mr. HEWITSON (Union of  South Africa) to delete the words “It is under-  stood that” in clause (1) was adopted.  A proposal by Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of  America) to change ‘new organizations set up  under the auspices of Unesco” in clause (1) to  “set up pursuant to a resolution of the General  Conference’ was adopted.  Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) thought the new wording would not pre-  vent Unesco from assisting organizations estab-  lished as the result of a decision by the General  Conference.             { E R T  -     Ouf S10 = ls SE EE  S T   =   L e   = = =   +         iE  Ad          [55] The CHAIRMAN stated that, as no report  had been received from the Budget Committee  concerning clause (2), it could not be discussed  during the present meeting.  Clauses (3) to (6) were adopted without discus-  sion.  Sub-section E was approved, with the exception  of paragraph (2).  SECTION IV. RevVviEw or RELATIONSHIPS.  [56] The CHAIRMAN recalled that it had been  decided that formal agreements should in future  be reviewed by the General Conference.  To meet this decision, Mr. MULLIKEN (United  States of America) suggested inserting the words  “or formal agreements” after ‘“‘consultative ar-  rangements” in the second line, and deleting the  rest of the sentence after “considered necessary or  appropriate” in the third line of clause (1).  Agreed.  Clause (1), accordingly amended, was adopted.  [57] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  proposed deleting clause (2). Agreed.  Clauses (3) and (4) were adopted without  comment.  It was agreed to alter clause (5) to read:  The Executive Board will submit to the General Con-  rence, which will review them at each session, all  formal agreements which are in force.  [58] In reply to Professor von MURALT (Switzer-  land), Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) stated that the new directives would come  into force, together with the new programme, on
1 January 1951.  Section IV was adopted as amended.  The text of the Directives concerning relations  with international non-governmental organizations  was adopted.’  Co-operation with the Temporary Inter-  national Council for Educational Reconstruc-  tion (TICER) [document 5C/OXR/15].  [59] Dr. LOWRIE (TICER) gave a brief outline  of the history of TICER. TICER had been
1. In final form: Section V, Annex II.  severely criticized on occasion, but on the positive  side he could report increased knowledge of each  other and better co-ordination of the efforts of all  the organizations concerned, including Unesco.  TICER’s work had been valuable, in that it had  provided a sound-board for Unesco. The dissolu-  tion of TICER was now envisaged, as, in  accordance with the new Directives, closer contacts  were expected with non-governmental organiza-  tions.  [60] Dr. KRUYT (Netherlands) stressed the  importance of the annual meetings of international  non-governmental organizations, and moved a  resolution providing for a second meeting of the  international non-governmental organizations  having consultative status with Unesco.  [61] Mr. BARGER (Relief Assistance Services)  expressed appreciation on behalf of the Secretariat  for the work done by TICER. TICER had been  actively engaged in procuring popular support of  voluntary organizations for association with  Unesco’s reconstruction programme. It had  however been decided to create a much smaller  group of bodies for the sphere of reconstruction  only. It was merely a matter of changing the  methods. The goal, they were all agreed, was the  same. The Secretariat would like closer day-to-day  relationships with the reconstruction bodies. They  desired to have Working Parties and ad hoc  meetings, and it was their aim to collaborate  very closely with voluntary bodies.  [62] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  suggested the postponement of any discussion on  the Netherlands resolution until the next meeting.  His delegation was averse from making any new  permanent body as the work was going through  a transition period.  [63] Dr. LOWRIE (TICER) advocated the more  flexible arrangement now proposed, in the form of  a general conference of international non-govern-  mental organizations and an interim committee.  He welcomed the Netherlands resolution on behalf  of a second conference.  [64] The CHAIRMAN invited resolutions for sub-  mission to the Commission. The Secretary of  the Commission would also prepare a draft.  The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m.