FIFTH MEETING  Monday, 5 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman:  Draft Rules of Procedure concerning recom-  mendations to Member States and inter-  national conventions (continued) [document
5C/OXR/16].  [1] Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) supported the sug-  gestion made by the Australian delegate at the  previous meeting that a distinction should be  made between the adoption and the application of  conventions. He proposed that the Committee  should confine themselves for the time being to  discussing the first part of the draft Rules of  Procedure, and postpone their consideration of  the articles dealing with the application of con-  ventions until later.  Mr. Murtinho thought that Articles 16 and 17 in  the draft Rules of Procedure were too specific: the  Secretariat should be able to obtain some ex-  planations from Member States, but some States  might find it difficult to submit a formal report  on the reasons why they had not given effect to  a convention to which they had been opposed at  the General Conference. He did not see how any  Minister of Foreign Affairs who thought that a  particular convention was not in the interests of  his country could ask the competent authorities to  ratify it.  [2] The CHAIRMAN thought the question of the  reports Member States were asked to submit might  be reopened when the Committee came to discuss  the question of establishing a standing legal  committee.  [3] Mr. LACHARRIERE (France) wished to con-  gratulate the Secretariat on the excellent document  it had prepared.  Speaking of the preference some delegations  showed for conventions, Mr. de Lacharriére said  he was in favour of technical recommendations in  certain cases. He therefore thought it necessary to  draw up regulations concerning such recommen-  dations.  [4] Dealing next with the suggestion made by  the United States delegate that the Committee  should deal with the matter as three separate  problems, Mr. de Lacharriére stated that, in his  opinion, there were four distinct problems: con-
669  Professor Jako NierLsen (Denmark)  ventions, recommendations, the legal committee.  and reports from Member States. He thought it  would also be possible to discuss the question of  conventions and that of recommendations concur-  rently with the problem of the legal committee  which might be used in both cases, turning later  to the question of reports from Member States. He  agreed with the Australian delegation that the  form in which the reports were required was too  restrictive. He also agreed with that delegation’s  views on the part to be played by the Executive  Board, which he would like to have stated more  clearly in the document.  [5] Mr. de Lacharrière also supported the Bra-  zilian delegation’s views on the implications of the  adoption of conventions by Unesco’s General Con-  ference. He advocated including a regulation  regarding the procedure for signature, for he  thought that matter should be separate from the  question of adoption by a two-thirds majority and  ratification by the competent authorities in  Member States.  [6] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) associated himself with  Mr. de Lacharriére’s congratulations to the Secre-  tariat. He agreed with him that recommendations  or conventions should be used according to the  needs of the particular case in question, and urged  that regulations concerning recommendations as  well as conventions should be prepared.  Mr. Pilotti pointed out that the powers conferred  on delegates to the General Conference were, at  the present time, general powers, valid solely for  the work of the Conference. He thought that,  when a draft convention was to be submitted to the  General Conference, delegates should be given full  powers, so that they could sign the convention on  behalf of their government, which would merely  have to proceed to the ratification of the conven-  tion afterwards. In conclusion, Mr. Pilotti drew  the Committee's attention to the draft agreement  relating to the protection of monuments and works  of art in the event of armed conflict [document
5C/11-Add. I], which in his opinion should be the  subject of a convention.  [7] Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) thought the  question of conventions and recommendations was   very important at a time when public opinion  was looking for practical achievements from  Unesco. Nevertheless, because of the importance  of the problem, Mr. de Visscher warned the Com-  mittee against the danger of rushing a decision.  He pointed out that it had been impossible for  Member States to consider the document, which  was dated 3 April, until some weeks later; it there-  fore seemed that Member States had not had  enough time to go into this important question  sufficiently thoroughly, or to secure the advice of  qualified experts (technical organizers of inter-  national conferences, specialists on international  law, etc.).  [8] In the circumstances, Mr. de Visscher  thought it would be better for the current session  of the Conference to take no final decision  regarding the preparation of a procedure to be  followed in future years, for success would depend  on how satisfactory that procedure was. In that  connexion, he reminded the meeting that the  conventions prepared in haste at The Hague in
1930 had either not been ratified or had been  denounced almost immediately.
19] Mr. de Visscher had noticed that a number  of important problems had come to light in the  discussion and did not seem to have been solved:  terminology, full powers, obligations resulting  from the vote, from signature and from ratifica-  tion, reports to be submitted by Member States. He  thought it would be unwise to proceed with the  Rules on such a doubtful basis.  [10] He suggested that the document, together  with the observations made on it, should be cir-  culated to Member States so that they might make  a thorough study of the matter concurrently with  their consideration of the work undertaken by the  United Nations and the Institute of International  Law on the same problem.
111] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the views  expressed by the various delegations should be  included in the report to be submitted to the  Programme and Budget Commission by the Com-  mittee, leaving the General Conference to decide  whether or not to take any definite measures in  the matter. He considered it was also for the  General Conference to decide on the reports to  be submitted by Member States.  [12] Dr. KADHIM (Iraq) also recommended cau-  tion, for he thought it necessary to retain some  discretion to deal with each problem in the most  appropriate way. He did not think it desirable to  set up a legal committee, nor did he believe that  the time was ripe for Unesco to draw up perma-  nent regulations for the treatment of international  conventions, which did not seem to him to be the
670  best means of stimulating that spirit of initiative  which alone could lead to progress and the accom-  plishment of Unesco’s aims.  Dr. Kadhim agreed with Mr. de Visscher that  Member States should study the problem  thoroughly.  [13] Dr. BLANCO Y SANCHEZ (Cuba) agreed  with the delegations of Belgium and Iraq; the  views they had expressed were similar, inciden-  tally, to those of the Cuban delegation at the  previous session of the General Conference. He  agreed with Dr. Zeissl about the relative impor-  tance of the various questions involved in the  problem.  [14] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that it had  been anticipated that document 5C/OXR/16 would  be circulated to Member States, and that another  document setting out their comments would be  submitted to the General Conference for considera-  tion; unfortunately, the time had been too short  for Member States to send in their comments by  the due date.  [15] Mr. Saba reminded the Committee that the  definition of recommendations had been given in  the general directions issued by the preceding ses-  sion of the General Conference, and that only  recommendations in line with that definition were  to be covered by the regulations: the recommenda-  tions in question were those requiring Member  States to lay down rules or standards and to  institute procedure for the application of those  rules or standards. In fact, such recommen-  dations differed from conventions only in the  fact that they did not entail contractual relations  between States and that they were not subject to  signature and ratification; greater flexibility in  their application by Member States was therefore  possible. The General Conference would have to  decide what it considered the most appropriate  method in every specific case, after a careful ex-  amination of the subject and the possible means of  procedure. À text would then be drafted, which  would make it possible to obtain from Member  States some indication of the minimum and maxi-  mum rules they would be prepared to adopt.  [16] A document dealing with Unesco’s various  methods of action, which included conventions  and recommendations for the regulation of prob-  lems, had been submitted to the Programme and  Budget Commission. The latter was deferring  further consideration of this document until it  had received the Procedure Committee’s report on  the procedure to be adopted.  [17] With regard to the reports from Member  States, Mr. Saba drew attention to Article IV,  paragraph 6, of the Constitution; all the General                 Conference had to decide was in what form the  reports should be submitted. He explained that,  when the General Conference adopted a conven-  tion, Member States contracted obligations only  when they signed or ratified it. Provision was  made in the Constitution for every Member State  concerned to submit the text of conventions or  recommendations to the competent authorities of  its own country.  [18] He agreed that the procedure set forth in  the draft Rules was complicated; the fact that  there was no permanent legal body in Unesco made  it difficult to prepare conventions or recommenda-  tions, as the Secretariat had to apply direct to  Member States in an attempt to work out rules  which were likely to be adopted by the majority.  [19] The CHAIRMAN suggested two possible  ways of dealing with the report the Committee  was to submit: it might either ask the drafting  sub-committee to give a summary of the Com-  mittee’s discussions, or it might draw up a more  detailed report putting specific proposals before  the General Conference. The Chairman considered,  however, that in any case, the Committee should  give a definite opinion, and not merely ask the  Conference to defer consideration of the question  until the next Session.  He proposed that the members of the sub-  committee should be nominated, and that its terms  of reference should be as wide as possible, so that  it might take into consideration the different  points of view expressed.  [20] At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN and  Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France), seconded by  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria), it was decided that the sub-  committee should consist of the representatives of  the following States: Australia, Belgium, Cuba,  Egypt, France, Italy, the United Kingdom and the  the United States of America. The Rapporteur  would also be a member of the sub-committee,  which would hold its first meeting on Wednesday,
6 June.
671  Report on the interpretation of certain  provisions of the Rules of Procedure [docu-  ment 5C/PRO/6].  [21] The SECRETARY submitted document  bC/PRO/6, mentioning that, for greater clarity  and in order to bring the wording into line with  the provisions adopted by the United Nations, it  was proposed that Rules 11, 14 and 36 should be  amended as suggested in the document.  [22] The CHAIRMAN announced that the had just  been informed of a draft amendment proposed by  the New Zealand delegation. As, however, it had  been impossible to distribute the text to delega-  tions, it was decided, at the suggestion of  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), that the Com-  mittee should wait until it had received the  amendments in writing before considering the  proposals contained in document 5C/PRO/6.  [23] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) drew  attention to a difference between the second para-  graph of Rule 14 and the wording adopted by the  United Nations on the same point; it would be  advisable to adopt another form of words closer  to that of the United Nations.  [24] The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Cowell to con-  sult with the New Zealand delegate so that they  might submit a joint proposal for Rule 14. He  pointed out, however, that the difference men-  tioned by Mr. Cowell was due to the fact that the  length of the sessions of the two organizations was  not identical; it would therefore be necessary to  provide for more flexible Rules.  [25] At the suggestion of Mr. MAHMASSANI (Le-  banon), it was decided to ask the Secretariat to  get into touch with the delegations of New Zealand  and the United Kingdom in order to redraft  Rule 11.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.