Regulations concerning Economic and Social  Rights in the International Covenant on  Human Rights [document 5C/PRG/17].  [33] Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) emphasized  the importance attached by his delegation to the  preparation of texts that could be applied imme-  diately and practically. The Belgian delegation  therefore presented a draft resolution which could  be carried out through Unesco’s normal working  contacts without any further budgetary implica-  tions.  [34] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) seconded  the draft resolution. He congratulated the  Secretariat on the remarkable quality of the doc-  ument which it had submitted to the Com-  mission, and pointed out that in the task of em-  bodying the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights in legislative texts and conventions,  serious difficulties would be encountered on  certain points. It would be necessary to work  out a new method, and Unesco should continue  to study the matter in close contact with the  United Nations.  The Belgian proposal was also seconded by the  delegates of NETHERLANDS, CUBA, UNITED  KINGDOM and LIBERIA  [35] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) asked  whether the Commission was to decide im-  mediately between the three possible solutions set  out in document 5C/PRG/17. If not, why had the  recommendations been included? If the Commis-  sion was to decide, however, the United Kingdom  delegation wished to support recommendation  (b) on page 53 of that document and to oppose  (a) and (c).  [36] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that in  TWENTY-NINTH  the previous April, the Commission on Human  Rights had considered the drafting of a Covenant  on Human Rights which was to have been pre-  sented to the Economic and Social Council at its  session in July and transmitted to the General  Assembly of the United Nations in September.  As it had proved impossible to study the various  questions involved in such a document, it was  decided to concentrate work for the present on  the provisions concerning individual freedoms.  The questions relating to economic and social  rights were thus reserved for further study to be  undertaken in 1951. The resolutions of the Com-  mission on Human Rights had therefore not  provided any time-limit for the drafting of pro-  visions for insertion in conventions concerning  the latter category of rights, which were partic-  ularly delicate and had been recognized more  recently in the international sphere.  [37] Moreover, the Commission on Human  Rights had not indicated the procedure to be fol-  lowed. Mr. Saba therefore warmly welcomed the  Belgian draft resolution, which would enable  Unesco to come to an agreement with the United  Nations on which provisions should be worked  out immediately and which could be left to a later  stage.  [38] In answer to Mr. THOMPSON (United  Kingdom), Mr. SABA added that the Commission  on Human Rights seemed to have given no precise  directives regarding the fields which were to be  covered by special conventions setting forth the  ways and means to be adopted.  The Belgian draft resolution was adopted.’  The meeting rose at 0.10 a.m.
1. In final form: Resol. 9.22.  MEETING  Wednesday, 14 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. C. E. Berry (New Zealand)  Report on past and present activities and on  the policy to be followed as regards publica-  tions [document 5C/PRG/15].  [1] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) recalled  that the General Conference, at its Third Session,  had emphasized the importance of the publications
45  problem. The complex field of printed publica-  tions was one in which big sums could be most  rapidly swallowed up. It was easy, in reading  document 5C/PRG/15, to realize the cost of publi-  cations and to notice that some of those produced  by Unesco in the last few years had not been as  useful as had at first been hoped. The number of                                    unsold copies bore witness to a certain wastage.  Mr. Cowell believed that a serious problem had to  be faced: that of the sale of publications.  Hitherto, many documents published by Unesco  had been distributed free; very few had been for  sale. That was probably inevitable in the first  stages of every organization, since only by such  free distribution could it make itself known. The  United Kingdom delegate believed, however, that  the problem needed to be studied and that the  first point to be considered was the quality of  publications. Tangible results could not be  attained simply by authorizing the printing of a  document. A publication would only serve its  purpose if it supplied some demand on the part  of the public.  The Secretariat had already made a great effort  in that direction. A special Committee had been  set up to assist the Director-General in defining a  publications policy. Moreover, Mr. Delavenay had  recently been appointed Head of the Documents  and Publications Service. The British delegation  considered that a most fortunate choice and  congratulated the Director-General upon it.  Mr. Delavenay was well known in British official  circles, with which he had been in contact partic-  ularly during the war. He could not fail to do  excellent work. In all large-scale organizations the  question of publications was of primary impor-  tance. Rationalization of the department at  different stages of production could save a lot of  money. It was a big and difficult task and the  speaker believed that if anyone could do it, it  would be Mr. Delavenay. The British delegation  would welcome any attempts by the Director-  General to improve the Publications Service. The  delegation proposed that a report on publications  policy should be submitted to the Sixth or Seventh  Session of the General Conference.  [2] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head. Documents and  Publications Service) thanked the United Kingdom  delegate for his kind words.  An organization like Unesco could not avoid the  free distribution of publications, at least for a  certain class of documents. It had been found  that a clear line had to be drawn between propa-  ganda publications and those which, intended for  a wider public, provided the kind of interest which  enabled them to be put on sale. The problem was  complex, because it was difficult to satisfy the  needs of the whole world with the small issues  with which Unesco had so far been content.  Mr. Delavenay thought the proposal of the  United Kingdom delegation most acceptable; he  Was ready to submit a report on publications at  each General Conference.  [3] Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) read  out a resolution adopted by the working party on
453  Mass Communication (United States National  Commission ) :  That Unesco take note of the fact that many of its  publications are produced without apparent definite  purpose or any plan for effective distribution in  Member States. that it clarify its publications  programme, making plans for distribution prior to  production, notifying Member States of each publica-  tion and the number of copies available to those  States. . . that it make available to Member States  in the near future a recapitulation of publications to  date, with informalion on stocks on hand, and that  it issue quarterly reports on publications in the  future.  That Unesco make an effort to establish a system for  more comprehensive reproduction, promotion and  distribution of Unesco publication in the United  States. . and that it review consideration of the  recommendation made a year ago for the establish-  ment of a guarantee fund to make possible the pro-  duction of publications which otherwise will not get  wide distribution.  Dr. ZOOK considered that a few publications of  general interest, such as those on Human Rights  or on the way of life in different countries should  receive wider circulation. He emphasized that  Unesco would be judged by the quality of its  publications and suggested that at a future session  a sub-committee should be set up to study the  question closely.  [4] The CHAIRMAN read out a draft resolution  proposed by the United Kingdom delegation:  The General Conference, after considering the report  submitted by the Director-General [document 5C/  PRG/15] at its Fifth Session on past and present  activities and publications policy, requests the Director-  General to submit to the Sixth Session of the General  Conference a concise report on the activity and general  policy of the Organization in regard to publications  during the previous twelve months.  The resolution was adopted.’  Programme for 1951 (continued) [document
5C/5 (I) Rev., Part II].
6. Mass Communication (continued).  ACTION THROUGH Press, Fim ano Rapio (con-  tinued).  Item 6.35.  [6] The CHAIRMAN read out the following  amendment which the Indian delegation proposed  should be added to item 6.35:* “and, on request
1. In final form: Resol. 9.6.
2. In final form: Resol. 6.381 and 6.382.          from Member States, to supply whenever possible  radio material to meet their special requirements”.  The draft amendment, seconded by the delegate  of PAKISTAN, was adopted.  Project of developing a Friendship Flag  among the children of the world, presented  by the Philippine delegation [document 5C/74].  [6] Presenting his delegation’s draft resolution,  Mr. FLORES (Philippines) recalled that in the last  paragraph of its comments [document 5C/5 (I)  Rev., page 88], the Executive Board had expressed  the hope that the General Conference would  examine any project which might further the work  of the United Nations mission of peace. Moreover,  Unesco’s Constitution enjoined upon the Organiza-  tion to contribute to the peace and security of the  world. It was in that spirit that the Philippine  delegation submitted its draft resolution, which  aimed at creating a ‘Friendship Flag” and a  “Friendship Stamp”. The Budget Committee had  calculated the cost of the proposal at $8,700.  Mr. Flores thought that that figure might be  reduced without jeopardizing the success of the  project, and that in any case the object in view was  of greater importance than the expense. It was  the children of today who would later be the  judges of Unesco’s work; every means must be  used to teach them to build a world community.  Mr. Flores moved the adoption of the draft  resolution in document 5C/74 as item 1.363 of the
1951 Pogramme.  The proposal was seconded by the delegates of  PAKISTAN, VENEZUELA, URUGUAY, DOMINI-  CAN REPUBLIC, ECUADOR and MEXICO.  [7] The CHAIRMAN considered that the question  should first be submitted to the Chairman of the  Executive Board, who was unable to attend the  current meeting.  [8] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) recalled that  Unesco had emphasized the necessity of teaching  children about the United Nations and the special-  ized Agencies. But such teaching could succeed  only if it implied active participation on the part  of the child. The Philippine proposal was  calculated to make children understand that they  were themselves a part of the United Nations  Organization and that the future of that Organi-  zation depended upon them to that extent. The  Afghan delegation therefore supported the Philip-  pine perposal.
19], Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) entirely  recognized the value of displays with a symbolic  meaning, especially for young people. At the same  time, his delegation could not support the pro-  posed resolution, as they believed that the  suggested flag might lead to useless duplication  with that of the United Nations and create a certain  confusion.  With regard to the issue of a stamp there were  certain administrative difficulties, at least in the  United Kingdom, where the issue of stamps was  very stictly controlled.  The British delegation, whilst admitting that  Unesco should leave nothing undone to encourage  friendship between children of different nations,  considered that the Organization's programme  already provided for a certain number of activities  which should achieve excellent results in that  sphere.  [10] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) agreed  with Anas Khan: children should be given some  real contact with the United Nations Organization.  On the other hand, he considered that the pro-  gramme on education for international under-  standing already included a number of activities  likely to achieve the results aimed at, and that  Unesco should not dissipate its efforts. He  wondered whether the Conference could not  suggest that the Secretariat should include some  such project in the programme to be submitted at  the next session.  [11] Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) fully con-  curred in the opinion expressed by Mr. Cowell.  [12] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) said that the Secretariat would warmly  welcome any project likely to catch the imagina-  tion of children as well as adults; but it could not  for the moment undertake the action suggested by  the Philippine delegation. Experience proved that  certain attempts, such as competitions, after  involving considerable expense, had not produced  the hoped-for results. The project submitted to  the Commission involved some expense and extra  work for the Secretariat. It was for the Com-  mission to decide whether such an effort would  be justified in the present circumstances.  [13] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Com-  mission had not been able to obtain the opinion  of the Chairman of the Executive Board on the  matter, but already knew his reactions in similar  cases. He felt that such a project should at all  events have the approval of the Budget Committee.  [14] Mr. FLORES (Philippines) thanked Mr.  Cowell for emphasizing the difficulties which  would be encountered if the project were carried  out. He made it clear that his own delegation did  not wish to encourage Unesco to compete with the  United Nations by creating a rival flag of its own.  So far as practical difficulties were concerned,
454                              means of smoothing them out could perhaps be  found; in any case they should not be allowed to  bar the project completely. It had to be remem-  bered that the children of today would become the  leaders of tomorrow; projects planned for their  benefit in the field of education were certainly  excellent; but that advocated by the Philippine  delegation would carry immense weight.  [156] Mr. JAUME (France) was of the opinion  that the Philippine project might quite possibly be  no burden on the budget, and he thought that it  should be examined in the same spirit of idealism  that had prompted its conception. He added that  q similar effort on the part of the French Ministry  of Education had given excellent results at no  expense.  [16] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the meeting  should vote on the draft resolution, subject to its  re-examination, should the Chairman of the  Executive Board consider it necessary.  With that proviso, the draft resolution in doc-  ument 5C/74 was adopted by 18 votes ot 10.’  Statement of Methods (continued) [document
5C/5 (I) Rev., page 80].  Items 13 and 14.  [17] The CHAIRMAN recalled that items 13 and
14 in the Statement of Methods had been post-  poned until the Official and External Relations  Commission had considered document 5C/OXR/
16.  [18] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) pointed  out that in paragraph (a) of item 14, “Article III”  should be read: “Article IV”. He moved the  adoption of the two items.  Item 13 and 14 of the Statement of Methods were  adopted.?  Draft resolution on the presentation of the  annual programme and budget of the Organi-  zation [document 5C/12].  [19] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) stated that  the draft resolution of his delegation aimed at  giving a practical survey of the work of the Organi-  zation. The question had already been discussed  and had met with certain difficulties. It was a  problem which affected both the Executive Board  and the National Commissions, in view of the  difficulty of finding the budget entries correspond-  ing to the programme resolutions. The United  ee
1. In final form: Resol. 9.7.
2. In final form: Section II, Eighth Part, items 13  and 14.
455  Kingdom delegation did not ask that the exact  cost of each item on the programme should be  given, but simply for an indication of the  approximate cost of the items under discussion at  any given time. His delegation was ready, if  necessary, to make concessions to achieve that aim.  The point at issue was to enable the Executive  Board, the General Conference, the National Com-  missions and the public to have an idea of what  the Organization intended to do, and of the  expense entailed in its activities.  [20] The CHAIRMAN wondered whether, as the  question was rather delicate, Mr. Cowell would not  prefer to have the document sent to the Budget  Committee and the Administrative Commission.  [21] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) em-  phasized that he was only asking the Director-  General and the Executive Board to consider the  programme in the form in which his delegation  wished to see it submitted.  The United Kingdom proposal [document
5C/12] seconded by the delegate of the UNION of  SOUTH AFRICA, was adopted.’  Draft resolution on the forming of a civil  conscience for the defence of freedom and  peace [document 5C/69].  [22] Mr. FOSSI (Italy) explained reasons which  had led the Italian delegation to submit the draft  resolution. Looking at Unesco generally, one  could allot to it two main objectives: the first,  that of increasing and spreading culture and  scientific knowledge and at the same time striving  to protect the heritage of art and culture in each  civilization; the second, that of providing informa-  tion and education for the masses with a view to  developing a civic conscience fitted to defend  freedom and peace. It was the second aim which  was the subject of the Italian proposal.  Mr. Fossi asked that, above all, the principles  and system of rules for forming a civic and  democratic conscience should be formulated in a  brief code, approved by the Member States of  Unesco. Such a code was indispensable in order  to define the true spirit of Unesco in that matter.  It would be of great assistance because it would  have been approved by the Member States after  careful drafting. It could remove certain objec-  tions and difficulties which might arise for various  reasons. The Italian delegation believed such a  code would not be very difficult to draft, since the  Members had acceded to Unesco’s Constitution  whose general tone was inspired by the principle
1. In final form: Resol. 9.93 to 9.932.           of the defence of freedom. That principle formed  the very basis of the Organization.  [23] Further, the draft resolution aimed at  entrusting to the Director-General, assisted by the  Heads of the different Departments, responsibility  for the code of mass education and, if necessary,  the co-ordination of a programme of action. The  Director-General would be responsible to the  Executive Board and to the Member States. If  such action were to be really successful, it had  certainly to be guided and organized by some  executive authority located at the Organization's  headquarters.  The need for more effective action on the part of  the central Organization had appeared from the  proposal made by the United States of America  [in document 5C/97], and even in the Director-  General's reply to that proposal. It was with that  in mind that the Italian delegation submitted its  own draft resolution asking merely that it should  be supported by the Commission as a suggestion  to be studied by the Secretariat and the Executive  Board.  [24] Mr. JAUME (France) seconded the Italian  proposal, but said that it would be necessary to  make certain amendments to the French’ text; he  therefore suggested that it be entrusted to the  Drafting Committee.  The CHAIRMAN proposed that the same be done  for the English version.
1256] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) wanted  certain details explained. He recalled that the  Executive Board and the General Conference had  worked very hard to create the code asked for by  the Italian delegation. He did not see how the  rules suggested in its draft resolution could fit in  with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  The proposal was of such a general character as to  overlap with the activities of the Human Rights  Commission.  [26] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) observed that the problem  raised by the Italian amendment was indeed  important. The Commission should reflect before  taking a decision. Unesco possessed four basic  documents: (1) the Constitution, with a Preamble  setting out the aims of Unesco, the reasons for its  establishment and the principles which were to  govern its activities; (2) the Basic Programme,  listing all Unesco’s main activities; (3) the  Annual Programme, which each year gave details  of the parts of the Basic Programme under discus-  sion; (4) the Statement of Methods, which  determined how Unesco’s work should be done.  [27] M. Cowell had recalled the existence of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted  by the United Nations, to which Unesco had  adhered enthusiastically, and which furnished the  basis of that civic conscience referred to in the  Italian proposal.  [28] Did the Italian delegation think that Unesco  should draft a document which could merely take  the place of earlier documents and might even  cause confusion? If “a code of principles and  methodical and well-defined rules” could be  precisely set out, would there not be some danger  of transmuting Unesco’s ideas into a kind of  philosophy, whereas Unesco had been careful not  to encroach on territory other than its own? In  the circumstances, however interesting his pro-  posal, would Mr. Fossi not agree that the essentials  of his idea were already contained in the doc-  uments produced by Unesco?  [29] Mr. FOSSI (Italy) pointed out that ““prin-  ciples and methodical rules” proposed meant more  detailed statements of what followed from the  Declaration of Human Rights. It was natural that  Human Rights should remain the basis of Unesco’s  standpoint. The Italian delegation asked for a  code of more detailed principles which would  allow the formation of a democratic conscience.  It also attached great importance to the second  part of the proposal, which wanted more power  put in the hands’ of the Director-General for  carrying out and co-ordinating this work. At the  same time 1t hoped that, after rewording by the  Drafting Committee, this proposal would still  remain a subject for study by the Director-General  and the Executive Board.  [30] At the CHAIRMAN’S request, Mr. FOSSI  (Italy) agreed that his proposal be forwarded to  the Executive Board and the Director-General for  their perusal.  [31] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) said  that, bearing in mind the explanations given by  Mr. Thomas, his delegation considered that  Unesco should ensure that Member States were in  agreement as to the practical outcome of the pro-  posal. In view of existing differences of opinion,  his delegation thought that it was not for Unesco  to formulate a brand of philosophy which could  bind States outside the terms of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights. He recalled that  Unesco had done excellent work in publishing a  document on Human Rights, for it had set the  various philosophies side by side, leaving the  reader free to judge for himself.  The Italian proposal [document 5C/69] was  rejected by 10 votes to 7.                     Draft resolution on the selection of central  Unesco themes [document 5C/28].  [32] Mr. DESY (Canada) stated that the matter  was one of co-ordination for a well-defined pur-  pose along the lines of the discussion which had  taken place the previous evening on the subject of  concentration of effort. For the public to under-  stand Unesco's work its Programme must be  simplified.  [33] Mr. DÉSY added that such a pragmatical  attitude was doubtless best. If the Organization  was to opt for a particular service, it would do well  to confine itself to the Exchange of Persons  Service, and if it seemed better to stop at one  project, it should limit itself to fighting illiteracy  throughout the world. Those themes were given  by way of example. They need not be the most  important. It was enough that each in its right  time and place had a recognized value.  [34] Various organs or various projects of  Unesco would be spotlighted in that way and made  THIRTIETH  to stand out to the uninformed public. For that  reason paragraph (b) (page 1) of the Canadian  draft resolution provided for “one or more major  themes or services” and each section would  collaborate in carrying out that programme.  [35] If the proposal were adopted, the measures  it recommended would help to make Unesco more  effective and to raise its prestige among the masses  of the people. It was essential to pick out from  nebulous programmes a few highlights to interest  the public and give Unesco’s work an appeal for  them.  The Canadian proposal was seconded by the  delegates of URUGUAY, BRAZIL and VENE-  ZUELA.  [36] The CHAIRMAN thought no decision could  be taken on this document before hearing the  Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-  General. He therefore proposed to postpone the  discussion until the next meeting.  It was decided accordingly.  The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 14 June 1950, at 9 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. C. E. Berry (New Zealand)  Draft Agreement on the Importation of  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials  [documents 5C/PRG/11 and 5C/PRG/20].  [1] Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland), Rapporteur  of the special Sub-Committee, recalled the words of  Heine when, after a tiresome encounter with the  Customs officials, he exclaimed: “Thoughts are  duty-free!” Once thoughts were expressed in books  or printed documents of any kind, however, they  came up against not only Customs regulations,  which were a minor difficulty, but also endless  administrative and budgetary complications.  Educational, scientific and cultural documents  were the chief instruments of Unesco’s work for  the advancement of tolerance and truth. How  could it carry out that work if it met with  intolerable obstacles at every frontier?  [2] That was why, at Beirut, the General Confer-
457  ence had instructed Unesco to prepare the  necessary agreements for arranging for the free  circulation of such material. The Conference held  at Geneva the previous March had prepared a text  which, though not ideal, represented the greatest  measure of freedom that could be aimed at in  present conditions. It was obvious that, from the  cultural point of view, complete freedom would  have been desirable, and that books could not be  considered as merchandise. The Sub-Committee  considered that the cultural nature of books should  be all the more emphasized as, commercially, they  represented no more than 1 per cent or 2 per cent  of the total volume of trade. Unfortunately, it  must be admitted that certain material consider-  ations militated against the complete acceptance of  that essential character of books. In any case, it  did not seem that the Draft Agreement prepared by  the Geneva conference (which was attended  mostly by customs and finance experts) could give