mentioned, though not as a definite figure  Thus, the adoption of the Austrian proposal  would involve for Unesco a fairly substantial  increase in the 1951 Budget.  [71] Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) proposed that the  word “organize” should be altered to “study”, and  asked if that would be acceptable to the Board.  [72] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) thought that, if the Austrian  draft resolution were limited to a request that the  problem of the pollution of rivers should be  examined in 1951, the expenditure envisaged could  be considerably reduced.  EIGHTEENTH  The CHAIRMAN thought it obvious that the  financial aspect of any resolution involving an  appropriation must be examined by the Budget  Committee.  The Austrian draft resolution, amended by its  author, was adopted by 8 votes to 5.'.  BunceT Tare 1II.2.E.  page 137}.  Adopted without discussion.  [document 5C/5 (II),  The meeting rose at 12.20 a. m.
1. In final form: Resol. 2.337.  MEETING  Thursday, 8 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. Roger SEypoux (France)  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part II].
3. Social Sciences.  SECTION 3.1 (Am TO INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC  (COLLABORATION).  Item 3.11 [document 5C/5 Rev. - Addendum].  [1] Adopted without comment.’  Item 8.11.  [2] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  wished to congratulate the Director of the Social  Sciences Department and his colleagues for their  excellent work in bringing the associations men-  tioned in item 3.11 into existence. In the view  of the British delegation, they were essential to  the successful carrying out of Unesco’s work.  They should be encouraged to join a federation  such as the Council for Philosophy and Human-  istic Studies. If necessary, they might even join  that organization until such time as they were  ready to form their own.
13] While associating himself with the con-  gratulations of the United Kingdom delegate,     l. In final form: Resol. 3.11.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) hoped that the Secre-  tariat would not press the associations to form a  new organization until it was satisfied that there  was a real need for one and until it could be  formed on an adequate basis.  Draft amendment submitted by the Italian dele-  gation [document 5C/103].  [4] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) explained that the Board was leaving it  to the Programme and Budget Commission to  decide on the draft amendment, which seemed  to have no budgetary implications.  [5] Dr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) said that  the project for international statistical education  in co-operation with the International Statistical  Institute was already under way on the current  vear’s budget, and that the Italian draft resolu-  tion was merely intended to continue it into
1951. The specific area for work on this project  in 1950 and 1951 was the region of the Middle,  South, and Far East, having its centre in Calcutta,  where the Statistical Institute had offered assist-  ance for the accommodation of staff and students.  No additional expense would be involved beyond  that provided for in the budget.  [6] Dr. LAZERTE (Canada), seconded the Italian  amendment; the Canadian delegation had some     — c _ - _ ( ; —
376                       knowledge through the Federal Bureau of Statis-  tics of the demands for trained statistical personnel  in different parts of the world. He therefore be-  lieved that the work of the International Statistical  Institute, with the aid of grants from Unesco, could  be very useful. Although this project was ad-  mittedly not new, some indication of it should  be given in the Social Sciences chapter.  [7] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) wished to know  whether it would be possible to add any additional  organization to the existing list without involving  extra cost. The position of organizations other  than the International Statistical Institute was  rather different, since the Institute was the only  one of this type which was already well established  and had developed in association with Unesco.  If other organizations were to be added, he sug-  gested including in the text the words: “such as”.  [8] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  was entirely sympathetic to the Italian proposal,  provided it was given its proper place in the  budget. He proposed that this amendment should  be added as a new item, 3.15 and given an  appropriate place in the budget.  Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) supported the  Italian proposal, but agreed with the United  Kingdom delegate that it should be included as  a separate item, which might bear the number
3.16.  Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  suggested that, if the Commission agreed to this  point in principle, it should be left to the Draît-  ing Committee to formulate it.  The Italian proposal in document 5C/103  was adopted with that proviso.  Draft resolution submitted by the Italian delega-  tion [document 5C/36].  [9] Professor GINI (Italy) explained that the  project was designed to allow Unesco to pay more  attention to legal questions within the framework  of the social sciences.  [10] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) said that three associations had  been formed to deal with that problem, namely  the International Law Association, the Inter-  national Political Sciences Association and the  International Studies Conference (part of whose  activities were concerned with international law).  In addition, Unesco had a contract in 1950 with  the Comparative Law Group to study the dif-  ferences between Anglo-Saxon and Roman Law.  The Italian amendment, seconded by the dele-  gate of AUSTRIA, was rejected by 12 votes to 7.
377  Draft resolution submitted by the Italian dele-  gation [document 5C/72].  [11] Professor GINI (Italy) drew attention to the  importance of agrarian law at a time when many  agricultural countries were preparing agrarian  reforms. The draft resolution submitted by the  [talian delegation was intended to promote the  study of that matter.  [19] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said the Board had been unable to re-  commend the adoption of this amendment, which  would involve spending roughly another $5,000.  He hoped the Italian delegate would not press his  point.  [13] Mr. LE BRAS (France) agreed that the  problem of research advocated by Italy could  not produce practical results unless the work was  done very thoroughly. He did not think that  such work could be included in the programme  for 1951.  [14] Professor GINI (Italy) agreed to withdraw  his proposal which, it was decided, should be  referred to the Executive Board for study and,  possibly, inclusion in the programme for 1952.  Draft resolution presented by the Italian delega-  tion [document 5C/37].  [15] Professor GINI (Italy) pointed out that the  draft resolution, concerning an international  definition of social service, was connected with  the draft resolution in document 5C/33, dealing  with social service schools, which had been dis-  cussed at the fifteenth meeting of the Commission.  [16] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) hoped that here again the Italian dele-  gation would refrain from pressing its point.  Now that the question had been raised, it could  be passed on to the Director-General, who would  consult with the Social Affairs Department of the  United Nations, since this was a matter which was  not solely within Unesco’s sphere, and possibly  even fell outside its scope.  Professor GINI (Italy) accepted Sir John's re-  commendation and withdrew his amendment.  [17} Mr. DURAN (United Nations) informed the  Commission that the steps proposed by the Italian  delegation would in fact be carried out by the  United Nations. He read out the text of resolu-  tions passed at the last sessions of the Economic  and Social Council, dealing with the training of  social workers, contacts with Member Governments  in this field, etc.  Item 3.11 [document 5C/5 (I) Rev.], as     amended by the Italian delegation (document 5C/
103), was adopted.’  Item 3.111.  [18] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  proposed to insert the words: “as an experiment”  towards the end of this resolution. The co-  operating body in social sciences in the United  Kingdom doubted whether the type of publication  contemplated could really meet the needs of the  social scientists. The Secretariat had assured him  in correspondence that it was proposing only to  carry out an experiment, which would not be con-  tinued unless the subscriptions received showed  that the periodical was really needed.  Sir Charles also. proposed amending the cor-  responding work plan [document 5C/5 (II),  page 147, paragraph 11] by inserting “for a  limited period” after “to publish”, and by adding  to the end of the sentence ‘‘and report on the  results”.  [19] Professor VITO (Italy) asked whether  Unesco considered it sufficient to publish periodi-  cals, or whether it contemplated other methods  as well. He suggested adding to item 3.111 the  words “by various means, in particular” before  “through the publication of a periodical’. He  also supported Sir Charles Webster's amendment.  [20] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia), dealing first with  Sir Charles Webster's proposal, was anxious to  emphasize that, although his delegation was very  interested in the experiment, it was also anxious  that the journal should not cover ground already  covered by existing publications. It should rather  concentrate on reporting developments in 1inter-  national co-operation and in providing informa-  tion concerning contemporary soclal science  literature. The provision of original articles such  as appeared in other journals might detract from  its value.  As regards the Italian draft amendment,  Mr. Weeden wondered whether it was really  necessary to include “by various means”, in view  of the wide range of activities to promote co-  operation in the social sciences which were listed  elsewhere in the programme.  [21] Mr. LE BRAS (France) supported the  United Kingdom delegate’s amendment. He  thought it would be useful to have a periodical  which would provide liaison between existing  publications, provided that it did not duplicate  their work.  [22] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) wondered
1. In final form: Resol. 3.12.  whether the proposed publication might not  serve as the official journal of the Co-ordinating  Committee mentioned in item 3.12; in that way  it would be possible to keep the public informed  of the work of the international associations.  [23] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) assured the Commission that  the Secretariat had never intended to publish the  bulletin on anything but an experimental basis.  As he had already informed the United Kingdom  delegation in writing, the Secretariat hoped to  take stock at the beginning of 1951, so as to be  able to make a statement before the next Session  of the General Conference.  The Secretariat agreed that too many original  articles had been included in the first issues, and  steps were now being taken to reduce these to  about one-third of the total contents. Some such  articles were desirable in a publication dealing  with international problems in the social sciences.  The bulletin was being used chiefly as a means  of communication among social scientists, as a  news bulletin for Social Science Associations set  up by Unesco, and to give the world knowledge  of the work being done by this department of  Unesco.  [24] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium)  thought that the Italian resolution, completed by  the United Kingdom proposal, resulted in a for-  mula flexible enough to ensure that the new  publication would be able to find its proper place  among social science journals.  [25] The United Kingdom amendment, seconded  by the delegates of FRANCE and ITALY, was  adopted by 29 votes.  The Italian draft resolution seconded by the  delegate of BELGIUM, was adopted by 20 votes  to 3.  Item 3.111,  adopted.’  with these amendments, was  Item 8.12.  [26] It was decided to adopt the item in prin-  ciple and, at the suggestion of Sir Charles WEB-  STER (United Kingdom), to refer it to the Draft-  ing Committee for re-wording.  Item 3.121.  [27] Professor VITO (Italy), seconded by the  delegate of PERSIA, recalled the decision taken in  the discussion on the Basic Programme that  Unesco’s task should also be to develop documenta-  tion. He proposed adding to the end of item 3.121
1. In final form: Resol. 3.13.
378                           ‘in countries where those services are less de-  veloped”.  [28] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Depart-  ment of Social Sciences) pointed out that docu-  mentation in the Social Sciences was not as good  as the abstracting services existing in the Natural  Sciences. An enquiry initiated the previous De-  cember had shown that the most useful procedure  henceforth would be to develop existing services  in English, French and Spanish, since it would  be useful to have documentation which could be  used everywhere rather than only in a few coun-  tries. The text of item 3.121 had been carefully  drafted, and the Secretariat thought that it pro-  vided the best solution in present circumstances.  Replying to Mr. WEEDEN (Australia), Dr. AN-  GELL added that it would cost something like  $25,000 to set up additional agencies.  Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  was sure that the Board would not think it ap-  propriate to include such a project in the 1951  Programme.  The Italian amendment was rejected by 15 votes  to 8, and item 3.121 was adopted as it stood.’  Item 3.13.  [29] Mr. LE BRAS (France) proposed that the  item should be deleted: the proposed surveys  would not provide any fresh general information  about instruction in the social sciences. If detailed  surveys were contemplated, they would have to be  conducted by foreigners in each of the countries  In question, and the expense involved would be  out of proportion to the results to be expected.  [30] Mrs. ROSS (Denmark) agreed with Mr. Le  Bras as regarded the effects of the change in ques-  tion, but not its causes. In any case, the project  would be very expensive to carry out. Instruction  in the social sciences was a rather new phe-  nomenon in many countries, and she doubted  whether methods were sufficiently developed to  make a study in ten countries useful. Unesco  should be able to obtain the requisite informa-  tion in other ways, for example from the  Universities.  [31] Mr. HERRING (United States of America)  supported item 3.13 as being practical, basic and  not too ambitious It should be possible to carry  out this project within a limited time on the  money allocated in the Budget. The methods of  Instruction at present being used were of great  Importance for later work.  [32] Professor VITO (Italy) supported the  mt —
1. In final form: Resol. 3.141.
379  French proposal and emphasized the differences  between the study of the social sciences and the  natural sciences. A study of the different methods  would be a very long task requiring co-operation  on a large scale, but such an idea could be accepted  in connexion with item 3.111; that is to say, one  of the chief tasks of the periodical issued by  Unesco might be to investigate systematically and  gradually, over several years, methods and de-  velopments in the field of the social sciences.  [33] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not think  that the circulation of information by means of  a periodical could take the place of the suggested  surveys. He recalled that the social sciences were  still very little developed in many countries, and  remarked that the countries benefiting under the  Technical Assistance Scheme were asking not only  for technical experts who could help them to  develop their economy quickly, but also for spe-  cialists on economics and the social sciences. The  survey would be restricted to ten countries only  because of the shortage of staff and funds, and  those countries would be selected with due regard  to the varying stages they had reached in the  development of social science instruction.  [34] Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) recalled  that this question had been discussed by the meet-  ing of experts when the first international associ-  ation of sociologists was called in 1939. At that  time it had seemed to them exceedingly important.  Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) was in favour  of retaining item 3.13.  Mr. LE BRAS (France) admitted the force of  the Director-General’s arguments and withdrew  his delegation’s proposal.  [35] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  said that the co-operating body in his country  was also greatly interested in this problem, but  doubted whether an adequate survey of ten coun-  tries was possible under the existing budget pro-  visions. There were very great difficulties to be  met, many of them political. He was prepared  to withdraw the amendment he was proposing to  make, if the Director-General was willing to  withdraw item 3.13 and redraft it; but if the 1tem  were maintained, he would suggest reducing the  number of surveys to four pilot surveys made in  association with the national co-operating bodies.  This might also reduce the expense involved, and  would show to what extent it would be possible  to undertake further accurate and scientific  surveys.  [36] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) agreed that it would be a good  idea to associate the National Commissions in  this study. Such an idea had been in the mind  -
1  I  “  ”  V E   Br  a l "  Vy   T s   aw n’   W L         of the Secretariat all along, in connexion both  with that item and with item 3.11. The matter  had already been discussed with the Officers of  the International Associations in the Social  Sciences, who were agreed to undertake this work  and confident that they could carry it out in  ten countries.  [37] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) said that the  Australian co-operating body was also very inter-  ested in this project, but concerned, like that of  the United Kingdom, with the problem of ac-  curacy in covering such a wide field. It might  be better to undertake a smaller number of  surveys over a more restricted field, and he pro-  posed that the Drafting Committee should be  instructed to devise some way of limiting and con-  centrating the work.  [38] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) wished to support the  United Kingdom amendment, but wanted to  know by what methods the countries to be sur-  veyed would be selected. Would their own wishes  be taken into consideration? He emphasized the  political implications of any such survey.  [39] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  thought that if the Australian proposal to limit  the sphere of enquiry were accepted, it might be  possible to undertake more than four pilot surveys.  Like the delegate of Iraq, he emphasized the politi-  cal complications that were likely to arise.  The United Kingdom amendment, providing for  the restriction of the field to be surveyed and for  the limitation of the number of surveys to be  undertaken, was adopted by 13 votes to 11.  Item 3.13, thus amended, was adopted.’  Draft resolution presented by ihe Italian delega-  tion [document 5C/73].  [40] Presenting the resolution, which concerned  the establishment of an International Social Science  Institute, Professor VITO (Italy) referred to a  letter from the International Association of Uni-  versity Professors suggesting that such an institute  should include not merely a research centre, but  also the study of international methods of teaching.  Unesco had so far given encouragement to the  International Association of University Professors,  and he hoped that this support would not be  withdrawn. The project in question had no bud-  getary implications. If necessary, he would be  prepared to modify the amendment by adding  that support could be given within the limits  prescribed for research centres by the United  Nations.
1. In final form: Resol. 3.15.  [41] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) regretted that the Board could not support  the wording of either amendment. They had al-  ready considered suggesting a similar kind of  institution and had asked the Director-General to  study this matter for possible inclusion in a future  programme. He was aware that the United  Nations had the matter under consideration, and  the Executive Board felt that, until a decision had  been reached by the United Nations on laboratory  and research centres in social science, it would be  inappropriate to insert such an organization in the  Unesco programme. He hoped the Italian dele-  gate would be willing to consider a modification  of his terms, which would enable the Director-  General to carry on in 1951, if the Economic and  Social Council came to a decision in 1950.  Sir John therefore submitted a possible alter-  native text for the consideration of the Italian  delegate, as follows:  The Director-General is authorized to co-operate with  the United Nations in planning an international insti-  tute in the field of Social Sciences in the event that the  Economic and Social Council decides in 1950 to  develop further such a proposal.  Professor VITO (Italy), seconded by the delegates  of BELGIUM, BRAZIL, CANADA, FRANCE, the  NETHERLANDS, PERSIA, SWITZERLAND and  URUGUAY, accepted the suggestion of the Chair-  man of the Executive Board, which was adopted.’  Item 3.1}.
149] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  wished to present an amendment similar to that  proposed on the previous point. He thought it  would be very difficult to send officers to cover  the social sciences in the areas proposed, and he  also thought it would be better to complete the  experiment in one country before starting on  others. In any case, if this was an experiment,  the cost should be reduced to the minimum, and  although he doubted whether one person alone  could do very much, he proposed the following  text: “to extend the scope of the Field Science  Co-operation Office in the Middle East in the  field of the social sciences”. “South Asia” could  be substituted for “the Middle East”, if preferred.  Further, the requisite changes should be made in  the work plan [document 5C/5 (II), page 148,  paragraph v] where the provision of $6,000 for  special services for the second Office should be  deleted.  On the suggestion of Mr. WEEDEN (Australia),  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) agreed  to alter the last words of his amendment to read
1. In final form: Resol. 3.17.
380                                    cc  “to include the social sciences’ instead of “in  the field of the social sciences’.  [43] Mr. AKVERDI (Turkey) paid tribute to the  work of the Field Science Co-operation Office in  the Middle Fast but feared that, if its activities  were extended to the social sciences, a great burden  of extra work might be imposed on the Office,  with which it would be unable to cope with the  limited resources at its disposal. In the cir-  cumstances, he proposed that item 3.14 should be  deleted.  [44] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that  the proposed experiment would be of no value if  it were restricted to a single Field Science Co-  operation Office. Owing to the shortage of funds,  it was impossible to make the experiment simul-  taneously in all the existing Offices, but it was  essential to be able to compare the results secured  in at least two of them.  [45] Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought that  Unesco would be able, with very little extra ex-  pense, to extend the work of the Co-operation  Offices hitherto confined to the natural sciences,  to include the social sciences. He therefore  thought that the Executive Board’s proposal  should be approved, and suggested that, if it was  impossible to use the Middle Eastern Office for  the experiment, its place should be taken by that  at Montevideo.  The Turkish delegation’s proposal that item 3.14  should be deleted was not seconded and therefore  lapsed.  The United Kingdom amendment, seconded by  the delegate of the UNION of SOUTH AFRICA,  was rejected by 21 votes to 11.  [tem 3.14 was adopted without change in the  French text, and subject to a slight drafting  change in the English.’  BunceT TasrLe III. 3. B [document 5C/5 (lI),  page 146].  [46] Professor SAMBURSKY (Rapporteur of the  Budget Committee) read out the comments of his  Committee contained in Annex III to document  oC/BUD/1.  Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Social Sciences  Department) agreed that a large number of mem-  bers of the Secretariat were working on that  section of the Programme. Nevertheless, the  Social Sciences Department was largely a research  department, and most of the work was in fact  handed over to competent outside organizations.  The proportion of secretaries employed was not  unduly large.     l. In final form: Resol. 3.16.
381  As regarded the provision of secretarial services  to outside organizations, such assistance had been  given only in the initial stages of their existence,  and they had undertaken their own work once they  were established. He did not recall that the matter  had been raised in the Budget Committee, nor that  any provision had been made in the Budget for  secretarial assistance.  The question of the periodical had already been  dealt with. As to the honorarium of $100 paid  for original contributions, that did not seem  excessive for contributions by outstanding author-  ities.  SECTION 3.2 (STUDIES OF SOCIAL TENSIONS).  Item 3.21 [document 5C/5 (I) Rev. - Addendum].  Adopted without discussion.’  Item 3.27 Draft amendment submitted by the  Yugoslav delegation [document 5C/100].  [47] Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) explained  that the amendment was intended to extend the  pilot field investigation to include ethnic groups,  for the mere fact that different races were living  side by side within one country did not necessarily  entail tensions between those races.  [48] Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) warmly sup-  ported item 3.21; he thought it extremely im-  portant as far as certain countries in the New  World were concerned, in which there were to be  found side by side native yellow peoples, black-  skinned descendants of African slaves and, finally,  white immigrants. He suggested that the in-  vestigation in question should be carried out in  Brazil, where the intermixture of the population  was proceeding with a remarkable absence of  tensions, and where Unesco would find a rich  field for study and could be assured of efficient  help from the Brazilian authorities.  [49] Dr. BARON CASTRO (EI Salvador), while  agreeing on the importance of this proposal,  pointed out that it referred only to an investiga-  tion to be carried out in one country in Latin  America. He feared that this would give insuf-  ficient indication of the situation in other coun-  tries, since the racial preponderance varied very  greatly from one South American country to  another. A pilot investigation in one country  alone would not be applicable to all the others,  and he thought that the countries having a pre-  ponderance of white, negro or native ethnic groups  should be selected for investigation.
1. In final form: Resol. 3.21.        [50] In this connexion, Mr. LE BRAS (France)  raised the question of pilot investigations in gen-  eral. He wondered what constituted a “pilot  investigation”. A classification of ““types”’ should  be drawn up, a certain number should be selected,  and the proposed investigation should be organized  to deal with those types. There was no doubt  that the pilot investigation to be carried out in  Brazil would be extremely interesting, but none  the less the findings would not be universally  applicable, since they would relate only to a  specific country at a given time.  [51] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) emphasized that the project in  question was intended to provide only a pilot  investigation which could be completed in 1950,  and following which further countries could be  selected in later years.  [52] Dr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) thought  that in this sense the project would be very useful.  As the delegate of El Salvador had said, there  were very different racial problems in the different  countries, and Dr. Bernal Jiménez considered that  the study should be restricted to the country in  which the problem was most characteristic. For  example, in the Argentine, in Uruguay and in Chile,  where the white population was predominant,  there was no real racial problem, whereas in other  countries, especially in Peru where the original  native races predominated, it was considerable.  He therefore proposed amending the end of item
3.21 to read: “the factors favourable or unfavour-  able to harmonious race relations”.  [63] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) pointed out that much research  had already been done in those countries where  race relations were bad, but very little where they  were good. That was why this resolution had  been drawn up without mentioning unfavourable  factors.  [54] Dr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) main-  tained his amendment, since he felt that studies  also existed which covered both good and bad  relations, and since no harm could be done by  adding the words to the text.  [66] The Colombian amendment, supported by  the delegates of ECUADOR, DOMINICAN RE-  PUBLIC, BRAZIL and GUATEMALA, was adopted  by 14 votes to 11.  The Brazilian proposal, supported by the dele-  gates of LEBANON, URUGUAY, FRANCE and  COLOMBIA, was adopted by 14 votes to 2.  The Yugoslav amendment, seconded by the dele-  gates of BURMA and FRANCE, was adopted by
382  It was agreed to refer the item to the Drafting  Committee for revision.’  Item 3.22.  Draft amendment submitted by the Yugoslav dele-  gation [document 5C/100].  [56] Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) explained  that his delegation suggested the deletion of item
3.22 for the following reasons: Yugoslavia had just  undergone industrialization without suffering any  social tensions due to the speed of the process.  On the contrary, it had been carried out in a pro-  pitious atmosphere, and had resulted in a rise in  the standard of life of the working class. The  Yugoslav delegation therefore felt that the in-  troduction of modern techniques was not in itself  a cause of social tensions, which arose only if  there was interference from foreign capital and  foreign technicians. On the other hand, the  social tensions caused by the unequal status of  large and small States in their relations with one  another were a constant threat to peace. The  Yugoslav delegation therefore proposed the new  wording contained in document 5C/100.  [67] Mr. ARON (France) pointed out that it  would be possible both to maintain the Executive  Board’s proposal, while adding to the programme  the study suggested by the Yugoslav delegation.  For his part, he was not inclined to delete item
3.22 as it stood, and he thought that the Yugoslav  proposal might be combined with the amendment  the French delegation had proposed to item 3.27.  This view was supported by the delegate of  BELGIUM.  [58] Mr. HERRING (United States of America)  recalled that the Commission was concerned with  planning research projects, and that it was 1m-  portant to keep that aim well in view.  [59] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  thought the first and second parts of the Yugoslav  amendment should be considered separately.  The second point was in reality a major political  problem which would require years of study.  [60] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) pointed out that the proposal  would have budgetary implications if it was  divided into two separate parts. In reply to a  question from Professor VITO (Italy), he added  that contracts with non-governmental organiza-  tions were contemplated in the Budget [document
5C/5 (IT), pages 151-152, paragraph |.  Replying also to a question from Sir Charles  WEBSTER (United Kingdom), Dr. ANGELL ex-  plained that the Budget provision was really à
1. In final form: Resol. 3.22.                           combination of two proposals from the Secretariat,  which they had combined at the request of the  Executive Board. Studies had already been carried  out in European countries and found very useful,  and they had thought it would be a good idea to  extend them to other countries in a lower stage  of industrialization. This explained the fee con-  tracts, which applied to the Far East, the Near  Fast and Latin America. The task of studying  how to obtain a smooth transition to modern  technology in the more backward countries was  one which they thought would be more usefully  left to the non-governmental organizations. The  Secretariat was studying which of these should  be employed for the purpose, and he would prefer  not to state at the present stage which ones would  finally be selected.  NINETEENTH  [61] Item 3.22 was adopted unchanged.’  The CHAIRMAN postponed consideration of the  Yugoslav proposal (document 5C/100) until the  next meeting.  Appointment of a Sub-Committee (Draft  Agreement on the Importation of Educatio-  nal, Scientific and Cultural Material) (con-  tinued).  [62] At the request of the Canadian delegation,  it was decided that the membership of the Sub-  Committee appointed at the Fifteenth Meeting  should be enlarged to include a representative of  Canada.  The meeling rose at 1.05 p.m.
1. In final form: Resol. 3.231.  MEETING  Thursday, 8 June 1950, at 9 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. C. E. BeEesy (New Zealand)  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part IT]
3. Social Sciences (continued).  SECTION 3.2 (STUDIES or SociAL TENsIoNs) (con-  tinued).  Item 3.22. Draft resolution submitted by the  Yugoslav delegation [document 5C/100] (con-  tinued).  [1] The CHAIRMAN remarked that, as the pro-  posed resolution was a separate one and not an  alternative to item 3.22, its budgetary implica-  tions had to be considered. In accordance with  the rule laid down by the General Committee, the  Chairman asked the Yugoslav delegate if he  could give the Commission any idea of the bud-  getary implications of his proposal. He had  understood him to say at the morning meeting  that his delegation was willing to divide the pro-  posal into two parts. If, however, the text were  split after the words “relations with one an-  other”, the second part in itself would not con-  stitute a motion.  [2] Mr. MARIC (Yugoslavia) confined himself
383  to recalling once more that a certain number of  items in Chapter 3 (Social Sciences) had been  rejected. The funds which had been allocated to  them could be used to finance these studies.  whose cost it was difficult to estimate.  [3] The CHAIRMAN observed that, even if the  draft resolution were passed, its adoption could  only be provisional, as it would have to be re-  ferred to the Budget Committee. He asked whe-  ther Mr. Marié wished to maintain his resolution  as a whole.  [4] Mr. MARIC (Yugoslavia) was not opposed  to the division of his motion into two parts, of  which the second was chiefly intended to explain  the first, but pointed out that the text of the  amendment as a whole explained the proposal  more clearly.  [5] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that  the Yugoslav delegate was in a rather unfair  position: he had agreed that the Commission  should vote on item 3.22, although, as a matter  of regular procedure, he could have asked that  a vote should first be taken on his amendment.