was not in favour of affording delegates an op-  portunity of meeting once only, without enabling  them to continue their work. He stated that the  resolution provided for a constituent meeting for  the council, for which a preliminary meeting had  already been held; consideration should also be  given to the subsequent work of the council to  enable it to achieve as satisfactory results as the  two large Councils already existing.  Mr. MONTEL (France) agreed with the views  expressed by Professor Auger and was in favour  of adopting item 2.111.  [63] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that, when the Board considered the  United States amendment, it was given to under-  stand that the effect of adopting it would be that  $11,000 less would be spent than if the resolution  put forward by the Board were adopted by the  Commission.  [54] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) having asked  whether or not the Advisory Committee was still  a temporary one, Professor AUGER (Director,  Department of Natural Sciences) explained that it  was a matter of setting up a permanent council  on the same lines as the CCICMS and CIPSH,  in accordance with the decision of a provisional  advisory committee which had suggested bring-  ing together the delegates of the one hundred and  fourteen existing organizations, which had agreed  to establish the Permanent Council. Funds had  therefore been set aside to cover that council's  initial work.  The amendment of the United States delegation  (document 5C/64) was adopted by 18 votes to 4.1  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.
1. See next meeting.  FIFTEENTH MEETING  Wednesday, 7 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. C. E. Berry (New Zealand)  [1] Before continuing the discussion of the  Programme, the CHAIRMAN announced that the  Rapporteur of the Budget Committee would be  present at the meetings of the Commission to  advise it on any budgetary implications of new  resolutions. The General Committee suggested  that any delegate who wished to present a new  resolution should first find out from the Secre-  tariat what would be its approximate cost.  Finally, he reminded the Commission that no  resolution having budgetary implications could  be finally adopted until it had received the sanc-  tion of the Budget Committee.  Appointment of a Sub-Committee (Draft  Agreement on the Importation of Educa-  tional, Scientific and Cultural Material).  [2] On behalf of Mr. Seydoux, the CHAIRMAN  proposed the appointment of a Sub-Committee to  examine the Draft Agreement on the Importation  of Educational, Scientific and Cultural Material  [document 5C/PRG/11], to be composed of
304  representatives of Australia, Belgium, the United  States of America, France, Mexico, the United  Kingdom and Switzerland. The member for the  United Kingdom, who had chaired the Committee  of Experts in Geneva, might be appointed Chair-  man of this Sub-Committee, and Mr. Bourgeois,  the Swiss member, who had also taken part in  the Geneva discussions, might be appointed  Rapporteur. Agreed.  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part II].
1. Education (continued).  SECTION 1.214 (continued) (WORK WITH UNIVER-  SITIES).  Draft resolution submitted by the Italian delega-  tion [document 5C/33].  [3] Professor VITO (Italy) explained that, in  certain European countries, the social service                           schools referred to in the draft resolution were  only just beginning to work, and his delegation  thought the exchanges suggested would be very  useful.  Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  regretted that the Board was unable to advise the  Commission to increase the 1951 Programme to  satisfy the precise wording of the Italian pro-  posal. It would in any case be possible for the  Secretariat to pay some attention to this activity  within the framework of the existing 1951 Pro-  gramme.  Professor VITO (Italy) withdrew his proposal.  [4] Replying to Miss BORSINGER (Switzer-  land), the CHAIRMAN said he was sure that  the Secretariat would be only too glad to use the  services of any organization which was already in  existence in that field.
2. Natural Sciences (continued).  [5] At the request of Professor BHABHA  (India), seconded by the delegates of BELGIUM,  BURMA, EGYPT, FRANCE, ITALY, PAKISTAN,  NETHERLANDS, UNITED KINGDOM, SWITZER-  LAND and UNION of SOUTH AFRICA, it was  agreed to reconsider the first items of the Natural  Sciences programme, which had been given brief  consideration at the previous meeting.  SECTION 2.1 (continued) (DEVELOPMENT OF INTER-  NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC (CO-OPERATION).  Item 2.11 [document 5C/5 (I) Rev. - Addendum]  (continued).  Unchanged.?  Item 2.11 [document 5C/5 (I) Rev.].  [6] On item 2.11 of document 5C/5 (I) Rev.,  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq), supported by Mr. MASSA-  QUOI (Liberia), considered the proposal excel-  lent in principle, but stated that his delegation  could not support it at the present time, when  the money could be more usefully spent on  scientific and technical aid than on international  meetings.  [7] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) proposed the  adoption of the item in question, but suggested  that financial assistance from Unesco should be  restricted to projects definitely related to the  Unesco Programme. He was giving this as an  opinion for the guidance of the Director-General  and was not proposing it as a definite motion.  Sir George THOMSON (United Kingdom) said        l. In final form: Resol. 2.11.  don  his delegation regarded the resolution as one of  the most important in Unesco’s Programme. The  scientific organizations were doing invaluable  work for science and for peace, and included  people who were among the few really inter-  nationally-minded.  Item 2.11, seconded by the delegates of  AFGHANISTAN and BRAZIL, was adopted by
31 votes to 3.1  Item 2.111. Draft resolution submitted by the  United States delegation [document 5C/64, item
1].  [8] Dr. RABI (United States of America)  explained that the reason for proposing this  amendment to item 2.111 was that his delegation  felt it to be an unnecessary additional drain on the  budget. Engineering congresses were usually  well supported by industry and could be held  without additional expense for Unesco.  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) seconded the United States  amendment.  [9] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) recalled that the amendment would reduce  the cost of the original proposal by about $11,000.  [10] Professor AUGER (Director, Department  of Natural Sciences) explained that Unesco’s  work in connexion with the engineering sciences  had already been going on for three years and was  approaching the stage of practical achievement.  A conference of fourteen delegations from  scientific unions was to be held during the year  to set up a permanent council to co-ordinate the  congresses and work of international organiza-  tions concerned with the engineering sciences.  The purpose of item 2.111 was to make it possible  to provide that council with financial assistance  and services for its first years work. It should  be noted that:
(1) Unesco was the only Specialized Agency  dealing with the engineering sciences;
(2) It was not advisable to give up the attempt  to secure international co-operation in that field  at the very time when the number of contacts be-  tween the Secretariat and engineers was bound to  increase owing to the Technical Assistance Pro-  gramme;
(3) It seemed absolutely essential that there  should be some international organization to  assist research workers to meet and work freely,  without being dependent on funds supplied by  industry.  [11] Professor BHABHA (India) thought that,  since the main objective of the United States
1. In final form: Resol. 2.121.           amendment seemed to be to save expense, and  since the saving involved was only $11,000, it  was not worth deleting the Executive Board's  resolution. Co-operation in the field of engineer-  ing sciences was exceedingly important and, from  the economic point of view, possibly even more  so than in the basic sciences.  [12] Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) agreed with his  Indian colleague. To take such a step after three  years of assistance to this organization might have  serious consequences, and he therefore supported  the retention of the original text.  [13] Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) was sur-  prised that some delegations were opposed to  granting a comparatively small sum to assist work  in the engineering sciences, while the Organiza-  tion was making a substantial contribution to the  medical sciences, which were really the concern  of WHO.  [14] Mr. MONTEL (France), supported by  Professor COLONNETTI (Italy), emphasized the  force of the Secretariat's arguments and laid stress  on the importance of such co-operation, which  was one of Unesco’s most fundamental objects.  [156] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) explained that he was  not opposed to the idea in the original item; it  was merely a question of how much service would  be rendered to science and how much to peace.  In view of the previous day’s decision to con-  centrate the Programme, he thought that this  proposal could not really be given a high priority.  [16] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) felt that the  setting up of an engineering body could not be  successful unless complete co-operation were  obtained from engineering associations through-  out the world. An Advisory Committee had met  in July 1949 to make recommendations, and a  Temporary Advisory Committee had again met  in March 1950; but their conclusions were not  yet available. His delegation felt that it was too  early to undertake the work proposed in resolu-  tion 2.111. He therefore supported the United  States amendment.  Mr. PAGE (Canada)  amendment.  [17] Professor KRUYT (Netherlands) felt that,  within a short time, the engineering sciences  would themselves be well able to pay the costs  involved; but the difficulty was to bring themn  together in the first place. The Secretariat having  used its initiative to call the Advisory Committee  together and having paid the costs for three years,  it would be undesirable to withdraw the money  at the present stage. He therefore opposed the  United States amendment.  also supported the  [18] Dr. RABI (United States of America)  stressed that the intention of the amendment was  to “assist in defraying the expenses of a meet-  "  Ing [t was the business of the Advisory  Committee itself to see how it managed after  that.  The United States amendment [document
5C/64, item 1] was rejected by 19 votes to 13.  Australian amendment.
119] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) proposed a  further amendment, namely to delete all reference  to the organization of congresses and symposia:  to quote an example, meetings of the World  Power Conference had been held satisfactorily for  many years without Unesco’s help. He therefore  ted adding to the resolution the words: Ssu£ges OO  Provided that for the first year the work of the  Advisory Committee does not include the holding of  congresses and symposia.  The proposal was seconded by the delegates of  BURMA, IRAQ and LIBERIA.  [20] Professor AUGER (Director, Department  of Natural Sciences) informed the Australian dele-  gate that Unesco had provided assistance for the  World Power Conference by means of a grant for  its meetings and publications. Other unions had  also received similar assistance in past years.  [21] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) said that, since  the budget provided a total of $14,000 to cover  grants-in-aid and congresses called in the normal  course of events, the present situation should be  adequately covered. What he wanted to oppose  was the calling of additional meetings and  symposia, and thus to save, he thought, some  $7,000.  [22] Professor AUGER (Director, Department  of Natural Sciences) explained that it was not a  matter of introducing something new into the  Programme, but simply of attributing to a single  organization grants which had previously been  made to different unions.  [23] The Australian amendment was rejected.  Item 2.111 was adopted without change.’  Item 2.112.  [24] After a statement from Dr. MONTUS  (World Health Organization), setting forth his  Organization’s desire that collaboration with  Unesco in the co-ordination of the medical  sciences should be continued, item 2.112 was  adopted without discussion.?
1. In final form: 2.122.
2. In final form: Resol. 2.123.
396                           Item 2.118.  [256] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) wished to add  an additional phrase, namely, “taking due cog-  nizance of organizations at present firmly estab-  lished”. Work was already proceeding with  various bodies engaged on basic research, and it  would be a pity if Unesco’s work and discussions  were not carried on in conjunction with them.  The amendment, seconded by the delegates of  CANADA, UNITED KINGDOM, SWEDEN and  URUGUAY was adopted.  [tem 2.113, thus amended, was adopted.’  / Item 2.11}.  [26] Dr. RABI (United States of America),  seconded by the delegates of BURMA, IRAQ and  PAKISTAN, proposed the deletion of the item,  since Unesco’s main interest in this sphere was in  fundamental education, and it had already pub-  lished a pamphlet on the subject. Activities such  as the compilation of card indexes, etc., could  more appropriately be left to the International  Union for the Protection of Nature, to be paid  for out of its own funds.  [27] Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) emphasized  the vital importance of this problem to certain  countries, and the need for assistance with their  work in the shape of up-to-date information on  the technical and scientific aspects of nature  protection.  Professor GLEDITSCH - (Norway) agreed.  [28] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) thought that the work  In question could be carried out by the competent  departments in each government. His own coun-  try had the same problem to contend with, but  it did not require a special international meeting.
129] The CHAIRMAN having explained that the  work could not be done under the heading of  Education, and that the budgetary implications  were given in the Budget Estimates [document  oC/5 (II) paragraph v, pages 118 and 119],  Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) added that he was  not in favour of the complete deletion of item
2.114, but merely felt that it might be impossible  lo carry out all its provisions, for example the  production of pamphlets for international use in  schools. It would be more appropriate to pro-  duce them through the ordinary channels of the  Secretariat, having them adapted to each coun-  try's needs by the National Commissions.  Seconded by the delegates of AUSTRIA and  CANADA, Mr. Cummins therefore proposed, as an
1. In final form: Resol. 2.124.  instruction to the Budget Committee, deleting  from the last line of page 118 [document 5C/5
(11) ] the phrase beginning: “to publish pamphlets  and booklets . . .”  [30] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) agreed with the arguments put  forward by the Australian delegate. He thought,  however, that it would be necessary to allot a  portion of the sum provided for the publication  of pamphlets to cover the cost of liaison work to  secure the collaboration of technicians. He there-  fore suggested that, in the Budget Estimates, the  sum of $4,000 mentioned in paragraph v on page
119 [document 5C/5 (II)] should be replaced by  $2,000 to be spent on the work in question.  Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) agreed to Professor  Auger’s proposal.  delete [31] The United States amendment to  item 2.114 was rejected by 26 votes to 5.  [32] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) felt that, if the  pamphlets and booklets for schools were intended  to describe general methods and not the particular  conditions obtaining in each country, they should  still be published.  Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) and Baron van  der BRUGGEN (Belgium) also stressed that the  Executive Board's proposal was of general interest.  [33] The amendment proposed by the Australian  delegation was rejected by 17 votes to 11.  Item 2.114 was therefore adopted unchanged.’  Item 2.115.  [34] Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) emphasized the  principle involved in this proposal. If it were  accepted, it would be difficult to refuse similar  requests put forward in the future by organiza-  tions in other countries.  [35] Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) thought  that the uses to which the money could be put  should be specified. In his view, it should be  restricted to paying the costs of sending experts  to distant parts of the world.  [36] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia), supporting this  proposal, explained that the conference in ques-  tion was to discuss genetics, a subject in which  Australia was vitally interested. The money  could be used to pay the expenses of experts  undertaking the long journey from Europe or  North America.  [37] Dr. RABI (United States of America) said  that, in view of the Conference’s decision to con-     ¥. Resol. 2.125. In final form:        centrate the programme, his delegation was  opposed to the holding of regional meetings un-  less they formed a part of the larger Unesco Pro-  gramme. As that did not appear to be the case  in this instance, he would oppose the adoption  of the item.  [38] Professor OZORIO DE ALMEIDA (Brazil)  agreed with the Australian view, and emphasized  the special scientific interest of the rich and varied  fauna of Australia.  [39] Item 2.115 was adopted unchanged* by
20 votes to 5, subject to the examination of its  budgetary implications.  Item 2.121.  [40] The CHAIRMAN having assured Professor  UVALIC (Yugoslavia) that his vote would not  prejudice his future attitude to the Unesco Cou-  pon Scheme, item 2.121 was adopted unchanged.?  Item 2.131.  [41] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) opposed the whole  work plan [document 5C/5 (Il), page 123, para-  graph 11] doubting whether the subject was as  vet sufficiently developed. Mechanical, and in  particular electronic, devices were still in the  process of development and change, and he  doubted whether a stage had yet been reached  which would justify calling a five-day conference.  This was in any case too short a time to permit  the drawing up of a standardized code on a subject  so complex, on which there was still so little  information available.  [tem 2.131, together with the corresponding  work plan, were adopted by 18 votes to 7.°  Item 2.132.  [42] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) pointed out that Unesco had  already set up three special committees dealing  respectively with physics, biology and medical  sciences, and the engineering sciences. A fourth  committee to deal with chemistry was being  established. Finally, the Secretariat was already  in touch with FAO with a view to setting up a  committee on applied biology. Each of these  committees was apparently to meet every two  years. The committee on physics was to meet in
1950, and those on biology and medical sciences  and the engineering sciences in 1951. It was not  expected that the other two committees would be  able to meet before 1952. Professor Auger  thought that it would be possible to secure world-     |. In final form: Resol. 2.126
2. In final form: Resol. 2.13.
3. In final form: Resol. 2.141.
3  -  > 3  wide co-ordination of all those activities in a way  satisfactory to everyone.  [tem 2.132 was adopted.’  Item 2.133.  [43] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) explained that  the International Conference on Science Abstract-  ing had included representatives of all countries  and international unions concerned. They had  set up a provisional Advisory Committee to advise  Unesco on how to implement the Conference re-  commendations. The life of this Committee had  been limited to twelve months after the publica-  tion of the report, but it now seemed that the  report would not be ready until about September.  Several countries, including his own, were not  prepared to take action on the recommendations  until they had received the final report.  He therefore proposed that the following words  should be added to the text of item 2.133:  “. . . and to make arrangements for a meeting of  the provisional Advisory Committee for the Co-  ordination of Abstracts during 1951".  The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  the UNITED KINGDOM.  In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN,  Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) added that he anti-  cipated the cost of his proposal at approximately
35,000.  [44] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) apologized for the fact that the  final report of the Sub-Committee on Medical and  Biological Sciences had not yet been published;  he thought it would be brought out in a few  months’ time and that a final meeting of the  Committee set up in 1948 might then be con-  sidered: in the circumstances, a sum of $4,000  should be added to the estimated amount (| docu-  ment 5C/5 (IT), page 123, paragraph 1v].  The Australian amendment was adopted.  Item 2.133, thus amended, was adopted.”  Items 2.141 and 2.142.  [45] Refering to item 2.141, Mr. PAGE (Canada)  observed that this was a problem which had been  studied for years by the appropriate scientific  groups, and he therefore proposed amending the  opening words of the item to: “to stimulate the  collection and circulation . He thought that  this change might possibly involve a reduction in  the budget.  ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) wished  amendment to be made to item 2.142.  a similar     [46] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) pointed out that
1. In final form: Resol. 2.142.
2. -In final form: Resol. 2.143.               the work plan [document 5C/5 (Il), page 123,  paragraph v] referred to medicine and biology,  whereas there was no specific definition in the  resolution. He therefore suggested the inclusion  of a reference to the Co-ordinating Committee on  Abstracting and Indexing of the Medical and  Biological Sciences. He agreed with the delegate  of Canada that this amendment would tend to  save money.  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq)  support to that proposal.  [47] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) observed that, if the item were  amended as proposed by the Canadian delega-  tion, Unesco would be unable to do any practical  work itself and item 2.141 would therefore become  useless. Moreover, the budgetary saving would be  only $1,000.  The Canadian
16 votes to 11.  [48] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) still thought  that the activities proposed in the original resolu-  tion were not a task for Unesco, so much as for  the Co-ordinating Committee on Abstracting and  [Indexing of the Medical and Biological Sciences.  He proposed amending item 2.141 by the addition  of the words “to arrange for the collection and  circulation . .  gave his wholehearted  amendment was rejected by  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the difference  between this and the preceding draft amendment  was that the Australian proposal would mean  that Unesco would pay for the project.  [49] Mr. MONTEL (France) proposed the fol-  lowing amendment: “to assist in standardizing  and spreading wider knowledge of internationally  approved scientific terms’.  [50] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) regretted that  he was unable to accept the French amendment,  since there were twenty-two other scientific items  left for discussion, and he feared that, if the  Commission accepted this, they would be involved  all along the line.  In reply to an observation from Dr. JAMALI  (Iraq), Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) said that there  was no question of weakening the resolution, but  of referring a specialized question to a specialized  body.  The Australian amendment,  Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan), was
14 votes to 10.  Thus amended, item 2.141 was adopted without  opposition.’  seconded by  adopted by  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
1 In final form: Resol. 2.151.  SIXTEENTH MEETING  Wednesday, 7 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. C. E. BEeBy (New Zealand)  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part II].
2. Natural Sciences (continued).  SECTION 2.1 (continued) (DEVELOPMENT OF INTER-  NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC (CO-OPERATION).  Item 2.142.  [1] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) enquired who  had asked for the preparation of interlingual  dictionaries on electronics and stationary power  plants, and which body was to produce them.  [2] Professor AUGER (Director, Natural Sciences  Department) replied that the number of sub-  jects which the interlingual dictionaries could  cover was obviously very large, but, for the time  being, it had been necessary to restrict them to two  subjects, selected after consultation with the  Committee on Engineering Sciences.  Professor Auger explained that the words “to  arrange for the preparation” indicated that the  dictionaries would be prepared with the help of  existing organizations. For the dictionary on  stationary power plants, Unesco would apply to  the World Power Conference, and for the  dictionary on electronics, to two or three inter-  national electricity organizations which would