its activities to those which would have budgetary  cover. He enquired how the figure of $7,500,000  was arrived at, in view of the fact that the budget  was about 38,000,000 and the contributions  received amounted to about 10 per cent of this  figure.  Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) explained that the  present deficit of the Organization (approximate-  ly $500,000) had been deducted from the total of  $8,000,000.  Mr. SMITH (Rapporteur) added that the  SIXTH  estimate of $7,500,000 was “the income which the  General Conference reasonably anticipates to be  available in respect of that year (1950)”, as in-  dicated in paragraph 3 and not necessarily re-  ceived within the year 1950.  The Rapporteur pointed out that paragraph 6  was longer applicable and proposed its deletion.  Agreed.  The report [document 5C/ADM/18] was adopted  unanimously, subject to deletion of paragraph 6  The meeting rose at 4.30 p.m.  MEETING  Thursday, 1 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara CHAND (India)  Draft resolution on the scale of contributions  for 1951 [document 5C/ADM/3, Corrigendum 1].  [1] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that document
5C/ADM/3, Addendum II illustrated the formula  for the scale of contributions as they would be  fixed if the contribution of the United States of  America were fixed at 35 per cent.  The resolution contained in document 5C/ADM/
3 (Corr. I) was adopted.  It was agreed that the resolution contained in  document 5C/ADM/19 be transmitted to the  Plenary Meeting.  Annual Report of the Director-General on  action taken in application of the Staff  Regulations [document 5C/ADM/8].  [2] Mr. PYM (Head, Bureau of Personnel) in-  formed the Commission that the UN Consultative  Committee on Administrative Questions had not  yet completed its study for a revision of Staff Reg-  ulations. Annex I to document 5C/ADM/8 listed  revisions of Staff Rules made since the last ses-  sion of the General Conference.  [3] The CHAIRMAN therefore proposed post-  ponement of revision of rules. The question of  the Appeals Board [document 5C/ADM/11] would  be considered at a later meeting of the Commis-  sion.
625  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) moved  the adoption of the report.  The preamble of the report and Section A of  Annex I were adopted.  Section B.  I. Loans To STAFF MEMBERS (2034).  [4] Mr. SMITH (Australia) pointed out that the  administration of a working capital fund would  automatically amend Regulation 2034, and re-  imbursement of loans to staff members would  normally be limited to a twelve-month period.  [5] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) recalled that at  the Fourth Session of the General Conference the  French delegation had specially insisted that  loans made to staff members should not be for  a longer period than the balance of their con-  tracts. He therefore sought an assurance that this  requirement, which was not mentioned under  Item 2034, had indeed been taken into account  by the Secretariat.  [6] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) confirmed that  strict financial controls were maintained as  regards final payments to terminating staff mem-  bers.  [I. DISLOCATION ALLOWANCE.  [7] Mr. SMITH (Australia) asked the Secretariat     on what basis the dislocation allowance, which  his Government felt to be extremely liberal, had  been computed. He pointed out that the United  Nations Report of the Committee of Experts had  recommended the replacement of the expatriation  allowance by a repatriation grant.  [8] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  enquired why employees recruited from areas
100 kilometres distant from Paris were eligible  for a dislocation allowance, whereas those  recruited within a slightly lesser distance received  no such allowance.  [9] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) replied by pointing out  that the dislocation allowance was designed to  take the place of the United Nations expatriation  and rental allowances. As a result of the devalua-  tion of the French franc, the Director-General had  proposed, and the Fourth Session of the General  Conference had agreed to, a reduction of the  rental portion of the dislocation allowance.  He explained that the dislocation allowance was  granted to staff members living at least 100 kilo-  metres from Paris, because they would have to  bear certain supplementary expenses on moving  into the capital to take up their duties. The  Director-General was now considering limiting  the dislocation allowance to persons recruited out-  side metropolitan France, though this might not  seem altogether equitable, as persons normally  resident in adjacent countries might actually  reside nearer to Paris than those recruited from  the South of France.  The Director-General had been in touch with  the Experts concerning a proposal to abolish the  dislocation allowance, and this item would be  discussed at a later meeting of the Commission.  Section C.  [. SALARY ALLOTMENTS (2031).  [10] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  did not find it logical that Unesco staff members  should be in a preferential situation as regards  convertibility of a portion of their salary into a  hard currency, in cases where these staff mem-  bers were normally resident in soft currency areas.  The point was particularly important in view of  the requests of certain Member States that they  might pay their contributions in other than hard  currencies. A saving in hard currency ex-  penditure might be effected through cessation of  this system.  [11] Mr. SMITH (Australia) felt that it was  excessive to permit 75 per cent of an employee's
6 6  total emoluments to be converted into the cur-  rency of the staff member's home country; he  suggested that an amount of 30 per cent would be  ample for staff members having no family to  maintain in their home country. He enquired  what was the total amount of hard currency in-  volved in these salary transfers.  [12] In reply, Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Ad-  ministrative Management and Budget) explained  that French nationals could not, according to  French law, have hard currency holdings; in  order to give equality of treatment throughout the  Secretariat, the Administration had agreed to hold  back from a French employee's salary, at his  request, a maximum of 25 per cent which could  be paid to him at the current rate of exchange  when required. This was a means to safeguard  the savings of these staff members.  Hard currency transfers for other staff mem-  bers were based on the principle of offering them  a safeguard for their savings in currencies not  subject to fluctuation and of allowing them to  meet commitments in other countries. In many  cases, the currency of an employee's home coun-  try could not be said to be freely convertible and  the Administration has wished to give these em-  ployees some means of meeting their commit-  ments.  He agreed that the figure of 75 per cent for the  convertible portion of a salary might seem exces-  sive, and the Director-General was considering  a possible adjustment of this figure. However,  the problem was complicated by many personal  factors.  [13] Mr. SMITH (Australia) confirmed his pro-  posal that the figure of 30 per cent should be laid  down as a general rule, and that this figure might  be increased in cases of need. The drain on dol-  lar resources was too heavy under the present  system.  [14] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) informed mem-  bers of a report just received from the United  Nations Food and Agriculture Organization in  which the Council had tentatively concluded that  it would be possible, when the Organization moved  to Rome, to allow present staff members normally  resident in a hard currency area to receive 25 per  cent of their salaries in that hard currency and an  additional 30 per cent on special request. For  present staff members normally resident in soft  currency areas, the portion convertible into dol-  lars or hard currency would be 20 per cent, on  establishment of the fact that they had commit-  ments in hard currencies, and a further 30 per  cent might be converted into the currency of their                                 home country. New staff members would be  permitted automatically to convert 20 per cent of  their salary into the currency of their home coun-  try, and a further 30 per cent in cases of necessity.  [15] Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) pointed out that  France's exchange position had become con-  siderably more stable in recent months: hence  economic conditions in France no longer war-  ranted the high percentage for transfers into hard  currency authorized by previous Conferences. He  therefore supported the Australian delegate in  asking that such transfers be restricted to 30 per  cent or, in very exceptional cases, 50 per cent.  [16] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) stated that,  under the present system, the amount involved in  dollar transfers for staff members was approxi-  mately $800,000 per annum.  Replying to Mr. Murtinho, he stressed two  reasons why the Director-General was consider-  ing the problem of convertible portions of salaries:  firstly, that the stability of the franc had greatly  increased; secondly, that there was greatly in-  creased availability of all types of commodities on  the open market and therefore transfers of salary  were not so necessary. He pointed out further  that the only staff members who were allowed to  convert 75 per cent of their salaries into hard  currencies, were those resident in hard currency  areas.
117] Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) asked the Secre-  tariat to let the Commission have the approxi-  mate total of economies that could be effected by  reducing the maximum limit of authorized trans-  fers to 30 per cent.
118] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  pointed out that the Staff Rules fell within the  competence of the Director-General and the Staff  Regulations were the province of the General Con-  ference.  Residents of hard currency areas should be  allowed to draw not more than 25 per cent of  their salaries in hard currencies, plus a further
25 per cent in hardship cases upon presentation  of suitable justification.  For persons normally resident in soft currency  areas, provision should be for the transfer of  similar percentages of salaries to those soft cur-  rency areas. Only in special cases should any  transfer to hard currency areas be permitted, and  a plea of provision against future devaluation was  not acceptable.  The FAO was not in an identical position with  Unesco, as it had been established in the United  States of America for several years and its present  ( ON Qi  staff members had probably made commitments  there.  The figure of 25 per cent which he proposed  resulted from study of the Report of the Com-  mittee of Experts, who had come to the conclu-  sion that employees normally spent approximately  {5 per cent of their salaries in the country where  they worked.  [19] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL queried  whether the discussion now centred round Staff  Regulations or Rules; the latter were the responsi-  bility of the Director-General who reported on  them to the Conference.  He urged that the making of Rules continue to  be left to the Director-General, since he made  them in response to the particular needs he found  in the Organization. He would be guided by the  findings of the General Conference on hard cur-  rency needs.  The investigation of the claims submitted by  staff members to receive payments in hard cur-  rencies was very difficult; further, it was not the  function of the Director-General to determine  what portion of his salary a staff member should  save and what standard of living he should adopt.  He hoped therefore that the precise percentage of  convertibility would be left to the Director-  General, but that he be invited to take note of the  findings of the Commission; it was for the Con-  ference to decide what portion of contributions  should be made in hard currencies by Member  States.  [20] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  referred to discussions which had taken place in  the Classification Committee concerning the cur-  rencies in which contributions were to be paid. He  agreed with the delegate of Australia that the Reg-  ulations had been on the whole on a generous scale,  and he welcomed the fact that they were under  reconsideration. As the need of the Organization  was for dollars, the Commission might ask the  Director-General to bear this matter very much in  mind when deciding upon modifications of exist-  ing scales. He asked how far the adjustments  discussed could come into effect in 1951 and  thereby bring about savings and make it possible  to accede to the requests of various countries for  changes in the classification of their contribu-  tions. He supported the request of the delegate  of Brazil for information on the approximate sav-  ings that might be effected through changes in  the present system.  [21] Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) suggested that an  explicit recommendation to the Director-General  to study the work done on this point by the United  Nations be incorporated in the resolution to be  submitted to the Conference.   [22] Dr. El DIWANY (Egypt) felt that the  reduction in the percentages provided for in para-  graphs (b) and (c) was likely to result in an ap-  preciable reduction of the Organization's hard  currency expenditure without detriment to the  interests of the staff. He therefore felt that it  was the duty of the Commission to present a de-  tailed resolution in this connexion and not to leave  it to the Director-General to take all the necessary  decisions on this point. Might he also be in-  formed whether the figures requested of the Secre-  tariat could be supplied before the end of the Ses-  sion ?  [23] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  wished to warn the Commission that, if they  could give no definite estimate of the amount of  saving that might be effected through decreas-  ing the convertible portion of salaries, then the  Classification Committee would have to make an  assumption themselves in the light of the discus-  sions taking place and take this estimated saving  into account in making their decisions.  [24] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the atten-  tion of the Director-General be drawn to the ratios  given in Section C, paragraphs (b) and (c) and  that he be asked to reconsider them and find out  what reduction could be made in dollar ex-  penditures.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed to  submit shortly approximate figures of estimated  savings.  The motion proposed by the Chairman was  adopted.  [256] Dr. El DIWANY (Egypt) noted the state-  ment of the Deputy Director-General that the  data supplied by the Secretariat would enable the  Commission to arrive at practical conclusions be-  fore it broke up.  Summing up, the CHAIRMAN stated that the  Director-General would be asked to consider the  dollar requirements of the Organization, the  remarks and suggestions made at the meeting, to  take note of the desire of the Commission that the  dollar obligations be reduced, and to make  suitable recommendations in the light of all these  considerations. The Commission would consider  and accept, or amend, the recommendations of  the Director-General.  COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT (4363).  [26] Mr. SMITH (Australia) felt that, when plus  or minus differentials were established in con-  formity with United Nations standards and New  York salaries, then the cost-of-living adjustment  should disappear.
628  [27] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) explained that  the establishment of salary differentials for Unesco  was based on the principle that there should be  one international salary scale for all branches of  the United Nations and Specialized Agencies;  however, it had not yet been possible to determine  completely how salaries should be adjusted to  major fluctuations in the cost of living in the  various countries.  The CHAIRMAN declared the report adopted  subject to further discussion on items (b) and (c)  of Section C.  Unesco Salary and Allowance System: À  Report by the Director-General [document
5C/ADM/9].  [28] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL ex-  plained that this report gave details of action  taken in relation to United Nations recommenda-  tions on Salaries, Allowances and Leave. The  first part reported on discussions between the  Director-General and Directors of other Special-
1zed Agencies. The second part related only to  installation allowances for Havana, Cuba.  Annex I showed the maximum areas of agree-  ment between the Specialized Agencies; some  portions of the Report of the Experts were  applicable only to the United Nations and some  were not acceptable to all agencies.  The Fifth Committee of the United Nations  General Assembly had referred the report back to  the Advisory Committee on Administrative and  Budgetary Questions for a report to the Fifth Ses-  sion shortly to take place. However, the  Secretary-General would proceed with certain of  these recommendations, as they fell within his  competence: these concerned children’s allow-  ances, education grants, installation and travel  allowances and leave entitlements. The establish-  ment of salary differentials and local salary scales  would also be undertaken. Unesco should there-  fore determine whether and how to establish  salary differentials in its capacity as Headquarters  of a United Nations agency not established in  New York.  It was proposed to establish local salary scales  for persons locally recruited. The term “locally  recruited” was understood to mean recruitment  for those posts for which it was not generally  necessary to seek candidates on a world-wide basis.  Normally, posts subject to local recruitment were  those between grades 1 and 7.  Keeping in line with the action of the United  Nations, the Director-General did not find it neces-  sary for the moment to proceed with any of the  recommendations contained in the Experts          Report other than those concerning differentials  and local salary scales.  The main problem for Unesco in this respect  was that its staff had had the advantage of United  Nations salary scales since the establishment of  the Organization and it was difficult to make  changes at that stage. Further, the Experts’  Report suggested that local salary scales should  follow the “best prevailing rates” for similar jobs,  and it had not yet been possible to determine  exactly what these rates were. It should also be  pointed out that local salary scales in Paris were  relatively lower than those in New York or  Geneva. The Food and Agricultural Organiza-  tion, when transferred to Rome, would also meet  this difficulty.  The United Nations had decided that, in apply-  ing the Expert Committee's Report, present staff  members would neither suffer any reduction in  their actual emoluments nor in the amount they  at present anticipated receiving in increments up  to the ceiling of their grade.  [29] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom),  stressing that the Commission would wish the  staff (on whom the success of the work depended)  to be treated fairly, stated that he approved the  proposals contained in the Report, with one or  two exceptions. However, he could see no reason  why Unesco should delay putting local salary  scales into operation until other Organizations  had taken the same action, as suggested in para-  graph D.2, sub-paragraphs (a) and (b), whose  deletion he proposed.  Regarding sub-paragraph (d) he felt that six  months was an adequate period during which to  give notice of the proposed change to staff mem-  bers, so that they might adjust themselves accord-  ingly.  Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) agreed with the  delegate of the United Kingdom; however, he felt  that the period of transition might be one year.  [30] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  also agreed with Sir Henry French; he estimated  the saving on salaries under the new system  would be approximately $400,000 to $500,000 per  annum. He did not think it necessary to obtain  the prior approval of the Executive Board before  putting the change into effect; it could be left to  the Director-General to work out relations with  the Staff Association in this matter. He drew  attention to the types of arguments presented by  the Staff Association and asked the members of  the Commission to assess their validity.  [31] Mr. SMITH (Australia) also felt it unneces-  sary to wait until other Organizations had im-  plemented local salary scales, and thought a six  month period of warning sufficient. He enquired  whether those salary scales, applying to grades 1  to 7, would include all non-geographical posts.  He also wished to know whether local staff would  be entitled to children’s allowances, education  grants and to enrolment in the Pension Scheme,  and what would be their leave entitlements. As  regards the Pension Scheme, he felt there should  be a preliminary qualifying period of, say, five  years, during which staff members could be en-  rolled in a Provident Fund; after the five years,  when the permanence of their employment was  established, they could enrol in the Pension  Scheme. Children’s allowances and education  grants should only be allowed where they could  be related to local practice.  [32] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) agreed in prin-  ciple with the suggestions of the previous speakers;  he wished, however, to point out that in France  education allowances and family allowances were  extremely important items. If Unesco decided to  adopt the principle of a local salary scale, it should  conform to the principles followed by French  labour legislation in this matter.  To avoid any argument about the length of the  adjustment period which should be accorded to  the staff concerned, he would suggest that the  new salary scale be applied as from 1 January
1951.  Lastly, he felt that, for psychological reasons,  it would be well to discontinue all recruitment of  local staff, save on a temporary basis, until the  new scale came into force.  [33] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) agreed with the  delegates of the United Kingdom and the United  States of America regarding sections (a) and (b).  As regards section (d), he felt that the period of  warning would depend on the nature of the separa-  tion benefits which would be granted to staff  members recruited from abroad who felt that  they could not continue their employment under  the new scheme, as they might find themselves  in a difficult position due to its too early applica-  tion.  Reverting to Mr. Roseman’s reference to the  approval of the Executive Board, Mr. Pollock felt  there was a slight misunderstanding here; sec-  tion (c) applied only to details of the scheme,  which the Director-General would discuss with  the Board; but the general principle of its appli-  cation would be decided by the Commission. He  proposed, therefore, amending this section to  read: “The views of the Executive Board shall be  taken into consideration on details of the new  scale.” He proposed one year from the date of  the decision of the Commission as a period of  notice.  [34] Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) asked the               Secretariat for additional data in connexion with  Annex V (disparity between the salaries paid in  Unesco and those paid in other organizations).  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) en-  quired whether the ceilings which present staff  members could attain would remain the same  when the new salary scales were applied, or  whether they would be adapted to the new ceil-  ings under the new local salary rate.  [35] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL  pointed out the seriousness of implementing the  new salary scales before this was done by other  Organizations; it would certainly mean a saving  to Unesco, but to each of the 400 staff members  involved, it would mean quite a considerable loss,  might affect their morale, and make it difficult  for them to meet family and other obligations.  There would be a great disparity between the  take-home pay of local and international  employees. He felt that it was all the more dif-  ficult for Unesco to take the lead in applying the  new scales as it was the only Specialized Agency  which had been working for three vears on United  Nations scales in an area where local salary rates  were so very low.  Replying to the delegate of the United King-  dom, he explained that it was the proposal of the  Secretary-General of the United Nation that exist-  ing staff members should not be affected by the  new scheme, and their emoluments, present and  anticipated in increments and in ceiling, should  remain the same.  The provision concerning reference to the Ex-  ecutive Board was inserted in the text, as it was  felt that the situation might change between the  time of the vote of the Commission and the date  of implementation of the scheme. However, if  the scheme were put into effect immediately,  reference to the Executive Board would not be  necessary.  [36] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget), replying to the  delegate of the United States of America, believed  the ultimate saving would be in the region of  $300,000 to $350,000 per annum; the exact  amount would depend on the transitional provi-  sions made for present staff.  teplying to the delegate of Australia, he con-  firmed that staff hired in the new local grades 1  to 7 would normally be assigned to non-  geographical posts. In certain cases, however,  where it was determined that the position was  one in which the incumbent would normally  progress to international status, the post would  be considered as geographical for the purposes of
630  appointment; he pointed out that there were  certain non-geographical posts in grades above 7,  particularly in the interpreting and translating  sections.  The proposals concerning allowances, leave and  pension rights were based on the principles set  forth in the United Nations Report of the Com-  mittee of Experts, which provided for children’s  allowances and education grants at rates com-  mensurate with local salary scales. Leave pro-  visions for local staff would be in line with those  of the international staff, taking into account  local practice of the country of employment. As  regards Pension Fund rights, Mr. Weitz pointed  out that the largest percentage of permanent-type  contracts were in the local category, and the  Director-General felt that local staff should have  Pension Scheme rights, which would also follow  local salary rates.  In reply to the delegate of Canada, Mr. Weitz  stated that staff members who felt that they could  not stay with Unesco once the new scheme was  brought into operation, would receive normal  legal termination and repatriation pay, with no  indemnities.  He referred the delegate of Brazil to document
5C/ADM/9 - Annex V for current rates of pay of  other Organizations in Paris. The figures shown  were the result of a thorough salary study, but  it was difficult to determine a final salary scale  without considering the benefits other than  salaries received in the local market.  He stated that the Secretary-General of the  United Nations had decided that present staff  members should continue to enjoy both present  and potential earnings on the old scale; any  change in this decision would mean a severe  financial loss to those persons.  [37] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  declared that his Government was strongly op-  posed to the policy proposed by the Secretary-  General on this point. He did not feel that pre-  sent staff members should continue in perpetuo  to receive preferential treatment, but agreed that  there should be a cushioning period during which  their emoluments would gradually be reduced.  He pointed out that other organizations, namely  the International Labour Office, the International  Civil Air Organization and the International  Refugee Organization had already put local rates  into effect, and they had proved quite satisfactory.  He proposed that the Director-General be asked to  promulgate new salary rates by 1 July 1950, based  on the study of local pay which had been under-  taken, and that the new rates be put into effect  on 1st January 1951 for new staff members.                  [38] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  felt that he could not withdraw his proposal for  the deletion of sections (a) and (b) of paragraph  C.2 of the report and proposed the adjournment  SEVENTH  of the meeting to give members time further to  study the question.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  MEETING  Thursday, 1 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara Cuanp (India)  Unesco Salary and Allowance System: a  Report by the Director-General (continued)  [document 5C/ADM/9 and Addenda I and Il].  Proposal to introduce local salary scales.  [1] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said  that certain differences of opinion still existed  between delegations and the Secretariat on this  point. The Director-General still felt that, on  account of the peculiar position of Unesco at this  time, it would be unwise for the Organization to  take the lead amongst the Specialized Agencies in  adopting this principle. However since delega-  tions had expressed the opinion that Unesco should  take its own decision without awaiting the advice  of the other Specialized Agencies, he asked  whether discussion of this matter could be deferred  until after the week-end to permit the Secretariat  to prepare a suitable plan for introducing the  scheme with the least possible delay. The Secre-  tariat would take into account the advice of the  Commission with regard to the type of scheme to  be adopted and to the time-limit for its applica-  tion.  [2] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  stated that his delegation was prepared to give the  Secretariat time to prepare the details of the  scheme. He felt very strongly that such a scheme  was essential in Unesco and must be introduced  immediately. The action of other Specialized  Agencies in this regard had no relevant impor-  tance. The only important fact was that the  lower grade personnel in Unesco had been grossly  overpaid for a number of years—in relation to  comparative rates of pay in Member States—and  that this situation must be remedied at the  earliest possible moment. He could not agree that
631  the scheme should be applied gradually or that it  should be applied in the beginning only to  Incoming personnel.  [3] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed  out that staff members who had been with the  Organization for some time—up to four years in  many cases—had established a certain standard of  living commensurate with the income they  received from Unesco. If Unesco, having enabled  these staff members to adopt a certain living  standard, obliged them now to make a sudden  adjustment to a much lower level, he felt that  hardship would result.  [4] Mr. de VILLIERS (Union of South Africa)  supported the remarks of Sir Henry French: he  felt that there was no justification for maintaining  such abnormally high rates of pay among the  lower grade personnel and did not think that  hardship would result from the immediate  application of the proposed scheme.
16] The CHAIRMAN then proposed a resolution  on the following lines:  That . . .the details of this scheme should be brought  to the attention of all staff members affected by
31 July 1950. Those staff members with less than  two years’ service would start being paid on local  salary rates from 1 January 1951 and those staff with  more than two years’ service from 1 July 1951.  [6] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  supported the remarks of Sir Henry French and  felt that, if Unesco decided to wait for WHO or  FAO to take the initiative, a vicious circle of  inaction would result, each organization waiting  for one of the others to make the first move. He  urged action at the earliest possible moment in  this matter.