SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE PROCEDURE COMMITTEE  FIRST MEETING  Tuesday, 23 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Election of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  [1] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the  Nominations Committee had proposed as Chairman  of the Committee Professor Jakob Nielsen (Den-  mark), who had been Chairman of the Procedure  Committee at the General Conference in Beirut.  Mr. DAVIES (Australia) seconded that pro-  posal.  Professor Nielsen was unanimously elected and  took the Chair.  [2] The CHAIRMAN thanked the Committee for  the honour conferred upon him, and indicated  that the Nominations Committee had recom-  mended the delegate of the Philippines for the  office of Vice-Chairman.  Professor ZÉREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) and  Mr. OJEDA (Mexico) seconded the proposal.  Mr. Procedo Sebastian (Philippines) was unani-  mously elected Vice-Chairman of the Committee.  [3] The CHAIRMAN informed the Committee  that the Nominations Committee proposed the del-  egate of Sweden for the office of Rapporteur.  Mr. TREMBLAY (Canada) seconded the pro-  posal.  Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) suggested postponing the  election of the Rapporteur until the afternoon  meeting, in view of the absence of the Swedish  delegate. Agreed.
658  Professor JAkoB NierLsen (Denmark)  Adoption of Agenda [document 5C/PRO/1].  [4] Mrs. BRUNAUER (United States of Amer-  ica) asked whether the question of biennial  Unesco General Conferences would be discussed  under item 9 (other questions), in the event of  its being assigned to the Procedure Committee  by the General Committee of the Conference.  The CHAIRMAN replied that the Committee  was to examine all questions referred to it by the  General Committee according to the Rules of Pro-  cedure.  [6] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) drew attention  to item 7 of the Agenda (Draft Amendment to  Rules 52 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure:  Working Languages), presented by the Mexican  delegation. The General Committee of the Con-  ference, in accordance with the text of document
5C/BUR/1, had asked that the Budget Committee  should be consulted on the budgetary implications  of all recommendations, and that the Committee  should not take any decision concerning them be-  fore examining the Budget Committee’s report.  [6] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) thought  that it was for the Procedure Committee to take  a decision on the question of principle raised by  the draft amendment.  Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) remarked that in  any case the Budget Committee would have to  report on the financial aspect of the question.  The agenda was adopted without modification.  The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m.