[38] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  felt that he could not withdraw his proposal for  the deletion of sections (a) and (b) of paragraph  C.2 of the report and proposed the adjournment  SEVENTH  of the meeting to give members time further to  study the question.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  MEETING  Thursday, 1 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara Cuanp (India)  Unesco Salary and Allowance System: a  Report by the Director-General (continued)  [document 5C/ADM/9 and Addenda I and Il].  Proposal to introduce local salary scales.  [1] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said  that certain differences of opinion still existed  between delegations and the Secretariat on this  point. The Director-General still felt that, on  account of the peculiar position of Unesco at this  time, it would be unwise for the Organization to  take the lead amongst the Specialized Agencies in  adopting this principle. However since delega-  tions had expressed the opinion that Unesco should  take its own decision without awaiting the advice  of the other Specialized Agencies, he asked  whether discussion of this matter could be deferred  until after the week-end to permit the Secretariat  to prepare a suitable plan for introducing the  scheme with the least possible delay. The Secre-  tariat would take into account the advice of the  Commission with regard to the type of scheme to  be adopted and to the time-limit for its applica-  tion.  [2] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  stated that his delegation was prepared to give the  Secretariat time to prepare the details of the  scheme. He felt very strongly that such a scheme  was essential in Unesco and must be introduced  immediately. The action of other Specialized  Agencies in this regard had no relevant impor-  tance. The only important fact was that the  lower grade personnel in Unesco had been grossly  overpaid for a number of years—in relation to  comparative rates of pay in Member States—and  that this situation must be remedied at the  earliest possible moment. He could not agree that
631  the scheme should be applied gradually or that it  should be applied in the beginning only to  Incoming personnel.  [3] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed  out that staff members who had been with the  Organization for some time—up to four years in  many cases—had established a certain standard of  living commensurate with the income they  received from Unesco. If Unesco, having enabled  these staff members to adopt a certain living  standard, obliged them now to make a sudden  adjustment to a much lower level, he felt that  hardship would result.  [4] Mr. de VILLIERS (Union of South Africa)  supported the remarks of Sir Henry French: he  felt that there was no justification for maintaining  such abnormally high rates of pay among the  lower grade personnel and did not think that  hardship would result from the immediate  application of the proposed scheme.
16] The CHAIRMAN then proposed a resolution  on the following lines:  That . . .the details of this scheme should be brought  to the attention of all staff members affected by
31 July 1950. Those staff members with less than  two years’ service would start being paid on local  salary rates from 1 January 1951 and those staff with  more than two years’ service from 1 July 1951.  [6] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  supported the remarks of Sir Henry French and  felt that, if Unesco decided to wait for WHO or  FAO to take the initiative, a vicious circle of  inaction would result, each organization waiting  for one of the others to make the first move. He  urged action at the earliest possible moment in  this matter.    -  [7] Dr. MASON (New Zealand) also strongly sup-  ported Sir Henry French. He felt that this was  an economy Unesco could not afford not to make,  and pointed out that the staff members who had  been with the Secretariat for a long period should,  through experience, be able to live more cheaply  in Paris than newly arriving personnel. However,  it was important to remember that some of the  personnel affected might resign from the Organiza-  tion when the new salary scale was introduced  and, for this reason, some delay might be  advisable. He agreed with the proposal of the,  Chairman.  [8] Mr. SMITH (Australia) also agreed very  firmly with Sir Henry French and other speakers.  He suggested that the Director-General place his  proposals before the Commission at the earliest  possible moment and that the Commission then  proceed to take an immediate decision.  Mr. JAWAD (Iraq) supported the remarks made,  and in particular the suggestion of Mr. Smith.
19] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) noted that the Com-  mission was unanimous on this point but would  await the statement of the Director-General before  taking a decision. At the same time, his delega-  tion felt that there were several other fields in  which economies could also be made, in particular,  installation allowances, annual and home leave,  and per diem payments. He wished therefore to  recommend that the Director-General be specifi-  cally requested to study these points and indicate  what action he was prepared to take to secure  greater economy.  [10] Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) emphasized  the logic of the Canadian delegate’s suggestion.  It would, however, be well to take due account of  the lessons taught by experience, of the risk of  fluctuations in the exchange rate and of the special  problems at the Organization’s headquarters.  [11] The CHAIRMAN asked whether all delega-  tions were agreed that the Director-General should  be asked to place his new proposals before the  Sub-Committee of the Administrative Commission  after the week-end. The Commission would then  meet to consider the report of the Sub-Committee  and to take a decision in this matter. Agreed.  Installation Allowance for Havana, Cuba [document
5C/ADM/9, Part II].
112] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that  this problem arose from the fact that the period  for payment of the installation allowance in Paris  had been cut from 90 to 45 days. This had  resulted in serious hardship to staff members in
632  Havana, and the Director-General had asked the  Executive Board to authorize payment of the  installation allowance for a period of 90 days in  this one instance. This had been done and the  General Conference was now asked to confirm the  decision.  [13] In reply to Dr. Bender (Netherlands)  Mr. WEITZ added that this proposal involved a  total increase in expenditure of only $1,000, and  that this item could be carried in the existing  Budget for 1950 without further provision of  funds.  This proposal was approved.  Representation Allowance for Department Directors  [document 5C/ADM/9-Addendum IJ.  [14] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that,  under authority of Staff Regulation 36, the  Executive Board had approved a proposal by the  Director-General to abolish the two posts of  Assistant Director-General together with the  corresponding representation allowance ($2,360  per annum each) and to establish instead five  posts at grade 19 for Directors of departments,  each with a representation allowance of $1,000  per annum. This involved a slight increase of  $280 in the total amount required for representa-  tion allowances.  [156] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  said that his delegation had a serious question to  raise in the matter of representation allowances.  He objected to the principle of alloting a fixed sum  to cover hospitality requirements over a certain  period, and preferred the system whereby vouchers  were submitted to claim repayment for each  expenditure incurred. He also preferred the  proposal contained in the report of the United  Nations Expert Committee that the representation  allowance should be abolished and the salaries of  personnel affected be increased proportionately.  [16] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) agreed that it  was the custom in Unesco to pay a representation  allowance on a non-voucher basis, but explained  that, although the Director-General was studying  this matter with the other Specialized Agencies,  they had so far been unable to agree on a uniform  system. In providing this representation allow-  ance for Directors of departments, the Director-  General had substantially reduced the funds  available for hospitality in the departments con-  cerned.  [17] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) said that Mr.  Roseman was right in his statement that the                        United Nations Expert Committee had proposed  the merging of representation allowance with  salary and the provision of funds for hospitality  purely on a voucher basis. Since agreement  would be reached on this matter during the  course of the year, he suggested recommending  that the General Conference approve the proposal  of the Director-General for 1950 only, pending a  final decision in this matter in agreement with  the United Nations.  [18] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) then  proposed the following resolution:  The Director-General is authorized to pay a repre-  sentation allowance at the rate of $1,000 per annum  to Directors of Departments established at grade 19,  on the understanding that these arrangements will be  reconsidered at the Sixth Session of the General Con-  ference.  This resolution was adopted.  Reimbursement of State Income  Members [document 5C/ADM/10].  paid by Staff  [19] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that  the Director-General had found recently that the  United Nations had extended its system of income  tax reimbursement to include the reimbursement  of local and state taxes. The Director-General  wished to ensure uniformity with the United  Nations on this point and sought the authorization  of the General Conference. At the present time  the only Unesco staff members involved were  United States citizens stationed in the United  States and the sum required amounted to only a  few hundred dollars.  There was no discussion on this point and the  resolution contained in document 5C/ADM/16  was adopted.  EIGHTH  Report on the Application of the Medical Benefits  Scheme [document 5C/ADM/10].  [20] Mr. PYM (Head, Bureau of Personnel)  explained that the report covered the period  February 1949 to March 1950 and, although the  Medical Benefits Scheme was working satis-  factorily, it was felt that this period was not long  enough to permit a real evaluation of the  effectiveness of the scheme. The United Nations  was proposing the establishment of a joint Social  Security Scheme, and the Director-General there-  fore proposed the continuation of the present  Unesco Medical Benefits Scheme for a further  period of one year, at the end of which time a  better opinion could be given and the merits of  the two schemes compared.  [21] Mr. SMITH (Australia) asked whether the  Secretariat considered it necessary to reinsure with  Lloyds since the amounts concerned appeared to be  extremely small; he thought it would be more  economical for the Organization to bear the risk  itself.  [22]) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) replied  that this had been done on the specific advice of  the Actuary and that, until it could be decided  whether or not this was in fact the best policy,  it was considered better to abide by the advice  of the Actuary.  [23] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) agreed with  Mr. Smith that it would be more economical in  the long run for Unesco to insure its own risks.  He proposed that this matter be given careful  attention and that it be referred to specifically in  the report to the next General Conference.  The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 5 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara CHAND (India)  Ceiling for 1951 budget.  [1] The CHAIRMAN informed members that the  Programme and Budget Commission has asked
633  the advice of the Administrative Commission on  this matter.  [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that at its