Second Report of the Committee of the  Administrative Commission [document 5C/  ADM/19].  [20] Dr. HASAN (Pakistan) did not think it  would be possible for delegations to say before
15 June, by what date the Organization might  expect to receive the balance of contributions due.  He suggested that the Director-General write to  Member States and inform them by what date  contributions should be paid.  [21] The CHAIRMAN said he had just been  informed by the Head of the External Relations  Service that reminders had been sent out, and  some answers received, concerning payment of  contributions. Replies should be addressed to the  Director-General.  The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.  EIGHTH MEETING  Wednesday, 7 June 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Work of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission.  [1] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme and  Budget Commission) stated that, after fixing the  provisional budget ceiling for 1951, the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission had completed  its consideration of the programme for education  and embarked on the chapter covering natural  sciences. Only three questions relating to that  chapter had been settled, since most of the  technical experts were attending meetings at the  Palazzo Vecchio, and Mr. Seydoux was therefore  prepared to comply with the wishes of several  delegations and to begin consideration of the  whole chapter afresh; it could be completed that  day, and the Commission could then begin on the  social sciences chapter at an evening meeting and  continue with it the following day. If the discus-  sion progressed satisfactorily, the Commission  would be able to complete its work by the evening  of Tuesday, 13 June or by the morning of Wednes-  day, 14 June at the latest.  [2] Mr. Seydoux suggested holding the meeting  of the Joint Commission—Official and External  Relations, Programme and Budget in the after-  noon of Thursday, 9 June; it was essential that  representatives of the Allied High Commission  should take part in the discussion of Unesco’s  activities in Germany and they were due to leave  Florence in the evening of 9 June. The matter  had already been discussed by a sub-committee of  the Executive Board and would be taken up again  by the Board itself on 8 June.
0  Pol O n   Count STEFANO JAcIN1 (Italy)  Establishment of closer contact between the  Programme and Budget Commission and the  Budget Committee.  [3] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought such  contact essential. The day before, the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission had decided on  the provisional budget ceiling, but had made it  clear that the programme might be altered while  being considered by the Commission; any changes  would obviously involve either an increase or de-  crease in the budget estimates. Logically, the  Secretariat should prepare the budget estimates  for any addition to or reduction of the pro-  gramme, submit them to the Budget Committee  for return to the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion with exact figures for each proposed activity.  The work of the Commission would be simplified  and much time saved if closer co-operation could  be established between the Programme and Bud-  get Commission and the Budget Committee.  [4] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Com-  mittee) said that his Committee had completed  its preliminary consideration of the Budget and  of the new proposals submitted by various delega-  tions. His preliminary report had been com-  municated to the Programme and Budget Com-  mission, and the Budget Committee was waiting  for the resolutions to be approved by the Commis-  sion in order to consider in detail how the funds  should be allocated to keep within the provisional  budget ceiling of $8,200,000. If close liaison  were established, as advocated by the Director-              General, it would be possible to give final con-  sideration to the resolutions as each decision of  the Programme and Budget Commission was  taken, without waiting for them all to be referred  together to the Budget Committee.  [5] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized that  such co-operation was imperative and suggested:
(1) That the Chairman of the Programme and  Budget Commission should again draw the Com-  mission’s attention to the fact that any resolution  with budgetary implications should be referred  to the Budget Committee (as a matter of prin-  ciple) ;
(2) That the Rapporteur of the Budget Com-  mittee should attend all meetings of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission.  [6] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL, who  had kept in touch with the work of both Com-  missions, was afraid that some delegates were  under the impression that when any item in the  programme was approved, the Programme and  Budget Commission simultaneously passed the  corresponding budget appropriation. He thought  it essential to remind delegates that, according to  its terms of reference, the Budget Committee had  first to consider the budgetary implications of  any resolution approved by the Commission and  then to submit its final report to the Conference  through the Programme and Budget Commission.  [7] Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) explained  that the Programme and Budget Commission’s  vote was in fact a provisional decision, the Budget  Committee being responsible for preparing the  final budget appropriation corresponding to each  resolution.  [8] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed, but  thought that the Programme and Budget Com-  mission should be told that the General Com-  mittee had discussed the problem and endorsed  the Budget Committee's terms of reference; any  recommendation that a particular activity should  be further developed would necessarily compel  the Secretariat to submit a corresponding budget  estimate to the Budget Committee.  [9] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) supported the view of the Director-  General. Whenever the Programme and Budget  Commission added a new item to the programme,  it should realize that the budget was affected; any  proposal for an expansion of the programme  should be accompanied by an exact budget  estimate. He therefore seconded all the Director-  General’s suggestions. The Budget Committee’s  Rapporteur had followed the meetings of the  Programme and Budget Commission but had  never spoken at them. Sir John suggested that the  Rapporteur of the Budget Committee should be  formally invited by the Chairman of the Commis-  sion to give an opinion at the end of the discus-  sion of each section of the programme.  [10] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Com-  mittee) mentioned that only $5,500,000 out of a  total budget of $8,200,000 were allotted to pro-  gramme activities. The Committee had other  problems to solve with regard to portions of the  budget that were not affected by resolutions, and,  in its anxiety to secure a proper balance, might  sometimes feel it necessary to reject certain draft  resolutions.  The procedure recommended by the Director-  General was approved.  Time-Table of work for the Conference.  [11] The CHAIRMAN mentioned that, as plenary  meetings were to be resumed on Thursday, 15  June, the Conference would have in all only seven  meetings (including one evening meeting) in  which to complete its work; it would therefore be  necessary to take drastic steps to limit the length  of speeches. Meetings might be called for 9 a.m.,  so as to be sure that it would be possible to begin  work at 9.30. To avoid moving from one building  to another, with the consequent loss of time, it  was suggested that the plenary meetings should  be held at the Pitti Palace in the Sala Bianca,  which would be re-arranged for the purpose.  The meeting in the morning of Thursday,
15 June might be devoted to the election of the  members of the Executive Board, on the proposal  of the Nominations Committee, which would be  able to meet in the afternoon of Wednesday,
14 June. After the election of the members of the  Board, the Conference would be able to decide on  the seat of the Sixth Session and to begin discuss-  ing any reports of Commissions that might be  ready. Provision had been made for a plenary  meeting one evening for the tributes to Avicenna,  Bach, Balzac, Confucius and Muratori; that  evening meeting might be held on 15, 16 or
17 June, as the other evenings were already  occupied.  [12] After a discussion concerning the number  of speakers and the length of speeches, it was  decided that no more than three speakers should  be scheduled for each of these commemorative  tributes, the average length of speeches to be  between ten and fifteen minutes.  [13] Mr. DESY (Chairman, Credentials Com-  mittee) suggested that any speeches which the  Conference had not time to hear should be
266      published, but the DIRECTOR-GENERAL doubted Committee was not required to take a decision,  whether this would be satisfactory so far as the but Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure obliged the  tribute to Avicenna was concerned; many delega- Director-General to inform the Conference of the  tions were extremely interested in it and, in that invitation received.  case, provision might be made for some more  flexible procedure.  Communication from the Polish Embassy in  Rome.  Unesco reception.  [18] The CHAIRMAN communicated the text of  [14] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the a letter addressed on 6 June 1950 to the President  Committee that it was customary to give a of the Conference by the Polish Embassy in Rome.  reception at the end of the Conference; he had I have the honour to inform you that the Govern-  been informed of a request, submitted by the ment of Poland protests against the admission of the  students attending the Seminar organized by the Kuomintang delegate to Unesco’s Conference and  World Federation of United Nations Associations, states that in consequence Poland will not consider  that, instead of holding a Unesco reception, the herself bound by decisions taken at the present Ses-  sion. (Signed) Wladislaw Tykocinski, Acting Chargé sum which would have been spent on it should Ral  d'Affaires.  be used for some cultural charity, such as a    children’s village Or à rehabilitation centre for This appeared to be a mere codicil to the state-  children who had been crippled in the war. He ments of the Czechoslovak and Hungarian delega-  would be glad to have the General Committee’s tions, and the Chairman proposed that the Com-  opinion on that point; while it was difficult not mittee should take note of this letter, without  to comply with the suggestion, it would be hard bringing it before the Conference.  to cut out the Fecephion, which was a gesture of This procedure, seconded by Professor NIELSEN  politeness and gratitude for the warm welcome (Chairman, Procedure Committee) and Mr. DESY  . ‘ C , JUE C A .  Florence had given the Conference. A third (Chairman, Credentials Committee), was ap- possible solution would be to give the reception proved.  and arrange for a collection for some Italian  charity.  Telegram to the Director-General from the 15] The General Committee, recognizi i  [ ] eneral Com it , recognizing the One World Committee.  significance of such a gesture, decided that, on
16 June 1950, a reception should be given as usual : :  by the President of the Conference, the Chair- [19] The CHAIRMAN read a telegram which the  man of the Executive Board and the Director- Director-General had received from the One  General. World Committee (of 12 East 46 Street, New  York), as follows:  ey 1) regard lo the proposed collection, it Committee deeply interested in Yugoslav proposal for  vas decided to publish in the Journal of the Con- World Conference of Peace Fighters. Our Committee  ference of 8 June an appeal to delegations and holding One World Meeting in San Remo 22 to  members of the Secretariat, and to appoint one or 28 August 1950 with Oswaldo Aranha Herbert Agar  two members of the General Committee to collect Senator McMahon Count Carlo Sforza Gunnar Myrdal  the money in conjunction with the Comptroller. Einstein and many others as speakers and co-operation  of many Non-Governmental Organizations including  WFUNA and participation by communities in many  Seat of the Seventh Session of the General lands. Purpose to find out concrete way these organ-  Conference. izations and communities can work on and support  peace projects. You personally and members of  Conference invited to One World Meeting. Appreciate  [17] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL informed the you communicate this invitation to Conference.  General Committee of the invitation from the Gov-  ernment of Uruguay to hold the Seventh Session It was decided to publish this next in the Journal  of the General Conference at Montevideo or in any of the Conference.  | other town of Uruguay according to the needs  and convenience of the Conference. The General The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m.