on   :  d u n   y  q u a   q u e   SIXTEENTH MEETING  Tuesday, 6 June 1950, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. F. Bennper (Netherlands)  Examination of the new Resolutions on the  Programme (continued).  New resolutions concerning the External Relations  Service.  XR-1 (Implementation of the decisions of the  General Conference concerning regulatory recom-  mendations and International Conventions) [docu-  ment 5C/OXR/16].  (Total increase: $6,885).  [1] Mr. SABA (Head, Division of Legal Affairs)  pointed out that, if the General Conference  approved a number of proposals on its agenda, it  would be necessary to prepare conventions or  international agreements. Hitherto, the Organ-  ization had entrusted the drafting of such con-  ventions or agreements to legal advisers engaged  on a fee basis, but in view of the large increase  of work envisaged in this field, it seemed more  economical to establish two additional posts, one  of a specialist in legal questions and one of a  secretary.  [2] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) sug-  gested that the Committee could adopt this reso-  lution provisionally and reconsider it when it was  known how many proposed conventions or agree-  ments the General Conference had approved.  [3] Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) stated that his  delegation was firmly opposed to any increase in  personnel, especially on the administrative side of  the Organization. He preferred that the Com-  mittee reserve its decision on this matter until  further information became available.  [4] This proposal, seconded by Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia) and by the CHAIRMAN, was adopted.  XR-2 (Increased Unesco Programme Activities in  Germany) [document 5/55].  [6] The CHAIRMAN explained that the Secre-  tariat had not yet been able to estimate the cost  of this resolution, since further details were  awaited from the delegation of the United States  of America.
022  [6] It was therefore agreed to defer discussion  until the necessary figures were available.  New resolution concerning the Office of the  Director-General.  ODG-1 (Plan for the construction of a new build-  ing for Unesco) [document 5C/ADM/14].  (Total increase: $16,000.)  [7] In reply to Mr. BRUNSWICK (France),  Mr. ALMEIDA (Bureau of Administrative Manage-  ment and Budget) and Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head,  Bureau of Conference Planning and General Ser-  vices) explained that the sums requested for fees  and travel expenses were to finance a meeting of  representative experts from Member States and to  pay the services of an architect. The United  Nations had financed a similar committee of ten  experts for a period of four months in connexion  with the construction of its headquarters in New  York. After careful consideration, Unesco had  decided to adopt the same principle; but, with a  view to the utmost economy, it only proposed to  call a committee of five experts for two months.  [8] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) and Miss LAISE  (United States of America) did not understand  why this sum was to be drawn from the Budget  and not from an eventual Building Fund if the  project were approved.  [9] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con-  ference Planning and General Services) referred  to the Report of the Headquarters Commission  [document 5C/ADM/14] which had been estab-  lished under Resolution 29.12 of the Fourth  Session. This report requested the approval of  the General Conference for further negotiation on  this matter, together with authorization for the  withdrawal of funds from the Working Capital  Fund to finance such preliminary negotiations  until an actual Building Fund was established.  [10] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) sug-  gested that the Budget Committee should approve  the estimate submitted, but indicate that it felt                                     these expenses should more properly be charged  against the Building Fund and not the budget.  [11] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  thought the Committee might also point out the  possible economy to be gained by using the  experience of the United Nations in this matter  instead of establishing an entirely new expert  committee.  [12] Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) made the fur-  ther suggestion that, if the project were approved,  Unesco might save expense by holding an open  competition amongst architects for the design of  the building.  [13] In view of the recommendations of the  Committee, the Secretariat withdrew the proposal  as a budgetary item.  New resolution concerning the adoption of Spanish  as a working language of the General Conference  [document 5C/PRO/5].  GP-1 (Total increase) [$64,080].      DP-1 (Total increase) [$35,342].  [14] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con-  ference Planning and General Services) explained  that the increase required under GP-1, on account  of the General Conference (I.A), was to cover the  use of Spanish as a working language during the  actual session of a General Conference (i.e.,  salaries of interpreters, minute-writers, transla-  tors, etc., as well as the necessary equipment),  whereas the funds requested under DP-1, on  account of Documents and Publications Service  (III.9.A), were for the preparation of documents  in Spanish before each General Conference and  the production of the Conference records after  each session. The estimate contained in GP-1  was based on a conference of twenty days to be  held in Paris: if the conference were held else-  where than in Paris, the sum of $2,400 for the  rental of equipment for the transmission of si-  multaneous interpretation could be deducted,  since it was the custom of the inviting country  to provide such equipment free of charge.  [15] In reply to Mr. WEEDEN (Australia),  Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) explained that  the supplementary personnel for the Spanish  language would be engaged on a temporary rather  than a permanent basis, since Spanish would be  a working language only for the period im-  mediately before, during and after a General Con-  ference. This consideration would apply even  more if the proposal now before the Fifth Ses-  sion to hold a General Conference only once every  two years, were adopted. Mr. Montagnier added  that this new proposal did not in any way affect  the existing small Spanish Language Service,  which it was proposed to continue on its present  basis.  [16] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) incidentally  pointed out that the sum of $7,800 for the pur-  chase of furniture and equipment was one which  would only be required for the first year.  [17] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and  Publications Service) assured Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia) that the Secretariat had very care-  fully taken into account the decreased number  of General Conference documents which would  be required in English and French when such  documents also appeared in Spanish; but this  decrease barely affected the total estimate, since  the cost of printing the first thousand copies of  documents in a new language (i.e., Spanish) was  extremely high.  [18] It was agreed that the estimates submitted  by the Secretariat under this resolution were  reasonable and accurate.  New resolutions concerning the Department of  Cultural Activities.  Draft International Convention for the protection  of monuments, centres of historic interest, cul-  tural institutions and works of art, in the event of  armed conflict [document 5C/11 - Add. 1].  [19] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Italian  delegation had submitted a proposal [document
5C/11] aimed at implementing resolution 6.42 of  the 1950 Programme and resolution 4.43 of the
1951 Programme. This proposal had no bud-  getary implications. In the meantime, however,  the Italian delegation had submitted a draft re-  solution [document 5C/11 - Add. 1] which  required the provision of $500 (fees for a legal  adviser) and $500 (fees for a military adviser).  [20] It was decided provisionally to allocate a  sum of $1,000 to the project, pending the results  of the examination of the requirements for legal  advice throughout the programme (see XR-I1  above).  Draft Interim Report (concluded).  Annex V (Exchange of Persons).  CLEARING-HousE AND Promotion [III.5.B].  [21] In conformity with the action taken
0   RT   e e       throughout the report, it was decided to delete  the first line of the comment on this item.  Annex V was adopted with this amendment.  Annex VIII (External Relations Service).  HranquarTERSs [III.8.A(1)].  [22] It was decided to delete the first line of  paragraphs (a) and (b).  Division or LEGAL Arrairs [II1.8.D].  [23] It was decided to delete the first line of  the comment.  Annex VIII was adopted with these amend-  ments.  Annex IX (Documents and Publications).  [24] It was decided to delete the first line of  the comment on III.9.A.  Annex IX was adopted with this amendment.  Annex X (Statistical Service).  [25] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) and Sir Ronald  ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed out that the  word “revised” in line 7 appeared to be an error,  and suggested that this should read “various”.  Annex X was adopted with this correction.  Annex XI (Part I: General Policy).  [26] On the suggestion of Mr. WEEDEN (Aus-  tralia), it was agreed to change the word  “questioning” at the end of the first paragraph  to “consideration”.  SEVENTEENTH  [27] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  pointed out that the Committee only had autho-  rity to indicate possible areas for later considera-  tion, whereas in paragraph (a) they appeared to  be making a specific suggestion. He therefore  proposed the substitution in this paragraph of  “Length of the Sixth Session”. Agreed .  Annex XI was adopted as amended.  Annex XII (Part II: General Administration).  [28] The CHAIRMAN felt that the comments of  the Committee on this section should be more  detailed.  After discussion, the following new text was  adopted:  The Committee was concerned with the possibility of  economics in this section. The following matters  were noted:
(1) Without going into functions in detail, the  Committee questioned duplication of responsibility  between officers in the office of the Director-General,  and the Directors of Departments and Heads of Services  and Bureaux;
(2) The Committee felt that there appeared to be  duplication of functions between the three adminis-  trative bureaux;
(3) The Committee will examine at a subsequent  meeting the possibility of the integration of Archives,  Unesco Library and Registry.  Annex XIII (Part IV: Common Service Costs).  [29] On the suggestion of Sir Ronald ADAM  (United Kingdom), the following new text was  adopted:  The Committee proposed to examine in detail the  budget of Part IV at a later meeting.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 7 June 1950, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman:  Recommendations with regard to the future  procedure of the Budget Committee.  [1] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) sug-  gested that the report on this point be based on  Dr. F. BenpeEr (Netherlands)  the assumption that the next session of the Gen-  eral Conference would be held in Paris. He asked  that the following questions be considered:
(1) Was it constitutionally possible for the  Budget Committee to be established and to meet