Draft Rules of Procedure concerning recom-  mendations to Member States and inter-  national conventions covered by the terms of  Article IV, paragraph 4, of the Constitution  (continued) [document 5C/OXR/16, page 9].  [26] The CHAIRMAN proposed that discussion of  this document might be postponed, to allow mem-  bers time to study it.  Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the text  was merely a provisional draft which might, it  was suggested, be adopted for one year and sub-  sequently revised. Furthermore, account had  been taken of the various amendments presented  by Member States that had not participated in the  work of the Sub-Committee.  [27] Presenting the draft report, Mr. PILOTTI  (Italy), Chairman of the Sub-Committee, em-  phasized that it contained four observations in-  dicating that all the proposals were of an essential-  ly provisional nature. The rules were in the  nature of an experiment only, and would be given  their final form by a future Conference in the  light of experience. The Sub-Committee made no  claim to have exhausted the subject.  Mr. Pilotti concluded by recommending the  adoption of proposals, which had been carefully  considered; in modifying the Secretariat's draft  text, the Sub-Committee had, so far as possible,  taken into account all the amendments presented  to it.  [28] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Com-  mittee pass this document to the General Con-  ference without formally adopting it, informing  the Conference that, in drafting it, the Sub-  Committee had taken into account the proposals  of Member States.  [29] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that the  Programme and Budget Commission was waiting  for a report on this question from the Procedure  Committee. Moreover, he did not think that a  document drafted by a Sub-Committee could be  submitted directly to the Conference without  being first examined by the Procedure Committee.  He therefore considered it preferable to adjourn  discussion until a later meeting.
9 4 The meeting rose at 7.20 p.m.  EIGHTH MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 9 p.m.  Chairman:  Draft amendments to Rules 52 and 55 of the  Rules of Procedure (Working Languages)  presented by the Mexican delegation (con-  tinued) [document 5C/PRO/5].  [11] The CHAIRMAN read a communication from  the Budget Committee in reply to a question from  the Procedure Committee in connection with its  previous discussion on the adoption of Spanish as a  working language. The Budget Committee had  considered the budgetary implications of the  project, and considered that $99,422 was a  reasonable estimate of additional costs; if approved  by the Procedure Committee, the sum would be  included in the Budget Committee's final budget  figures.
6  Le  |  Professor Jakos NiELsen (Denmark)  Report of the Sub-Committee of the Proce-  dure Committee on the draft Rules of Proce-  dure concerning recommendations to Member  States and international conventions covered  by the terms of Article IV, paragraph 4, of  the Constitution [document 5C/OXR/16-Adden-  dum].  [2] Professor PILOTTI (Italy), Chairman of the  Sub-Committee, recalled that, at its Fifth Meeting,  the Procedure Committee had appointed a sub-  committee to study and report on the question of  the adoption of Rules of Procedure concerning  recommendations to Member States and inter-  national conventions. This Sub-Committee had  met on 7 and 9 June. It had taken note of the  comments and proposed amendments presented by  Q                                  the delegations of Australia, Mexico, Union of  South Africa and United Kingdom, and had finally  adopted a revised text of the draft Rules of  Procedure, which it now submitted for the Com-  mittee’s approval as document 5C/OXR/16-Add.  In doing so, Professor Pilotti wanted to make  certain observations on behalf of the Sub-Com-  mittee:
(1) The procedure to be followed for the  framing and adoption of recommendations to  Member States and of international conventions  could be finally established only in the light of  experience and by taking into account the  frequency with which the General Conference  would have recourse to the powers to make  regulations vested in it under Article IV, para-  graph 4, of the Constitution.
(2) Hitherto, the General Conference had  seldom had occasion to frame and adopt inter-  national conventions or recommendations for the  regulation of any question on an international  basis.
(3) The Sub-Committee considered that, in the  circumstances, the proposed regulations should be  adopted on a provisional basis, and that it might  be desirable to revise them at subsequent sessions  in the light of comments to be addressed to the  Director-General by Member States, as well as on  the basis of the experience acquired and the  practice developed, and to the extent that the  General Conference would have made, or might  have decided to make, use of recommendations  and conventions in the pursuit of the Organiza-  tion’s aims.
(4) The Sub-Committee considered that, in the  event of the adoption of the draft regulations  submitted, these should govern not only all pro-  posals for the international regulation of any  particular question to be presented to subsequent  sessions of the Conference, but also any draft  recommendations or conventions that the General  Conference might have already decided to frame,  in so far as the provisions of the draft might sub-  sequently have become applicable thereto.  [3] The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the  draft Rules of Procedure contained in document
5C/OXR/16, Addendum, article by article.  Articles 1-13 were adopted without comment.  Article 14.  [4] Mr. MAHMASSINI (Lébanon) observed that  Article 14 was related to Article 1(a), and asked  whether a convention adopted by a two-thirds  majority of the General Conference had sub-  sequently to be ratified by the parliaments of the  contracting States, or whether the convention  entered into force immediately it had been adopted  by the General Conference.  Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that the  conventions adopted by the General Conference  had to be submitted for subsequent ratification  by Member States.  [6] Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) pointed out that the  text said nothing about signing treaties. He  wanted to know what were the obligations of  Member States with regard to conventions approved  by the General Conference.  Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that  Member States had undertaken, in the Constitu-  tion, to submit the drafts to their competent  authorities, to permit them to give such effect to  them as they deemed fit.  M. MURTINHO (Brazil) thought the necessity  for initial adherence should be specified before  there was any mention of ratification, and he asked  that this point should be clarified.  [6] To meet this request, the CHAIRMAN sug-  gested that the word “signature” be introduced  into Article 1 (a), so that it would read:  International conventions for  ratification by Member States.  [7] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that  Article 1 should dispel Mr. Martinho’s apprehen-  sions, and he proposed changing the words “sou-  mettre à la ratification des” in the French text  to: “a ratifier par les”.  [8] Professor PILOTTI (Italy) agreed with  Mr. Murtinho. A convention could not be re-  garded as such unless it hed been signed by the  delegates who had approved it, nor could it be  submitted for ratification by Member States  unless it had already been signed. He therefore  proposed that the words “which must also be  signed by those who voted in favour of the con-  vention” be added to the first clause of Article 14.  [9] Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) could not see  the need for signature by Member States who had  voted in favour of the convention. He thought  the text sufficiently clear, and was opposed to  any addition, pointing out that Article IV of the  Constitution gave the General Conference the  right to adopt conventions for simple ratification  by Member States.  [10] Mr. MAHMASSINI (Lebanon) thought  there was no great difference between the opi-  nions expressed by Professor Pilotti and Mr. Saba,  which could be reconciled by adding to the first  clause of Article 14 the words:  signature and later  The convention should specify the conditions and  procedure required for its signature and later ratifica-  tion by Member States.       [11] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that it  was necessary to give a precise definition of  international conventions. He proposed that the  terminology of Article IV, paragraph 4, of the  Constitution should be followed.  The CHAIRMAN recalled that, when the Con-  stitution had been discussed in 1945, certain  States had objected to the word “ratification”,  which had therefore been replaced by “approval”.  [12] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought  that the draft rules under discussion were de-  signed for the preparation of conventions, yet it  seemed to him that the Committee was discussing  what happened after the conventions had been  prepared in accordance with those rules. He  therefore asked whether the discussion was in  order.  [13] In reply to a question from Mrs. BRU-  NAUER (United States of America), Mr. SABA  (Legal Adviser) stated that Unesco’s Constitution  had been based on the Constitution of ILO, which  laid down that conventions were to be ratified by  Member States. In no case, however, did the  signatures of delegates to the General Confer-  ence constitute a ratification signifying that the  Governments of the contracting States accepted  the obligations laid down in the convention.  Therefore, although the General Conference of  ILO passed a real legislative act, Member States  had to ratify the convention subsequently in order  to be bound by it. It should be stated in the  convention itself that only ratification con-  stituted a binding obligation. Mr. Saba added  that the position in the United Nations was  entirely different, as conventions signed during  the General Assembly were immediately binding  on the signatories.  The CHAIRMAN suggested the insertion of the  word ‘“‘draft” before “convention” in Article 14,  to show that it was not a question of final ap-  proval.  [14] Mrs. BRUNAUER (United States of Amer-  ica) proposed that the wording of Article IV,  paragraph 4, of the Constitution be substituted  for that of Article 14.
680  Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) indicated that  Article 14 would then read as follows:  A two-thirds majority shall be required for the adop-  tion of a draft convention.  A simple majority shall be sufficient for the adoption  of a draft recommendation.  The United States proposal to adopt the wording  of Article 1V, paragraph 4, of the Constitution,  seconded by Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) and  Dr. BLANCO Y SANCHEZ (Cuba), was adopted.  Articles 15-22 were adopted without comment.  Draft regulations relating to recommenda-  tions to Member States and international  conventions: Resolution submitted by the  Belgian delegation [document 5C/OXR/16,  Add. 2].  [15] Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) explained  why the Belgian delegation had presented the  draft resolution contained in document 5C/OXR/
16, Addendum 2. He recalled that, when the  draft regulations had first been submitted, the  Belgian delegation had commented on the rapid  procedure which had had to be adopted.  The Belgian draft resolution contained in docu-  ment 5C/OXR/16, Addendum 2, was unanimously  adopted.  Statement of Methods  Rev., pages 80 and 81].  [document 5C/5 (1)  [16] The CHAIRMAN announced that it was the  duty of the Procedure Committee to inform the  Programme and Budget Committee whether or  not the wording of section III, paragraphs 15  and 14 of the Statement of Methods was in con-  formity with the Draft Rules of Procedure con-  cerning recommendations to Member States and  international conventions (document 5C/OXR/16,  Addendum) which the Committee had just  adopted.  It was agreed that this was so.  The meeting rose at 11.25 p.m.