TENTH MEETING  Monday, 29 May 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. F. Benper (Netherlands)  later: Mr. Sipney PorLock (Canada)  Interim Report of the Budget Committee.  [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Drafting  Committee had made certain changes in the draft  report now before the Committee. This report,  which would appear as document 5C/BUD/1,  included an Introduction, General Observations  and a certain number of Annexes. The Chairman  proposed leaving the Annexes for a later meeting  and going through the Introduction and General  Observations paragraph by paragraph.  I. Introduction.  [2] Commenting on amendments proposed to  paragraph (d) by the drafting committee, by  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) and by Mr. GUIGNOLET  (France), Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) pointed out that  the Executive Board had no constitutional status  in budgetary matters.  [3] The Committee agreed to delete the reference  to any of the three specific constitutional organs,  and to adopt the proposed amendments as regards  the remainder.  II. General Observations.  [4] Discussing the first paragraph, the CHAIR-  MAN pointed out that the Programme and Budget  Commission had joint responsibility with the  Budget Committee for proposing methods of  economizing. Economies depended both on the  scope of Unesco activities and on the resolutions  taken by the various committees and commissions.  Certain cuts would have to be made to keep  within the funds made available by Member  States, but a distinction must be made between  over-all programme and administrative economies,  as the latter could be effected through the action  of the Director-General.  [5] After a discussion on the wording of para-  graph 1 (Participation in the Activities of the  Organization) between Mr. WEEDEN (Australia),  Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) and Mr. ROSEMAN  (United States of America), the text of this para-  ocraph was adopted with certain amendments.  »—,  L…  [6] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America),  having pointed out an omission concerning the  relationship of Unesco with international non-  governmental organizations, it was decided to  insert an addendum to cover this point (b in the  final text).  [7] Paragraph 2 (Overlapping of Programme  with the United Nations and other Specialized  Agencies) and 3 (Greater Participation by Host  Governments) were adopted.  [8] With one amendment proposed by Mr.  WEEDEN (Australia), paragraph 4 (Travel costs)  was adopted.  [9] Referring to paragraph 5 (staff), Mr.  ROSEMAN (United States of America) felt that  the personnel hired by Unesco should not be  specialists in one field, but persons whose services  might be utilized in several branches of the Organ-
1zation.  [10] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) emphasized the  necessity of obtaining the services of specialists of  excellent professional competence, who could meet  and discuss on an equal footing with professionals  in Member States with whom they came into  contact.  Paragraph 5 was adopted without modification.  [11] Referring to paragraph 6 (Budgetary  Authorization), Professor FANTAPPIE (Italy)  raised a question concerning budgetary authoriza-  tion for expenditures not covered by resolutions of  the General Conference.  [12] As this point concerned fundamental  policy, Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked for discussion before formulation of con-  clusions.                                      [13] The CHAIRMAN pointed out, however, that  this part of the text merely stated that, without  programme resolutions, there would be no special  budgetary reserve for unauthorized activities.  [14] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  stressed that all programme activity should be  founded on a resolution and not on a “heading”.  [15] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America),  stating that the Committee would report later on  the relationship of specific programme resolutions  and their budgetary implications, believed that  ELEVENTH  the present budgetary system would lead to too  great ‘‘compartmentalization” of activities.  [16] It was decided that Sir Ronald Adam and  Mr. Roseman should agree on a text to be inserted  under paragraph 6.  [17] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Annexes  to the Interim Report be drafted by the Secretariat  in the form of resolutions which would be  discussed at the next meeting of the Committee.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 10.50 a.m.  MEETING  Tuesday, 30 May 1950, at 9.30 p.m.  Chairman:  Draft Interim Report (continued).  [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Drafting  Committee, which had considered the Interim  Report of the Budget Committee now before the  meeting, proposed the following amendments:
(1) INTRODUCTION: In paragraph (a), the  words “submitted by the Executive Board” should  be deleted:
(2) GENERAL OBSERVATIONS: In paragraph 1,  the words “by the Director-General” should be  deleted; in paragraph 2, the word “major” should  be added in the second line between “effect” and  y “economies”.  These amendments were agreed.  [2] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that  the word “tentative, originally included by the  Drafting Committee in line three of item I (c), had  been omitted in the text before the Committee. It  was agreed that this word should be re-inserted.  [3] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) referred to a pre-  vious decision of the Drafting Committee that the  second and third items of Section IL (General  Observations) should be inverted. This was also  agreed.  [4] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  suggested that the words ‘‘under the existing  system” in the fifth line of item 11.6 be transferred  to line eight, after the words “The Committee felt  that . . .” This amendment was agreed.  D 09  Dr. FF. Bexper (Netherlands)  [5] The CHAIRMAN explained that the Drafting  Committee felt that item 11.7 (Further Enquiries)  was rather meagre, and might perhaps be omitted  completely.  [16] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) felt that this item  should remain, as there were several fields in  which it was important for further enquiries to  be conducted. He asked specifically wether a state-  ment recommending the earliest possible imple-  mentation of the Report of the Experts Committee  on Salary, Allowances, and Leave Systems of the  United Nations and the Specialized Agencies could  be added to this paragraph of the Interim Report.  [7] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  did not feel that the Budget Committee should  refer in this Report to a matter which was on the  agenda of the Administrative Commission.  [8] The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Pollock  that this was a matter of the greatest importance;  but he also felt that it was not within the compe-  tence of the Budget Committee to make recom-  mendations on a question yet to be considered by  the Administrative Commission.  [9] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that,  under the provisions of item I (c) of the Interim  Report, this matter could be discussed in detail  at a later date.
110] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) felt, however, that