SECOND MEETING  Thursday, 15 June 1950, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. Rocer Seypoux (France)  [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that, following  the directions indicated by the Committee, the  Secretariat had re-examined the 1951 Budget  Estimates and proposed additional adjustments  to bring the total within the provisional ceiling  of $8,200,000 that is to say reductions totalling  $74,327. He suggested consideration of these  proposals item by item.  Part II. General Administration.  Reduce $3,400 from Travel and Other Objects of  Expenditure in the Office of the Director-General,  the Bureau of Administrative Management and  Budget, and the Bureau of Personnel.  Approved.  Part III. Programme Operations.
1. Education.  (a) EDUCATION CLEARING-House [IIT.1.B (2)].
(1) Reduce by $2,000 the grant-in-aid to the  International Bureau of Education by the elimi-  nation of the study on the Administrative Status  of the Teaching Profession (resolution 1.123,  paragraph mn, page 87).  [2] The CHAIRMAN felt that this was an im-  portant item which would suffer from the re-  duction proposed.  [3] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  Catlon) agreed that it would not be possible to  carry out more than a preliminary study of the  question in 1951.  [4] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) and  Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Committee)  supported the reduction proposed. Approved.
(2) Reduce by $2,500 Contractual Printing for  the Proceedings of the Joint Annual Conference  on Public Instruction (paragraph 1, page 87).  [5] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) explained that this reduction would eli-
569  minate publication in English of the reports of  proceedings concerned. The International Bureau  of Education was responsible for the publication  in French and this would be carried out.  The reduction was approved.
(3) Reduce by $4,000 Contractual Printing for  the Supplement to the Statistical Yearbook on Edu-  cation (paragraph v, page 87).  [6] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) said that, as only three Member States had  so far replied to the questionnaire on this matter,  it had been decided to postpone the activity. He  made it clear that the yearbook itself would not  be affected (since this was on the 1950 Budget)  and would be published at the end of 1950 and be  distributed in 1951. It was only publication of  the Supplement which was to be postponed.  The reduction was approved.
(4) Reduce by $2,000 Travel on Official Business  (item VIII, page 88).  [7] This was approved.  (b) EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING  [TI1.1.D].
(1) Reduce travel of Delegates to Conferences  and Meetings by $2,040 and Fees by $200, by the  suppression of the Conference of Directors of  International Schools [paragraph 1 (c), page
105].  [8] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) explained that the Budget Committee had  challenged this item, since it was not covered by  a programme resolution; the Secretariat therefore  proposed to delete it. Approved.
(2) Reduce Fees by $2,000 by the elimination  of the preparation of the List of Chairs where  International Relations are scheduled (resolu-  tion 1.331, paragraph vi, page 106).  [9] This resolution had been challenged quite  strongly in the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion and its deletion was therefore proposed.  Approved.   [10] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) having said the Secretariat had not known  whether or not it was free to cut new resolutions  submitted by the General Conference, a discussion  ensued on the proposal for a Friendship Flag  (document 5C/74), still under consideration in  the Programme and Budget Commission. It had  been estimated that this resolution would cost  $8,710, but the CHAIRMAN, Dr. BENDER (Chair-  man, Budget Committee), Sir John MAUD (Chair-  man, Executive Board), Mr. COWELL (United  Kingdom) and others felt that the resolution, if  passed, should be maintained without budgetary  provision.  [11] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) pointed out that  resolutions passed without budgetary provision  still cost the Secretariat a certain amount of per-  sonnel time.  [12] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) stated however that, whereas the Com-  mittee could recommend the deletion of a bud-  getary provision, it had no authority to suppress  a resolution.
2. Natural Sciences.  (a)  Reduce travel on Official Business by $1,000,  following recommendation of the Budget Com-  mittee (page 113).  Approved.  PROGRAMME Costs [II1.2.A].  (b) DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC  Co-OPERATION [I11.2.B.(1)].
(1) Reduce by $2,000 contract with Inter-  national Union for the Protection of Nature by  eliminating the contribution towards the con-  tinuation of the “Survival Services” (paragraph v,  page 119).  Approved.
(2) Reduce travel on Official Business by  $1,000, following recommendation of the Budget  Committee (paragraph vii, page 119).  Approved.  [13] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked  whether the Director-General had considered a  further cut on resolution 2.142. On the proposal  of the Executive Board, half the budgetary pro-  vision for this item had already been eliminated,  it being agreed that the necessary printing and  publishing would be contracted for by Unesco on  a commercial basis, instead of being undertaken  by the Organization itself. Mr. Cowell suggested  that a further reduction could be made by
570  requesting the publishing house concerned to  participate in the preparation of the dictionaries.  [14] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) replied that it had been decided  to keep the functions of planning and preparation  for this project within the Secretariat, but  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) wished to point  out that his delegation felt that this was one of  the places where further cuts might be made in  the Programme.
3. Social Sciences.  Ain TO INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COLLABORATION  [111.3.B].  Reduce various objects of expenditure to delay by  six months the establishment of one Social Science  Field Office (paragraph v, page 148):     Fees $3.000  Travel PURE 1 NITE, $1,500  Miscellaneous Common Service Costs . $1.800  Total reduction $6.300  Approved.
4. Cultural Activities.  PriLosoruy AND Humanistic Stupies [I11.4.C].  Reduce by $8,000 Fees for the Scientific and  Cultural History of Mankind (paragraph vr,  page 172).  [15] The CHAIRMAN felt that the reduction was  somewhat high, but Mr. THOMAS (Director,  Department of Cultural Activities) and Mr. CO-  WELL (United Kingdom) considered that the  sum remaining was sufficient for the amount of  work which could be accomplished on this pro-  ject in 1951. Approved.
5. Exchange of Persons.  Crearing-House AND PROMOTION [IIL.5.B].
(1) Reduce by $2,000 Contractual Printing by  obtaining further commercial support for “Study  Abroad” (paragraph 11, page 209).  Approved.
(2) Reduce by $300 Temporary Posts for the  meeting of administrators of teacher's interchange  programmes, following comments of the Budget  Committee (paragraph vi, page 209).  Approved.
(3) Reduce by $400 Temporary Posts for meet                              ing of organizers of youth exchange programmes,  following comments of the Budget Committee  (paragraph x, page 210).  Approved.
6. Mass Communication.  (a)  Reduce various classes of expenditure:  Eliminate an Executive Officer (grade 12) re-  sponsible for dealing with public information  queries and for relations with Unesco Clubs (para-  graph 11, page 219):  PROGRAMME Costs [IIT.6.A].  Personnel Costs (page 217) . | $5,180  Chapter 6: Indirect Personnel Costs  (page 244) . . . . « . . $1,770  Common Service Costs (Part 1v) $ 313  Total reduction 87.963  [16] The CHAIRMAN and Dr. BENDER (Chair-  man, Budget Committee) were most anxious that  the Organization should assist Unesco Clubs in  Member States, and asked whether this assistance  would be completely eliminated if the budgetary  provision were deleted as proposed.  [17] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) replied that all requests for  assistance from Unesco Clubs would most cer-  tainly be met to the best of the Secretariat's  ability. It was now hoped, however, that this  task would be shared by all departments and  services of Unesco, instead of being concentrated  in the Department of Mass Communication.  On this understanding the reduction was ap-  proved.  (b)
6.D].  ACTION THROUGH Press, Fim ano Ranro [III.  Reduce fees for special assignments covered under  resolution 6.33 [paragraph mi, B (3), page 240]:  $5,000.  [18] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) said that it was hoped that  this reduction in fees would be offset by more  Member States agreeing to participate in the pro-  ject without charge. Approved.
7. Relief Assistance Services.  Reduce $9,960 on direct and indirect personnel  Costs under Chapter 7: Further re-organization  of the Relief Assistance Services following a  consolidation of Budget lines 1I11.7.A and II1.7.B  through the transfer to the chapter on Education  of activities relating to Children’s Communities  and International Voluntary Work Camps.  [19] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) explained that,  as the projects on Children’s Communities and  Voluntary Work Camps had been transferred to  the Department of Education, the Director-General  hoped to re-organize the Relief Assistance Services  and effect a reduction of personnel. Approved.
8. External Relations Service.  (a) LIAISON WITH GERMANY AND JAPAN [1IL.8.B].
(1) Reduce Personnel Costs (page 273) by  $6,050 and Indirect Personnel Costs of the Exter-  nal Relations Service (page 283) by $2.039, by  the elimination of a general programme specialist  in the Field Staff, following comments of the  Budget Committee (reduction is from the supple-  mentary proposal for item 1II.8.B).
(2) Reduce local field help (page 274) by  $1,600, consequent on the foregoing reduction.  [20] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  said that, as the Budget Committee had already  cut one field officer and one secretary on this  project, this further cut might be too much. She  felt that it would be preferable to make this reduc-  tion elsewhere in the External Relations Service.  Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) supported these  remarks.  [21] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Commit-  tee) said that the Budget Committee had taken  into account provision made elsewhere in the  programme for activities relating to Germany and  Japan, and Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) added that the  Head of Service, in agreeing to this further cut,  had pointed out that the tempo of the work would  be slowed down in consequence.  [22] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) felt that, as the General Conference had  laid great stress on an increased Unesco pro-  gramme in relation to Germany and Japan, it  would be wrong to make too many personnel cuts  in this section.  [23] After a discussion during which all mem-  bers agreed that it would be preferable to main-  tain the present provision for this project on as  high a level as possible, the CHAIRMAN suggested  that only about $5,000 be deducted from this  project, the remaining sum being found elsewhere.  Agreed.  [24] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  that the additional $5,000 could be deducted from  the grant-in-aid of $10,000 requested for the              World Federation of United Nations Associations,  since this was a resolution which had only been  passed with hesitation by the Programme and  Budget Commission.  (b)  Reduce fees for outside legal assistance by $750,  following comments of the Budget Committee.  Approved.  Division or LEGAL Arrarrs [III.8.D].
9. Documents and Publications Service [III.9.A].  Reduce the provision for outside payments by  $1,625, following the comments of Budget Com-  mittee.  Approved.  Part IV. Common Service Costs [IV.E].  Reduce the provision for Language Training  Courses by $1,000, following comments of the  Executive Board.  Approved.  [25] At the request of Sir John MAUD (Chair-  man, Executive Board), Mr. WEITZ (Head,  Bureau of Administrative Management and Bud-  get) gave the following list of reductions made in     order that the balance between the various  departments and services of the Organization  might be seen:  Part II. General Administration . $ 3,400  Part II. Programme Operations (in-  cluding several small consequential  reductions which would be applied to  Part 1V):
1. Department of Education . $14,740
2. Department of Natural Sciences . $ 4,000
3. Department of Social Sciences $ 6,300
4. Department of Cultural Activities $ 8,000
5. Exchange of Persons Service $ 2,700
6. Department of Mass Communica-  tions BEIT. Od. $12,263
7. Relief Assistance Services $ 9,960
8. External Relations Service . $10,339
9. Documents and Publications Ser-  vice ® 1,625  Part IV. Common Service Costs . $ 1,000  ToTAL . $74,327  [26] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) pointed out that the Department of Natural  Sciences had not had as great a cut as the other  Departments, whereupon Professor NIELSEN  (Denmark) suggested that a reduction might be  made on item 2.111 in this Department.  [27] The CHAIRMAN however said that he  could not authorize the Committee to reopen a  debate on Programme resolutions which had  already been passed by the Programme and Bud-  get Commission and the Budget Committee. He  felt that the additional reduction of $5,000 should  be made on one of the new resolutions which had  only passed the Programme and Budget Com-  mission after long discussion and with much  hesitation.  [28] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), sec-  onded by Dr. ZOOK (United States of America),  formally moved a reduction in the grant-in-aid to  WFUNA by $5,000 with a consequential increase  in the German programme.  [29] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) said that the  Director-General would have no objection to this  proposal.  The motion was adopted unanimously with one  abstention (Iraq).  [30] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) then raised the question  of the amount of money under the Relief Services  programme which was to be allocated to Arab re-  fugees in Palestine and the education of refugee  children in Palestine, as it was his impression  that the Programme and Budget Commission  had requested the Executive Board to find addi-  tional sums from other parts of the Programme  for this purpose.  [31] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) felt that this must be a misunderstanding,  since the Board had no competence to make such  transfers.  [32] The CHAIRMAN said that, as this question  was entirely outside the authority of the present  Committee, he could not allow any further discus-  sion.  The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.