NINTH MEETING  Friday, 9 June 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Count STEFANO Jacint (Italy)  Communications.  [1] The CHAIRMAN read out three com-  munications:
(1) A telegram from the Women's Permanent  Peace Delegation, stating that the association was  in sympathy with Unesco’s ideals and was follow-  ing the work of the Conference with great interest.
(2) A request from the Head of the delegation  of Israel, mentioning that his delegation was  anxious to be associated with the tribute to  Avicenna at a plenary meeting of the General  Conference.
(3) A letter from the Swiss League for Human  Rights in support of two appeals relating to exiles,  refugees and political émigrés, addressed to Unesco  by the Central Committee of the Italian branches  of the International League for the Defence of  Human Rights and by the International Com-  mittee of the Red Cross respectively; the letter  also supported the claims put forward by the  meeting of the eleven committees of exiles, held  in Rome on 5 March.  It was decided that the General Committee  should consider the question again when it had  received the appeals in question.  Draft Regulations relating to the approval by  the Conference of recommendations to Mem-  ber States and of international conventions.  [2] The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the General  Committee had referred item 10.81 of the Agenda  (Draft Regulations relating to the approval by the  General Conference of recommendations to Mem-  ber States and of international conventions) to the  Procedure Committee for study. As the Pro-  cedure Committee had considered the question in  detail, it seemed unnecessary to refer it to the  Official and External Relations Commission.  With the approval of Dr. BARALT Y ZACHARIE  (Chairman, Official and External Relations  Commission), it was decided that the Procedure  Committee should report direct to the General  Conference.  Election of six members of the Executive  Board.  [3] The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the Nomina-  tions Committee would meet on Wednesday,
14 June, in preparation for the election of six new  members of the Executive Board. He pointed  out that only candidates proposed by the Nomina-  tions Committee or by two delegations were  eligible for appointment. So far he had received  only one nomination, submitted by two delega-  tions.  Dr. WALKER (Chairman, Nominations Com-  mittee) stated that he had also received one  nomination.  Work of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission (continuation).  [4] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme and  Budget Commission) explained that his Commission  had finished discussing the Soctal Sciences chapter  and was beginning its examination of Cultural  Activities. Mr. Seydoux was allowing for three  or four meetings to discuss Cultural Activities;  one meeting for Relief Assistance and Exchange  of Persons; two meetings for Mass Communica-  tion; and four meetings for all the other items.  He therefore thought it necessary for the Com-  mission to hold evening meetings on Monday, 12,  Tuesday, 13 and Wednesday, 14 June.  [5] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it would  be better to hold the first of those meetings on the  evening of 9 June and the other two on the Mon-  day and Tuesday, keeping Wednesday evening  free for preparations for the plenary meetings.  This suggestion, seconded by Mr. SARGEANT  (United States of America), was adopted.  Collection for the Italian organization for aid  to child victims of “he war.  [6] Dr. WALKER (Chairman, Nominations Com-  mittee) reported that, in accordance with the
268  ten        General Committee’s decision, he had made ar-  rangements for the collection for child victims  of the war in Italy. A notice had been inserted  in the Journal of the Conference, and a table had  been placed at the entrance to the meeting rooms  so that contributions could be collected by a  voluntary worker for an hour in the mornings  and an hour in the afternoons.  The meeting rose at 10.20 a.m.  TENTH MEETING  Tuesday, 13 June 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Work of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission (continuation).  [1] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme and  Budget Commission) stated that the Commission  had completed its consideration of the Mass Com-  munications chapter the previous evening and that,  with the discussion of the work of the Relief  Assistance Services, consideration of all pro-  gramme resolutions would be concluded that  morning. The Commission would then turn its  attention to an Egyptian motion and various  other resolutions. The afternoon meeting would  deal with important resolutions on peace, which  might give rise to a lengthy discussion, and with  resolutions concerning Human Rights, publica-  tions and the general work of the Conference.  It would also be necessary to consider how to  deal with certain resolutions or certain parts of  the programme once the Budget Committee had  provided estimates for the new proposals sub-  mitted to it; it was already to be anticipated that  the total budget figure would exceed the stipulated  ceiling of $8,200,000.  [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL also thought that  the budget ceiling would be exceeded by some
200,000 dollars, and feared that the Programme  and Budget Commission would be unable to reach  any decision at the few remaining meetings with  regard to the necessary reductions. He sug-  gested the setting up of a small committee, to be  assisted by the Chairman of the Executive Board  and himself, and by the Chairmen of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission and of the Bud-  get Committee; it would be instructed to lay  down an order of priority for resolutions and to  suggest the deletion of certain projects for which  no budgetary provision could be made, in the
269  Count Sterano Jacint (Italy)  light of the Programme and Budget Commission's  recommendation that larger funds should be  allocated to the most valuable projects.  The Director-General thought that this work  could be completed in two meetings, for the dis-  cussion could be restricted to certain specific  points instead of covering the whole programme.  [3] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  stated that he, too, had considered the need for  singling out the items that were really worth  incorporating in the programme and of deleting  the less important resolutions. Such action was  essential in order to keep within the $8,200,000  limit. Sir John feared that if all suggestions for  such changes were to originate from the Budget  Committee, they would give rise to discussions  that could not be completed in the very limited  time the Programme and Budget Commission still  had before it. He therefore considered the  Director-General’s suggestion to establish the  committee most helpful; in his opinion, the new  body might be regarded as a joint committee of  the Programme and Budget Commission and of the  Budget Committee, since the chairmen of both  bodies would be serving on it. Sir John also  suggested that the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission should be a member of the proposed  committee, which seemed to be the only body  competent to submit a programme of work that  could be covered by the fixed Budget and was  likely to be acceptable to the Programme and  Budget Commission.  [4] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Committee)  acknowledged that the final responsibility for the  necessary cuts rested with the Programme and  Budget Commission rather than with the Budget  Committee. He was not against the establish-