considered, then the study would be of no use.  He did not see why the Secretary-General could  not be asked to have a committee to do that  planning together with the Specialized Agencies.  [64] The United Kingdom amendment was re-  jected by 15 votes to 11.  Item 3.33 was adopted by 17 votes to 4."  Item 3.34.  [65] The CHAIRMAN recalled that, also in doc-  ument 5C/102, the French delegation had re-  quested the deletion of this item.  Mr. FEBVRE (France) explained that the  French delegation considered the text to be too  ambitiously worded and disproportionate to the  results that might be expected. However, since  the studies had already been carried out, the  French delegation would not oppose their pub-  lication, but asked that these “systematic” studies  should not be indefinitely expanded.  [66] Mr. HERRING (United States of America)  thought that the study seemed an appropriate one  for Unesco to undertake and in the spirit of the  resolution already adopted by the Commission.
1. In final form: Resol. 3.33.  TWENTIETH  The work that had already gone into the study  should be borne in mind; it would be a pity if  the good start that had been made were lost.  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) supported the French del-  egation’s viewpoint.  [67] Dr. WALKER (Australia) shared to some  extent the French delegation’s concern over the  working, but did not support its suggestion that  item 3.34 should be deleted. He wondered whe-  ther Mr. Fébvre would be prepared to maintain  the item if the words “to conduct systematic  studies, etc.”, were replaced by the words “to  encourage and assist the conduct of case studies,  »  by social scientists . . ..  Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) sup-  ported the views of Mr. Herring and Dr. Walker.  [68] The Australian amendment was adopted.  Item 3.34, as amended, was adopted.’  Bupcer Tassie II1.3.D. [document 5C/5 (ID),  page 155].  Adopted without discussion.  The meeting rose at 11.35 p.m.
1 In final form: Resol. 3.34.  MEETING  Friday, 9 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. Roger SEypoux (France)  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part 11].
2. Natural Sciences (continued).  SECTION 2.1 (continued) (DEVELOPMENT OF INTER-  NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC CO-OPERATION).  Draft resolution presented by Italy [document
5C/35 (Rev.)].  [1] SirJohn MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  had no comment to make, since the Italian draft  resolution had no budgetary implications. He  still thought, however, that it was unnecessary to  include this new item in the 1951 Programme,  and he hoped that the Italian delegate would  leave the matter for the Director-General to study,  and would not insist on maintaining his proposal.  [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the  [talian delegation’s original proposal [document
5C/35] had had certain budgetary implications  which were not involved in the new proposal.  He thought that the project would be of much  value both to Unesco and to research workers.  [3] Professor COLONNETTI (Italy) thanked the  Director-General for the favourable manner In  which he viewed the new Italian proposal, and  emphasized that it was for Unesco to render that  valuable to science throughout the world.
390                                   The resolution was seconded by the delega-  tions of BELGIUM, URUGUAY, SWITZERLAND,  NETHERLANDS, FRANCE, DENMARK and PA-  KISTAN, and was adopted by 26 votes to none.!  Grant-in-aid to the World Federation of United  Nations Associations.  [4] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Commis-  sion had referred to the Budget Committee a pro-  ject concerning a grant-in-aid of $10,000 to be  made to the World Federation of United Nations  Associations. The Budget Committee had re-  turned the project, stating that a resolution on the  matter must be formulated by the Programme and  Budget Commission, but reserving the right to  reduce or even to reject it. Since the Commis-  sion had declared in favour of the principle, the  Chairman asked the Drafting Committee to draw  up a resolution for transmission to the Budget  Committee.
4. Cultural Activities.  Item 4.1 [document 5C/5 (I) (Rev.)-Addendum].  Adopted without discussion.*  PHiLosopHy AND Humanistic Stupies (4.1).  SECTION 4.11 (INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION)  Items 4.11, 4.111 and 4.1111.  [5] Professor CASTELLI (Italy) proposed that  resolution 4.1111 should be worded as follows:  To broaden the geographical basis of the federations,  associations and international centres constituting it.  [6] Professor SYME (United Kingdom), sec-  onded by the delegates of AUSTRIA and GREECE,  expressed his delegation’s congratulations to the  Secretariat for this section and those following it.  The International Council of Philosophy and  Humanistic Studies had been constituted with the  encouragement of Unesco only fifteen months  previously, and had already shown remarkable  vitality. The policy of grants-in-aid to such  representative bodies was one which the United  Kingdom strongly supported.  [7] Mr. CAIN (France) supported the United  Kingdom delegate’s point of view and stated that  the French delegation attached special import-  ance to the work done during the last two years  by the Council of Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies. He hoped that the necessary material  means would be granted to the Council to enable      ————
1. In final form:
2. In final form:  Resol. 2.164.  Resol. 4.  it to carry out the decisions included in the Basic  Programme.  Items 4.111 and 4.1111 were adopted, includ-  ing the Italian amendment.’  Item 4.1112.  [8] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) said that the  Australian co-operating bodies had noted that the  programme paved the way for setting up an  institution for Pacific studies, and wished to point  out that such organizations already existed. They  suggested that the Secretariat should seek advice  from the co-operating bodies in the various South-  Fast Asian States before proceeding further.  Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) assured Mr. Fletcher that such a  request was quite in conformity with the decision  taken on the matter by the Executive Board.  Item 4.1112 was adopted without change.?  Item 4.1113.  [9] Dr. GIORDANO (Uruguay) supported this  resolution, as his country was greatly interested  in any project for the study of indigenous  languages. A congress had recently been held in  Uruguay to study the indigenous cultures of  certain Latin American countries with special  affinities, i.e., Paraguay, the Argentine and  Uruguay.  [10] Dr. BARON CASTRO (Salvador) realized  that the project was a very beneficial one, but  wanted particularly to emphasize that this was  not unexplored territory and that studies had been  made in the subject since the period of Spanish  domination. They were however incomplete. He  asked the Secretariat to provide more detailed  information as to which languages in particular  interested Unesco, suggesting that those which  were on the point of dying out should be given  priority.  [11] Mr. CAIN (France) proposed the deletion  of the words in parentheses: “(particularly for the  field study of the native languages of America)”;  as item 4.1113 was more general, he thought it  would be better to include that phrase in resolu-  tion 4.112.  That proposal was seconded by the delegations  of PAKISTAN, DENMARK, YUGOSLAVIA, IRAQ  and PERSIA, and item 4.1113 was adopted, sub-  ject to the deletion of the words in parentheses.?  Item 4.111}.  [12] Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) wanted
1. In final form: Resol. 4.111 an 4.1111.
2. In final form: Resol. 4.1112.
3. In final form: Resol. 4.1113.      j  +  '     to know whether Unesco intended to enter the  field of publishing bibliographies and dictionaries  as a continuing, or as a new, activity. He thought  this could normally be more usefully left to the  commercial organizations.  [13] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that the biblio-  graphies were not prepared by Unesco but by the  international organizations that were members of  the Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Stud-  ies; publication would be undertaken by a com-  mercial firm. Unesco’s role was simply to help  those international organizations to prepare the  bibliographies and get them published, without  directly participating in the work.  [14] Mr. CAIN (France) proposed the form of  words “to contribute to the publication of”.  [15] In reply to ANAS Khan (Afghanistan), who  feared that the term “to contribute” might involve  financial obligations, Mr. THOMAS pointed out  that in any case a grant-in-aid had been provided  for that undertaking.  Item 4.1114 was adopted, subject to the  amendment proposed by the French delegation.?  Item 4.11185.  [16] Professor SYME (United Kingdom), sup-  ported by the delegates of IRAQ and SWEDEN,  was uncertain to what extent a general infor-  mative review was really required. He was  anxious not to restrict the terminology of the  resolution, nor the activities of the International  Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies,  and he therefore proposed to delete the words  “specialized” and “a general informative review”,  leaving the text of the resolution as: “to stimulate  the publication of reviews. . . ”  The United Kingdom amendment was adopted  by 28 votes to none.  [17] Professor CASTELLI (Italy) proposed ad-  ding the following words to the resolution: “and  particularly to assist this undertaking by the  publication of hitherto unpublished texts”.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered the  Italian proposal an excellent one, but he pointed  out that it would no doubt have fairly large  budgetary implications, if it were desired to  make that activity really effective.  The Italian proposal was seconded by the del-  egates of AFGHANISTAN, the NETHERLANDS,  FRANCE, AUSTRIA, PERSIA, SWEDEN, LEBAN-  ON, IRAQ and BRAZIL.  Item 4.1115, thus amended, was adopted.”
1. In final form: Resol. 4.1114.
2. In final form: Resol. 4.1115.
392  The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the vote was  a provisional one, as the resolution had budget-  ary implications and the final vote could take  place only after the project had been sent back by  the Budget Committee.  Draft resolution presented by Italy [document
5C/71]).  [18] Mr. SAPORI (Italy) explained that the  object of the proposal was the drawing up of a  list of lawyers’ statements, business letters,  trade practices, correspondence between traders,  personal memoirs, etc. which were dispersed in  the various archives and libraries. He thought  that a committee of experts belonging to the  countries possessing most of those archives might  be set up on the occasion of the Congress of  Historical Sciences to be held in Paris. Those  experts could then draw up, by correspondence,  a general work plan and later on, in six months’  time, for instance, a consultant might be ap-  pointed to examine the information received from  the various archives and libraries, with a view to  its publication.  Professor Sapori considered that the work  would be valuable and would bring out the  various factors which had given rise to the  unification of the present capitalist system.  He thought that the list would be a useful  working instrument for research workers, as  the latter experienced great difficulty in con-  sulting such widely dispersed documents; it would  also be a valuable contribution to the preparation  of the Economic History.  In conclusion, he said that the Italian delega-  tion had endeavoured to reduce to a minimum the  expenditure which would be entailed by the pro-  ject, and he pointed out that the Budget Com-  mittee had considered that it would be sufficient  to add $1,000 to the grant-in-aid made to the  International Committee on Historical Sciences in  order to carry out the work.  [19] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that the Board was bound to advise  against the inclusion of this new resolution in
1951, even if the expense was small, since it could  not be given urgent priority.  [20] Professor SAMBURSKY (Rapporteur of the  Budget Committee) announced that his Com-  mittee had originally estimated the cost at $5,760.  They had since been notified by the Italian del-  egate that, as amended, his proposal would  actually mean a reduction in the Budget, but no  details were yet available.  [21] Mr. ODEGAARD (United States of Amer-  ica) suggested that the Italian wishes might be  met if the matter were referred to the Inter-                                  national Committee of Historical Science which  was meeting in Paris in August. It could then,  if desired, be considered by the International  Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies,  but it would be premature to include this study  in the Unesco programme at the present time.  [22] Professor SAPORI (Italy) maintained his  proposal, for he considered that the expense  involved was very slight in comparison with the  importance of the proposed work.  The proposal was seconded by the delegations  of FRANCE, LIBERIA, the NETHERLANDS, IRAQ  and AUSTRIA.  [23] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, if the  Italian resolution were adopted, corresponding  economies would have to be made in the chapter  on Cultural Activities, as no additional financial  charge could be introduced into the budget.  The Italian proposal was rejected by 20 votes  to 10.  Item 4.112.  [24] Mr. LARRFA (Ecuador) wished to add the  words: “particularly for the study on the spot of  the indigenous languages of America”.  He stressed the political and social interest of  this study, as well as its scientific interest. Al-  though much work had been carried out on  these lines, the documentation was far from com-  plete.  [25] Mr. CAIN (France) thought that, as it had  previously been decided to delete from item 4.1113  the phrase concerning the native languages of  America, it was necessary to include that phrase  in resolution 4.112, as had been suggested.  [26] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) com-  plained that several of the resolutions were very  vague. He thought that the term “certain other  parts of the world” was ill-defined and should be  deleted.  [27] Mr. BOSMAN (Costa Rica) suggested add-  ing: “especially where such cultures are in  danger of extinction” after “Africa”. He was  thinking in particular of certain languages like  the Bushman language, which must be studied  soon, as it was in danger of dying out.  [28] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) opposed  Dr. Beaglehole’s proposal, which she felt sure  Was not intended to exclude the Philippines, but  which would have that effect if the text were  restricted to “America and Africa”.  [29] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) protested  against amendments which he feared would  diminish the budgetary appropriation available for     the study of African languages. Africa was not  given the same status in this field as South Amer-  ica, to which so many of the cultural and social  science opportunities of this programme were  being devoted. In South America there were  twenty-one Republics, all of them capable  of carrying out their own researches. It was  Spanish culture wich had pushed out the  indigenous cultures there, and it was the para-  mount duty of the peoples of South America them-  selves to preserve those cultures in their own  countries, whereas in Africa there were only three  independent States able to carry out such work.  Unesco should do much more for the peoples of  Africa. He would vote against the amendment.  [30] Dr. LAZERTE (Canada) was unable to see  how the study of dying languages could be of  greater importance to Unesco than other matters.  This was one which could be better left to  universities and other research centres, and which  was not an integral part of Unesco’s programme.  [31] Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) opposed  the proposal of the New Zealand delegate to delete  tha last words of the resolution, since it would  too greatly restrict the activities.  Sor far as Dr. Lazerte's reference to the dying  languages was concerned, Professor Sommerfelt  pointed out that it was not merely a question of  studying the languages, but the cultures and  mentalities of which they were the expression  and which could be studied only through that  medium. Such studies were of extreme import-  ance to peace and understanding in the world.  [32] Mr. CAIN (France) considered that the  International Council of Philosophy and Human-  istic Studies was fully qualified to decide upon  the programme and introduce the necessary  clarifications. He therefore proposed simplify-  ing resolution 4.112 by substituting the following  text:  To associate the International Council of Philosophy  and Humanistic Studies in the execution of Unesco’s  Programme, particularly in the co-ordination of study  and research in connexion with native cultures.  Dr. Lazerte’s proposal, which was not seconded,  lapsed.  Mr. Cain’s proposal, seconded by the delegates  of the UNITED KINGDOM, AUSTRIA, NETHER-  LANDS, MONACO, EGYPT, IRAQ, VENEZUELA,  DENMARK and EL SALVADOR, was adopted by
26 votes to 3.7  [33] Mr. ODEGAARD (United States of America)  expressed the views of his delegation concerning  section 4.11 (International Co-operation).
1. In final form: Resol. 4.112.
393    His delegation shared the views of other  speakers about the valuable contribution made by  the International Council of Philosophy and  Humanistic Studies, and also appreciated Unesco’s  improved methods of dealing with non-  governmental organizations as a whole. However,  the programme could be presented differently  another year. These international councils had  their own work to do, although they could also  be most useful to Unesco, and conversely. But in  future a useful distinction could be made between  subventions and the series of contractual items  covered by resolutions in this programme.  Decisions concerning certain items in section
4.11 might be better left to the discretion of the  specialist bodies, as was done in the case of  ICSU in Chapter 2. Under the present method  of setting out the resolutions and the budget, it  was not clear what Unesco was doing for these  organizations, nor they for Unesco, and  Mr. Odegaard suggested the adoption of a clearer  method another year.  [34] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the  present programme had been worked out when  the policy of grants-in-aid and contracts was still  under discussion, but he assured the United States  delegate that the Secretariat was favourable to his  idea and that the 1952 budget would be presented  in the new form which he advocated.  SECTION 4.12 (INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH).  Item 4.121.  [35] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  strongly recommended these resolutions, which  gave expression to a deeper philosophical relation-  ship between East and West. He hoped that the  discussions would be carried out in the true spirit  of Unesco.  [36] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) supported Sir  Sarvepalli. She thought the discussions should  provide an effective means of cementing the bonds  of friendship established between East and West,  and hoped that they might one day lead the world  to forget the lines:  For East is East, and West is West,  And never the Twain shall meet.  She proposed adding to item 4.121 the words:  “and dissemination of the results”.  [37] Dealing first with resolution 4.12, Pro-  fessor SYME (United Kingdom) proposed that  “and National Commissions’ be inserted between  “international” and “organizations”.  Further, he suggested that 4.121 might be  simplified and clarified if “scholars” (savants)  was substituted for “thinkers and philosophers”  and “cultural and” omitted from the second line.
394  [38] Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican  Republic) objected that scholars were not the  same as philosophers and thinkers, and proposed  the maintenance of the original text.  [39] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) pointed  out to the delegate of the Philippines that the  dissemination of results was mentioned in resolu-  tion 4.124.  [40] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that  the budgetary appropriation for resolution 4.124  did not altogether cover the proposal made by  Mrs. Pecson, since a somewhat modest figure had  been fixed by the Secretariat for that item. The  Director-General felt that, if the Commission  agreed that the matter was of great importance  for all Unesco’s activities in 1951, it would be  necessary to increase the credits which had been  provided for the execution of item 4.121 and for  the dissemination of the results of the discussions.  [41] He pointed out in that connexion that it  would perhaps be wise to consider a review of the  budgetary provision for certain other resolutions,  and he recommended that compensatory adjust-  ments in respect of particularly valuable resolu-  tions should not necessarily be made in the bud-  get relating to the same chapter, but should be  available in any other part of the programme.  [42] Mr. CAIN (France) was gratified by the  Director-General’s remarks. He noted that the  chapter on Cultural Activities would not be  discussed until the other Departments had  explained in detail their different activities, and  he considered that it should not be affected by  that state of affairs. He therefore supported the  Director-General’s idea concerning the possibility  of allocating compensatory adjustments as be-  tween the more and the less urgent programme  activities, and he thought that the meeting might  rescind certain decisions already taken.  [43] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) thought that the  text of item 4.121 was not sufficiently clear. In  his opinion, though it might be possible to speak  of a specifically Western philosophy, civilization  and thought, it was more difficult to speak of an  Eastern philosophy or thought, for the East was  much more diversified. He suggested that the  item should be modified so as to give expression  to that diversity.  [44] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL saw no objec-  tion to increasing the number of national bodies  interested in the question, and he thought the  matter could be left to the Drafting Committee.  Referring to Mgr. Maroun’s suggestion, he said  that the Western countries might also say that  they did not all have the same philosophy; in his                                view, the text proposed by the Executive Board  was preferable, as it avoided all discussion on the  matter.  Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) explained that he had  proposed the amendment because of the deletion  suggested by the British delegation.  The British amendment was rejected by 29 votes  to 23, and item 4.121 was adopted in its original  form."  [45] Professor SYME (United Kingdom) felt that  the enquiry proposed in item 4.122 should not be  given high priority. For one thing, it placed an  undesirable burden on the Secretariat. Rather  than that the Secretariat should carry out the  work with the assistances of consultants, it might  be better to leave it to the philosophers them-  selves, that is to say, to the International Council  of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. He would  have preferred the resolution to be deleted.  This proposal, seconded by the delegates of  AFGHANISTAN, DENMARK, ITALY, NEW  ZEALAND and SWEDEN, was rejected by 30 votes  to 8.  [46] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) remarked that  philosophy proper was only taught—and that in-  adequately—during the last year of secondary  education, whereas certain kindred subjects which        exercised great influence on the training of  citizens, such as ethics, civics and political  economy, were studied for several years. He  therefore thought that, instead of saying the  “teaching of philosophy” in schools, it would be  better to speak of “humanistic studies or social  sciences’, as the latter terms were more truly  related to the subjects taught in schools. . While  recognizing the principle of undenominational  education to which Unesco should adhere, he  hoped there would be some mention of religion,  which played such an important part in education.  [47] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that the teaching of  social sciences, to which Anas Khan had referred,  had been considered in the chapter on Education,  and that resolution 4.122 in fact concerned  philosophy proper, which was the completion of  secondary education and one of the main subjects  of higher education.  [48] Dr. GIORDANO (Uruguay) proposed the  following amendment: “an enquiry into the  Influence of philosophy on the training of the  citizen”.  [49]
1. In final form:  Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) empha-     Resol. 4.1211.
399  sized the great value of the teaching of philosophy  for the improvement of international understand-  ing. It seemed to him obvious that the enquiry  could be entrusted to the International Council  of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, but he  stressed the fact that the subject of the enquiry  was of primary concern to Unesco. |  The proposals put forward by the delegates of  Afghanistan and Uruguay were not seconded and  lapsed.  [50] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) supported item
4.122, but wished the English text to be changed  to “development of the citizen” instead of “mould-  ing of the citizen".  [51] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  thought no more should be attempted than to give  a perpective of teaching philosophy in educational  institutions. Citizens should not be taught so  much the differences in the philosophies of East  and West, as given a synoptic vision of them.
152] Mrs. ZAMBRANO (Guatemala) felt that  philosophy was a subject which should attract  people with a special vocation. She could not  agree with previous speakers that a preoccupation  with philosophy was derogatory to religious  formation or meant neglecting it.  Item 4.122 was adopted in its original form by
27 votes to 1.1  Item 4.123.  [53] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) proposed that  the words “the main interpretations in” should be  replaced by the words “the evolution of”, in order  to avoid giving the idea that the concept of law  had changed its meaning from one period to  another and that the philosophy of law was  necessarily emphemeral and inconsistent.  [54] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) agreed  that the wording of the resolution was too all-  embracing and vague, and he announced that he  would oppose it unless it could be made more  concrete. The sum provided for the non-  governmental organization in document 5C/5 (II)  (page 172, paragraph v) seemed inadequate in  comparison with that made available in other  sections for similar enquiries. In any event,  Dr. Beaglehole did not feel that this was a task  for Unesco, but one which could be better passed  to a non-governmental organization such as the  International Council of Philosophy and Human-  istic Studies, or a more specifically legal body.  [66] Mr. ODEGAARD (United States of Amer-  ica) stressed that the Commission was trying to  think in wide terms. Some of the projects on the
1. In final form: Resol. 4.1212.                  list under consideration might seem unrelated,  but they were not so in reality. The Commission  should bear in mind that it was discussing the  programme for 1951 and not for 1950, and  Mr. Odegaard believed that such activities as these  were essential to philosophy and humanistic  studies. À study of the present-day communities  was an appropriate subject for Unesco, both from  the historical point of view, and from the  philosophical; an attempt should be made to find  areas of agreement, or at least to appreciate other  cultures. This was merely a shred of a much  bigger idea, namely to attempt an analysis of  major concepts which might serve as a bridge of  ideas.  The concept of law throughout history was  admittedly a tremendous subject, yet the project  was not to write a global history, but to find  points of contact. He hoped that better use would  be made in future of the analyses of fundamental  concepts which Unesco had undertaken in the  past, and on which he trusted that it would con-  tinue to work.  [56] Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) expressed his support  for the arguments of the delegates of the Lebanon  and the United States of America, and his opposi-  tion to the New Zealand proposal. It was im-  portant to bear in mind the importance of law  in Unesco’s activities. Indeed, all human  activities were to some extent regulated by law.  Most of the more important universities had  Chairs to study the history of comparative law for  practical purposes, as well as the causes of the dif-  ferences in its development in different cultures.  As to the fears expressed by Dr. Beaglehole, he  pointed out that, under point 4.12, the Director-  General was authorized to undertake the necessary  research “in co-operation with the appropriate  international organizations’. Even now Unesco  was in process of discussing closer relations with  the International Law Association—a relationship  which had a very important bearing on that whole  question.  [67] Mr. CAIN (France) thought that the  financial means provided for the carrying out of  the enquiry during 1951 would prove inadequate.  To enable such an enquiry to be fully successful,  it was necessary first to determine precisely the  lines on which it was to be conducted. He  suggested that that task should be entrusted to  the International Council of Philosophy and  Humanistic Studies, so that the next General Con-  ference might have before it all the necessary  information and thus take a decision enabling a  fitting enquiry to be carried out.  [58] Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican  Republic) opposed the proposal of the Lebanese
396  delegate. The main interpretations of the con-  cept of law were a more useful subject of study  than the question of whether it was evolving or  not.  [569] Professor SYME (United Kingdom) was  much impressed by the arguments of the United  States delegate and was therefore ready to support  the resolution, but he was also impressed by the  French arguments. An enquiry of this sort was  more properly a subject for historians and philo-  sophers, preferably with a knowledge of ancient  and modern languages, than for jurists alone. He  therefore proposed an amendment to the work  plan [document 5C/5 (IT), page 172, paragraph v]  to read: “that the whole of the planning and  execution be entrusted to an appropriate non-  governmental institute’.  [60] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that it would  not be sufficient to amend the work plan; he re-  commended Professor Syme to support Mr. Cain’s  proposal not to maintain item 4.123 in the 1951  Programme.  Professor SYME  the French proposal.  by 24 votes to 5.  (United Kingdom) accepted  That proposal was adopted  [61] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that  that decision would enable a saving of $4,000 to  be made. He thought it useful to recall, in this  connexion, the suggestion made by the delegation  of the Philippines concerning the dissemination  of the results of the discussions mentioned in  item 4.121.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the Commission  would take that suggestion into account when  voting on the budget relating to that chapter.  [tem V/ . 124.  Adopted without discussion.‘  Item 4.13.  [62] The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's  attention to documents 5C/PRG/2 and 5C/PRG/2  - Annex, relating to the Project for a Scientific  and Cultural History of Mankind. He pointed out  that the French and British delegations had  presented a new proposal on that subject and that  the Netherlands delegation had recommended the  deletion of item 4.13.  [63] Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) said that  the plan for this work had aroused much interest  and also much criticism in his country, and he  supposed the same had been the case in other  countries also. It was felt that Unesco's pre-  —— ———  In final form:
1. Resol. 4.1221.                     paratory work had reached a stage where it could  be handed over to private enterprise, Unesco  merely acting as a catalyst. That suggestion was  strongly opposed by the Netherlands National  Commission, who argued that Unesco would not  be committed by continuing the work as be-  fore, and that the Secretariat’s costs would, in  any case, be reduced in the coming years. Even  though the Commission was only discussing the  programme for 1951, however, Professor Nielsen  felt sure that the expenditure of $24,000 a year  would continue well beyond the three years which  had been scheduled.  In his personal view, the whole idea of the  History was one of genuine concern to Unesco,  the more so since it might induce schools to pay  increased attention to a subject outside their  normal curricula. Nevertheless, he was concerned  with three points:
(1) The mutual indebtedness of the culture of  all peoples had been over-stressed in the past.  Professor Nielsen stressed that danger particularly  because, in the discussion of item 4.112, the idea  of competition between different cultures had been  touched upon. There was a risk that the question  might be raised as to whether full justice had  been done to any one culture. The Commission  should avoid anything which might further in-  crease political tension.
(2) He was profoundly shocked at what seemed  to be the theme of Volume VI, Synthesis and Con-  clusion. He asked whether Unesco really wished  to forecast what should be the combined world  civilizations of the future. Unesco should be the  servant of world culture, not its director.
(3) The work when finished should not be  issued as Unesco’s official version of world  history. Unesco should furnish the conditions in  which the cultures of the world could meet. Any  judgment of values must be the responsibility of  the author. That should be the decisive point  in deciding whether or not Unesco should sponsor  the scheme. The final form must be such that  no one could invoke the authority of Unesco for  any interpretation, otherwise the horrible prospect  would have to be faced of the General Conference  trying to evaluate the cultural contributions of  different countries, as it at present evaluated the  importance of different points of the programme.  Unesco should confine itself to the more modest  role of initiator of the project, leaving the fore-  ground to the commercial publisher, if necessary  without even having its name on the title page.  [64] Mr. FEBVRE (France) read out the follow-  Ing project which the French and United King-  dom delegations had jointly drafted:
4.13 Te proceed immediately with the project for a  Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind by  appointing, with the approval of the International  Council of Scientific Union and the International  Council of Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, a  Commission to undertake on behalf of Unesco, full  responsibility for the preparation and execution of the  work, and also:
4.131 To prepare an abridged work .  Further, to amend the work plan [document 5C/
5 (Il), page 172, paragraph vi] as follows:  Under authority of Programme Resolutions 4.13 and
4.131, to request a Commission of not less than
10 members to prepare a revised plan for a work on  the Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind taking  into account the plan prepared by the Committee of  Experts, and such other suggestions as may have been  received; to conduct correspondence and call confer-  ences and meetings on the subject; if necessary, to  appoint directors and writers in connexion with the  project; and to report for the informations and com-  ments of the General Conference. To administer the  programme activities two posts (one grade 14 and  one grade 4) and travel for holding consultations on  various aspects of the work are required ($24,000).  Mr. Febvre recalled that the question had al-  ready been discussed on numerous occasions by  different organs of Unesco, and that an inter-  national committee of experts had been convened  to discuss the problem. He did not feel obliged  to reply forthwith to the various objections that  had been raised in that connexion, as the purpose  of the projects submitted by him was the appoint-  ment of a committee, whose members would be  specially chosen for their competence, to discuss  all the questions relating to the problem. In  Mr. Febvre’s view, that task was one of the most  important that could be undertaken by Unesco  for the achievement of its objects.  [65] Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  said that it was very important that this work  should be carried out by a body of scholars, and  that Unesco should not be responsible for the text.  This matter had been given exceptionally careful  consideration by the three co-operating bodies in  the United Kingdom, because they felt that, if the  work were well done, it would greatly enhance the  importance of Unesco in the world, but that if  it were badly done, Unesco would run just those  risks which had been mentioned by Professor  Nielsen, and which would be disastrous.  The United Kingdom delegation therefore  wanted the whole project replanned in conjunc-  tion with the two Councils set up for the purpose.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.