:  |  ;     important one, namely, that items, the execution  of which was only of secondary importance to  Unesco’s objectives, should be deleted. It would  be more appropriate to include a project on those  lines in the fundamental education programme,  rather than to leave it in its present position. It  was the type of work which should be under-  taken primarily by the National Commissions and  other authorities within each country.  [57] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) emphasized  that the International Bureau of Education was  hardly in a position to go beyond the field of  official education and that a large part of private  education lay outside its field. He therefore asked  for the rejection of the United States proposal.  That request was seconded by the delegations  of BURMA, SWEDEN and LIBERIA.  The United States proposal was rejected by
15 votes to 8.  [58] Professor BRANCA (Italy) pointed out that  the draft amendment which he had proposed, far  from being intended as a criticism against private  ELEVENTH  education, was simply aimed at obtaining infor-  mation about the living conditions of teachers.  Such information could be of great help in en-  couraging movements in favour of a codification  of the position of non-governmental teachers on  the economic as well as on the juridical planes.  [59] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) quite understood the intentions under-  lying the Italian proposal, but thought it would  be wiser not to add it to the programme in 1950.  In the first place, IBE was not equipped to  undertake a detailed enquiry in non-governmental  schools and, secondly, if the Secretariat were in-  structed to do this, it would mean too much work  and there would be budgetary implications.  Professor BRANCA (Italy) having withdrawn  his draft amendment, item 1.123 was adopted  as it stood.’  The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m.    = ——————
1. In final form: Resol. 1.124.  MEETING  Monday, 5 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. Roger Seypoux (France)  Speeding up Procedure.  [1] The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's  attention to the considerable volume of work  still outstanding: 222 resolutions, 14 special  reports, about 100 amendments. It would there-  fore be necessary to arrange two supplementary  meetings for Saturday, 10 June, two others for  Tuesday, 13 June, and three night meetings on the
7, 13 and 14 June. Even this would not suffice,  however, unless an accelerated procedure were  adopted immediately. In this connexion, the  Chairman made a number of proposals which were  adopted.  Discussion of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part IT].  i. Education (continued).  SECTION 1.12 (continued).  Item 1.122.  [2] In presenting his delegation’s amendment  [document 5C/95], Dr. HUXLEY (United King-
3  dom) suggested that the word “experimental”  should be deleted.  His study of the answers to the enquiry initiated  in 1949 had led him to insert in parentheses  “observational, experimental and evolutionary’,  because he had noted that for many people the  word ‘science’ indicated experimental science  only. The teaching of natural science on historical  and evolutionary bases had been little studied.  If the amendment appeared to be too long, he  would be willing to see the first and last parts  deleted, retaining only the following words:  To undertake, in collaboration with the International  Bureau of Education, enquiries into the teaching of  natural science (observational, experimental and  evolutionary) and the development of the scientific  attitude in primary and secondary schools.  [3] Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  was sure that the improvement of science teaching  was highly desirable. He nevertheless considered  that item 1.122 concerned the improvement of  educational processes, which was only slightly  relevant to the Unesco Programme. The subject
8                                     would be better left to national delegations and  National Commissions. He therefore moved the  deletion of item 1.122, together with the United  Kingdom amendment.  [4] + Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) informed the meeting that, in the opinion  of the Board, there should be no specification of  detail. The Board would welcome the deletion  of the last two lines of the United Kingdom  amendment. He felt that the proposed insertion  in parentheses was unnecessary.  [5] Professor CALO (Italy) feared that the  particulars mentioned in the British amendment  might give the impression that Unesco was taking  a stand for or against a given attitude—in the  problem of evolution, for example. Such an  impression would be unfortunate. He therefore  thought the present wording of the resolution  should be maintained, since it was conceived in  more general terms.  [6] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) considered that the  adoption of the United States proposal would  interrupt a number of enquiries into the teaching  of the natural sciences, which were part of a pro-  gramme now being carried out. It was desirable  that, in collaboration with IBE, Unesco should  make a comparative study of the various methods  of teaching in the sphere of the natural sciences.  He therefore proposed the retention of item 1.122.  The proposal of the United: States of America to  delete item 1.122 was seconded by the delegates of  BURMA and LIBERIA, and rejected by 23 votes  to 5.  The British amendment, seconded by the del-  egate of AUSTRIA, was rejected by 13 votes to 5.  Item 1.122 was therefore adopted without  amendment.’  Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) deplored the  abandonment of an enquiry in progress.  )  Buber Tasre III.1.B (1) [document 5C/5 (II),  page 80].  [7] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) understood  that, whether or not an expenditure ceiling had  been fixed, the report by the Budget Committee  was an interim document. The Committee had  made general comments, but had not given its  Views on any particular projects.  The CHAIRMAN replied that that interpreta-  lon was correct.  Budget table III.1.B (1) was adopted.  ——
1. In final form: Resol. 1.123.
329  IBE to give information in that connexion.
2.  SECTION 1.13 (SPECIAL RESEARCH AND STUDIES).  Item 1.131.  [8] Miss CHARLESWORTH (United Kingdom),  referring to page 87 of document 5C/5 (II),  enquired how much of the sum to be granted to  the International Bureau of Education was to be  devoted to the Conference on Public Education.  Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) informed her that the proposed contribu-  tion to the Conference was $1,000. A contribu-  tion would also be made to the cost of publica-  tion of reports.  Item 1.131 was adopted without change.”  Hem 1.132.  [9] Professor CALO (Italy) thought that items
4.211 and 4.212, appearing at present under the  chapter on Cultural Activities, should be inserted  after resolution 1.132.  The CHAIRMAN replied that this suggestion  would be considered when the Commission came  to study the items in question.  [10] Miss CHARLESWORTH (United King-  dom) suggested that it was not necessary for  She  therefore moved the deletion of the words “and  to invite the International Bureau of Education  to continue the general enquiry into the position  in this matter’.  [11] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) pointed out that  the original text merely invited the International  Bureau of Education to continue the general  enquiry into the present position with regard to  the ways of applying the principle of free com-  pulsory education. Consequently, the adoption of  this whole text would in no way prejudice the  publication of monographs which Unesco (and  not IBE) had intended to publish.  [12] Miss CHARLESWORTH (United Kingdom)  explained that the resolution dealt with two sub-  jects: the publication of monographs, and the  general enquiry. In her opinion, the latter could  be more successfully conducted by the Member  States themselves. She therefore maintained her  motion.  [13] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) said that Unesco would publish mono-  graphs in collaboration with National Commis-  sions and Member States and, secondly, that the  International Bureau of Education would continue  to bring up to date the work on which it had been  engaged since 1935.     In final form: Resol. 1.151.             [14] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) thought the  original text should be maintained, since the  International Bureau of Education had been en-  trusted with a general enquiry which was already  being carried out and which there was no reason  to interrupt.  The British amendment, seconded by the del-  egate of AUSTRALIA, was rejected by 20 votes to  D.  [tem 1.132 was therefore adopted without  amendment.’  Item 1.133.  [15] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) thought  that it should be specifically stated that the  Director-General was authorized “to prepare,  jointly with the International Bureau of Education  and the international women’s organizations,  a meeting of the Conference on Public Education,  etc. . .”  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was quite willing to  accept that insertion.  [16] Dr. ZOOK (United States of America)  recalled that, in September 1951, Mills College for  Women was to hold centenary celebrations. The  authorities of the College had asked his delega-  tion to bring that to the notice of Unesco and ask  for its co-operation in the convening of a confer-  ence on its premises. He explained that it was  not its intention to propose that a sum of money  should be voted for that purpose.  The CHAIRMAN stated that the Secretariat  would take note of the point raised by Dr. Zook.  [17] Professor CALO (Italy) seconded the Belgian  proposal. He wished, for his part, to draw  attention to the fact that, at the beginning of that  resolution (“to pursue the study of the problem  of the access of women to education . . .’), it  would be useful to define the term “education”  by adding “at all levels”.  [18] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL wondered  whether that addition might not weaken the appli-  cation of the resolution, since, in practice, the  question at issue in most of the Member States  was women's access to fundamental education.  The general formula should meet the wishes of  the Italian delegate.  [19] Professor CALO (Italy) replied that the for-  mula he had suggested would have the advantage  of implying that the proposed measures would be  applied to the extent that the various countries  could put them into effect. However, he noted  the explanations given by the Director-General and  withdrew his amendment.
1. In final form: Resol. 1.132.  The Belgian amendment, seconded by the del-  egate of BRAZIL, was adopted.  Item 1.133, thus amended, was adopted.’  New Item.
120] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to a pro-  posal by the United Kingdom delegation |docu-  ment 5C/94] for the re-insertion of an item which  had appeared in the draft Programme for 1951  submitted to the Executive Board at its Nineteenth  Session; the item was as follows:  To make available for Member States information on  the subject of school building in order to facilitate the  construction or reconstruction of large numbers of  schools.  [21] Miss CHARLESWORTH (United Kingdom)  stated that her delegation deplored the disappear-  ance of a resolution which was capable of pro-  ducing results and would, at the same time, be  inexpensive. Many governments were in a posi-  tion to give valuable assistance to others as re-  garded the construction or reconstruction of school  buildings.  [22] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that, in view of the additional  expense involved—the Secretariat had suggested  a figure of $8,000—the Board had not thought it  advisable to accept the additional resolution.  However, he hoped that Member States would use  the Clearing-house for that purpose.  Miss CHARLESWORTH (United Kingdom)  withdrew her amendment in the hope that the  matter would be reconsidered the following year.  Item 1.134.  [23] Miss CHARLESWORTH (United King-  dom) warned the meeting of the difficult nature  of the question. She doubted the possibility of  reaching any equivalence between university  degrees. Bilateral arrangements were the only  methods which might succeed.  Mr. ABRAHAM (France) thought that it was  perhaps ambitious to claim to “solve, so far as  possible, the problem of the equivalence of  university degrees”, at least in the Programme for
1951. He therefore suggested that the end of the  resolution should be amended as follows: “. . . to  undertake a study of the problem of equi-  valence. . .”  The CHAIRMAN proposed the formula: “. . . in  order to carry forward the study of the problem of  equivalence ” and Mr. ABRAHAM (France)  agreed.  Item 1.134, thus amended, was adopted.!
1. In final form: Resol. 1.133.
2. In final form: Resol. 1.134.
330               New ttem 1.136.  [24] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to an Italian  draft amendment [document 5C/30], proposing  the adoption of a new 1.136.  [25] Professor CALO (Italy) stated that the draft  resolution was based on the work of Professor  Licocchi, Director of the Pediatric Clinic in Flor-  ence. The school should play an important pari  in the education of will-power and the formation  of character; but very often school curricula  were so overloaded that they had unfavourable  repercussions both on the child’s physical devel-  opment and on the development of his person-  ality. It was time to react against this and to  ensure normal equilibrium in the development of  children during their early period of growth as  well as during puberty.  It might perhaps be preferable to replace “the  physical qualities in children” by “the physical  condition of children”.
126] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) explained with regret that the Board found  it impossible to advise the Programme and Bud-  get Commission to adopt the resolution, owing to  the increased expenditure which such research  would involve. The Board was of the opinion that  such an undertaking would overload the 1951  Programme. The project might be incorporated  in the programme of a subsequent vear.
127] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered that  the draft resolution contained an extremely impor-  tant idea, but one whose budgetary implications  would, owing to its very importance, exceed  Unesco’s present capacities. In these conditions,  and since the essential need was to provide the  Secretariat with a precise working basis, he asked  whether the Italian delegate would agree to the  following text: “Member States are invited to  undertake research. . .”  [28] Professor CALO (Italy) accepted that sug-  gestion; the essential thing was that the problem  should be put forward for consideration. How-  ever, it should be stated that such research must  be undertaken in order that Unesco might draw  the necessary conclusions and publish them.  The Italian amendment, thus amended and  seconded by the delegates of AFGHANISTAN,  BRAZIL, UNITED STATES of AMERICA,  FRANCE. NETHERLANDS, URUGUAY, VEN-  EZUELA and LIBERIA was adopted.’
1. In final form: Resol. 1.136.  SECTION 1.14 (CIRCULATION OF INFORMATION).  Ilem 1.141.  [29] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  hoped that the Bulletin, in its new form, would  include much information on adult education. He  also hoped that the integrated work of the Secre-  tariat, to which reference was made on page 95  of the Budget Estimates, would produce sufficient  information on adult education for it to be  possible, at some future date, to produce two  separate Bulletins, one on fundamental education  and the other on adult education.  Item 1.141 was adopted, as it stood.’  Item 1.142.  [30] Dr. STODDARD (United States of Amer-  ica), referring to the close connexion between  resolutions 1.142 and 1.361, presented a draft  amendment [document 5C/66| which was 1n-  tended to combine the two and carried no budget-  ary implications.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed, but won-  dered whether it would not be better to insert that  resolution instead of item 1.361.  Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) accepted  the suggestion.  It was agreed to defer consideration of this  question until the discussion of item 1.361, when  the Commission would also discuss the draft  resolution presented by the French delegation  [document 5C/62].  Item 1.143.  Adopted without discussion.”  SECTION 1.15 (PREPARATION AND EXCHANGE OF Epu-  CATIONAL MATERIAL).  Item 1.151.
131] Miss CHARLESWORTH (United Kingdom)  suggested that, there being three different matters  involved, the resolution should be sub-divided  into three distinct parts.  She further suggested the deletion of the word  “monthly”, in order that the Director-General  might thus enjoy greater freedom in the prepara-  tion of the documentation in question.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL having given his  assent, the above proposals were adopted and  item 1.151 was referred to the Drafting Committee  for final drafting.”
1. In final form: Resol. 1.14
2. In final form: Resol. 1.142:
3. In final form: Resol. 1.151 to 1.153.  fy  bl]  Kl  he         ;  E b   .     New SECTION (HUMANISTIC STUDIES).  [32] Dr. ARVELO TORREALBA (Venezuela),  presenting his delegation’s draft resolution [docu-  ment 5C/76], said that the roots of the crisis  prevailing were probably to be found in the  abandonment of methods and measures of general  cultural training. Some countries placed too  much emphasis on intellectual education.  Humanistic studies—by which he meant the study  not only of Greek and Latin classics but also of the  classics of all languages—should take a large place  in general training and could contribute much to  its equilibrium.     [33] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) sympathized with the intention of  Dr. Arvelo Torrealba, but could not advise the  Commission to include the matter in the Annual  Programme because it might be difficult to avoid  an extension of the practice in future. He there-  fore hoped that Mr. Arvelo Torrealba would not  press for its inclusion.  Dr. ARVELO TORREALBA (Venezuela) recog-  nized the difficulty but wondered whether the re-  solution might not be included in the Basic Pro-  gramine.  The CHAIRMAN realized the value of the  Venezuelan draft resolution. For this very reason,  however, he thought it should appear in the  Preamble.  Dr. ARVELO TORREALBA (Venezuela) accep-  ted that solution.  It was agreed to pass draft resolution 5C/76 to  the Rapporteur for insertion in the Preamble.  BunceT TarLE IIT.1.B (2) [document 5C/5 (I),  pages 84 and 85].  Adopted without discussion.
1.2 Extension of Education.  SECTION 1.21 (FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION AND ADULT  EDUCATION).  [34] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to draft  resolution 1.21 in document 5C/5 (I) Rev. -  Addendum.  [35] Dr. ARVELO TORREALBA (Venezuela)  seconded the draft resolution. The study of  regional conditions over a three-year period would  much facilitate fundamental education. He did  not wish to try to raise the illiterate masses to a  level beyond their reach. He was suggesting a  more modest and practical plan, through which  Unesco would be able to give its Member States  much help as regards methods of child education.  The draft resolution was adopted.?
1. In final form: Resol. 1.2111, 1.21111, 1.21112,
1.21114.  [36] Professor OZORIO de ALMEIDA (Brazil)  thought that it was also important to draw the  attention of Member States to the need for  introducing into their curricula the study of folk-  lore, which provided a basis for strengthening  both regional ties and international understand-  Ing.  [37] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was of the same  opinion. It might be added in the text of draft  resolution 1.21 (which was an invitation to Mem-  ber States) that national folk-lore should be taken  into account in research and experiments.  Dr. ARVELO TORREALBA (Venezuela) ac-  cepted this proposal, which was adopted.’  Item 1.211.  Adopted without discussion.?  SECTION 1.212 (TECHNICAL AID TO FUNDAMENTAL  EDUCATION AND ADULT EDUCATION UNDERTAKINGS).  Item 1.2121.  [38] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) presented his  delegation’s draft resolution [document 5C/86].  In view of the danger that might lie in pro-  grammes prepared in advance along preconceived  lines, and in view also of the short period allowed,  the experts should concern themselves chiefly  with training national personnel.  Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  agreed in principle.  [39] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought the  principle there was so important and its general  application so obviously necessary, that there  seemed to be little point in mentioning it specific-  ally in every resolution. However, he recognized  the particular interest of training national  personnel. In that connexion, the best formula  would probably be to specify that Member States  were invited to take advantage of the presence of  Unesco experts to plan with them the training of  national personnel.  Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) accepted that pro-  posal.  Item 1.2121, thus amended, was adopted.”  Items 1.2122 and 1.2123.  Adopted without discussion.”  Item 1.212).  [40] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to two  documents relating to this item. The first  In final form: Resol. 1.21113.  In final form: Resol. 1.2112.  In final form: Resol. 1.2121 and 1.21211.  . In final form: Resol. 1.2122 and 1.2123.     p o t
332                                 [document 5C/PRG/18] explained the setting  up of a regional Training and Production  Centre in Latin America. The second [document
5C/PRG/18, Annex I] set out the relevant draft  agreement between Unesco and the Mexican Gov-  ernment.  [41] In this connexion, the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL pointed out that the text of resolution
1.2124 went somewhat beyond the facts in speak-  ing of agreements concluded with the Government  of Mexico and the Organization of American  States. Those agreements had not yet been  signed, although the Mexican delegate’s reply  was expected in the very near future.  Item 1.2124 was adopted without change.’  SECTION 1.213 (INDIRECT AID).  [42] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to draft  resolution 1.213 contained in document 5C/5 (I)  Rev. - Addendum.  Adopted without discussion.”  Professor CALO (Italy) felt that the draft resolu-  tion submitted by his delegation on the education  of the blind [document 5C/31] should be inserted  at the beginning of section 1.213.  The CHAIRMAN replied that the Italian pro-  posal would be discussed after item 1.2151.  Item 1.2131.  Adopted without discussion.®  Item 1.2132.  [43] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  enquired whether other countries had the same  difficulty as the United Kingdom in finding  suitable experts for seminars lasting six weeks. It  would be much easier to provide experts for  shorter seminars. He suggested that the Director-  General should make enquiries among Member  States and National Commissions on the subject.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed with the  United Kingdom delegate that the question of the  duration of seminars was important. He asked the  Commission to revert to this question when dis-  cussing the general problem of seminars.  Item 1.2132 was adopted as it stood.‘  Item 7.2133.  [44] The CHAIRMAN read out a note from the  observer of the International Federation of  Workers’ Educational Associations.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had had occasion to  —
1. In final form: Resol. 1.2124.
2. In final form: Resol. 1.2131.
3. In final form: Resol. 1.2132 (first part).
4. In final form: Resol. 1.2132 (second part).
339  be present at the first meetings of the seminar in
1950. He had hoped to find more members of  workers’ associations among the delegates. Un-  fortunately, that had not been the case. Thus,  not all the resolutions taken at Beirut had been  carried out by Member States. That failure was  unfortunate, and the criticism of Unesco voiced  at the seminar in Paris seemed to be justified,  if the General Conference's recommendations  were to be treated only as pious hopes. The  Director-General therefore wished to associate  himself with the observer of the International  Federation of Workers’ Educational Associations,  and to express the hope that Unesco would effec-  tively and genuinely strengthen contacts with the  members of workers’ associations. There were  great opportunities in labour circles, which should  be seized by sending urgent invitations in that  sense to Member States.  [45] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) warmly  supported that proposal. He submitted a draft  recommendation to the effect that Member States  should be invited to associate representatives of  workers’ associations with the work of their  National Commissions.  Mrs. ROSS (Denmark) proposed also that Mem-  ber States should be asked to include representa-  tives of workers’ organizations in their delegations  to the General Conference.  The proposals made by Professor Verniers and  Mrs. Ross were adopted and referred for final  drafting to the Drafting Committee.  Item 1.2133 was adopted without change.?  SECTION 1.214 (WORK wiTH UNIVERSITIES).  Item 1.2141.  Adopted without discussion.”  Item 1.212.  [46] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) thought that the  whole section should be entitled “Collaboration  with universities and other institutes specialized  in the extension of education”. Similarly, it  should be specified in item 1.2142 that the object  was “to prepare a list of universities and other  institutions which collaborate in adult education  campaigns. . .”  [47] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL  the proposal was logical.  getary considerations militated against such an  activity. It would be impossible to prepare a list  of the universities and all the competent institutions  admitted that  Unfortunately, bud-
1. In final form: Resol. 1.2133.
2. In final form: Resol. 1.214]. ~~      i  |  |  |  :    tions without increasing the personnel engaged on  that work.  In any event, the Director-General assured the  delegate of France that, if the Secretariat were in  a position to amplify the list, it would do so. He  hoped that Mr. Abraham would be satisfied with  that assurance, thus avoiding the necessity of  adopting a resolution that could not be carried  out.  Mr. ABRAHAM (France) entirely understood  the budgetary considerations, and he proposed the  following change in his amendment: “to prepare  a list of universities and, if the need arises, of  other institutions which collaborate etc. . .”  Adopted.  [48] Miss CHARLESWORTH (United Kingdom)  thought that the universities themselves could be  entrusted with the preparation of monographs  which were factual and not matters of opinion.  She therefore suggested that the second half of  item 1.2142 should be amended to read: “ask  Member States to provide for the drafting of mono-  graphs by universities in order to provide guid-  ance and encouragement”.  [49] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out  that experience had shown that recommendations  were generally executed very slowly. If definite  action were required, it would therefore be neces-  sary to have funds available for the engagement  of specialists to prepare the studies and mono-  graphs required by Unesco.
150] As Miss CHARLESWORTH (United King-  dom) wished to maintain her draft amendment,  the CHAIRMAN stated that, as any recommenda-  tion directed to Member States required special  consideration, the matter would be deferred.  SECTION 1.215 (CO-ORDINATION OF THE WORK OF THE  UNITED NATIONS AND OF THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES).  Item 1.2151.  Adopted without discussion.’  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  |. In final form: Reso. 1.2151.  TWELFTH MEETING  Monday, 5 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  (Chairman: Mr. Roger Seynoux (France)  Discussion of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (M, Rev., Part II].  i. Education (continued).  SECTION 1.214 (continued) (Work with UNIVER-  SITIES ) .  |1] Returning to item 1.2141, Mr. MASSAQUOI  (Liberia) raised the question of Unesco’s activities  in the field of fundamental and adult education,  with particular reference to his own country,  where there were fourteen different clans, each  speaking its own dialect.  His Government was spending large sums on  the encouragement of university research into the  question, and the project should be of great  interest to Unesco. But he found, in fact, that  his colleagues on the Commission preferred to
334  deal only with universities of the European and  American type. The West African colleges were  not universities in the sense of the term accepted  in Europe and North America, but they were  doing as much and could provide very interest-  ing results in the linguistic and psychological  field of fundamental and adult education in  multi-lingual countries.  Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) expressed the strong sympathy of the Secre-  lariat with the point of view of the delegate ol  Liberia. He hoped that in 1951 his Department  would be able to send a representative to Liberia  to assist them in the collaboration for which they  had asked.  Bupcer Tasik II1.1.C. (1) [document 5C/5 (II),  page 91].  Adopted without discussion.  ae TE Ce 1 1             >