Administrative Director had been rejected to avoid  placing the administrative services in a position  of inferiority vis-à-vis the Programme Depart-  ments, which were not under a single Head.  The Director-General concluded by stating that  the solution adopted seemed to him to be from  all points of view the least bad which could be  found in the circumstances.  [22] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  wished to say that his apprehensions were greatly  relieved by the Director-General's statement. He  noted with great satisfaction his intention to hold  bi-weekly meetings with the Heads of Departments  and realized the colossal task the Director-General  was facing.  [23] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  was extremely grateful to the Director-General for  clarifying the position. He emphasized that the  problem of co-ordiriation within Unesco should  be the responsibility of every member of the Secre-  tariat.  [24] Professor SOMMERFELT (Norway) also  thanked the Director-General for his exposé which  would give a very satisfactory answer to the Nor-  wegian National Commission's preoccupations.  [25] Mr. JAWAD (Iraq) thought the course of  the Organization should be re-directed so as to put  more stress on its ends and less on the means  to achieve them.  The Commission decided to receive the Di-  rector-General’s report on the organization of the  Secretariat.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  ELEVENTH MEETING  Thursday, 8 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara CHanp (India)  Report of the Committee on Currency of  Contributions [document 5C/ADM/21].  [1] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) de-  clared that few Member States had applied for a  transfer to another category with regard to cur-  rency of their contributions. The report under  consideration applied only to contributions for
1951. Contributions from Member States were  divided into three categories:  (a) Paid in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling or  French francs:  (b) Paid in U.S. dollars;  (¢) Paid in Swiss francs. This last category  was limited to one country—Switzerland.  Brazil and Mexico had been transferred from  category (b) to (a).  Uruguay would remain in Category (b) during
1951, as it could pay in pesos for the Field Science  Co-operation Office established there.  The two new Member States, Indonesia and  Yugoslavia, had been accepted in category (a).  Korea and Hashemite Jordan had been recom-  mended for category (a) and Costa Rica for (b).  [2] The new percentage in hard currency at the
641  disposal of Unesco would be 44.92 per cent instead  of the 47.6 per cent which had been estimated as  necessary. However, in view of the proposed re-  duction in hard currency salary transfers, the  Committee felt this reduced hard currency bud-  get would suffice.  Sir Henry FRENCH stressed, however, that if  many more applications for transfer to soft cur-  rencies were received, the whole question of the  provision of hard currency by Member States  would have to be reviewed.  [3] The annex to document 5C/ADM/21 con-  tained a proposed resolution which was an amend-  ment of the resolution in document 5C/ADM/4;  this required the approval of the Administrative  Commission. The resolution stated the alterations  and additions to the different categories and  retained the part which enabled the Director-  General to accept contributions in national cur-  rencies when he deemed it advisable, at the best  prevailing rate of exchange against the U.S. dol-  lars.  Sir Henry FRENCH moved that this annex be  substituted for the resolution jin document
5C/ADM/4.  e e   A   = )   s i   ho   L a y      [4] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada), referring to para-  graph 10 of the report of the sub-committee, felt  that arrangements should be made to place  Member States in an equivalent position so far as  payments of contributions were concerned; there  was little justification of a continuation of the  present system.  In reply to an enquiry from Mr. JAWAD (Iraq),  the CHAIRMAN stated that Iraq had been placed  in category (a).  [6] Mr. RODRIGUEZ LARRETA (Uruguay) em-  phasized that the solution adopted as regards Uru-  guay’s payments was directly connected with the  existence in his country of a Field Science Co-  operation Office. If that Office were to be closed,  Uruguay would automatically revert to category  (b) for payment of its subscriptions.  The Uruguayan delegation asked most earnestly  that this solution, which was the result of an  ad hoc bargain, should be regarded as provisional  and applying only to the year 1951. For sub-  sequent years the delegation asked that Uruguay,  like Mexico and Brazil, be given the right to  request a change of category.  The CHAIRMAN made it clear that this solution  would in fact be deemed provisional.  [6] In reply to an enquiry from Mr. SMITH  (Australia), Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller)  explained that the limitation of the categories to  three, instead of four, had been a suggestion of  the Director-General and had no consequence on  Unesco's Budget.  The report was adopted unanimously.  Report of the Headquarters Commission  [document 5C/ADM/14].  [7] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed  out that this document was a report from the  Headquarters Commission and not from the  Director-General. The problem was to find a  method of financing the proposed building.  The SECRETARY explained that page 3 of the  document should be entitled: “Annex I — Esti-  mate of the Chief Architect of the Palais de  Chaillot for building the new Headquarters”.  [8] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wondered whe-  ther it would not be well to submit Mr. Carlu’s  estimate [Annex I of document 5C/ADM/14] for  consideration by an international group of  architects.  [9] Mr. SMITH (Australia) agreed in principle  with the desirability of Unesco having its own  building but felt that the present General Confer-  ence should not take a final decision. Member  States had at the moment insufficient information
642  on both the financial and location aspects.  Unesco was at present going through a difficult  period but it was hoped to reach before long  financial and staff stability; until that stage was  reached, no decision should be taken. He pro-  posed that further investigations be undertaken in  the coming year and that it be left to the Sixth  General Conference to take a final decision.  Agreeing with this view, Sir Henry FRENCH  (United Kingdom) proposed that the Director-  General be requested to make sure that all the  space available was actually used by Secretariat  members instead of being lent to delegations of  Member States and other international bodies as  at present.  [10] On an enquiry from the Chairman whether  the resolution which appeared on page 2 of docu-  ment 5C/ADM/14 was acceptable to members,  Mr. SMITH (Australia) stated that he could not  agree that an authorization should be given to the  Director-General to accept, with the approval of  the Headquarters Commission, a site and an  interest-free loan. No commitment of this type  should be made. He reminded members of the  discussion in the Budget Committee as to whether  it was permissible to draw certain amounts, as  provided for in paragraph (1) of the resolution,  from the Working Capital Fund.  [11] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Com-  mittee) declared that the Budget Committee had  taken no decision on the matter though it had  been suggested that if a special fund were set up  for building new Unesco Headquarters fees for  investigations should be drawn from that fund.  [12] The SECRETARY explained that two dif-  ferent sums had been discussed under paragraph
(11) of the resolution. The first sum was $5,000  in payment for the architect’s plans of the build-  ing. The second was $16,000, which would be  needed if it were decided to appoint a Board of  Design Consultants to discuss the plans submitted.  If the Commission decided that no commitment  must be made at present, then it would not be  necessary to provide this latter amount. Any  sums now drawn from the Working Capital Fund  would be reimbursed to that Fund when the  appropriation for the construction of the building  was decided upon.  [13] Dr. El DIWANY (Egypt) thought that an  instruction to the Director-General to pursue  discussions with the French Government would  be a merely nominal solution and would be equi-  valent to referring the question to the Sixth Gen-  eral Conference.  The French Government could make land  available to Unesco but the available areas were                      free now and as things were today they could not  remain unused indefinitely pending a decision by  the 1951 Conference.  [14] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew  attention to the real estate situation in Paris; the  Organization would receive very few offers of  sites if it had not the power to enter into a com-  mitment.  The Director-General had pointed out that  Unesco’s present premises were unsatisfactory  from the point of view of efficiency and there was  definite need of a new building. As an interim  measure, the annex to the Hotel Majestic had been  rented, but that did not solve space problems in a  satisfactory manner.  [15] Mr. SMITH (Australia) reminded mem-  bers that while he accepted the principle of the  desirability of building a new headquarters, he  thought it would create a bad impression if the  Organization declared it was unable to carry out  certain urgent programme activities owing to lack  of funds and then spent approximately $4,500,000  on new premises.  He proposed an amendment to the resolution  on page 2 of document 5C/ADM/14, to the effect  that, while the Commission approved in principle  the provision of a new building for the head-  quarters of the Organization, it felt that, in view  of the financial situation, it was not opportune to  take a final decision at present.
116] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) admitted the ad-  ministrative economies that would ensue from the  construction of an appropriate headquarters and  felt that the additional cost above the present  rental paid would not be excessive. However, he  stressed that further negotiations and investiga-  tions were necessary before any commitment  could be made and that Member States should  have full information on all aspects of the ques-  tion.  [17] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America),  declaring the willingness of his Government to  support the original resolution, enquired whether  the resolution proposed by the delegate of  Australia would impede negotiations for a site  and an interest-free loan. He felt the creation of a  Board of Design Consultants inadvisable, but  suggested that Government architects from Mem-  ber States be called in for the examination of  plans proposed by the chief French architect.  [18] The  pointed out  was formed  and  DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL  that the Headquarters Commission  of representatives of Member States  it was disturbing that the Administrative  Commission now proposed that the Director-
643  General, in consultation with the Headquarters  Commission, should not be allowed to go beyond  the negotiation stage.  [19] Dr. El DIWANY (Egypt) said he under-  stood that the French Government would be pre-  pared (1) to grant Unesco a site free of charge;
(2) to grant a long-term loan free of interest, re-  payment being spread over as much as twenty  or twenty-five years. If this was so, the differ-  ence between the rent now paid and the yearly  payments under the new scheme would be very  small. He accordingly felt that, if Unesco were  to receive a suitable offer from the French Gov-  ernment, the Director-General should he author-  ized to consult the Executive Board with a view  to an immediate decision.  [20] Mr. de GODOY (Brazil) was surprised at  the hesitation displayed by some members of the  Commission. He had thought that there was  agreement already on the need for Unesco to  build headquarters of its own and that the only  problem was exactly how this was to be carried  out.  He agreed with the Egyptian delegate that a  difference of $70,000 per year between the pre-  sent rent and the proposed annual payments was  very small. He disagreed completely, however,  with the United States delegate’s suggestion that  action in 1951 should be confined to meetings of  government architects.  In his view, the problem was not merely one  of finance or of erecting a building for use as  offices, but rather of creating a work of art which  might be epoch-making in architecture and which,  from this point of view, laid on Unesco certain  artistic responsibilities.  He accordingly supported the Secretariat's sug-  gestion regarding the continuance of negotiations  and the acceptance of an offer of a loan.  [21] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  stressed that there was a fundamental difference  between the resolution originally proposed and  that of the delegate of Australia; this hinged on  the word “accept. If the Director-General  accepted a site and a loan, then Unesco was under  a moral obligation to build, and he wished to  know from where the necessary funds would  come.  [22] Mr. SMITH (Australia), reverting to the  statement of the Deputy Director-General,  declared that representatives of Member States  forming part of the Headquarters Commission had  not been able to receive instructions from their  governments as no detailed information on the  project and its cost had been made available to  these governments.    [23] Dr. MASON (New Zealand) asked whether  the real estate position would be worse in one  year's time than now, and did not find pre-  cipitate action advisable.  [24] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) declared his Gov-  ernment ready to approve the construction of a  new building. He asked whether there had been  any negotiations so far on a site and an interest-  free loan. The acceptance of a site did not neces-  sarily commit Unesco to start construction, which  could be left till after the Sixth Session of the  General Conference.  [25] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) emphas-  ized that the problem had two facets. (1) First  of all, a site had to be found in Paris within the  circuit of the outer boulevards. As things were  today, there were very few sites available in this  area and consequently the time factor was im-  portant. It would be difficult for the French  Government to do anything without having re-  ceived, 1f not formal assurances, at least some  degree of assurance from Unesco justifying its  taking a years option on a site. (2) Pending a  firm decision, the question of a loan, too, was  not easy to solve. If it was difficult for Unesco to  give formal assurances without knowing the  actual conditions of any loan, it was also difficult  for the French Government to consider a loan  without having any details in its possession.  In reply to the delegate of Canada, the speaker  said that the negotiations undertaken with the  Ministry of Finance in the latter connexion had  taken a favourable turn and could be completed  rapidly if the Conference took a formal decision.  The meeting could rest assured that the problem  could be satisfactorily solved in both its aspects,  given a positive reply from Unesco.  [26] Dr. El DIWANY (Egypt) felt he should  correct a reference by the Chairman to his (the  speaker's) earlier remarks. He had said he was  in favour of accepting the French Government’s  offer; that, however, did not imply that the erec-  tion of the building must be undertaken forth-  with. A considerable time would necessarily  elapse between acceptance and the completion of  the plans for building.  [27] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  could not agree to the Director-General being  authorized to accept a site and interest-free loan  before the next meeting of the General Confer-  ence, as Unesco would then be committed to build  at an early date. However, he thought the  Director-General should be authorized to obtain  from the French Government a clear understand-  ing that they would grant to Unesco such a site  and loan.  [28] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) suggested the  following amendment to paragraph (i) of the re-  solution proposed by the Headquarters Commis-  sion [document 5C/ADM/14, page 2]:  To continue negotiations with the French Govern-  ment and, with the approval of the Headquarters  Commission, to take an option on a sile and accept  an interest-free loan for a suitable period of time.  The French motion, supported by the delegates of  AUSTRALIA, CANADA, the UNITED KINGDOM  and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, was  unanimously adopted.  [29] In reply to a question by the DEPUTY  DIRECTOR-GENERAL, Mr. GUIGNOLET (France)  said he did not think that exact details regarding  the proposed building could be supplied to the  Sixth Session of the General Conference unless the  site had been definitely chosen.  [30] It was agreed that it was unnecessary to  have the construction proposals examined by an  international board of design consultants before  the Sixth Session of the General Conference, and  paragraph (11) of the resolution contained on  page 2 of document 5C/ADM/14 was therefore  adopted.  Provision of Space and Facilities at Unesco  House to Member States and International  Organizations [document 5C/ADM/15].  [31] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  found it undesirable that so much space in the  Unesco building was devoted to persons other than  Secretariat members, and proposed the following  motion:  The Director-General is instructed to take steps as  soon as possible in order to obtain vacant possession  of all parts of the existing buildings which are at  present occupied by delegates of Member States and by  bodies other than Unesco itself, alternatively, in any  exceptional case where the Director-General is of  opinion that the present occupation is desirable in the  interests of Unesco, he shall be free to allow this to  continue provided that a proper tenancy agreement  be entered into, including the payment of a com-  mercial rent from an early date.  [32] Mr. SMITH (Australia) seconded this mo-  tion, with the proviso that, as some non-gov-  ernmental organizations housed at Unesco re-  ceived grants from Unesco, it would be necessary  to increase these grants by the amount of the  estimated rent, or rather to mention the amount  of estimated rent in the terms of their grants.
133] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL  pointed out that the work of those organizations  was to assist in the implementation of Unesco's
644                 programme and they must maintain very close  contact with Unesco. It would therefore seem  undesirable to charge them rents.  [34] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  asked the Director-General to reconsider whether  the presence of those institutions on the premises  was necessary, and advocated leaving the final  decision to his discretion.  [35] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) indicated  that under a recent decision of the Official and  External Relations Commission subventions to in-  ternational non-governmental organizations could  take the form of the provision of premises in  Unesco House and that such facilities would not  require formal agreements.  Incidentally, the provision of accommodation  was proving extremely useful both for non-  governmental organizations and for Unesco, as  the working relations between them were very  close and it was in their interest to be accom-  modated in the same building.  Now that Unesco was in possession of the  Annex to the Hotel Majestic, it had more than  sufficient accommodation for its own needs and  would certainly be in a position to accommodate  delegations and non-governmental organizations  until such time as it could install itself in the  building whose erection was under consideration.  [36] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  requested that the Director-General assess the  relationship between the programme departments  of Unesco and the non-governmental organiza-  tions housed in the building. He agreed that  TWELFTH  my - c Rt li NT C3 "pe Page PA  delegations of Member States should pay rent for  space and facilities.  [37] It was agreed that the estimated rental  amount should be mentioned in the terms of  Unesco grants to non-governmental organizations.  [38] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked  the Commission to take into account that some  Member States found difficulty in paying their  contributions and the establishment of rents  might preclude their maintaining close contact  with Unesco and thus impede the development of  the Organizations’s work in those States.  Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) did not think the  argument applied to the Member States listed as  occupying space in Unesco House. He enquired  whether it was proposed to charge “commercial”  or “adequate” rents.  Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) thought that Mem-  ber States might maintain sufficiently close con-  tact with Unesco through their Embassies or  Legations.  [39] In reply to a question by Mr. Pollock  (Canada) and a similar enquiry from Mr. de  Godoy (Brazil), the CHAIRMAN stated that there  was a motion to charge adequate rent for space  occupied by delegations of Member States; the  actual amounts would be left to the Director-  General's direction.  The motion was unanimously adopted.  A further motion, that the list of non-  governmental organizations occupying space in the  Unesco building should be reviewed by the  Director-General was unanimously adopted.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara Carano (India)  Second report of Committee No. 1 [document
5C/ADM/24].  Section I.  SUB-SECTION (a).  [1] Mr. SMITH (Australia), Rapporteur, said  that the Committee had taken into account the  views expressed in this matter by representatives  of the Staff Association, and had unanimously  agreed on resolution No. 1. He wished to  emphasize that the Director-General was instructed  to bear in mind social security and related benefits  in fixing the scale, and not consider it as a bare  salary scale.