SECOND MEETING  Tuesday, 23 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: S. Ex. Mr. Proceso SEBASTIAN (Philippines)  Later: Professor JAkoB NIELsEn (Denmark)  Draft Amendment to Paragraph 3 of Arti-  cle V of the Constitution [document 5C/  PRO/2].  [1] The SECRETARY pointed out that the  amendment proposed in document 5C/PRO/2 has  been considered by the General Conference at its  Fourth Session, with a view to making the term  of office of members of the Executive Board  coincide with the interval between the annual  sessions of the Conference, so that members of the  Board would relinquish office immediately after  the close of the Third Session of the General Con-  ference following their election. It was therefore  a question of replacing the fixed term of three  years by a variable term corresponding to the  interval between three regular sessions of the  General Conference. That proposal, contained in  document 5C/PRO/2, had been submitted to  Member States. A number of favourable answers  had already reached the Secretariat, and no  objections had yet been received.
12] Mr. HEWITSON (Union of South Africa)  said his Government had no objection to the pro-  posed amendment as it stood; there was, how-  ever, the possibility of consequential amendments  if the General Conference decided to hold bien-  nial sessions.  The draft amendment to paragraph 3 of Article V  of the Constitution [document 5C/PRO/2,  page 2], was adopted unanimously.’  Draft Amendment to Rules 95, 96 and 97  of the Rules of Procedure [document 5C/  PRO/4].  [3] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) proposed that the  Committee should straightway examine the draft  amendment to Rules 95, 96 and 97 of the Rules  of Procedure, so as to harmonize them with
1. In final form: Resol. 40.1.
6 e) 9  Article V of the Constitution, which hac just been  amended.  The draft amendment to Rules 95, 96 and 97  of the Rules of procedure [document 5C/PRO/4]  was adopted by 25 votes to none."  Draft Amendment to Rule 22 of the Rules  of Procedure [document 5C/PRO/3].  [4] The SECRETARY said that the Credentials  Committee had noted that the credentials of a  large number of delegates were signed, not by  the Head of the State or by the Minister for  Foreign Affairs (was provided by Rule 22 of the  Rules of Procedure), but by other Ministers,  particularly by the Minister of Education. At the  Fourth Session of the General Conference, the  Credentials Committee had requested that Rule 22  be amended so that the credentials of delegates  could be regarded as valid, even if they were  signed by a Minister other than the Minister for  Foreign Affairs.  Certain international organizations  tended that power to other Ministers.  [5] Professor KUSEJ (Yugoslavia) did not think  that every Minister was qualified to issue cre-  dentials to those representing his country at  Unesco’s General Conference. The principle of  “Ministerial solidarity” could not be invoked in  such a case, and only those Ministers who main-  tained relations with Unesco should be regarded  as having such a power, the Prime Minister, the  Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister of  Education.
16] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the  Secretariat had asked various Specialized Agencies  to supply information concerning the policy they  adopted in the matter.  [7] Mr. DAVIES (Australia) said that his dele-  gation did not see the appropriateness of making  had ex-
1. In final form: Resol. 40.21 to 40.23.          an amendment of the nature proposed. As far as  they could see, international conferences were a  matter of external affairs, which usually came  under the jurisdiction of the Minister for Foreign  Affairs or of the Head of the Government. He  agreed with Professor Kusej, and the Australian  delegation was in favour of maintaining Rule 22  as it stood. If an amendment was thought neces-  sary, Mr. Davies suggested adding the words “the  Head of the Government”.  [8] Mr. CAIN (France) thought it would be wise  to adopt the Australian delegate’s suggestion,  which, by extending the power to the Head of the  Government as well as to a member of the Gov-  ernment, widened the possibilities of choice, while  maintaining the desirable element of unity.  [9] Although he saw the relevance of the objec-  tions raised by Professor Kusej, Dr. HUXLEY  (United Kingdom) thought that, to bring Unesco  into line with the other Agencies, the ideal solu-  tion, and one which would give sufficient  flexibility without too wide a choice, would be to  do as the other Agencies were doing. He proposed  the following amendment: “The credentials of  delegates and alternate delegates shall be issued  either by the Head of the State or of the Gov-  ernment, or by an appropriate Minister.”  [10] Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) thought the  Australian proposal too limited. He therefore  supported the United Kingdom proposal.  Mr. MAHMASSANI (Lebanon) also supported  the United Kingdom proposal, but he did not  think the Committee could invoke the principle of  “ministerial solidarity”, which was peculiar to  parliamentary systems. It should therefore be  specified that the power was to be granted to a  competent Minister, the Minister for Foreign  Affairs or the Minister of Education.  [11] Mr. ZEREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) agreed  with Mr. Mahmassani so far as “ministerial  solidarity” was concerned, but thought that the  credentials of delegates should be issued only by  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who alone was  qualified to deal with international organizations.  [12] Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) supported the  United Kingdom proposal. Unesco must avoid  imposing on Member States rules which were too  strict, and it would be better to allow them some  latitude in choosing the Minister they considered  best qualified.  [13] Dr. KADHIM (Iraq) considered that, in  order to facilitate Unesco’s work, the right to sign  credentials should be granted to other Ministers  as well as to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.  [14] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) wished to  make it clear that, in the United Kingdom, it was  not the Foreign Minister who appointed delegates  to the Conference, but the Minister of Education.  He reminded the Committee that other Special-  ized Agencies had a more flexible procedure and  found it appropriate.  [156] Mrs. BRUNAUER (United States of Amer-  ica) said that her delegation was content with the  present Rule 22. They agreed with the United  Kingdom proposal as amended by the delegate of  Belgium and suggested the following wording:  The credentials of delegates and alternate delegates  shall be issued by the Head of the State or the  Minister for Foreign Affairs; except that when the  Minister for Foreign Affairs of a Member State has  filed with the Director-General a statement that some  other member of the government is authorized  according to the laws of that country to issue such  credentials, they shall be acceptable by the Organiza-  tion as properly issued.  Dr. SOMMARUGA (Liberia) seconded the United  States proposal.  [16] Professor KUSEJ (Yugoslavia) said that, as  Unesco was an international organization, the  Head of the Government and the Minister for  Foreign Affairs were competent to grant the  credentials in all countries, whether the principle  of “ministerial solidarity” was recognized by them  or not. But as Unesco was also a cultural organ-  ization, the Minister of Education also seemed to  be qualified, the only difficulty being that this  latter title did not in all countries always  designate the competent Minister. The best  solution would therefore be to propose that  “the credentials of delegates shall be issued  by the Head of the State, or by the Head of the  Government, or by the Minister for Foreign  Affairs, or by the Minister of National Education  or other competent Minister”. The Minister of  Fine Arts, for instance, could be designated as a  competent Minister.  [17] The CHAIRMAN thought there was general  acceptance of the principle to authorize not only  the Head of the State, but also the Minister for  Foreign Affairs or some other appropriate person  to sign credentials, and he proposed the appoint-  ment of a drafting sub-committee.  It was decided to appoint a drafting sub-  committee of seven members, composed of the  delegates of Australia, Belgium, France, the United  Kingdom, the United States of America, Venezuela  and Yugoslavia, to draw up a text designating the  appropriate person to sign credentials.                       Draît Amendment to Rules 52 and 55 of the  Rules of Procedure (Working Languages),  presented by the Mexican delegation [docu-  ment 5C/PRO/5].  [18] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) said that,  after Spanish had been admitted as a spoken work-  ing language by Unesco’s General Conference at  Beirut, it had been adopted in turn by the United  Nations (December 1948), by FAO (December
1949) and by ILO (1950). The latter organiza-  tions, however, had adopted it not only as a  spoken language, but also as a written language.  The Mexican delegation had recommended the  General Conference at its last Session to adopt a  similar policy.  Mr. Castro Leal emphasized that Spanish was  spoken by 155,000,000 persons in more than  twenty countries. Unesco, an organization  devoted to culture, should take that fact into con-  sideration so as to associate more closely with its  work those masses of people who had always  shown the deepest concern for cultural progress.  The sole object of his proposal was to complete  the arrangements made at the Beirut Conference  by authorizing the use of Spanish, not only as a  spoken language for certain conferences, but as  a full working language, as had already been done  by the United Nations.  [19] Mr. DRAGO (Honduras) warmly supported  Mr. Castro Leal’s proposal. The most recent inter-  national broadcasting congresses had recognized  Spanish as the world language spoken by the  greatest number of persons after English. Its  adoption by Unesco was indispensable from the  point of view of equity and so would not constitute  a concession. It was impossible to reject Spanish  while recognizing other languages that were no  doubt illustrious, but were spoken by only a  relatively small élite and not by some hundred  million persons, as was the case with Spanish.  [20] Mr. CALDERON (Peru) fully supported the  views of the delegates of Mexico and Honduras.  The fact must also be considered that Spanish was  not only a language spoken by more than
100,000,000 people, but also a very important  vehicle of human culture to which scholars and  universities of all countries devoted special stud-  les. This being so, he wondered how Unesco,  which was eminently a cultural organization,  could ignore the universality of the Spanish  language.  [21] Although fully appreciating the substance  of the Mexican delegate’s arguments, Professor  GLEDITSCH (Norway) was unable to support his  proposal, for it was necessary to take into account  practical considerations which rendered it dif-
661     ficult to implement. The adoption of Spanish as  a permanent working language would involve  very great expenditure and necessitate an increase  in the Secretariat's budget, which seemed quite  impossible at the present time. Moreover, the  duration of proceedings with consecutive inter-  pretation would thereby be considerably length-  ened, which was hardly desirable. Lastly, since  all the delegates understood and spoke French or  English, it seemed useless to have a translation  into a third language, for that might detract from  the intimate atmosphere of the discussions, which  largely depended on the direct expression of  opinions.  [22] Professor DURING (Sweden) associated  himself with the opinion expressed by Professor  Gleditsch. The reasons put forward by  Mr. Castro Leal were weighty, but so were those  on the other side. In the view of the Swedish  delegation, it was more practical for Unesco to  keep to two working languages. The Swedish  Government and people had most intimate rela-  tions with South America and the Spanish-  speaking peoples, and the deepest reverence for  their language and culture; but French and  English had not been chosen for any other than  practical reasons.  [23] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) agreed  with Professors Gleditsch and Diiring; a rejection  of the Mexican delegation’s proposals should not  be taken in any sense as an insult to the Spanish  language or culture. The chief concern was how  best to complete the business of the General Con-  ference with the limited time and money at its  disposal. Although there were fourteen States,  the Spanish-speaking Members of Unesco, taken  together, contributed roughly 4 per cent of  Unesco’s total budget; yet the cost of the project  would far exceed that amount. Finally, there was  the question of principle, raised in one sense by  Professor Gleditsch, that an international organ-  ization should try to use the minimum number of  languages, for once the door was open to one  further language, others would inevitably be asked  for, and it would be difficult to refuse.  For these reasons, the United Kingdom delega-  tion found itself compelled to vote against the  Mexican proposal.  [24] Professor SAGLAM (Turkey) said that in  Beirut he had already opposed the proposal, which  he thought would involve considerable expenditure  and much time. Moreover, it would establish a  dangerous precedent, as each Member State could  in its turn ask for similar arrangements for its  own language, which might considerably hamper  the proper functioning of Unesco. Although he           ;       himself experienced the same difficulties as his  Latin-American colleagues in expressing himself  in a foreign language, he maintained the point of  view he had expressed at Beirut, and would  oppose the adoption of the Mexican delegate’s  proposal.  [25] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) pointed  out that it was not the business of the Committee  to discuss the cultural value of the Spanish  language, since that could not be called in ques-  tion; nor was it to prevent the mass of the  Spanish-speaking peoples in any way from col-  laborating in Unesco’s work. Unesco’s Courier  had long been published in Spanish; and the  translation into Spanish of other Unesco publica-  tions which aimed at promoting cultural progress  in the Latin-American countries was quite a dif-  ferent question from the one now before the Com-  mittee, namely the use of Spanish as a working  language of Unesco’s General Conference.  He thought that the Committee should consider  only the practical aspect of the problem: it was  a question of facilitating the business of inter-  national meetings attended by the representatives  of governments which had to decide on a pro-  gramme of action in the shortest possible time  and with the minimum of expenditure. Certain  countries, including France, had always been  concerned to reduce administrative expenditure  to a minimum, so as to devote the greatest pos-  sible part of the budget to programme activities.  It was in that practical spirit that the French  delegation would associate itself with the delega-  tions of Norway, Sweden, Turkey and the United  Kingdom, and vote against the Mexican proposal.  [26] Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) said the Mexican  proposal was first mentioned at the Mexico City  Conference, again at Beirut and again in Paris;  he believed it had been received with sympathy  by other delegates, but the only result of all the  discussions seemed to be requests for a delayed  decision. Unesco’s aim was to reach the masses,  and his delegation considered that the most ade-  quate vehicle to that end was a language which  they understooa. Dr. Chediak considered it  absolutely necessary and vital for Unesco’s needs  that the Mexican delegation’s proposal should be  adopted.  Other speakers had said that the greatest  obstacle was expense; the Director-General had  studied the problem, and figures were given in  document 5C/PRO/5; it would therefore be un-  necessary to re-submit the question to the Budget  Committee. It had also been said that, if Spanish  were used, it would delay Unesco’s work; but at  that time, the United Nations had not taken a  decision regarding the use of Spanish as a working  language; its use had, however, since been  approved by the United Nations and other Special-  ized Agencies. It would be lamentable to para-  lyse Unesco’s work for budgetary reasons, yet  that was what would happen if Spanish did not  become an official working language. The coun-  tries of Latin America wished to be extremely  friendly towards Europe, and French and English  were used in their conferences; it was thought  that there should be a certain amount of  reciprocity in Europe.  The CHAIRMAN adjourned the discussion.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  THIRD MEETING  Saturday, 27 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Professor JAkoB NierLsen (Denmark)  Agenda of the Committee.  [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Com-  mittee would have to add the consideration of  three additional questions ‘to the agenda:
(1) A United States draft resolution on bien-
662  nial sessions of the General Conference |[docu-  ment 5C/16];
(2) A United States draft resolution concerning  the status of Associate Members of Unesco [docu-  ment 5C/20];
(3) The general question of the rules govern-