SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE OFFICIAL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS  COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Wednesday, 24 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Luis A. BARALT Y ZACHARIE (Cuba)  Opening of the Session.  [1] The CHAIRMAN expressed his sincere  gratitude to the delegates who had honoured him  with the Chairmanship of the Commission. He  recalled that the Officers of the Commission had  already been appointed by the Nominations Com-  mittee.  Adoption of the Agenda [document 5C/OXR/1].  The Provisional Agenda [document 5C/OXR/1]  was adopted.  Future policy with regard to annual reports  by Member States [document 5C/OXR/3].  [2] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) recalled that, following a decision taken  by the Fourth Session of the General Conference,  the Executive Board had, at its Twentieth Session,  suggested four possible solutions. These were set  out under Section IV on page 3 of document 5C/  OXR/3. It was now for the Commission to decide  one of these solutions.  [3] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) asked  whether, at their recent meeting, the representa-  tives of National Commissions had considered the  desirability, as a future policy, of examining the  Reports of Member States for the purpose of ex-  tracting their main ideas.  Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Ser-  vice) replied that no such question had been  raised at the meeting of representatives of National  Commissions, as they had not known what pro-  cedure would be adopted by the Conference.
513  In the circumstances, Professor VERNIERS  (Belgium) moved that the Commission should  formally propose that reports of Member States  should be examined each year by the representa-  tives of National Commissions, meeting before the  opening of the General Conference.  [4] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  stated that his delegation attached great import-  ance to the annual reports of Member States, and  hence to the procedure to be adopted for their  examination. The matter had been before the  General Conference on several previous occasions  and no decision had been reached. The United  States delegation regretted that the report con-  tained in document 5C/OXR/3 did not constitute  an adequate basis for a discussion of the merits  or demerits of the four alternatives suggested on  page 3. However, his delegation had carefully  considered these four alternatives and had reached  the following conclusions: (1) the present system  of examining the reports in plenary session had  already been tried and found unsatisfactory;
(2) the Executive Board was too occupied by other  responsibilities to be able to give the reports the  careful consideration which they required;
(3) it would be inappropriate for reports from  Member Governments to be examined by members  of National Commissions, who in many cases were  not governmental representatives; the reports  should be examined by an inter-governmental  body.  There remained, therefore, the suggestion that  the reports should be examined by a special com-  mittee of the General Conference. The United  States delegation would be prepared to accept that  suggestion with a slight amendment: that the  report be examined by a special committee of the            Official and External Relations Commission which  might also examine many inter-related problems,  such as the usefulness of the reports and the pro-  cedure for their examination in the future.  [5] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that,  while feeling considerable sympathy for the  Belgian proposal, his delegation was in general  agreement with the United States delegation. The  United Kingdom delegation would prefer, how-  ever, to maintain alternative (2) in its original  form.  [6] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) thought  that alternatives (1) and (3) should be eliminated  for the reasons explained by Mr. Mulliken.  Personally, he would gladly accept a compromise,  namely to adopt Mr. Mulliken’s proposal, adding  representatives appointed by the National Com-  missions as advisers to the members of the Special  Committee.  [7] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) seconded  the proposal made by the United Kingdom dele-  cate, and stressed the need for a thorough and  unhurried examination of the reports. He con-  sidered that a too complicated procedure for nom-  ination of such a committee was undesirable:  therefore he was not prepared to support the Bel-  gian proposal.  [8] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) regretted  that he was unable to support proposals which,  although based on a consideration of facts, led to  faulty conclusions. Reports of Member States  were undoubtedly very important, and it was  obvious that they were given insufficient atten-  tion during the discussions of the General Con-  ference. The only effective measure would be to  invite Member States, in preparing their reports,  to follow more closely the procedure laid down  by the Conference. Mr. Mulliken’s proposal to  entrust the examination of the reports to represen-  tatives of Member States encountered the difficulty  that those representatives were under instructions  from their governments, so that they would have  no choice but to defend their country’s report.  This did not apply to the National Commissions,  which, as a group, represented Unesco’s con-  science.  Finally, therefore, if the Commission decided  not to maintain the existing procedure, which  would be the most reasonable solution, Mr. de  Lacharrière would willingly support the procedure  proposed by Professor Verniers. Failing that he  would agree to the reports being examined by the  Executive Board, which, in spite of its heavy tasks,  had shown that it could carry out any additional  responsibilities imposed upon it.  Proposal (1) [document 5C/OXR/3, page 3]  was rejected by 11 votes to 6.  [9] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  announced that his delegation would withdraw  its amendment to the second alternative and sup-  port the United Kingdom proposal to maintain the  original text.  Proposal (2) was adopted by 14 votes to b.  [10] The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Com-  mission wished to vote on proposals (3) and (4).  Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) observed that  proposal (4) should have been put to the vote first,  since it implied the greatest change.  [11] Mr. DAVIES (Australia) stated that his  delegation would vote against the fourth proposal  as not being in accordance with Article IV, para-  graph 6 of the Constitution; the adoption of such  a procedure in the future would necessitate an  amendment to the Constitution.  Proposal (4) was rejected by 18 votes to 3, and  I abstention.  Proposal (3) was also rejected.  [12] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) pointed out that proposal (2) just  adopted could be applied during the current Ses-  sion if it were ratified by the General Conference.  He therefore hoped that delegates would agree to  request the Chairman to transmit the proposal to  the General Committee. Agreed.  Resolutions adopted by the General Assembly  of the United Nations on education problems  in the non-self-governing territories |docu-  ment 5C/OXR/5].  [13] Mr. BERKELEY (External Relations Ser-  vice) announced that, at its Nineteenth and  Twenty-First Sessions, the Executive Board had  considered the important group of resolutions  adopted by the General Assembly of the United  Nations, as set forth in Annexes I and II to docu-  ment 5C/OXR/5. As stated in the third paragraph  on page 1 of document 5C/OXR/5 - Add. 1, the  Executive Board, realizing that enquiries carried  out in pursuance of the resolutions would have  budgetary implications, recommended that the  proposals presented by the Director-General and  the question of their budgetary implications  should be submitted to the Programme and Bud-  get Commission and to the Budget Committee,  which would then report back to the Official and  External Relations Commission.  It was decided to submit the matter to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission and to the Bud-  get Committee, and to await their reports.
74                   Collaboration with the Trusteeship Council [docu-  ment 5C/OXR/6].  [14] The draft resolution at the bottom of  page 3 of document 5C/OXR/6 was adopted by
20 votes to none.’  Consideration of the Provisional Agreement be-  {ween the International Bureau of Education and  Unesco [document 5C/OXR/7].  [15] Professor SOMMERFELT (Executive Board)  stated that the Board considered collaboration be-  tween Unesco and the International Bureau of  Education to be very satisfactory, and therefore  submitted to the Conference the draft resolution  [document 5C/OXR/7, page 2] proposing that the  Agreement between the two Organizations should  be extended for a period of twelve months.  [16] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  announced that his delegation had examined the  Provisional Agreement contained in Annex I and  desired further information on certain points be-  fore approving the resolution. Mr. Mulliken asked  what progress had been made in the past three  years in carrying out the central purpose of  Article 9 of the provisional agreement. He also  enquired as to the status of present arrangements  between Unesco and IBE. He was also suprised  to see that there were certain Articles relevant  only to 1947.  [17] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) stated that the joint Unesco-IBE Com-  mittee, set up under the terms of the provisional  agreement, had not yet studied the final agree-  ment provided for under Article 9. It had felt  that the provisional agreement had so far consti-  tuted a satisfactory basis for collaboration between  the two Organizations. With regard to the second  question, Mr. de Blonay requested that the Secre-  tariat be authorized to give a detailed reply in  writing.  Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  was satisfied with the explanation given, but  hoped that in its written document, the Secre-  tariat would reply to both his questions.  [18] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) thought that  collaboration between the two bodies had been so  satisfactory that the need had not been felt to  reinforce it by a new text. Certain of the terms of  the provisional agreement were obviously out of  date; but exchange of staff was still frequent. The  aim of the provisional agreement was quite clear:  it Was to ensure a co-ordination of Unesco and  IBE activities and to enable Unesco to entrust
1. In final form: Resol. 31.3 and 31.31.    IBE with work which, if carried out by the  Organization's own services, would involve heavy  expense. The Commission should therefore  refrain from intervening and taking steps that  might hamper or suspend a harmonious and fruit-  ful collaboration.  However, Mr. Abraham gladly supported  Mr. de Blonay’s proposal, being convinced that  the Secretariat’s explanations would make it pos-  sible to strengthen still further the satisfactory  agreement between the two Organizations.  [19] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) wished to  add a few words on his own behalf: when attend-  ing one of the IBE conferences, he had been  impressed by the great educational value of the  discussions, in which certain countries that were  not members of Unesco had taken part. More-  over, certain work entrusted to IBE would have  cost three times as much, had it been carried out  by Unesco’s services. There was therefore every  reason to continue the provisional agreement,  leaving the door open for the subsequent con-  clusion of a final agreement.  [20] Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) also stressed  the importance of the annual IBE Conference, in  which several States not yet represented in Unesco  took part. Unesco should take advantage of  IBE'S experience.  [21] Mr. BOLLA (Switzerland) did not object to  the slight delay which would be caused by the  production of a written report, although he would  have felt able to vote forthwith for the proposal  presented to the Commission. He understood the  legal objections behind Mr. Mulliken’s scruples,  but the essential importance of the provisional  agreement was that it contained a promise of  mutual collaboration. Harmonious collaboration  did indeed exist, and that was what mattered.  [22] Professor PIAGET (Director, International  Bureau of Education) observed that no disagree-  ment could exist on the question of principle: the  few out-dated terms in the provisional agreement  could not possibly lead to confusion. It had to  be remembered that Unesco’s legal services had  drafted the provisional agreement. IBE, which  had not prepared any text of its own, had objected  to certain drafting points, but, in a spirit of col-  laboration, it had accepted the document proposed  to it. It had therefore been decided to submit  the provisional agreement to a practical test be-  fore giving it final form. When the question  arose, the representatives of the two Organiza-  tions had agreed to extend an arrangement which  satisfied them both, especially as there could be  no question of absorption, since certain countries  represented in IBE were not members of Unesco.     All IBE’S work, moreover, was controlled by the  Joint Unesco-IBE. Committee, set up in accord-  ance with Article 1 of the provisional agreement.  With regard to the division of work, the border-  line was clearly drawn: IBE carried out investi-  gations, while Unesco took direct action. Finally,  IBE’S total budget was less than $40,000 where.  as, if its work were done by Unesco, the cost  would be $300,000. As an example of IBE’S  concrete accomplishments, Professor Piaget quo-  ted the permanent exhibition and centre for the  study of school textbooks organized in Geneva. It  was obvious that Unesco would have had neither  sufficient room nor staff to organize these.  It was decided to await a written report from  the Secretariat before taking any action in the  matter.  Agreement between the International Com-  mittee of Weights and Measures and Unesco  [document 5C/OXR/8].  [23] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) introduced the draft resolution on page 1  of document 5C/OXR/8. During its session held  in the summer of 1949, the Economic and Social  Council had studied the report of the Secretary-  General of the United Nations on relations be-  tween the United Nations and specialized inter-  governmental organizations, with a view to  strengthening existing collaboration and avoiding  overlapping. In its ensuing resolution, the Econ-  omic and Social Council had congratulated Unesco  and the International Committee of Weights and  Measures on their harmonious collaboration.  [24] Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of Amer-  ica) requested the Secretariat to give an account  of the action taken by Unesco and the Internation-  al Committee of Weights and Measures under the  terms of the agreement. He added that the  request for information was not intended as crit-  icism, but was prompted by the desire for an  assurance that the ‘agreement was effective.  [25] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) said that details regarding the application  of the agreement were given in the Director-  General’s Report [document 5C/3, page 100]. If  the Commission thought it necessary, the Director  of the Natural Sciences Department could give  further details at the following meeting.  Mr. MULLIKEN (United States of America)  stated that if no other delegation shared his con-  cern, he would withdraw his request.  The draft resolution [document 5C/OXR/8,  page 1] was adopted by 18 votes to none and
1 abstention.?  Report on the result of the negotiations for  the conclusion of an agreement with the  Organization of American States [document
5C/OXR/11].
126] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) recalled that, in implementation of the  resolutions adopted at the Fourth Session of the  General Conference [document 4C/Resolutions
32.3 to 32.34], the Director-General had drawn  up the report contained in document 5C/OXR/11,  which was only provisional, as there was still one  problem which the Negotiating Committee had  not yet solved. The Director-General had sub-  sequently learned that the matter had been settled,  and he had therefore prepared a supplementary  report which would shortly be presented to the  Commission, The draft agreement would be com-  municated to Member States before being sub-  mitted to the Executive Board, and the Secretary-  General of the United Nations would be informed  of the nature and scope of the agreement before  it was finallv concluded.
127] Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) proposed that the  discussion of the item should be postponed until  the Commission had the supplementary report  before it.  As the Report had been submitted to the Com-  mission only for its information, it was agreed to  take note of document 5C/OXR/11.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.
1. In final form: Resol. 32.2 to 32.22.