EIGHTH MEETING  Saturday, 27 May 1950, at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. Sipney PorLock (Canada)  later: Dr. F. Benner (Netherlands)  Examination of the Budget Estimates (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (IT)].  Documents and Publications [Part III, Chapter 9].  DOCUMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS SERVICE  [1] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) pointed out that  document 5C/PRG/15 gave much valuable in-  formation concerning the Documents and Publi-  cations Service.  [2] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  reiterated his question about the probable cost  of increasing the number of issues of the Courier,  and asked for information concerning the size of  Unesco’s classical editions.  [3] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and  Publications Service) stated that an increase in  the size of the Courier could be obtained at a  comparatively low cost, since it was the type-  setting which was the most expensive phase of the  operation. Each additional thousand copies cost  less to produce. The important point, however,  was to increase distribution and not merely pro-  duction. A document now in preparation would  answer Mr. Roseman’s second question.  [4] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) thought the  English edition of the Courier must have reached  a stable unit cost; any increase in circulation  must therefore be proportional to the number of  copies.  [5] Replying to Mr. ROSEMAN (United States  of America), Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Docu-  ments and Publications Service), explained that  the fundamental difference between the Courier  and the International Arts Review was that the  former was produced at Unesco's sole expense,  whereas the latter was printed in four or five  countries by private publishers without any cost  to the Organization.  [6] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked what were  the criteria adopted for the selection of the publi-  cations which Unesco gave to outside publishers.  [111.9.A7.  >
3 02  J  [7] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and  Publications Service) said that paragraph 12 of  document 5C/PRG/15 (Section III, page 3) gave  information on this question. Broadly speaking,  outside publishers were used because they were  better equipped to ensure the distribution of publi-  cations In any given area, and also because some  of them were ready to undertake the publication  at their own cost and without a grant.  [8] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  felt some concern over the publication pro-  gramme, because of the proliferation of small and  comparatively insignificant publications.  [9] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) stated that the  Director-General, who was also concerned about  the publications question, had convened an expert  committee to advise him on it, in order to make  the best possible use of the funds available. The  choice of publications and their size was usually  determined by the Conference which, when giving  an authorization to the Director-General, really  meant that it wished the particular work done.  [10] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) having asked if  the $7,000 for the International Theatre Institute  were included in, or additional to, the $28,000  or $30,000 already granted to it, Mr. WEITZ  (Head, Bureau of Administrative Management  and Budget) stated that they were part of the  total grant.  [11] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) wished to know  if subventions of that kind were grants-in-aid or  special publication allocations.  [12] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) said they fell  under three headings; some were special publi-  cetion contracts, others contributions to the cost  of a publication, others—as in the case of the  International Theatre Institute or ICSU—a part  of the grants.  [13] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of  Canada, thought the Committee should say that  economies in publications could be effected by a                                  better selection of documents and closer attention  to printing costs and arrangements with pub-  lishers. He thought that more attention should  also be paid to possible commercial results and  to the size of free issues. Finally, he suggested  that the interpreting and translation services  could be more closely integrated.  [14] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) asked if the  Committee intended to make a specific recom-  mendation on those three extremely important  questions, for in that case very full replies were  necessary.  [16] The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee's  recommendation should not be a criticism, but  an indication that the efforts already made to  secure economies could be intensified.  [16] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  pointed out that three top-ranking experts had  considered the whole question and that the Bud-  get Committee was not composed of publication  experts.  [17] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and  Publications Service) declared that a Secretariat  Committee was studying the question of the  choice and distribution of documents: a reduc-  tion of circulation was expected in July. The  printing and publication methods already adop-  ted, as well as the choice of countries where  contracts were placed, were as satisfactory as it  had been possible to make them. The possible  commercial results of publications were the  constant preoccupation of the Secretariat. Free  distributions were now limited to a minimum:
300 to 400 copies for documents and 100 to
120—to Member States and to National Commis-  slons—for publications. In passing, he indicated  that some National Commissions even com-  plained that the limitations were too great. In  conclusion, he wished to emphasize that Unesco  interpreters were few and very busy, and the very  short time they might eventually be able to  spare for translations would not constitute a  significant economy.  [18] Mr. SAPORI (Italy) wanted to know the  experts opinion on the large number of publi-  cation items which could be found in the budgets  of all departments. In his opinion, centralization  would produce appreciable economies.  [19] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that  the Second and Third Sessions of the General  Conference had decided that the Budget should  show expenses by major objects of activity, i.e.,  projects; that was the reason why publication  items were not centralized and, accordingly, the
003  experts had not included the question in their  report.  [20] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) asked  if the Secretariat could give some figure of the  economies which would result in 1951 from its  work in the matter.  [21] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and  Publications Service) said it was not possible to  give exact figures because the cost of production  varied notably with the urgency of a manuscript;  but a substantial reduction of printing costs might  be expected if it were possible to recruit and  train the necessary staff to prepare manuscripts  adequately.  External Relations [Part III, Chapter 8].  Special LANGUAGE Service [I11.9.B].  [22] No comments.  Division or LecAL Arrairs [II1.8.D].  [23] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked why three legal officers would be needed  in 1951 and why the Staff Association's Secretary  should be on Unesco’s pay roll.  [24] Dr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that  the Division of Legal Affairs had been reorganized  to enable it to deal with the large and increasing  amount of work it was called upon to perform in  the field of Human Rights, inter-governmental  conventions, cultural agreements, contracts, copy-  right, etc.  [25] Replying to Mr. Roseman’s second question,  Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) stated that the Director-  General felt quite strongly that a healthy Staff  Association was a necessary component of the  Secretariat, and that he should assist it to attain  full growth during its initial stages. In all proba-  bility, the Association would later be able to pay  the salary of its Secretary. The latter also worked  for the Chairman of the Appeals Board, which  meant dealing with a considerable volume of  papers.  [26] In reply to Sir Ronald ADAM (United King-  dom) and to the CHAIRMAN, Dr. SABA (Legal  Adviser) pointed out that the General Conference  had asked for an analytic study of Cultural  Conventions in general: the Legal Service had  examined, analysed and translated about 200 of  these, and the fees ($3,833) mentioned in the last  paragraph on page 282 had arisen in connexion  with that work. The $1,500 for consultants’ fees  were not earmarked for the study of Cultural           Conventions, but for that of other special questions  which were expected to come up in 1951.  [27] The CHAIRMAN thought most Cultural  Conventions were almost identical, and he could  not see why outside legal assistance was necessary  to make such an analysis.  Statistical Service [Part II, Chapter 10].  PERSONNEL Costs [TIT.10.A].
(28] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked whether all the Organization’s statistical  operations were concentrated in the Service.  [29] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) indicated that  the answer was transitional:
(1) Programme statistics would not be con-  centrated in the Service, except for the verification  of the adequacy and accuracy of the departments’  figures;
(2) The Service would centralize the statis-  tical data requested by the United Nations and  Member States, and it would deal with the  statistical questionnaires sent out by Unesco.  [30] Referring to paragraph mr (page 300),  Mr. KIRPAL (India) asked whether the work  could not be done by the National Commissions.
131] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that  the standardization of terminology was an ex-  tremely important and urgent problem; inter-  national comparability depended on it, and it must  be dealt with by experts.  [32] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) hoped that para-  graph vi (page 300) would be controlled by  paragraph 111 on the same page, in order to keep  the activities envisaged within reasonable bounds.  [33] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) assured him that  only essential work would be done.  [34] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) had some doubts  concerning the possibility of “promoting . . . the  establishment of fellowships, the translation of  textbooks and compilation of glossaries” on  $2,000 (paragraph vi, page 301).
136] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) stated that the    legional Statistical Educational Centre in India  had other resources; the $2,000 and $1,500 were  only Unesco’s contributions to them.  General Policy [Part I].  GENERAL CONFERENCE [I.A].  [36] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked for a  breakdown of the $41,000 for other Personnel  Costs (page 32) and of the $11,860 for supple-  mentary staff (page 33).  [37] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that  the relevant information was in process of repro-  duction and would shortly be distributed to the  members of the Committee.  [38] Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Plan-  ning) stressed that, although the Conference lasted  only three weeks, the preparation of the necessary  documents required longer.  [39] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) was of the  opinion that the Journal of the Conference was  not sufficiently useful to justify an outlay of  $7,000. The $2,500 for badges and $8,500 for  simultaneous interpretation equipment seemed to  him excessive.  [40] Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Plan-  ning) explained that the 1,250 badges has cost only  $300; the remainder was for other supplies and  materials needed by the delegates. Unesco, unlike  the United Nations, had no permanent simulta-  neous interpretation equipment; it had to pay for  the hire and transport from Paris and back of the
1,200 receivers used by the Conference. In reply  to a further question, Mr. Leguen said that the  $5,000 for Rental of Premises was made necessary  because Unesco’s headquarters were not spacious  enough to accommodate the 1951 General Confer-  ence.  Executive Boarp [1.B].  [41] No comments.  [42] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked if the Secretariat could supply the Com-  mittee with a list of those activities which would  be discontinued in 1951.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.