Item A.36.  [66] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) sug-  gested adding: “particularly in international  camps and other forms of community life”. A link  would thus be formed with the corresponding  activities of the Relief Assistance Services and, in  future, such a definition would cover a wider field  than the reconstruction camps, which were to be  discontinued after a certain time.  [67] The CHAIRMAN observed that the question  of youth camps was dealt with in the Basic Pro-  gramme under Relief Assistance Services, where-  upon Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) with-  drew his proposal.  [68] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) submitted that  the methods suggested in the Basic Programme  were valuable but subject to modification, and  proposed that the original text should stand.  Agreed.’  New item.  [69] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) thought that the  importance of teaching the principles of human  rights had not been stressed sufficiently, and sug-  gested adding to the end of Section 3 an item to  the effect that the teaching of such principles  should be encouraged.  [70] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that item F.3  [document 5C/5 (1) Rev., page 25] instructed  the Organization to disseminate the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights as widely as possible.  The proposal of the Afghan delegate could be re-  considered when item F.3 was discussed.  ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) provisionally con-  curred.  [71] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE [New Zealand) wanted  to make sure that the measures adopted would not  lead to duplication of work in the Secretariat or  among those working on projects. He quoted, as  an example, possible overlapping which might  occur between the Departments of Social Sciences  in their studies of social tensions, and the Depart-  ment of Education in the application of item A.34  as amended.  The meeting rose at I p.m.
1. In final form: Resol. A.37.  THIRD MEETING  Monday, 29 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Discussion of the Basic Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev.].  A. Education (continued).  Items A.3, A.31 and A.33.  [1] The CHAIRMAN suggested  the proposal presented by the  Pakistan at the previous meeting.  Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) proposed the deletion  of the words ‘Member States” in items A.3, A.31  and A.33, so that the misunderstanding in the  minds of some of the delegates, that Unesco  would confine itself only to Member States,  would be removed.  The proposal, supported by the delegates of  re-considering  delegation of     Mr. Roger SEynoux (France)  AFGHANISTAN, AUSTRIA, UNITED STATES of  AMERICA, FRANCE, IRAQ, ITALY, SWEDEN  and SWITZERLAND, was adopted.?  New item (continued).  [2] The CHAIRMAN announced that the dele-  gate of Afghanistan had submitted a resolution  for inclusion in the Basic Programme: “En-  courage the teaching, by appropriate methods,  of the principles of human rights and their ap-  plication.”  [3] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) remarked that  the programme made no mention of teaching  about human rights, which should be the basis  of education for democracy and might be very
1. In final form: Resol. A.3, A.31 and A.33.
1   M   E T S   effective in education for international under-  standing and the education of maladjusted  children.  All that could be done in that direction with  the assistance of the Press, radio and films was  chiefly of interest to adults. The actual text of  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was  beyond the grasp of school-children; it had to  be explained to them, after which the various  stages in its drafting had to be retraced, so as to  make the children more aware of the import of  human rights.  The proposed resolution might be added to the  Basic Programme either under a separate heading  or as a new item, A.37.  That proposal was supported by the delegates  of FRANCE, IRAQ, LEBANON, LIBERIA, MO-  NACO, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC and PAKISTAN.  [4] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) wondered  whether the new item would not overlap with  item A.3.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought not:  item A.3 dealt with the implementation of one  of the articles of the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights, but it was not superfluous to add  that teaching should be given about the prin-  ciples on which the Declaration was founded.  Mr. ABRAHAM (France) observed that item A.3  laid down a principle which was merely explained  in the following items. It would therefore be  preferable to make the new resolution item A.36,  while the old item A.36 would be re-numbered  A371,  ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) having accepted  that suggestion, his delegation’s proposal was  adopted.?  B. Natural Sciences.
1. DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC Co-  OPERATION.  Items B.1, B.11 and B.12.  [5] Adopted without discussion.”  Items B.13 and B.1}.  [6] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) understood that  the Commission wished to keep the Basic Pro-  gramme as simple as possible, and not to go into  details of method in connexion with it. He there-  fore proposed that the text of both items B.13 and  B.14 should be in conformity with the similar  items in the preceding chapter, Social Sciences,
1. In final form: Resol. A.36.
9. 2. In final form: Resol. B.1, B.11 and B.12.  B.13 stopping at the word “publications”, and  B.14 at the words “languages of the world”.  The proposal, supported by the delegates of  AUSTRIA, BRAZIL, CANADA, EGYPT, ECUA-  DOR, UNITED STATES of AMERICA, PHILIP-  PINES, PAKISTAN, URUGUAY and UNITED  KINGDOM, was adopted.’  Item B.15.  [7] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) wished to  make this item more general, in accordance with  the existing practice of the Field Science Co-  operation Offices, by adding the words “and the  application of their results”. Agreed.”
9 ASSISTANCE TO RESEARCH FOR THE IMPROVE-  MENT OF THE Living Conpitions or MANKIND.  [8] Dr. KRISHNAN (India) understood that, in  addition to the encouragement of research to  improve the living conditions of mankind,  item B.2 was intended to cover, and in practice  did cover, assistance to scientific research in gen-  eral, including research in the basic sciences.  Since the title did not suggest it, and was  liable to be misunderstood as excluding the en-  couragement of research in the basic sciences, he  proposed that it should be amended to read:  “Assistance to Scientific Research especially Re-  search for the Improvement ... etc.” The  assistance was of course confined to institutions,  laboratories and organizations that were inter-  national in character.  The proposal, seconded by the delegates of  FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA,  was adopted.  Item B.2.  Adopted without discussion.’  Item B.21.  [9] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) thought that,  instead of referring to “international work of this  type” in item B.21, it would be better to refer to  “regional work of this type”, because that type  of enquiry probably referred to a particular region  of the globe. His proposal would read: “en-  courage institutes and laboratories working in  regional areas on topics of interest to more than  one country”.  [10] Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) would  have preferred to add the adjective “national”  before “institutes and laboratories” and to sub-  stitute “general” for “international”, so as to
1 In final form: Resol. B.13 and B.14.
2. In final form: Resol. B.15.
3. In final form: Resol. B.2.
284      direct Unesco’s work towards the encouragement  of international institutes and laboratories.  [11] Professor FANTAPPIE (Italy) thought it  also necessary to replace “institutes and labora-  tories” by “research centres and co-ordination  bodies”.  [12] Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) saw no ob-  jection to the proposal of the Australian delegate,  provided that it referred only to an addition to  the text under discussion and not to an amend-  ment. On the other hand, as far as national  institutes and research laboratories were con-  cerned, he thought caution should be exercised;  personally, he would be opposed to deleting the  word “international” and incorporating a refer-  ence to national institutes. There had on earlier  occasions been recourse to a form of words which  could be used in such cases and which did not  completely prevent Unesco from supporting  national institutes, provided such action was re-  commended by the International Council of  Scientific Unions of the Unions concerned.  [13] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) supported  almost everything said by Professor Nielsen.  However, the Marine Biological Laboratory at  Naples and the High Altitude Research Station  on the Jungfraujoch should not be excluded. The  statement “institutes and laboratories engaged in  international work” was a general one and did  not exclude national institutes when they were  doing international work. Dr. Huxley proposed  the words: “engaged in international and regional  work of this kind”, possibly with a refinement  of definition as proposed by the delegate of  Australia.  Mr. PAGE (Canada) seconded Mr. Huxley's  proposal.  [14] Dr. STODDARD (United States of Amer-  ica) thought that both points might be met by  saying: “encourage laboratories engaged in re-  gional or international work”.  [15] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was prepared  to accept the amendment suggested by the dele-  gate of Italy, as long as “international” was re-  placed by “regional or international interest’.  [16] Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) and  Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) withdrew their re-  spective draft amendments.  [17] The CHAIRMAN read the resolution as  amended in accordance with the suggestions of  the Italian delegate and the Director-General:  Encourage and assist research centres and co-  ordinating bodies engaged in work of this type of  international or regional interest.
280  That resolution was supported by the delegates  of AUSTRALIA, ITALY, IRAQ, SWEDEN and  URUGUAY.  [18] Mr. CAIN (France) asked what would be  the consequence of the addition of the word  “regional” to the resolution.  Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) thought no difficulties would  be raised by the insertion of that word. He  referred to the Jungfraujoch laboratory, which  was obviously of international importance, but  chiefly of regional interest.  [19] Mr. CAIN (France) wondered whether this  addition meant taking a stand which might  affect other activities as well.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that it was  a question of wording. The term ‘“‘inter-  national”, also covered “regional”, but its main  ““ implication was “on a world scale”. Unesco  could not restrict its assistance to institutions of  world standing; if work were being carried out  at the regional level, there was surely no reason  for not encouraging it.  [20] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) imagined  that the greater part of such aid would be in the  form of subsidies granted through international  non-governmental organizations, so that Unesco’s  existing practice would not be altered at all.  Unesco trusted the international non-govern-  mental organizations to tell it which activities,  whether strictly regional or international, were  in the Organization s interests. Dr. Huxley was  therefore entirely in favour of the word “re-  gional”.  The proposal of the Italian delegate, as  amended by the Director-General, was adopted.’  Item B.22.  Adopted without discussion.?
3. TEACHING AND POPULARIZATION OF SCIENCE.  Item B.S.  Adopted without discussion.*  Item B.31.  [21] Mr. PAGE (Canada) said that his delega-  tion approved the wording of item B.31, but con-  sidered that, at the level suggested by the Basic  Programme, natural science studies were a part  of the general field of endeavour of the Depart-  ment of Education and might better be dealt with     Resol. B.21.  Resol. B.22.  Resol. B.3.
1. In final form:
2. In final form:
1       by them, together with the other subjects nor-  mally included in the primary and secondary  school curricula. Mr. Page therefore moved that  item B.31 should be deleted, on the under-  standing that the activities involved would be  normally handled by the Department of Edu-  cation.  Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  seconded the motion.  [22] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) assumed  that the item had been transferred from Edu-  cation to Natural Sciences for some technical  reason. He hoped it would not just be deleted  and that, if any change were made, the item  would be transferred to Education. In the United  Kingdom, there was need for studying the whole  problem of the content and method of teaching  science as a matter of general education.  [23] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) agreed with  Dr. Huxley. In his opinion, the words “in con-  junction with the Department of Education”  should be added after “study”.  [24] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the  meeting that the document under review was the  Basic Programme, which should not contain any  reference to the structure of the Secretariat. The  implementation of that programme would ob-  viously require the co-operation of all Depart-  ments.  [25] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) observed  that the problem should be considered from two  points of view: (1) in relation to the programme,  which was the responsibility of the Department  of Natural Sciences; (2) in relation to educa-  tional methods and techniques, which went  beyond the scope of science teaching. He there-  fore advocated the drafting of two resolutions,  one to appear in the chapter Education, and the  other in the chapter Natural Sciences. He felt it  necessary to include both complementary re-  solutions.  The first resolution, which would form a new  item A.132, would be worded: “study suitable  methods for the teaching of science and their  general educational value”.  That proposal was supported by the delegates  of CANADA, DENMARK, FRANCE, AFGHANI-  STAN, ITALY, IRAQ, BRAZIL, UNITED KING-  DOM and UNITED STATES of AMERICA.  [26] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) said that, if details  under general education had to be mentioned,  they should be more specific and include natural  sciences and social sciences, as well as other  subjects.  [27] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) thought  that more importance was attached to educational  methods in the teaching of science than in other  fields. That was his reason for pressing the  point. He then read the second draft, which  would form a new resolution under item B.31:  Study the content of science syllabuses at the various  levels of school and university teaching, and recom-  mend any appropriate action.  [28] With regard to the first resolution (item  A.132), Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) noted that  Professor Piaget had said that this was a most  urgent educational problem; but he wondered  whether is was not covered by item A.13: “en-  courage enquiries and study on the most urgent  educational problems . . .”  [29] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered that  remark very much to the point: the drawing of  fine distinctions in the Basic Programme was  defeating the very purpose of that programme.  [30] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) urged the  maintenance of that differentiation which, in his  opinion, was necessary under the new system of  education.  [31] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) supported  Professor Piaget’s proposal. There was a very  real distinction between the content and the  methods. He supported Professor Piaget also  regarding the need for specifying that problem in  other parts of the Programme.  [32] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out  that if the first draft suggested by Professor Piaget  were to become item A.132, it would be necessary  to recast items A.14 and A.15 in the same section.  On the CHAIRMAN’S suggestion, it was agreed  that the final wording of that section should be  left to the Drafting Committee.  The two drafts suggested by Professor Piaget  were adopted, the first by 17 votes to 7 and the  second by 20 votes to 1.’  Item B.32.  [33] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) thought that,  in keeping with his previous remarks, item B.3  could be simplified by adding to item B.32 the  words: “activities likely to promote a further  appreciation of science”, and deleting the re-  maining five items. He moved his proposal as  an amendment.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed to the  amendment.  [34] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) suggested  that, in order to carry out item B.3, a slightly
1. In final form: Resol. A.1.131 and B.3l.
86                     different form of words from that proposed by  Mr. Fletcher was needed in B.32, and he pro-  posed adding: ‘and technology and their role in  society”. One of the most important things the  Department of Natural Sciences was doing was  not merely popularizing science but inculcating a  better understanding of the interaction between  science and society.  Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) had moved his  amendment in as few words as possible, because  he took it that the introduction would still be  written. If this were not so, Dr. Huxley's pro-  posal would be excellent; but in view of the  preamble, he did not think it altogether neces-  sary, although he would not oppose it.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered that  Mr. Fletcher's remark was not really an objection  of substance. There was a difference of both  quality and emphasis between the preambles and  resolutions.  [35] The Australian proposal, as amended by  Dr. Huxley, was seconded by the delegates of  AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, DENMARK, FRANCE,  ITALY, UNITED STATES of AMERICA, IRAQ,  LEBANON, SWEDEN, VENEZUELA, YUGO-  SLAVIA and BRAZIL, and adopted.?  C. Social Sciences.
1. Amp TO INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COLLABORA-  TION.  Item C.1.  [36] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) thought  that, for the sake of simplicity, all the words after  “the Social Sciences” should be deleted.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered it neces-  sary to preserve the wording of item C.1 so as to  keep in harmony with item B.1.  Item C.1 was adopted in its original form.”  Item C.11.  [37] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) thought  that item C.11 could be simplified without in-  fringing harmony. The statement referred to  “international scientific co-op:ration” (line 3),  which seemed rather too wide in the light of the  fact that the section dealt only with Social  Sciences. He wondered whether it would not be  better to keep to “international co-operation in  the Social Sciences”. He also thought that the  words following “contribution” (line 5) should  be deleted.     [38] Professor VITO (Italy) called for the  |. In final form: Resol. B.. 32.
2. In final form: Resol. C.1
287  addition of the words “and the development”  after “establishment” in item C. 11.  [39] The proposals of Dr. Beaglehole and Pro-  fessor Vito, seconded by the delegates of  AUSTRALIA, BELGIUM, CANADA, UNITED  STATES of AMERICA, ECUADOR, PERSIA and  URUGUAY, were adopted.?  Item C.12.  [40] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) pro-  posed replacing the words “scientific documenta-  tion” by “social sciences documentation ”.  Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican Re-  public) thought it preferable to add the words  “in connexion with the social sciences” in the  heading of Section 1.  [41] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL doubted the  wisdom of altering the heading, as it would imply  that aid to international scientific collaboration  would be given exclusively for the social sciences,  whereupon Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Domini-  can Republic) withdrew his proposed amend-  ment.  Dr. Beaglehole’s proposal was adopted.?  Item C.13.  Adopted without discussion.3  Item C.14.  [42] Professor VITO (Italy) drew attention to  the diversity of methods followed by the different  countries in connexion with the social sciences;  that diversity had to be respected for fear of  impeding the development of methods.  [43] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) considered that all  questions of information, documentation and the  improvement of methods should, as in the case  of the natural sciences, be included in the pro-  gramme relating to Education.  [44] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL feared that the  too frequent repetition of such details might  burden the programme and irritate the reader.  Natural and social science specialists could not  assist in the work of the Clearing-house for  Education. He requested Mr. Francois to defer  his proposal until the Commission had decided  on Professor Piaget’s proposal concerning the  natural sciences.  [45] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) pointed  out that there was a difference between the  position of the social sciences and that of the
1. In final form: Resol. C.11.
2. In final form: Resol. C.12.
3. In final form: Resol. C.13.           natural sciences. The latter were taught in  primary and secondary schools, whereas the  social sciences were taught only at the university  level. He agreed with the delegate of Italy that  methods differed in each country. But the  wording proposed by the Executive Board did  not take this fact into account.  [46] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) and Professor  VITO (Italy) withdrew their proposed amend-  ments.  The original text, seconded by the delegates  of the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, PERSIA, PHI-  LIPPINES, BRAZIL, BELGIUM, ECUADOR,  AUSTRIA, SWITZERLAND, UNITED KINGDOM,  CANADA and AFGHANISTAN, was adopted.  Item C.15.  [47] Professor VITO (Italy) thought the term  “laboratory” incorrect and preferred the word  “Institute”.  [48] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) asked  the Secretariat to explain what was meant by  item C.15; if “institutes” were necessary, he  would clarify the text by saying “... for research  into the Social Sciences”.  [49] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Depart-  ment of Social Sciences) said that the item con-  cerning laboratories was written because the  Economic and Social Council had been consider-  ing a proposal for a number of scientific labo-  ratories, one of which would be a social science  laboratory. Dr. Angell had seen the draft of  Ecosoc, which used the word “laboratories” and,  in brackets, “institutes”; but the document was  only provisional at the moment.  [50] Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) thought  that, in view of differences in outlook in the field  of social sciences, the chief need was to encourage  international meetings, exchanges of views and  discussions. In his opinion, it would be better  to delete item C.15.  [51] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) thought,  from his experience in another capacity, that he  could clarify part of the question asked. Ecosoc  had taken the initiative in suggesting that a cer-  tain number of United Nations international  laboratories might be created. Unesco, together  with many other Specialized Agencies and organ-  izations, had participated in the preliminary en-  quiries and, in Dr. Huxley's opinion, provided  the fullest report. It was then decided to set up  a committee of experts, which had, he believed,  met in 1949 to decide on priorities. Three labo-  ratories were selected for high priority: one
1. In final form: Resol. C.14.
288  which would come up later in the work plan of  Natural Sciences, would be a computation centre:  the second, still being investigated in detail,  would be a laboratory to study certain aspects of  the human brain; and the third, which was even  less advanced, a kind of laboratory, centre or  institute to be set up in some field of the social  sciences. That priority had already been estab-  lished, and Dr. Huxley hoped that Unesco, as an  organization dealing with the social sciences,  would continue to participate in any discussion  on the establishment of the last named laboratory,  centre or institute. The language used must be  clarified: it was unfortunate to speak of a labo-  ratory in the social sciences and, wherever the  word ‘laboratories’ occurred, the words ‘‘or re-  search centres” should be added.  [52] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) was  anxious to keep to the term “laboratories” in that  section.  [63] Mr. OZORIO de ALMEIDA (Brazil) con-  firmed that Unesco, in co-operation with the  United Nations, had convened a committee of ex-  perts in Paris the previous year to consider the  establishment of international laboratories; it had  been obliged to give priority to a very limited  number of laboratories and had recommended,  as an initial step, the establishment of three  laboratories (for computation, the human brain  and social sciences).  [54] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed the  following formula: “active participation, as re-  gards the social sciences, in the establishment and  operation of United Nations research centres or  laboratories”.
155] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) thought that the Com-  mission was not in agreement regarding the scope  of the term “social sciences”. If geography,  education, anthropology, etc. were included, then  there should certainly be laboratories. He there-  fore agreed with the Director-General’s proposal.  [56] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) stated that the  Director-General’s proposal made what he was  about to say less important. If the Commission  accepted the Director-General’s draft for the  purposes of the Social Sciences, that same draft,  suitably amended, would also be suitable for the  Natural Sciences; Mr. Fletcher was not certain  that Ecosoc had yet taken any decision on the  question of policy for those institutes, laboratories  or research centres. He assumed, from the  wording of both resolutions, that Unesco’s activity  was contingent on a United Nations decision on  policy.  [57] The CHAIRMAN called on the represen-     tative of the United Nations to reply to the latter  question. As regards the former, it related to a  resolution on which a decision had already been  taken, and he therefore thought that the Com-  mission could not discuss the matter.  [68] Mr. LAUGIER (United Nations) stated that  the United Nations, through the Economic and  Social Council, had decided to give an important  place to international scientific research in cer-  tain fields. The subjects in question would be  those necessitating elaborate equipment, subjects  of international concern (meteorology and astron-  omy), problems requiring the establishment of  laboratories in particular areas and lastly, prob-  lems calling for a very large contribution from  all countries.  In its report, the Economic and Social Council  had granted priority to the establishment of the  three institutes advocated by the committee of  experts, which had met the previous year in  Paris. He drew attention to the fact that the  United Nations had used the term “institutes”  and not “laboratories”.  Those were schemes whose execution required  further preliminary study. The collaboration of  Unesco was essential to the United Nations in  pursuing such studies.
169] Mr. GIAMBRUNO (Uruguay) strongly ad-  vocated the substitution of “institutes” for  “laboratories”. With that reservation, he en-  dorsed the Director-General’s remarks.  [60] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) supported  the form of words introduced by the Director-  General, but not the substitution of the word  “Institutes” for the term ‘laboratories and re-  search centres”, as it was necessary to keep the  implication of “research” in item C.15.  [61] He asked the Chairman whether the ques-  tion of consequential alterations in resolutions al-  ready passed—use of the words “or research  centres” in item B.22 of Natural Sciences—could  be referred to the Drafting Committee, since  there were certain natural science institutions  which were not laboratories. Dr. Huxley further  thought that item B.22 should, like item C.15,  speak of and not merely of “participation”.  [62] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested a  new draft for item C.15 which, with an addition  proposed by Mr. CAIN (France), would read as  follows:  Study, as regards the social sciences, Unesco’s active
289  participation in the establishment and operation of  United Nations research centres or laboratories.  That resolutions was adopted by 31 votes.?  New item C.16.  [63] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested the  addition of a further item, C.16, to correspond to  item B.15.  Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) supposed that the  Director-General meant not a repetition, but a  supplementary statement which would read: “to  associate social science activities in the existing  Field Science Co-operation Offices”; 1f so, the  New Zealand delegation supported his proposal,  and would ask the Commission to refer the precise  form of words to the Drafting Committee.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished item C.16  to be worded exactly like item B.15.  Mr. CAIN (France) agreed with the Director-  General, as he thought it important that there  should be a harmony between the various ac-  tivities.  [64] Professor OZORIO de ALMEIDA (Brazil)  presented a draft resolution worded in accordance  with the Director-General's suggestion:  C.16. Develop field science co-operation offices to  facilitate, in the field of the social sciences, the spread  of knowledge, the co-ordination of research and the  application of their results.  The proposal was adopted.’  New item.  [65] Mr. SADIGHI (Persia) proposed adding a  new item C.17, as follows:  Promote the organization of international meetings for  the purpose of discussing and studying problems in  connexion with the social sciences.  The CHAIRMAN thought the matter had al-  ready been covered by item C.1.  Mr. SADIGHI (Persia) pointed out that there  was no mention of meetings in item C.1.  Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) agreed with  the Chairman that the new item was not neces-  sary: there was nothing to that effect in the  Natural Sciences chapter, although that Depart-  ment did encourage many such meetings. That  was a technical matter which should be left to  the work-plan and not inserted in the Basic Pro-  gramme. Agreed.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.     }. esol. C.15.  Resol. C.16.  In final form:
2. In final form: