the size of the Programme and the budget for
1950 and 1951, but also regarding the means  whereby collection of the total budget figure was  to be assured.  [8] The CHAIRMAN said that there appeared to  be two main problems:  (a) The immediate problem of the arrears for
1947, 1948 and 1949—bearing in mind the recom-  mendation of the Director-General and the Audi-  tors, and that of the Executive Board;  (b) The problem of how probable future defi-  cits should be met.  He proposed that the Commission should  adjourn while the sub-committee established at  the morning meeting met to consider those prob-  lems.  The meeting rose at 5 p.m.  THIRD MEETING  Tuesday, 30 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara CAND (India)  Scale of Contributions of Member States  for 1951 [document 5C/ADM/3].  [1] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) intro-  duced document 5C/ADM/3 and drew attention to  its third paragraph and to the formula in page 2,  according to which the contributions of the  Member States were computed. A document was  In course of preparation, giving an illustration of  how the formula would affect the contributions  aîter the new Members had been assessed.  [2] Mr. SMITH (Australia) stated that his delega-  tion was in agreement with the proposed formula.  He asked, however, on what basis special percen-  tages had been granted to certain States.  [3] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) ex-  plained that the contribution of Austria had been  reduced from 0.26 per cent to 0.12 per cent, and  that of Hungary from 0.28 per cent to 0.15 per  cent, at the special request of those two countries.  [4] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) asked  whether those reductions meant that Austria’s and  Hungary’s ability to pay was less than anticipated.  [5] Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) pointed out  that this question had been studied during the  Second Session of the General Conference; it  would be well to ascertain the origin of these  differences in treatment and correct the position.  It was agreed to postpone the discussion of this  item until the information requested by the Com-  mission was available.  Currency of Contributions by Member States  |document 5C/ADM/4].  [6] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) ex-  plained that, up to the Fourth Session of the  General Conference, each country had paid its  entire contribution in a given currency. The ques-  tion had now arisen whether certain countries  should pay in hard currency and the others con-  tinue to pay in a soft one. The document contained  two suggestions:
(1) That the present practice be continued, or
(2) That every Member State be asked to pay  part of its contribution in hard currency.  The computation of the Organization’s hard cur-  rency requirements could be found on page 2 of  document 5C/ADM/4; the total figure was 47,6 per  cent (including a safety margin of 5 per cent and
5.6 per cent for the Book Coupon Scheme), leaving
52.4 per cent for soft currency. The States whose  contribution still remained to be assessed were  Yugoslavia, Costa Rica, Korea, Hashemite Jordan  and Indonesia.  [7] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wanted to empha-  size that Unesco was not the only organization  receiving contributions partly in hard and partly  in soft currency, as a result of its headquarters  being in a so-called soft currency country. The  position was similar in the case of OEEC (whose  headquarters were also in France), the currency  in which contributions were paid varying with the  country making the payment. Nor apparently was  soft-currency expenditure evenly spread over all  member countries of the United Nations; thus
615        TT  =.     T E T E   a   a  E T   E P   P E R   N E   N E O   the International Civil Aviation Organization had  decided to accept payments in soft currency only  in the case of countries in which there was a  regional office in existence; the World Health  Organization's attitude was similar. As Unesco's  Headquarters were in France, payments should,  in principle, be effected in the currency of the  country, and the hard currency requirements could  be secured from certain countries with hard cur-  rency available, It would be dangerous if ques-  tions of foreign exchange transfers imposed still  further delay on the payment of contributions;  this could not fail to aggravate the Organization’s  difficulties. In practice it might be arguable that  payment of their contributions partly in hard and  partly in soft currency would be advantageous to  States at present discharging their liabilities in  hard currency only. The discussion would be  greatly assisted by an exact and detailed statement  of the Organization's hard currency needs which,  according to document 5C/ADM/4, amounted in  all to 37 per cent of the total payable. It should  be possible to reduce the Organization's hard cur-  rency expenditure still further, more particularly  under the head of travel.  [8] Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) subscribed  to the remarks of the delegate of France. As the  location of the Organization's headquarters had  been mentioned, it should be noted that, although  calculated nominally in dollars, the payments of  the staff were made in French francs, save in the  case of the Unesco New York Office. The speaker  thought, with Mr. Guignolet, that all travelling  expenses could easily be discharged in French  francs. The Executive Board had expressed no  opinion on this matter, and personally he felt  it would be wiser not to alter the procedure so  far followed.  [9] Mr. SMITH (Australia) agreed with the  previous speakers. In his opinion, the capacity  of certain Member States to find hard currencies  should be carefully examined. He recalled that  one of the arguments for a high budget figure had  been the needs of the Book Coupon Scheme; if  part of all the contributions were paid in dollars,  the main advantages of the Scheme would disap-  pear. He stated that the Australian delegation was  opposed to a compulsory dollar levy.  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) held the  same views as Mr. Smith.  [10] Dr. BENDER (Netherlands) declared that  his country could pay in French francs or pounds  sterling only; no payment could be made in  U. S. dollars.  [11] Dr. El DIWANY (Egypt) favoured main-  tenance of the status quo. He shared Mr. Gui-  gnolet’s view and supported his request for fuller  details on the Organization's hard currency re-  quirements. In addition, he would like to know to  what extent the needs of the Field Science Co-  operation Offices would be covered by the $450,000  which it was proposed to allocate to the various  “Unesco Coupon Schemes’ in 1951; if the Organ-  ization were forced to economize dollars, this  particular item should be the last to be affected,  on account of the high propaganda value of such  coupons in all countries.  Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) declared that his country  could not pay in dollars.  [12] Mr. KUSEJ (Yugoslavia) favoured the con-  tinuance of the method so far followed for deter-  mining the currency in which each country’s  contribution was to be paid. The method had  the advantage of flexibility and of making it easier  for the smaller soft currency countries to pay their  contributions.  Mr. JAWAD (Iraq), Mr. MAHMASSANI (Leba-  non) and Mr. KIRPAL (India) were strongly in  favour of retaining the present practice.  [13] Notwithstanding the general trend of the  remarks which had been made, Mr. POLLOCK  (Canada) wished to stress that alternative (2) was  not unreasonable on grounds of equity. Canada  has always paid in dollars and would continue to  do so if the Conference did not decide otherwise,  and he thought it equitable that all Member States  should be asked to share the obligation to supply  the Organization with hard currency.  [14] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) indi-  cated the expense items which required hard cur-  rency payments: goods and services in North  America, the non-sterling part of the Pacific area,  China, Switzerland and Germany; dollar tra-  vellers’ cheques for the Field Natural Sciences Co-  operation Offices; certain grants and subventions  to international organizations; some dollar salary  allotments; dollar travellers’ cheques for certain  missions; the staff Provident Fund and Pensions  Scheme and, finally, the Book Coupon Scheme.  Consultants in Paris, no matter where they came  from, were paid in French francs. Children’s  allowances were paid in French francs or local  currency, as well as the fees of experts. He  pointed out that Unesco’s percentage of soft cur-  rency expenditure was higher than that of any  other Agency, and that all the Agencies agreed  that all Member States should share in the advan-  tage of using soft currencies (whenever it was  possible to do so) as well as in the burden of  providing the indispensable hard currencies. He  stressed that the Book Coupon Scheme not only  made possible the purchase of books printed in  hard currency countries by persons residing in  soft currency ones, but also greatly speeded up
616                         such transactions by by-passing the various  exchange control authorities. He assured the  Commission that the hard currency expenditure of  the Organization had been reduced to an absolute  minimum.  Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) reserved the right to  revert at a later stage to the data supplied by the  Secretariat.  [15] Dr. PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela) said that  Venezuela paid her contribution in hard currency  and would continue to do so; nevertheless he  was anxious to make it easier for Member States to  pay their contributions and would therefore vote  for the maintenance of the present system.  [16] Mr. de VILLIERS (Union of South Africa)  had no criticism to make on the score of dollar  expenditure. A hard core of dollar payments  would always subsist and, in his opinion, it could  be met by those for whom dollars were readily  available.  [17] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  thought the matter was one of moral principle:  all the Member States regarded themselves as equal  partners with a right to equal treatment and to  the duties which it involved. He stated that he  would regret any decision based on temporary  expediency.  [18] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that, with  reference to his earlier remarks, payments to the  International Civil Aviation Organization, whose  headquarters were in Montreal, were effected in  Canadian dollars.  The speaker again pressed for documented  information, with figures, giving more details of  the Organization’s dollar needs and more parti-  cularly of the percentage of salaries paid in dol-  lars. Could fuller information also be supplied  on book coupons? It had been suggested that  costs under this head could be covered in Swiss  francs up to the equivalent of $50,000, which  would make it possible to reduce the percentage of  dollars allocated by Unesco in respect of these  coupons. The Member States of the OEEC dis-  charged their obligations in their several cur-  rencies, i.e., in seven different European currencies.  Since the delegates of the United States of Amer-  ica, Venezuela and Canada had made it known that  they had no intention of seeking authority to pay  their contribution in any currency other than  dollars, it would be possible to revise the table of  countries required to make payment in dollars,  since Unesco’s needs could in all probability be  covered by the countries that voluntarily paid in  dollars. It should be noted that the authority  granted to Uruguay to pay in pesos had made it  possible to recover arrears of contribution.  In conclusion, would the Secretariat give the  Commission detailed figures of contributions, from  which the percentage paid in dollars could be  ascertained, and a similar statement of the Organ-  izations's dollar needs? Lastly, it would be  advisable to ascertain which countries were pre-  pared to discharge their liabilities in dollars  voluntarily; their contributions might in fact  meet all the Organization’s needs.
119] Mr. SMITH (Australia) wished to make it  clear that he had not overlooked the other advan-  tages of the Book Coupon Scheme, the usefulness  of which he did not contest. He personally did  not think it equitable that soft currency countries  should be asked for the same proportion of their  contributions in dollars as those countries for  which dollars were readily available. He hoped  assessments were not based on the date of joining  the Organization, but only on geographical consi-  derations. He was convinced that dollars econo-  mies could be effected on such items as the pro-  portion of salaries paid in dollars.  [20] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) drew  attention to the second paragraph on page 2 of  document 4C/ADM/4: it was not the Director-  General's proposal that all countries should share  equally in the dollar requirements of the Organiza-  tion, but that of the United Nations Consultative  Committee on Administrative Questions.  [21] Mr. LOURENCO FILHO (Brazil) recalled  that the previous year his country had suggested a  criterion better adapted to the actual situation.  The list of countries required to make payments  in dollars included not less than 16 Latin American  countries of which one only, Venezuela, had  indicated its willingness to continue to pay in  that currency. It should not be forgotten that the  list had been drawn up when the Organization was  in its infancy, in 1945; at that time the arrange-  ment was reasonable enough; but owing to  changes in the financial position of the Latin  American countries, this was no longer the case.  Only by a great effort had the Brazilian Govern-  ment been able to pay its own contributions to the  Budget and the Working Capital Fund. To secure  the necessary dollars in the future great sacrifices  would be necessary which would endanger the  progress of the country. Thus it would be no more  than fair to re-examine the whole question in the  light of present-day circumstances.
122] Dr. MASON (New Zealand) was opposed to  any change in the present method of payment and  wished to recommend a continuation of the Organ-
1zations’s efforts to keep down dollar expenditure.  He stressed that any change might force some  countries to reduce their contributions or even to  cease taking part in Unesco’s work altogether.
617     IE  T P U r   ES ]  [23] Mrs. GARDE-WIDEMAR (Sweden) recalled  that her country had asked to be allowed to pay in  soft currency and was in favour of retaining the  status quo .  [24] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) asked the French  delegate not to press his proposal in which Canada  was singled out. He was against any priorities in  the matter of contributions; any hardship case  in list (¢) should be considered on its merits.  [25] Mr. LOURENCO FILHO (Brazil) thought it  would be well to afford the delegations concerned  an opportunity of explaining their point of view,  and accordingly formally requested further dis-  cussion of this item.  [26] Mr. RODRIGUEZ LARRETA (Uruguay)  emphasized that his country was small and has  suffered great economic set-backs in the last two  vears. Its commercial deficit for 1949 was  $73,000,000. It had asked to pay in pesos, not  because of any unwillingness but for concrete  material reasons. In conclusion, he wished to sup-  port the Brazilian proposal for a revision of the  original lists, on page 4 of document 5C/ADM/4.  Mr. GONZALEZ RISOS (Argentine) also sup-  ported the proposal.  [27] Mr. LOURENCO FILHO (Brazil) understood  that the United States of America were prepared  to pay their contribution wholly in dollars and  that that contribution represented approximately  one-third of the Organization's total budget.  Would the Secretariat give information as to the  percentage represented by the remaining contri-  butions payable in dollars, after deduction of the  United States contribution?  [28] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) ex-  plained that the Organization's dollar requirements  exceeded the United States contribution by 10.6 per  cent.  Alternative (1) [document 5C/ADM/4, page 3]  was rejected by 22 votes to 7.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) enquired what  was the source of the proposals submitted.  [29] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  pointed out that alternative (2) was not really a  proposal, but simply a statement of fact which  required no action on the part of the Commission  unless one or more countries asked to be moved  from one list to another—a question the Com-  mission obviously could not deal with at that  moment for lack of precise information on the  matter.  [30] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) stressed  that Financial Regulation No. 11 made it necessary  for the Commission to make a recommendation  on the question to the General Conference. À  A
618  recommendation was also needed concerning the  new Member States which did not appear in the  lists on page 4 of document 5C/ADM/4.  [31] Mr. LOURENCO FILHO (Brazil), supported  by Mr. PINEROS CORPAS (Colombia), moved  that the committee proposed by Sir Henry French  be also instructed to examine the possibility of  spreading the 10 to 11 per cent of dollar require-  ments to be found in addition to the United States  contribution over all Member States. Adopted.  In reply to Mr. RODRIGUEZ LARRETA (Uru-  guay), Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) ex-  plained that the composition of the lists had been  decided by the General Conference, in accordance  with Financial Regulation No. 11.  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) agreed  with M. Lourenço Filho. If a country wished to  be transferred from one group to another, its  delegation should send a written request to that  effect to the Secretary of the Commission.  Mrs. GARDE-WIDEMAR (Sweden) asked for  vote to be taken on alternative (2) [document
5C/ADM/4, page 4].  Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked that it be  agreed that, unless a Member State expressed, in  writing, a wish to alter its category, it automa-  tically remained in its present category.  Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) trusted that the list  of States required to pay in dollars would be  revised so as to permit of certain of those States  transferring to another category.  [32] In reply to Mr. GUIGNOLET (France),  Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) stated that  the 1949 dollar expenditure had been 52,844,000  (plus 5 per cent for future requirements), to  which $450.000 must be added for the Book Cou-  pon Scheme, making a total of $3,436,200.  [33] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) wondered whether  the delegates who were proposing the setting up  of the committee realized the magnitude of the  task they were assigning to it. He urged the  Commission to consider the proposal that the  Executive Board should examine, in the course  of the coming year, on their individual merits,  any applications for transfers from one group to  another, and act on those applications if it found  it possible to do so. In his opinion, the Com-  mission could not deal with the question except  perhaps in a few cases of real hardship.  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) was In  complete sympathy with Mr. Pollock’s remarks,  but still thought the committee could explore the  different aspects of the question and report to the  Commission.  Mr. SMITH (Australia), speaking as Rapporteur,  asked if the committee to be set up would also                             be asked to deal with any applications for transfer.  The CHAIRMAN answered in the affirmative.  [34] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) stated  that the actual expenditure in 1949 had been  $7,630,000. The size of the 1951 Budget was still  unknown, but it was assumed that the dollar  requirements (excluding 5 per cent for the safety  margin and 5.6 per cent for the Book Coupon  Scheme) would equal the 1949, figure, 1.e., about
37 per cent.  [35] It was decided by 25 votes to 4 to set up  the proposed committee.  It was also decided that the committee's terms  of reference would be to take into consideration  the four categories of Member States, examine any  applications for transfer from one category to  another and suggest a course of action to the  Commission according to the number of such  applications received.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked that  the committee should have authority to make re-  commendations in connexion with the five new  Member States which were not listed on page 4  of document 5C/ADM/4. Agreed.  At the request of Mr. RODRIGUEZ LARRETA  (Uruguay), it was agreed that any transfer appli-  cations should be handed to the Secretary by the  end of the next day.  It was agreed that the Committee should be  composed of the delegates of Brazil, Colombia,  Egypt, the United States of America, Indonesia,  the United Kingdom and Sweden.  Administration of the Revolving Fund (docu-  ment 5C/ADM/7].  [36] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) intro-  duced document 5C/ADM/7 and indicated that the  Director-General recommended that the Working  Capital Fund should be maintained at $3,000,000.  The uses to which the Fund might be put during
1951, according to the decision of the Fourth Ses-  sion of the General Conference, were listed on  page 2 of document 5C/ADM/7.  [37] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  recalled the discussions which had taken place at  the Paris Conference concerning the appropriate-  ness of using the Working Capital Fund for the  purposes listed on page 2. He asked if there was  any possibility of financing the Staff Housing and  Welfare Fund by a credit union or a staff loan.  [38] Mr. SMITH (Australia) thought an explor-  ation of the question had been made and said  he would welcome a statement on its results.  In his opinion, the amount set aside for advances
619  was too large and the time-limit for their repay-  ment was too long; one year ought to be enough.  Advances for the purchase of motor-cars should  be limited to the higher grades for whom cars  were really a necessity.  [39] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) stated  that, after very careful study, the idea of forming  a credit union had been postponed because the  Staff Association was comparatively new and had  not had the opportunity to build up a sufficient  capital. The majority of the loans extended to  members of the staff were intended to overcome  the great housing difficulty in Paris and were  usually for periods which seldom exceeded twelve  months. The $150,000 earmarked for that pur-  pose did not mean that the entire sum was  constantly being used. Cars were frequently re-  quired by the lower grade personnel, because they  could find adequate accomodation for themselves  and their families, at a reasonable cost, only out-  side Paris.  [40] Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) agreed with  Mr. Roseman as to the desirability of liquidating  the Staff Housing and Welfare Fund. This would  mean not merely a direct economy of $150,000  but also the saving of all the administrative ex-  penses incidental to these activities. It should be  recalled that Embassy staffs were in a very similar  position, but Embassies had never considered a  policy of loans for the housing of their staffs or  for staff purchases of motor cars. These activities  fell squarely within the province of the Staff Asso-  ciation or the Staff Co-operative.  [41] Mr. SMITH (Australia) appreciated the dif-  ficulties of the Staff Association, but he regretted  that it was not possible to find money for its  Welfare from some other source than the Working  Capital Fund. He noted that both the sum in-  volved and the time-limit for repayment of ad-  vances could be reduced since they did not seem  to be required.  [42] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) stated  that the Director-General urged that the figure of  $150,000 should be retained in order to enable  him to deal with the difficult problem of housing  the harassed staff.  Mr. SMITH (Australia) did not press his pro-  posal for a reduction of the sum but asked for  the repayment period to be limited to twelve  months.  Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) pointed out  that the limitation would preclude the setting up  of the housing-scheme.  Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  opposed any consideration of a housing-scheme  and declared that his delegation was quite willing  A ie es Ca                to accept any recommendation which would bring for the Staff Housing and Welfare Fund and  the present situation to an end as soon as possible. recommended that the time-limit for the repay-  ment of loans should be ‘“‘normally reduced to  [43] It was agreed that the Working Capital twelve months”  Fund should be maintained at $3,000,000.  The Commission approved the figure of $150,000 The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  FOURTH MEETING  : Wednesday, 31 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara Cuanp (India)  Scale of Contributions of Member States proper, but in proportion to population the coun-  for 1951 (continued) [documents 5C/ADM/3 try most heavily assessed at the moment was  and Addendum I]. Switzerland.  [1] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) ex- [6] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stressed  plained that Addendum I to document 5C/ADM/3 that the figures contained in document 5C/ADM/3,  was an illustration of the application of the formula Addendum I, were received from the United  contained in document 5C/ADM/3 on the basis of Nations and that, under existing regulations, it  the present membership, and of the way the was Unesco’s duty to operate on them. It would
2.87 per cent brought in by the new Member be very difficult to alter the figure for Switzer-  States would reduce the 1951 assessments. land’s contribution pending a decision of the  United Nations.  [2] Mr. PUTONG (Philippines) wished to know  the actual sum his country would have to pay [7] Dr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) reminded the meet-  and asked for a table of last vear’s percentage ing that the scale of contributions was not cal-  assessment in order to be able to make a com- culated on a population basis but on the over-all  ability to pay of the country concerned. À state-  ment by the Secretariat on the methods used by  [3] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) pointed the United Nations to arrive at this scale would  out that actual figures would only be known after assist the discussion.  the Budget had been established by the Programme Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) indicated  and Budget Commission. Corrigendum III to his readiness to give this information as soon as  document 5C/ADM/5 contained the table of last he had the necessarv data.  year’s assessment. In reply to Mr. Smith’s pre-  parison.  vious question concerning the special percentages [8] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  granted to Austria and Hungary, Mr. Harper- recalled the Beirut Conference decision that, In  Smith could only confirm that they had been ap- normal times, no State’s contribution should ex-  proved by the Second Session of the General Con- ceed one-third of the total Budget. It had been |  ference at those countries’ request. assumed at the time that a reduction of the United  | : States’ assessment should take place over a three-  [4] Mr. SMITH (Australia) thought the Secre-  vear period. Because of devaluation, the results ;  tara might be able to obtain Some additional of which no one could forecast, the United States |  information on the matter from the United Nations delegation had not pressed at the Paris Conference |  Statistical Office, for the full reduction to which it was entitled and |  [6] Dr. OPRECHT (Switzerland) thought the 1951 should be the year when the Beirut decision  proposed assessment of his country for 1951 too took full effect. In view of the marked improve  high. The United States had asked that their own ment in world conditions, of the additional |  contribution should not exceed one third of the 2.45 per cent of the Budget provisal by the new  Organization's total budget; this was perfectly Member States and of the readjustment of the