[13] The CHAIRMAN pointed out, however, that  this part of the text merely stated that, without  programme resolutions, there would be no special  budgetary reserve for unauthorized activities.  [14] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  stressed that all programme activity should be  founded on a resolution and not on a “heading”.  [15] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America),  stating that the Committee would report later on  the relationship of specific programme resolutions  and their budgetary implications, believed that  ELEVENTH  the present budgetary system would lead to too  great ‘‘compartmentalization” of activities.  [16] It was decided that Sir Ronald Adam and  Mr. Roseman should agree on a text to be inserted  under paragraph 6.  [17] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Annexes  to the Interim Report be drafted by the Secretariat  in the form of resolutions which would be  discussed at the next meeting of the Committee.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 10.50 a.m.  MEETING  Tuesday, 30 May 1950, at 9.30 p.m.  Chairman:  Draft Interim Report (continued).  [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Drafting  Committee, which had considered the Interim  Report of the Budget Committee now before the  meeting, proposed the following amendments:
(1) INTRODUCTION: In paragraph (a), the  words “submitted by the Executive Board” should  be deleted:
(2) GENERAL OBSERVATIONS: In paragraph 1,  the words “by the Director-General” should be  deleted; in paragraph 2, the word “major” should  be added in the second line between “effect” and  y “economies”.  These amendments were agreed.  [2] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that  the word “tentative, originally included by the  Drafting Committee in line three of item I (c), had  been omitted in the text before the Committee. It  was agreed that this word should be re-inserted.  [3] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) referred to a pre-  vious decision of the Drafting Committee that the  second and third items of Section IL (General  Observations) should be inverted. This was also  agreed.  [4] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  suggested that the words ‘‘under the existing  system” in the fifth line of item 11.6 be transferred  to line eight, after the words “The Committee felt  that . . .” This amendment was agreed.  D 09  Dr. FF. Bexper (Netherlands)  [5] The CHAIRMAN explained that the Drafting  Committee felt that item 11.7 (Further Enquiries)  was rather meagre, and might perhaps be omitted  completely.  [16] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) felt that this item  should remain, as there were several fields in  which it was important for further enquiries to  be conducted. He asked specifically wether a state-  ment recommending the earliest possible imple-  mentation of the Report of the Experts Committee  on Salary, Allowances, and Leave Systems of the  United Nations and the Specialized Agencies could  be added to this paragraph of the Interim Report.  [7] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  did not feel that the Budget Committee should  refer in this Report to a matter which was on the  agenda of the Administrative Commission.  [8] The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Pollock  that this was a matter of the greatest importance;  but he also felt that it was not within the compe-  tence of the Budget Committee to make recom-  mendations on a question yet to be considered by  the Administrative Commission.  [9] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that,  under the provisions of item I (c) of the Interim  Report, this matter could be discussed in detail  at a later date.
110] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) felt, however, that    the Budget Committee should make immediate  reference to the importance of this matter and pro-  posed the following text for inclusion in the  Interim Report:  One delegate felt that the earliest possible imple-  mentation of the recommendations in the report of  the Experts on Salary, Allowances, and Leave Systems  of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies,  could lead to substantial improvements and economies  in the personnel administration of Unesco. The Com-  mittee decided, however that further investigation of  this matter should be deferred until the Administra-  tive Commission had dealt with the related question  on its Agenda.  [11] After further discussion, Mr. ROSEMAN  (United States of America) proposed the inclusion  of the following statement in the Interim Report,  to deal with this matter:  The Committee also noted that the report of the  United Nations Expert Committee on Salaries and  Allowances, currently on the Agenda of the Admi-  nistrative Commission, might provide opportunities  for additional economies.  Agreed.  [12] Also on the suggestion of Mr. ROSEMAN  (United States of America), it was agreed that the  following statement would be substituted for the  existing text of item 11.7 (Further Enquiries):  The Committee noted certain further areas for its  further investigation. The matters will be treated in  subsequent reports of the Committee.  Annex I (Education).  EpUCATIONAL Missions [111.1.B (1) ].
113] Mr. KIRPAL (India) pointed out that the  Committee had not reached any definite conclu-  sions on item 1.111. It had merely suggested that  there should be certain flexibility in the regula-  tions regarding payment of per diem to personnel  on missions.  [14] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) agreed that the  existing text appeared to be too specific, and he  suggested the following statement as an alternative:  With reference to its General Observation 3, the Com-  mittee felt that there might be greater uniformity in  the basis of these types of expenditures.  Agreed.  EDUCATION CLEARING-House [III.1.B (3)].  [16] On item 1.133, Mr. ROSEMAN (United  States of America) suggested the words “United  Nations” be inserted before the word ‘“‘Commis-  sion”’ in the last line. Agreed.  FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION AND ADULT EDUCATION  TI1.1.C (1)1.
116] With regard to item 1.211, Mr. POLLOCK  (Canada) felt that the figures quoted were mis-  leading; it should be made clear that the sum  of $2,000 did not represent the average cost per  week of the Seminar, but merely the cost of  lengthening or shortening the Seminar by a period  of one week. He suggested the following text:     The Committee wished to point out that savings of  $4,000 might be obtained (out of a total expenditure  of $24,000) by reducing the length of the Seminar.  [17] A discussion ensued regarding the compe-  tence of the Budget Committee to question whether  the proper length for a Seminar should be four,  five or six weeks, or to make specific recommenda-  tions in this connexion. After several delegates  had expressed the opinion that this was a matter  for the decision of the Programme and Budget  Commission, Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed  out that in any case the Interim Report of the  Budget Committee was intended to be general  rather than detailed, and recommended the deletion  of the sentence beginning “Further the Committee  wished to point out . . .” Agreed.  [18] In Item 1.2121 (b), Mr. ROSEMAN (United  States of America) suggested the replacement of  the word “person’ by “staff member”. Agreed.  Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America) pro-  posed the inclusion of the following statement in  item 1.2122:  In connexion with the Haitian project, the Committee  suggested that the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion should consider the relationship between the  funds it was proposed to expend for this purpose and  the accomplishments so far achieved by prior Unesco  expenditures.  Agreed.  EDUCATION FOR MALADJUSTED CHILDREN [I11.1.C(2) |.  [19] Since the original text of item 1,22 did not  clearly convey the feeling of the Committee on this  point, Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America),  proposed deleting the words: “seemed completely  inadequate to effective work in the field”, and  substituting: “was too little for effective work and  too large for simple liaison activity.” Agreed.  [20] It was also agreed to insert, in the third  line of this paragraph, the words “other agencies  and groups” before the word “working”.  UNDERSTANDING EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL
21] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) wished to withdraw
510                      |                the paragraph under item 1.342, which had been  included at his request. Agreed.  Annex II (Natural Sciences).  Adopted without comment.  Examination of the new Resolutions on the  Programme.  [23] It was agreed after some discussion to ex-  amine the new programme resolutions in conjunc-  tion with the chapters to which they referred.  [24] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administra-  tive Management and Budget) announced that the  very rough total of the budgetary provisions re-  quired to cover all the new programme resolutions  was $650,000. For the Education Department the  total supplementary provision requested was  approximately $124,000.  [26] The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the  Committee would be able to give sufficient time to  these new proposals, in view of the fact that a  report would have to be made to the Programme  and Budget Commission at a very early date.  [26] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) felt  that the Committee would not have time to do  more than pass to the Programme and Budget  Commission the Secretariat's estimate of the extra  budgetary provision involved; but Mr. ROSEMAN  (United States of America) felt that the Budget  Committee had a specific responsibility to examine  the estimates presented by the Secretariat.  [27] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administra-  tive Management and Budget) suggested that the  Committee might simply list the new resolutions  and state whether or not it was in general agree-  ment with the estimate submitted by the Secre-  tariat.  [28] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pro-  posed that the Chairman of the Budget Committee  should draw the attention of the General Com-  mittee of the Conference to the fact that new  resolutions were still coming in, despite the time-  limit of 25 May, and that the Budget Committee  would consequently not be able to examine these  resolutions in detail before making its first report  to the Programme and Budget Commission.  [29] Supporting this request, Mr. POLLOCK  (Canada) asked the Chairman to make representa-  tions to the General Committee of the Conference,  both with regard to the heavy work-load of the  Budget Committee and to the necessity for making  some alteration in the programme of meetings, to
011  enable the Budget Committee to complete its work  in a reasonable manner.  [30] The CHAIRMAN agreed to raise this matter  at the next meeting of the General Committee.  New resolutions concerning the programme of the  Department of Education.  ED-1 (Methods of Teaching Evolutionary Biology)  | document 5C/15].
131] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) thought it would be possible for the Secre-  tariat to undertake the work required by this  United Kingdom resolution [document 5C/15]  without the provision of additional funds.  The draft resolution was therefore  without further comment.  adopted  ED-2 and ED-3 (Use of the Mother Tongue in  Education and Study of Indigenous Languages)  [document 5C/OXR/5 - Add. 1].  [32] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administra-  tive Management and Budget) explained that it was  proposed to transfer the sum of $3,000 provided for  fees for studies on the Use of the Mother Tongue in  Education [paragraph I on page 86 of document
5C/5 (II) ] to the project for encouraging the study  of indigenous languages [document 5C/OXR/5 -  Add. 1]. In other words, the sum in question was  to be deducted from the project covered by ED-2,  and added to that covered by ED-3.  [33] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) felt that, once  again, this was a matter which could be dealt  with efficiently and more economically by  National Commissions and that the sum provided  for fees | ED-3] might be deleted.  [34] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) replied that the Secretariat was trying to  make a small but serious beginning in this field,  and that it was essential to engage experts to pre-  pare really first-class documentation. It would be  dangerous to approach this problem too super-  ficially.  [35] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) was not convinced  that the National Commissions could not produce  results of the same value as paid experts.
136] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  remarked that he did not see why the present  staff of the Education Department could not  absorb the extra work required by the new resolu-  tion. He felt that, even if it were really necessary  to engage a Programme Specialist at grade 14, it  should not be necessary to set up an extra secre-           tarial post in a department where the ratio of  secretaries to high-grade personnel was already  somewhat high.  [37] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) supported those  remarks and added that there seemed to be far too  TWELFTH  much provision in the budget for temporary  personnel and consultants on a fee basis to deal  with matters that, in many cases, could be  absorbed by the existing personnel.  The meeting rose at midnight.  MEETING  Wednesday, 31 May 1950, at 2.30 p.m.  Chairman:  [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that he had  made representations to the General Committee of  the Conference regarding the work and time-table  of the Budget Committee. The General Committee  had promised to study the matter with a view to  improving the situation.  Examination of the new Resolutions on the  Programme (continued).  New resolutions concerning the Department of  Education (concluded).  ED-2 (continued) (Use of the Mother Tongue in  Education [document 5C/OXR/5 - Add. 1].  [2] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pro-  posed that the resolution listed under ED-2 be  approved, since this represented merely a transfer  of funds to a different project. Agreed.  ED-3 (continued) (Study of Indigenous Languages  [document 5C/OXR/5 - Add.1].  [3] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) suggested that it  would not be unreasonable for the Budget Com-  mittee to say that it hoped the Director-General  could carry out the work involved under the  resolution contained in ED-3 in the course of the  Organization's normal fundamental education  activities, and without extra budgetary provision.  [4] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) explained that the re-  solution contained specific instructions to the  Director-General to undertake activities in this  field in addition to those contained in the Pro-  gramme for 1951. He emphasized that, in pre-  Dr. F. Benner (Netherlands)  paring the 1951 Programme and Budget, the  Director-General had sought the most detailed co-  ordination and integration of the two. Any  additional tasks or responsibilities placed on him  by the General Conference must therefore be  accompanied by the provision of additional funds.  Mr. Weitz did not feel that it was possible for the  present staff of the Organization to absorb any  further duties, and he would make this clear to  the Programme and Budget Commission in con-  nexion with all proposed new resolutions.  [5] In the circumstances, and in view of the lack  of time in the Budget Committee for complete  examination of the new resolutions at this stage,  Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) formulated the following  general statement which he proposed the Com-  mittee should use to cover all the new resolutions  it passed to the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion :  The Budget Committee has examined the proposal  included in Resolution No. . . . and the related  budgetary estimate prepared by the Director-General.  Aîter preliminary examination, the Budget Committee  decided that the estimate of $ . presented by the  Director-General is an accurate reflexion of the maxi-  mum budgetary charge which would arise from the  adoption of this proposal.  After further detailed investigation, the Budget  Committee hopes to suggest certain economies in this  project, but the Committee wishes to emphasize that  the final budgetary figure for this project will not be  significantly below that suggested by the Director-  (xeneral.  [6] It was unanimously agreed that this state-  ment provided the best solution to the dilemma  and should be included in the oral report to the  Programme and Budget Commission.