TWENTY-FIFTH MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 9 p.m.  (Chairman:  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I) Rev., Part 11].
6. Mass Communication (continued).  SECTION 6.1 (continued) (IMPROVEMENT OF MEANS  AND TECHNIQUES OF COMMUNICATION).  Report on the Project for an International  Institute of the Press and Information [document
5C/PRG/8 and Addendum 1].  [1.}.:i Mr.  egalion s  KAYSER (France) presented his del-  amendment [document 5C/PRG/B,  Amendment 1] to the draft resolution on page 57  of document 5C/PRG/8. That amendment took  into account the reasonable requirements of the  Secretariat and of journalists. The problem to be  faced was obviously that of the budget. Journal-  Isis organizations were asking for the Inter-  national Institute of the Press to be financed solely  by the profession without any governmental aid.  Would it be possible to raise the necessary funds?  The amendment, by providing for additional  preparation and fresh consultations, was designed  to find a solution to that problem. The results  would be communicated to the delegation of the  Committee of Experts on the Press, which would  decide on the expediency of convening a confer-  ence to set up the Institute. It would then rest  with the Director-General, as a result of such con-  sultations and after conferring with the Executive  Board, to convene the Constituent Conference of  the Institute. To sum up, the French amendment  suggested a procedure, which, without any  further allocation of funds, would provide for the  collection of the necessary information to enable  an important decision to be taken with full  knowledge of the facts.  [2] John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that the Board was only foo anxious  that the proposed Institute should be set up as  quickly as possible, provided there was sufficient  evidence to show it was really needed by the  journalists of the world. The French delega-  tion’s text was entirely satisfactory from the main  point of view which the Board had had in mind,  SIT
427  Mr. Roger Seypoux (France)  but its essential point was already contained in the  original report on page 57 of document 5C/PRG/8.  Sir John would leave it to the Commission to  choose the text it preferred, but he felt doubts  about the advisability of including the words  “the delegation of the Committee .  [3] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) had noted  that professional journalists’ associations were not  showing any great enthusiasm for the establish-  ment of the Institute. However, since a com-  paratively small sum was being requested in the  Budget Estimates, he thought the negociations al-  ready under way should be continued.  [4] Mr. MOOREHEAD (United Kingdom)  associated himself with Professor Verniers. There  was very little enthusiasm for this project in the  United Kingdom, but his delegation agreed to it  in principle, and did not find it sufficiently  objectionable to oppose it outright.
15] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL welcomed the  French amendment, which he felt would be more  likely to meet with the approval of the journalists’  associations concerned.  [6] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) enquired whether the French delegation  would accept the following wording for the  second paragraph of its draft amendment:  To transmit, in particular to the Committee of Press  and Publications Experts  Mr. KAYSER (France) readily accepted that  wording.  [7} Mr. TAYLOR (United States of America)  moved the inclusion, in the list of items to be  taken into consideration by the Director-General,  of the clause: “The advisability of including  representatives of other news media in his  deliberations.” This text could also be inserted  in the original resolution of the Executive Board.  [8] In reply to a question from Mr. DAVIES  (Australia), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed  that the replies and comments should be com-  municated, not only to members of the Committee  of Experts, but also to its accredited representa-                tives. Accordingly, it might be preferable to word  the beginning of the second paragraph of the  French amendment as follows:  To transmit, in particular to the Committee of Press  and Publications Experts or to its accredited repre-  sentatives . . .  [9] The French draft amendment, modified in  accordance with the suggestions of the Chairman  of the Executive Board, the delegate of the United  States of America and the Director-General, was  adopted and referred to the Drafting Committee.’  BunceT TasrLe II1.6.B  pages 222 and 223].  [10] Professor SAMBURSKY (Rapporteur, Bud-  get Committee) raised two points:
(1) There seemed to be an embarrassing  number of “secretaries” in this Department (35  out of a total of 111 staff); a clearer definition of  the term might usefully be adopted.
5C/5- (Il), [document
(2) The Budget Committee had wondered  whether Member States could not do more  preparatory work by correspondence with the  National Commissions concerning the world  survey of Technical Facilities [document 5C/5  (II), paragraph 11, page 224], and thereby save  the $45,000 involved.  [11] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) said that the provision for  secretarial assistance covered the whole Depart-  ment, and not just one Division. In view  of the very wide field of activities undertaken by  the Department, which included research work,  negotiations for conventions, work of the nature  of a press agency, film and radio institution, he  submitted that the figure of 35 “secretaries” out  of 111 staïf was not an undue proportion.  [12] As to Professor Sambursky’s second point,  Mr. Schneider stated that the 1950 surveys were  already under way with considerable aid from  the National Commissions or co-operating bodies  in three Member States. In the United States, the  Universities of Illinois and Ohio had been most  helpful, and the Secretariat had had to pay the  expenses of only two trips by field surveyors.  Similar work had been undertaken in Canada and  the United Kingdom.  Budget Table IIT.6.B was adopted.  SECTION 6.2 (REDUCTION OF OBSTACLES TO THE FREE  FLOW OF INFORMATION).  Item 6.21 [documents 5C/5 (I) Rev. Addendum].  Adopted without comment.”     Resol. 6.171 and 6.1713.  Resol. 6.21.
1. In final form:
2. In final form:
428  Items 6.21 and 6.22 [document 5C/5 (I) Rev.]  The examination of these items and of documents  PRG/10, 11 and 12 was reserved for later con-  sideration.  Item 6.23.  [13] In reply to questions from Mr. MOORE-  HEAD (United Kingdom), Mr. SCHNEIDER  (Director, Department of Mass Communication)  explained that the meeting place of the United  Nations Sub-Commission for 1951 had not yet  been fixed. The representative of Unesco at the  meeting held two weeks previously in Montevideo  had been welcomed as bringing a substantial and  positive contribution to the conference, and the  Secretariat would lose if they failed to send a  representative to future meetings, even if these  were held in distant parts of the world.  Item 6.23 was adopted without modification.’  Items 6.24 to 6.28.  [14] On the proposal of Mr. TAYLOR (United  States of America), it was agreed to insert  “categories of before “persons” in the third line  of item 6.26, and to alter “facilities” in the follow-  ing line to “activities”.  Items 6.24 to 6.28 were adopted, subject to the  foregoing amendments.’  Item 6.29.  [15] In response to a question from Mr. MOORE-  HEAD (United. Kingdom), Mr. SCHNEIDER  (Director, Department of Mass Communication)  said that the keyword in this resolution was “such  as’. The Secretariat would proceed to undertake  such a study only after checking whether it was  not already being covered by any other institu-  tion. The title was merely an indication of the  type of work they were considering.  [16] Mr. KAYSER (France) considered it most  important for the Secretariat to undertake in the  near future an enquiry into the economic obstacles  to the international flow of information.  The Commission noted that recommendation,  which would be communicated to the Secretariat.  [17] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said the Board had been struck by the  difficulty of producing a realistic and business  like draft which would apply for a long period  in advance. The Board would greatly welcome  any views of the General Conference which would  enable the Board in future to produce shorter  programmes on mass communication, showing
1. In final form: Resol. 6.23.
2 In final form: Resol. 6.24 to 6.28.                              greater confidence in the Director-General and his  staff. In future, two or three broad resolutions  should be produced, without closer definition,  and he hoped that, before the end of the Confer-  ence, some delegation might produce a motion to  this effect.  [18] Professor von MURALT (Switzerland)  suggested a course of action which, especially  with reference to resolution 6.24, would lead to  quick results. Hitherto, scientists travelling from  all over the world to the zoological stations in  Monaco or Naples were held up for weeks while  their apparatus was delayed in the customs.  Unesco should aim at obtaining bilaterial  agreements with the Governments of Italy and  Monaco, similar to the arrangement obtaining in  Switzerland with regard to scientists who wished  to study on the Jungfraujoch, and who were  given full facilities to bring in their apparatus  without delay. All that was required was insur-  ance and a guarantee, and Unesco was in a posi-  tion to supply both of those.  Item 6.29 was adopted without change.?  Bunger TasLe III.6.C [document 5C/5 (II),  page 228].  Adopted without comment.  SECTION 6.3 (ACTION THROUGH PRESS, FILM AND  RADIO) .  Item 6.31 [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Add.].  [19] Professor NAPOLITANO (Italy) thought  that Unesco might assist news agencies through-  out the world to assemble information of out-  standing interest on a number of projects on foot  in such areas as the tropics and the arid zones.  Unesco might request a number of newspapers  to send correspondents, whose living expenses it  would pay, while all travel expenses and  salaries would be borne by the newspapers which  would be entirely free to offer any criticism. Such  collaboration would result in free publicity for  Unesco’s most enterprising activities. Professor  Napolitano called for consideration of that idea  for submission to the General Conference in 1951.  The CHAIRMAN requested the Italian delegate  to submit his proposal in writing for consideration  by the Director-General and the Executive Board.  [20] It was agreed, at the suggestion of  Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India), to refer resolu-  tion 6.31 to the Drafting Committee for inclusion  of the words: “and other media of mass communi-  cation”.  [tem 6.31 [document 5C/5 (I) Rev., Add.] was  adopted in principle.?  ——— ———  l. In final form: Resol. 6.29.
2. In final form: Resol. 6.31.        Items 6.81 to 6.324.  [21] In reply to a question from Dr. ZOOK  (United States of America) about the financial  implications of item 6.31, Mr. SCHNEIDER (Dir-  ector, Department of Mass Communication) said  that none of items 6.31 to 6.325, had in them-  selves a budgetary implication. The field was so  vast, however, that some selection had to be made  in order to avoid a vain dispersal of effort. In  every case the leading concept in each field had  been stressed, but the Secretariat's activities would  not necessarily be confined to them.  [22] It was agreed, at the suggestion of  Mr. DAVIES (Australia), to refer the English  text of item 6.324 to the Drafting Committee for  clearer wording of the phrase “the solidarity of  mankind”.  [23] Mr. TAYLOR (United States of America),  while not wishing to criticize the present pro-  gramme, expressed the hope that the Executive  Board would pay more attention to the steps to  be taken to reach the masses by the various forms  of mass communication, and to explain Unesco by  shows, by articles of fact or fiction, or in any  other way.  Items 6.31-6.324 were adopted."  Item 6.325.  [24] Mr. JOKA (Yugoslavia) presented his del-  egation’s draft amendment as set out in document
5C/85.  [25] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was inclined to  think that the amendment would result in undue  emphasis being placed on certain special aspects  of Unesco’s general responsibilities with regard to  information, by limiting the wider concept of  freedom of information.  The Yugoslav amendment was not seconded and  therefore lapsed.  Item 6.325 was adopted without change.?  Item 6.33.  [26] Mr. KAYSER (France) felt that this item  covered an essential activity in the field of infor-  mation, but unfortunately the present day was not  one of prosperity. It was therefore reasonable to  enquire what funds Unesco could devote to  journalists” missions. Hitherto, a number of  newspapers and broadcasting stations had been  willing to assist Unesco financially. Unesco’s  part might therefore be confined to providing the  journalists with introductions in the countries  where their surveys were to be carried out, and  ct 0 ‘(0
1 In final form: Resol. 6.32 to 6.336.
2. In final form : Resol. 6.337.         lo confer upon them the status of Unesco envoys,  so as to ensure the collaboration of National Com-  missions in the countries concerned. By that  means, Unesco might avoid restricting the scope  of the proposals regarding the dissemination of  information.  [27] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) replied that Unesco hoped  that the series of articles by Ritchie Calder would  be the first of many such series. Expenses had  been shared between Unesco and the News  Chronicle. Initial negotiations for similar ar-  rangements with a number of other newspapers  had so far been unsuccessful. Mr. Schneider had  to confess that he was not over-optimistic. The  News Chronicle had agreed to share expenses,  because the author was on its own staff and it  felt confident of the success of the articles. But  other newspapers might not feel the same assur-  ance. Unfortunately, that was his impression,  but it would nevertheless not deter him from in-  vestigating all other possibilities. He pointed out  that while the newspaper sponsoring the articles  agreed to share expenses, other newspapers were  likely to profit from them; the News Chronicle  articles had been reproduced in twenty-five coun-  tries in Europe and America and in a large  number of Arabic newspapers.  No efforts would be spared to secure the  maximum collaboration with the press and radio,  as suggested by the French delegation.
128] Mr. KAYSER (France) remarked that if the  views of the French delegation met with a fav-  ourable reception, the Secretariat could rely on  additional support for its efforts to obtain the  assistance of the press and radio.
129] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication), stated that as the News  Chronicle had, with Unesco, borne the entire  expense of Ritchie Calders mission, it had  exclusive rights for the publication of his articles.  It had offered them to some forty newspapers and  reviews, but hitherto, the articles had for the  most part been reproduced free of charge and the  revenue from sales was trifling.
130] Mr. MOOREHEAD (United Kingdom) was  very anxious that something should be done to  enhance Unesco’s reputation. There had been  considerable disappointment in the United King-  dom at some of Unesco’s press releases. They  were often badly worded, it was not made clear  what sort of public they were intended to reach,  and the general standard was low. There had  been an improvement recently which he hoped  would continue.  His delegation had, however, been particularly  delighted with certain activities of Unesco,  especially in the sphere of radio, and more partic-  ularly over the Calder mission, which had seemed  the beginning of something which could really  raise Unesco’s reputation in the world. There  might, as Mr. Kayser had suggested, be a way of  financing such undertakings so as to relieve  Unesco, but his delegation were anxious not to  press this point too much, since they hoped that  this excellent idea would be developed in several  other missions, as had been proposed by the  Executive Board.  Item 6.33 was adopted.’  [tem 6.331.  ldopted without comment.  [tem 6.332.
131] Mr. KAYSER (France) wondered whether,  while Unesco was sponsoring a series of articles,  it might not be able to save expenditure by con-  cluding agreements with photographic agencies.
132] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) replied that for Ritchie  Calder’'s mission, Unesco had shared all journal-  istic expenses with the News Chronicle. But  Picture Post had sent two photographers at its  own expense. However, preliminary negotia-  tions, on the lines advocated by Mr. Kayser, had  been undertaken with the Christian Science  Monitor for a second similar mission, to be carried  out in 1950. Whenever Unesco was unable to  arrange for free photographic coverage of such  missions, it was considering contributing towards  the expense of the photographs, which were  mainly intended material for filmstrips and for  the various exhibitions to be organized by Unesco.
133] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that  advantage should be taken, not only of such  missions, but also of the many official visits ol  members of the Secretariat to build up Unesco s  stock of photographs. It was surprising that such  excellent opportunities had been missed and that,  for the small exhibition that was soon to be  opened in Milan, Unesco had been unable to  lurnish photographs brought back from educa-  tional missions, such as those to the Philippines,  Afghanistan and Thailand, from the missions in  Haiti and Colombia, or from seminars such as  those organized in India or Venezuela. The lack  of good photographs was greatly to be regretted,  and any reduction of a budget already so small  would prevent Unesco from carrying out one of  its most important activities.     I. In final form: Resol. 6.34.
2. In final form: Resol. 6.35.                                        [34] Mr. KAYSER (France) wondered whether  item 6.632 as it stood really reflected the Director-  General’s views; if not, it might be advisable to  state clearly that it referred to Unesco's activities,  for the explanations given in the document deal-  ing with the budgetary repercussions had not  made that point sufficiently clear.  [35] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) replied that the work plan  [document 5C/5 (Il), page 240, paragraph 1v]  indeed laid stress on photographs taken during  special missions. It would perhaps be well to  state specifically that the intention behind item
6.332 was to build up Unesco's archives so thai  the photographs might be used in Unesco doc-  uments and exhibitions.
136] Mr. KAYSER (France) accordingly sug-  gested adding a statement to the effect that the  photographs in question were to be related  especially to Unesco’s activities.
137] Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) took  the opportunity of expressing a view which he  knew was shared by several other delegations, of  paying a warm tribute to the Department of Mass  Communication for the extremely high standard  of their work, especially of their publications,  which compared most favourably with any others  he had seen; he very much hoped that this high  standard would be maintained.  [38] Item 6.332, together with the amend-  ment proposed by Mr. KAYSER, seconded  by the delegates of BRAZIL, NORWAY and EL  SALVADOR, was adopted.’  It was also agreed in principle, on the sugges-  tion of Mr. TAYLOR (United States of America),  seconded by the delegates of AUSTRIA, BRAZIL,  CANADA, PAKISTAN, NETHERLANDS and  PHILIPPINES to insert the phrase:  and to stimulate new photographic organizations  to make studies of basic Unesco themes.  Item 6.3).  [39] Mr. PEARSON (United States of America)  thought that Unesco was in a very good position  lo produce catalogues of films and filmstrips,  which would greatly aid its objectives. A draft  catalogue had been begun by Unesco over a year  ago; the United States National Commission had  appointed a special committee to produce a list for  inclusion in the Unesco catalogue, and this had  now been forwarded to the Secretariat. It  seemed important to list the types of such films  and filmstrips which might be of special interest     —  |. In final form: Resol. 6.36.
4 31  to Unesco, since the language of this resolution  was somewhat restricted. There were only a  limited number of films on “aspects of the right  to education”, and the Secretariat should have  greater latitude in this matter.  He proposed amending the resolution to read  as follows:  To stimulate the production and distribution of  catalogues of selected films and filmstrips, and where  practicable to publish and distribute catalogues on  themes directly related to the objectives of Unesco.  [40] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board), while entirely agreeing to the proposal in  principle, pointed out the need for restricting the  present budget and not forgetting the purpose of  the 1951 programme. If this inclusion were  adopted, the Commission must agree either to  raise the budget for section 6.3 or to drop other  items.  [41] Mr. PEARSON (United States of America)  replied that the emphasis of his proposal had  been on the “stimulation” of that production,  which would involve Unesco in virtually no  expense, and further, that it was merely designed  to give the Secretariat a wider choice in view of  the paucity of films on “aspects of the right to  education’.  [42] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) said this particular field  was not really so restricted, if taken in the broad-  est sense of the word. The text of the resolution  might usefully be redrafted.  [43] In reply to a question from Dr. JAMALI  (Iraq) regarding the meaning of the expression  “aspects of the right to education in item 6.34,  the DIRECTOR-GENERAL admitted that the  wording was rather unfortunate. The main  purpose of the resolution was to bring out the  glaring inequalities between the educational  systems of different countries. That point should  be stated more precisely. Having given that  explanation, the Director-General hoped that  Mr. Pearson and Dr. Jamali would admit the  value of selecting films designed to show up  existing barriers to education in certain Member  States.  [44] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) suggested giving the  text a more precise form, such as “developing  consciousness’ or “growth of the need for educa-  tion in the world” or “in under-developed areas”.  After a short discussion, Mr. PEARSON (United  States of America) agreed to collaborate with  Dr. Jamali in producing a draft text for the fol-  lowing meeting.             Item 6.342.  [45] Mr. KAYSER (France) was well aware of  the weighty budgetary considerations that had  paralysed the Secretariat's work, but wished to  know if an acceptable order of priority could be  established at that stage.  He also doubted the necessity of convening a  committee of experts. In that connexion, he drew  attention to the work plan [document 5C/5 (II),  page 243, paragraph xiv] providing a sum of  $17,000 for travel on official business to enable  Heads of Divisions and senior programme  specialists to visit North and South Africa, India  and South East Asia, the Middle East and as many  as possible of the countries of Europe, where they  might talk personally to the heads of press, film,  and radio groups. That proposal obviously over-  lapped with item 6.342, which could be deleted  without any prejudice to Unesco’s work, and thus  make a saving of $8,000.  [46] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) replied that the meeting  of experts “in item 6.342 was the only one for  which provision had been made in the 1951 Pro-  gramme. He hoped therefore that the Commis-  sion would maintain it, particularly in view of  the wealth of experience derived from personal  contacts and exchanges of views at such meetings.  On account of budgetary considerations, Unesco  had unfortunately been obliged to suspend its  negotiations for the establishment of a film  institute. However, it had not given up all hope  of concluding the investigations undertaken and  of arousing the interest of some private body in  such an institute.  Item 6.342 was adopted without modification.?  Draft resolution submitted by Venezuela [doc-  ument 5C/75].  [47] Dr. ARVELO TORREALBA (Venezuela),  presenting the draft resolution, pointed out that  it was based on two obvious premises: (1) that  inter-State help, tolerance and friendship were  impossible without mutual understanding; and
(2) that the cinema was one of the most effective  means of education.  He had been shocked in Italy to find such  abysmal ignorance in the Old World about the  New, even in a country which had sent so many  emigrants to Latin America. In view of the ques-  tions he had been asked about his own country,  how could Europeans possibly be aware that in  one of the Venezuelan cities there was one of the  worlds most important research centres on  malaria? It would be immensely stimulating for     UT
1. In final form: Resol. 6.373.    his own countrymen to see films of the wonder-  ful cultural heritage of Italy, just as it would be  of intense interest to the Italian people to see  films of the beautiful landscapes and flora of  Latin America. Films could be a most valuable  factor in such education, and that was why his  delegation recommended that Member States  should provide films showing the chief character-  istics of each country, to be put at the service of  Unesco. Such a phrase might be added to the  proposed resolution.  [48] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that, while this was a most useful  suggestion and admittedly had no budgetary im-  plications for Unesco itself, it was a case where  it was important to remember that Unesco con-  sisted of Member States which should not be  asked to undertake anything that each of them  was not able to carry out in its own country. The  preparation of such a series of films would be very  expensive, and the Board had not felt able to re-  commend it. If, however, the delegate of  Venezuela could modify his phrasing to make the  resolution more moderate, it might then be added  to 1951 Programme.  [49] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered that  the problem under discussion was one of para  mount importance. He had long meditated on  what Unesco might do to show the true character  of Member States in an absolutely objective  spirit, with no ulterior motives of propaganda or  disparagement. It was of course essential for  Unesco to participate in such a scheme of  enlightenment, but it was quite clear that on a  budget of $8,200,000, there was no question of  giving any such assistance in the near future.  However, he thought it might at least be possible  in 1951 to encourage certain Member States to  produce one short film on educational problems  and to send one copy to Unesco, as a beginning  of an exchange of films service for schools  equipped with projectors. The films could not  exactly be termed educational but, rather, short  documentaries. If the Conference agreed, the  Secretariat, in collaboration with the Venezuelan  delegation, might embark on such a scheme; 1t  would be a less ambitious beginning but not with-  out value.  Dr. ARVELO TORREALBA (Venezuela) accepted  that suggestion.  [50] Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) thought  many countries had available documentary films  which they would be willing to lend if Unesco  were to arrange for the exchanges. He thought  this was what the delegate for Venezuela really  had in mind. In that case, he asked what was                  the budgetary implication, and whether there was  really any objection to the proposal.  [61] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked whether  the Commission would agree to a resolution on  the following lines:  To produce and select a documentary film for com-  munication to Unesco, with a view to the possible  exchange of copies.  [52] It was agreed, on the suggestion of the  CHAIRMAN, that Dr. Arvelo Torrealba should  bear in mind the suggestions of Mr. Khushwant  Singh and the Director-General when rewording  his text in conjunction with the Secretariat.  Item 6.35.  Adopted without discussion.‘  Draft resolution submitted by India [document
163] Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) stated  that his resolution referred in particular to  feature programmes. He had already discussed  the matter with the Secretariat and been given to  understand that there were legal and financial  difficulties involved, mainly deriving from prob-  lems of copyright.  However, whatever the financial difficulties,  India’s problem was shared by several other coun-  tries in which the press was not an adequate form  of mass communication, owing to the absence of  newsprint and because of prevailing illiteracy,  and in which the film was also inadequate owing  to the absence of technical facilities. Such coun-  tries—mostly those of Asia—were therefore  thrown back on the radio as almost their only  way of reaching the masses of the people. Coun-  tries like France, Great Britain and the United  States were spending much money on putting on  good plays. This was the moment to bring to  the peoples of Asia the cultural output of Europe.  [54] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) said that this was the type  of activity described in item 6.351. The difficulty  there was not so much the Secretariat’s own  budget, as the nature of the proposition itself.  The financial difficulty was, as Mr. Khushwant  Singh had said, that of copyright. Nevertheless,  the Secretariat could and did intervene wherever  possible and on the receipt of requests from Mem-  ber States, by providing material written by their  own staff, to which the copyright problem did  not apply. His Department welcomed such  requests. Only recently, Unesco had passed on  documentary material broadcast by the Canadian  Broadcasting Corporation. The activities de-  tee
1. In final form: Resol. 6.381.     scribed in the resolution in document 5C/52 were  really normal procedure for the Department, but  he would try to make available to All India Radio  any plays from other broadcasting organizations  which were not covered by copyright.  [66] Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) sug-  gested meeting those objections by adding to his  resolution “wherever possible”.  [56] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) expressed the Board’s sympathy for the  Indian resolution, the first half of which he  thought was really covered by items 6.35 and
6.351. He hoped the Indian delegate would not  insist on the inclusion of his resolution in the  Programme, but suggested that item 6.351 might  be redrafted to include a reference to mutal colla-  boration.  Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) accepted  Sir John Maud'’s suggestion, but hoped his delega-  tion would be consulted over the redrafting.  It was agreed to reserve the vote for the next  meeting.  Item 6.351.  [57] Miss LOY (United States of America) re-  ported that progress had been made in her coun-  try as regards film production, and that she hoped  more would shortly be made in other States.  There had been considerable difficulty in reach-  ing the creative people, but the visit of Dr. Evans  to Hollywood before Christmas had made a great  impression, and the Screenactors’ Guild was now  anxious for Unesco material, which it was willing  to print in as many copies as would reach its
2,500 or so members. In addition, two film  directors in Hollywood, inspired by Dr. Evans,  were preparing to make films on the United  Nations on the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights.  Finally, Miss Loy emphasized the difference be-  tween mass communication and public relations,  a difference which she felt was not always  sufficiently appreciated.  [568] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of  Mass Communication) assured Miss Loy that the  Secretariat was very sensitive to this particular  distinction. Nevertheless it was a very fine one,  and the line was sometimes difficult to draw.  Item 6.351 was adopted.?  Draft resolution submitted by Italy [document
5C/48].  [69] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board, left the decision on this proposal to the
1. In final form: Resol. 6.383.
43:3    Commission, since no budgetary implications  were involved, but pointed out the difficulty of  inserting a resolution in such terms in the Unesco  Programme. The International Telecommunica-  tions Union, which was the United Nations  Specialized Agency dealing with wave-lengths,  was not at all sympathetic to the setting up of  special wave-lengths for special services. Their  policy was rather to obtain international agree-  ment for the reasonable distribution of wave-  lengths between different countries and stations.  Hence the best thing the Board could urge was  that Member States should make use of such wave-  lengths as they had for Unesco’s purposes, which  was in fact the aim of the resolution.  Following Sir John Maud’s suggestion, Pro-  fessor NAPOLITANO (Italy) withdrew his draft  resolution.  Item 6.36.  [60] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) suggested  rewording item 6.36 to read “. similar exhibi-  tions. . .”  Resolution 6.36 as amended was adopted in  principle and referred to the Drafting Committee."  Item 6.37.  [61] Mr. TAYLOR (United States of America)  seconded by the delegates of AUSTRALIA, INDIA,  IRAQ, LEBANON, NORWAY, UNITED KINGDOM  and SWITZERLAND, moved the deletion of this  resolution, on the grounds that the activities  mentioned therein were not a part of mass com-  munication, but should be undertaken by the  National Commissions. Agreed.  [62] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL enquired whether  the deletion of that resolution would imply de-  priving the Secretariat of authority to continue  with its previous activities to make Unesco more  widely known and to supply information to  certain associations. The movement which had  already been set on foot in certain French schools  was yielding most encouraging results. It was  work that did not need to be formally included in  the programme, but the Director-General wished  nevertheless to be sure that he was correctly inter-  preting the decision taken by the Commission in  thinking that Unesco might be able to continue  with such propaganda work.     |. In final form: Resol. 6.39.
434  [63] Mr. KAYSER (France) thought that the  Director-General’s interpretation was correct.  There was no doubt that that work had yielded  excellent results in France. The French delega-  tion had abstained from voting on item 6.37,  assuming that the deletion of that item would not  imply putting an end to existing collaboration.  [64] Mr. TAYLOR (United States of America)  said his delegation was most anxious to avoid  discouraging the Secretariat from any useful  activity; they had only feared that the burden  was too heavy.  [65] Mr. VERHOEVEN (Netherlands) spoke in  support of item 6.37. Several Unesco Centres had  already been set up in the Netherlands, and these  would be very disappointed if it was decided to  give them no encouragement at all. It seemed  a pity if these Centres, some of which had  financial resources of their own, and some of  which were being helped by the Netherlands  National Commission, should be discouraged at  that stage.  [66] The CHAIRMAN gathered that the Com-  mission was sanctioning the interpretation given  by the Director-General and supported by the  French delegation, namely, that the vote should  not imply any interruption of Unesco’s collabora-  tion with National Commissions for the establish-  ment of clubs, associations, “Friends of Unesco”  groups and Centres, etc. Agreed.  (II), Bupcer Tarues III.6.D  pages 234 to 237].  [document 5C/5  [67] Mr. TAYLOR (United States of America)  hoped that funds might be found within the  present appropriation to enable the Secretariat to  continue reaching the masses and helping those  areas where mass communications were doing  valuable work. A visit of a representative of the  Secretariat could do a great deal to stimulate such  organizations, as well as providing the Secretariat  itself with most useful information about the areas  in question.  The CHAIRMAN having given an asurance that  this matter would be borne in mind, Budget  Tables 111.6.D were adopted.  The meeting rose at 0.15 a.m.                   er, s ° giv Eo ; Ls Rania