SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE BUDGET COMMITTEE  FIRST MEETING  Tuesday, 23 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Dr. F. Chairman:  Election of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and  Rapporteur.  [1] The proposal of the Nominations Committee  for the post of Chairman of the Budget Committee,  seconded by Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  was adopted unanimously.  Dr. F. Bender (Netherlands) was therefore ap-  pointed Chairman.  [2] The proposals of the Nominations Com-  mittee for the posts of Vice-Chairman and Rap-  porteur were also adopted  Mr. Sidney Pollock (Canada) and Dr. Pinhas  Kohn (Israel) were therefore appointed Vice-  Chairman and Rapporteur respectively.  Terms of reference of the Budget Committee.  [3] The CHAIRMAN announced that the terms  of reference of the Committee [document 5C/  BUR/1, Addendum and Corrigendum, Section I]  had been amended as follows by the General Com-  mittee of the Conference:
(1) Paragraph 2, sub-paragraph 1: the Budget  Committee was now to consist of thirteen persons  instead of eleven;
(2) Paragraph 3, sub-paragraph 3 (¢): the Bud-  get Committee would report to the General Con-  ference through the Programme and Budget Com-  mission.  Methods of work of the Committee.  [4] The CHAIRMAN suggested examining the  various parts of the budget [document 5C/5 (II) ],  taking Part III (Programme Operations) first, in  order to be able to report as soon as possible to  BENDER (Netherlands)
4 8  the Programme and Budget Commission scheduled  to open on 26 May.  [5] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  suggested that, in order to save time, the Com-  mittee might first discuss the exact nature of its  task and methods of work.  [6] The CHAIRMAN considered that paragraph 3  of the Committee’s terms of reference |[doc-  ument 5C/BUR/1 - Add. and Corr.] was an  adequate guide in this respect; in addition, there  was the element of timing.  [7] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) supported Mr. Rose-  man. His delegation felt the Committee could  make a real contribution to Unesco’s future by  recommending certain broad budgetary principles  aimed at producing greater efficiency and lasting  economies; however, he agreed on the necessity  of examining the Budget item by item at a later  stage.  [8] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) and  the CHAIRMAN both felt that, in view of the  necessity to avoid holding up the work of the three  main Commissions, the Committee should first  deal with the various items of the budget and then  revert to discussion of general principles.  [9] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) agreed that the  questions of principle he wished to raise could be  brought in during discussions on the various items.  [10] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  said his delegation had a list of general questions  aimed at clarifying the background material of the  Budget and the actual financial position of the  Organization. As the Secretariat would un-  doubtedly require further time to prepare the  information required, he suggested that his del-  egation and any others with questions of a similar  nature be allowed to submit them immediately.                                               [11] After discussion, and in order that all del-  egates might know exactly what information the  Secretariat had been asked to prepare, it was  agreed that all such questions should be sub-  mitted to the Secretariat in writing after the meet-  ing, and that the Secretariat would prepare a com-  plete list for circulation.  Examination of the Budget Estimates [doc-  ument 5C/5 (II)].  [12] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked why it had been necessary to increase the  number of personnel in the Clearing-House for  Education from 16 in 1949 and 22 in 1950, to  an estimated 32 in 1951.  [13] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) replied that this apparent increase merely  represented the amalgamation of the Clearing-  House for Fundamental Education and that for  Education. The work of the Clearing-House was  now reaching its peak, and the personnel would  be utilized with the greatest economy and ef-  ficiency  PROGRAMME Costs [III.1.A].  [14] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), on a  question of principle, asked if there were any reg-  ulations setting out who was entitled to a secre-  tary.  [16] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) replied that  there were no such regulations, this matter being  decided purely on a basis of individual require-  ments.  [16] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) sug-  gested that this point, i.e., the limitation of the  right to a secretary (all other shorthand-typing  services being pooled), should be borne in mind  by the Committee for further consideration and  possible recommendation.  [17] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) warmly supported  this suggestion as being the type of broad line of  economy he had been advocating. As a further  example of this type of economy he raised the  question of travel. He noted that large sums were  being requested for travel in the Education Depart-  ment as in all other departments. He felt that,  whereas the Director-General undoubtedly made  great efforts to co-ordinate missions and reduce  unnecessary travel, several possibilities might have  been overlooked; for instance, he wondered if  all possible advantage was taken of personnel  travelling on Home Leave, and also whether the
4 po  ' 9  best use was being made of the top-ranking of-  ficials in the New York Office. In addition there  were several suggestions for economy contained in  the Report of the United Nations Expert Com-  mittee on administrative questions, which he felt  Unesco should implement at the earliest possible  moment. He would like to see a general re-  commendation from the Budget Committee out-  lining these various fields in which over-all econ-  omies could be made. Since they were spe-  cifically considering the budget of the Education  Department, he asked the Secretariat:
1. To co-ordinate all official travel including  Home Leave so as to reduce separate trips;
2. If one project were delayed for a short  period, to employ the personnel involved else-  where in the Organization;
3. To assure the Conference that certain of the  economies proposed in the Report of the Experts  Committee on Administrative Questions could be  implemented without waiting.  [18] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL gave  an assurance that every effort was being made to  co-ordinate missions and reduce travel (see, for  instance, drastic reduction of travel for the Ex-  ternal Relations Service). The New York Office  had been strengthened with the object of re-  ducing the number of missions necessary between  Paris and New York. There were, however,  certain special considerations necessitating official  travel. For instance:
(1) Meetings were often called at Lake Success  at very short notice, and there was insufficient  time to ensure adequate briefing of the New York  Office on the technical matters involved.
(2) It was essential that Unesco should be  represented at many of the United Nations meet-  ings by substantive specialists.
(3) The Unesco Programme was wide in scope  and consequently it was virtually impossible to  keep the New York Office fully briefed in detail  of all Secretariat activities.
(4) Requests by Member States for missions  required trips by specialists.  [19] With regard to the question of fluidity in  the Programme and the transfer of personnel be-  tween projects, the Deputy Director-General poin-  ted out that, because of the highly technical nature  of many of the projects, top-level expert personnel  could seldom be transferred usefully to another  project. However, this was not true in the lower  categories: the Deputy Director-General agreed  in principle with the suggestion for pooling short-  hand and typing services, but felt that it would  be extremely difficult to lay down specific rules  for an organization of such a complex nature.
5  a  ST   ae    [20] With regard to the immediate implementa-  tion of the salary and allowance scales recom-  mended in the report of the Experts Committee  on Administrative Questions, the Deputy Director-  General pointed out that the Director-General was  under instructions from the General Conference to  follow the policy of the United Nations in this  respect. This was why Unesco was following,  rather than leading.  [21] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) expressed his  satisfaction with this statement, but reserved the  right to raise these several points later with a  view to making a general recommendation.  [22] Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) supported  the idea of a general recommendation, and sug-  gested that such items as Hospitality and Per-  sonnel Costs might be considered for inclusion  therein.  [23] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) explained that  the budgetary item for Hospitality costs showed  an increase in the Department of Education; how-  ever, the representation allowance of the Assistant  Director-General for Education had previously been  included under Personnel Costs. The estimates  for 1951 included a smaller representation allow-  ance for the Director of the Department ($1,000,  compared with $2,360 in 1949 and 1950) under  Personnel Costs, and a larger sum, in con-  sequence, for Hospitality.  [24] Replying to the Delegate of Australia,  Mr. Weitz explained that the total sum requested  for Travel in the Office of the Director of the  Department of Education included provision for  the travel of the Deputy Director and all per diem  costs involved.  EpUCATIONAL Missions [III.1.B (1)].  [26] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) assured the delegate of Canada that
480)  everything possible would be done to ensure co-  ordination of the various educational missions  and to avoid overlapping with the Technical  Assistance Programme.  [26] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) felt that the  total cost of each mission might be reduced by  about $2,000, and asked whether the inviting  Member State assumed local travel and subsistence  costs.  [27] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) agreed that the  total cost of each mission, as shown, was ap-  proximate, and confirmed that the inviting  Member State normally assumed local expenses.  He also pointed out that the personnel recruited  for the mission did not receive a per diem allow-  ance while on duty in the country; on the other  hand, “advisers” did receive per diem.  [28] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) sug-  gested that the Committee communicate with the  General Committee requesting that all programme  resolutions should be passed to the Budget Com-  mittee for consideration before any other action  was taken upon them by other bodies.  [29] The CHAIRMAN read a draft letter he had  prepared to this effect.  [30] It was agreed that it was not the object  of the Budget Committee to delay consideration of  all new programme resolutions, but merely to  ensure that no decisions involving financial  obligation were taken before its views were taken  into account.  [31] It was decided that the Chairman should  send his letter to the General Committee.  [32] In addition, it was decided to recommend  that all proposals having budgetary implications  should be submitted by Wednesday, 24 May.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.