4  A S S I S  S   da  f i  AD  ‘  x =   A  RA IT T  fa d  S L   AMAN O  S e   R U   W R   R E S   SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Monday, 29 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara Cranp (India)  Election of Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur.  At the suggestion of the Nominations Committee,  Professor Alex Photiades (Greece) was elected  Vice-Chairman and Mr. W.G.St.C. Smith (Aus-  tralia) was appointed Rapporteur.  Adoption of Agenda [document 5C/ADM/1].  [1] The CHAIRMAN indicated that three items  had been added to the Agenda:
(1) Under 4.8, the consideration of the rhythm  of expenditure in 1950;
(2) Reimbursement of state income-tax paid by  staff members [document 5C/ADM/16];
(3) Effects of devaluation on the 1950 Budget  [document 5C/ADM/17].  With these additions, the provisional agenda  [document 5C/ADM/1] was adopted.  Presentation by the Executive Board of the  Report of the Auditors on the last six months  of 1949 [documents 5C/ADM/2 and 5C/ADM/2  (I)-Addendum |.  [2] Dr. WALKER (Executive Board) stated that  the first and principal observation of the Board on  the Auditors’ Report for 1949 was that the finances  of the Organization had continued to be conducted  in a satisfactory manner by the Secretariat.  With regard to the Auditors’ view, expressed  on page 3 of their report, that the Board's pro-  posals in relation to the cash deficiency due to the  non-payment of certain contributions were in-  adequate, Dr. Walker explained that the Auditors  had been working on figures which did not in-  clude the anticipated collection of some arrears
610  or the savings which would be effected on the  liquidation of obligations for 1948 and 1949. The  total of these assets reduced the estimated deficit  to about $500,000, as shown in the Annex to  document 5C/ADM/2 (1).  The only other comment the Board had thought  necessary to make on the Report was that the sum  of $160,120 remaining under the heading of  Exchange of Information could not have been  transferred out of Part III of the Budget, as sug-  gested by the Auditors, because the 1949 Appro-  priation Resolution provided that “no transfer may  be made to decrease the total voted for Part III  of the Budget”. Dr. Walker stressed that the  activities to which that sum was applied were  closely related to Programme activities.  [3] In reply to Dr. MASON (New Zealand),  Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that,  since the time when the Board had considered the  deficit, approximately $152,000 of arrears had  been received.  The Commission approved the Auditors’ Report.  Member States whose contributions are in  arrears [documents 5C/ADM/5, 5C/ADM/5 (b)-  Addendum I, Corrigenda I, II, III and IV].  [4] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL ex-  plained that the Corrigenda indicated the status of  contributions of Member States as of Saturday,
27 May 1950. The purpose of part (a) of docu-  ment 5C/ADM/5 was to carry out the instructions  of the Fourth Session of the General Conference  in regard to arrears of contributions.  [5] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  declared that the problem of arrears was plaguing  many international Agencies, and it was time that                             governments which had agreed to pay certain  sums should do so. The Director-General should  be encouraged to take more aggressive steps in the  matter.  The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that  a special communication sent to all the delinquent  Member States on 15 April 1950 had been followed  by the payment of nearly $600,000.  [6] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) believed the ques-  tion of arrears went deeper than a mere exchange  of communications. He appreciated the efforts  made by the Director-General but, in final  analysis, a failure to pay was often an indication  of a lack of interest. He agreed with a current  opinion that Unesco was difficult to understand  and to publicize, but that was not an excuse for  the neglect of financial obligations and he thought  the Conference should put clearly on record its  opinion of such neglect. In his opinion, the  Executive Board should study the matter further  and examine the possibility of amending sub-  paragraph 8 (c) of Article IV of the Constitution.  Political expediency should not be allowed to  cloud the delegates’ judgment in the matter.  [7] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  sympathized with the views expressed by the  United States and Canadian delegates, but he  pointed out that the solution of the problem  would affect all the Member States. He was very  favourably impressed by the fact that the Director-  General’s efforts had been followed by results, and  Sir Henry would regret any premature action.  Since the problem was not peculiar to Unesco, he  did not think it should embark on action which  might appear unduly harsh in comparison with  that of the other Specialized Agencies; so he  advocated that the Director-General should be  asked to contact them to explore the possibility of  some co-ordinated action regarding arrears of  contributions.  Mr. PUTONG (Philippines) took up the same  position as Sir Henry and advocated sending a  telegram to the defaulting States requesting an  explanation.  [8] Dr. WEN (China) agreed with the prudent  and very wise statements of the previous speakers.  He was very conscious of his country’s failure to  meet 1ts obligations and wished to assure the  Commission that it was due not to a lack of wil-  lingness but to circumstances beyond the control  of his Government. He could not promise on its  behalf the payment of China’s contribution on the  present scale and suggested that his country  should be permitted to pay a total of $10,000 a  year until such time when it could pay its arrears  in full.
611  [9] Mr. de VILLIERS (Union of South Africa)  was opposed to any scheme which would make  the paying Member States shoulder the default-  ing ones’ share, particularly in the case of those  countries which were in arrears since 1947 with-  out being able to produce a satisfactory explana-  tion. Accordingly, he was in favour of resolution
4 (b) [document 5C/ADM/5].  [10] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  moved that the Director-General and the Executive  Board be asked to make enquiries from other  international Agencies with a view to co-ordinated  action being taken on behalf of all of them to  deal with defaulting countries and to press this  action vigorously.  [11] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  held that the problem of arrears was too urgent  for that type of procedure. In his opinion, the  Conference should ask the Director-General and  the Executive Board for immediate efforts to  collect the outstanding contributions.  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) was  prepared to accept that addition to his proposal.  [12] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) emphasized the  difference between those Member States which  were materially unable to pay and those unwilling  to do so. Although he was prepared to accept  the United Kingdom's proposal, he still thought  that the question must be examined in greater  detail by the Executive Board. It was possible  that China’s proposal was the realistic way of  dealing with the issue of real inability to pay.  [13] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL  stressed that the Director-General welcomed any  assistance which the Conference might be willing  to give him in the matter of arrears, but he  doubted very much whether any concrete results  would result from a joint action with the other  Agencies whose contacts with their Member  States differed very greatly. Sometimes the ques-  tion of collection of contributions was related to  that of currency. In his opinion, it might be  wiser for the Commission to indicate that the  responsibility for the collection of contributions  lay with the Director-General with the assistance  of the Executive Board, so as to make a clearer  separation between the immediate action advocated  and that to be undertaken after the end of the  General Conference.  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) was  quite happy to accept a revised wording of his  proposal.  [14] Dr. WALKER (Executive Board) was sure  that the Board would prefer the responsibility to  lie with the Director-General; he advocated the      elimination of the words “Executive Board” at  the beginning of the United Kingdom proposal,  and the addition of a clause to the effect that the  Director-General was requested to report on the  matter to the Executive Board in the course of  the year.  The Commission agreed with the principles  enunciated in the resolution and decided to refer  it to the Drafting Committee.  [15] Dr. El DIWANY (Egypt) thought it would  be useful to know the degree of interest and col-  laboration of Unesco’s defaulting Member States  with other Specialized Agencies. A study of the  list of defaulting States showed that these were in  most cases identical with those making no effort  to take part in Unesco’s work or to attend meet-  ings. The enquiry by the Director-General in  co-operation with other Specialized Agencies,  suggested by Sir Henry French, would show  whether the position was the same in the case of  the other Agencies, and how far defaulting States  took an interest in their work.  [16] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew  attention to the “Recommendation regarding con-  sequential sanctions that might be applied by the  General Conference to Member States whose con-  tributions are in arrears’ [document 5C/ADM/5  (b) - Addendum I].  [17] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  felt that the one-year test was rather premature,  but he was ready to accept the Board's proposal  which appeared in the last paragraph of document
5C/ADM/5 (b) - Addendum I.  [18] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  thought the Board’s proposal was too precipitate;  in his opinion, two years was a more reasonable  provision.  [19] Dr. WALKER (Australia), representative  of the Executive Board, explained that the Board  had changed its view on the matter during the  meetings held just before the Conference. It had  come to the conclusion that, after a Member  State was in arrears for one full year, certain  penalties should be applied; but it was for the  General Conference to determine what those  penalties were to be. He wished to make it clear  that the Board was not recommending depriving  a State of its vote after only one year’s  delinquency.  [20] Mr. SMITH (Australia) disagreed with  Mr. Pollock’s views: the General Conference  should always be able to waive any sanctions if  it wished to do so, and the delinquency period  should be contingent on the character of the  sanction whose application to a Member State  should not hamper or interfere with the Organ-  ization’s work—as would be the case, for instance,  if some activities of a Field Sciences Co-operation  Office were curtailed, as the result of a sanction.  [21] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) supported the  proposed resolution, but hoped that the text would  be submitted to the Commission in writing.  Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) saw no  necessity for written submission; the text had  been referred to the Drafting Committee and all  the Commission had to do was to reach a deci-  sion on its substance.  [22] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL  wished to make it quite clear that, under the pre-  sent constitutional provisions, a country would  have forfeited its right to vote at Florence only  if it was in arrears in its full contributions for
1948 and 1949. Under the new resolution, the  difference would be that certain sanctions, decided  by the Conference, would have been applicable to  such a country as from 31 December 1949.  [23] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom)  moved that the Commission should accept the  Executive Board’s recommendation which, he  noted, did not suggest what the sanctions should  be. In his opinion the scheme should start at a  low level and progressively become stronger as  time passed. He formally proposed that the Com-  mission accept the Board’s recommendation as  to when the sanctions became operative, and set  up a sub-committee to prepare proposals concern-  ing the nature of the sanctions.  [24] Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) thought it  would be well to deal with one question at a time  and to give separate consideration to (a) the type  of sanctions to be applied to defaulting States and  (b) when such sanctions would become operative.  Further, he would be glad to know whether the  reservations made by Mr. Roseman had any con-  nexion with another proposal by the United States  delegation for making the General Conference’s  sessions biennial.  [25] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought that  Sir Henry French's suggestion was very valuable,  and that its adoption would speed up the discus-  sion. However, the proposed resolution presented  by the Executive Board struck him as very broad,  seeing that “sanctions” were used to cover both  deprivation of the right to vote and other meas-  ures which did not stem from Unesco’s Constitu-  tion. He would therefore suggest that Article IV  C. 8b of the Constitution be amended as follows:  A Member State which is in arrears in the payment  of its financial contributions to the Organization shall  have no vote in the General Conference if the amount
612                      of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the  contributions due from it for the last financial year.  Thus a State which had paid nothing in respect  of 1949 could not take part in the General Confer-  ence of 1950. That did not seem to be an over-  heavy sanction, and it could be applied even if  the General Conference’s sessions were to be made  biennial.  Finally, as regards the present Session of the  General Conference, had some States made a token  payment for 1948 only in order to have the right  to vote?  [26] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL con-  firmed that, at present, a token payment on  account of an unpaid 1948 contribution would  secure the country’s right to vote at the Florence  Session of the General Conference.  [27] Dr. WALKER (Australia), representative  of the Executive Board, stressed that the Board  suggested that, if a State had any outstanding  amount for the preceding two years, certain  sanctions, to be decided by the Conference, would  be applicable to it automatically.  The CHAIRMAN held that the question was so  complex that it was better to refer it to the Sub-  Committee.  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) agreed  with the Chairman and withdrew his resolution.  SECOND  [28] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada), supported by  Dr. WEN Yuan-Ning (China), emphasized that  two entirely separate issues should be considered:
(1) arrears when the Member State was obviously  unable to pay, and (2) those due to unwillingness  only. In his opinion the first case could not be  settled by the General Conference without further  preliminary study of the question; in the second,  sanctions should be automatic.  [29] Mr. de VILLIERS (Union of South Africa)  wondered who could decide between inability and  unwillingness. In his opinion, the principle of  sanctions should be clear, the sanctions should be  adequate and, in order to avoid discrimination,  they should be universally applied.  [30] It was decided to set up a Sub-Committee  composed of the delegates of Australia, Canada,  Denmark, the United States of America, France,  Lebanon, the Philippines, the United Kingdom  and Venezuela.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Sub-  Committee should also examine resolutions
20.2551 (“that no surplus shall be declared when  in fact the book surplus has not been realized in  cash”) and 20.2552 (Application of Regulation 25  under those circumstances).  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 29 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara CHanp (India)  Member States whose contributions are in  arrears (continued).  Distribution of book surpluses which have not been  received in cash and application of Financial Regula-  tions 25 and 26 in these circumstances [document  oG/AM/5, part (c)].  [1] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL ex-  plained that the problem involved was twofold  (surpluses and deficits): although both aspects  were closely related, he felt they were better dealt  with separately.  ERLE ml AT
613  The question of a book surplus revolved around  Financial Regulations 25 and 26. The book sur-  plus was the difference between the anticipated  income of the Organization (according to the scale  of contributions and the total budget voted by the  General Conference) and the actual obligations  incurred during the financial year. The problem  facing the Organization arose from the existence  of arrears of contributions from certain Member  States. On the basis of Financial Regulations 25  and 26, the Organization had declared a surplus  for the years 1947, 1948 and 1949; but this was  only a book surplus and did not exist in actual  fact.