SIXTH MEETING  Tuesday, 30 May 1950, at 6.15 p.m.  Chairman: Mr.  Discussion of the Basic Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part. I].  E. Exchange of Persons.
1. CLEARING-HOUSE.  [1] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom),  seconded by the delegates of AUSTRALIA,  CANADA, UNITED STATES of AMERICA and  NEW ZEALAND, moved the adoption of the  whole Section. Adopted.?
2. PromoTtiION.  [2] Replying to a question from Sir Ronald  ADAM (United Kingdom), Mr. W. D. CARTER  (Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained  that the point of item E.21 was that, in the  course of its research work, the Secretariat was  aiming to perfect the ways by which public and  private international organizations could find out  exactly what was needed in the way of study  grants, etc.  [3] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), sec-  onded by the delegates of BELGIUM and the  UNITED STATES of AMERICA, moved that the  first words of item E.21 be amended to read:  “Determine the needs for study abroad.” Adop-  ted.  On the proposal of Sir Ronald ADAM (United  Kingdom), Section 2 as a whole was adopted.?
3. FELLOWSHIP ADMINISTRATION.  [4] On the proposal of Sir Ronald ADAM  (United Kingdom), seconded by the delegates  of BELGIUM, CANADA, UNITED STATES of  AMERICA, NORWAY and NEW ZEALAND, the  whole of Section 3 was adopted.?  F. Mass Communication.
1. IMPROVEMENT OF MEANS AND TECHNIQUES OF  COMMUNICATION.  [6] Dr. MAJUMDAR (India) suggested that  there was some loose drafting and confusion as
1. In final form: Resol. E.1 to E.14.
2. In final form: Resol. E.2 to E.23.
3. In final form: Resol. E.3 to E.312.  \OGER SEypoux (France)  to the media of mass communication. In both  the preamble to Section 1 and in Section 3,  only the press, cinema and radio were men-  tioned, whereas several other means of mass com-  munication existed. He therefore proposed  including in each case the words “... and other  means of mass communication …”.  On the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, it was
3  agreed to refer the texts in question to the  Drafting Committee.  [6] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) asked  that the whole English text should be consi-  derably tightened up on the same occasion. He  agreed to the CHAIRMAN’s suggestion that he  should submit specific proposals in writing.
2. Repuvction oF OBsTAcLES TO THE FREE FLow  OF INFORMATION.  [7] Dr. MAJUMDAR (India) suggested the in-  clusion in item F.23 of the words “... and other  countries” after “Member States”.  In reply to Mr. DAVIES (Australia), the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that there could be  no question of a recommendation to other  countries, as this was a recommendation to  Member States.  Dr. Majumdar’s amendment was not seconded  and lapsed.  The whole of Section 2 was adopted.’
3. ACTION THROUGH PrEss, From AND Rapio.  After a short discussion. the whole of Section à  was adopted.*  New item F.83.  [8] Professor BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) pro-  posed adding the following text as a new re-  solution F.33:  Recommend to the governments of Member States and  to National Commissions that they refuse to allow  the press, films or radio, to propagate national, racial  and religious hatred, or false information likely to  give rise to a war psychosis.  Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) supported this proposal,
1. In final form: Resol. F.2 to F.26.
2. In final form: Resol. F.3, F.31, F.32.
304                            which he thought would tend to fulfil one of  Unesco’s main aims, namely peace.  [9] Mr. MOOREHEAD (United Kingdom) re-  gretted that, while in full sympathy with the pro-  posal, his delegation felt it impossible to restrict  the means of mass communication to this extent,  since it would mean a virtual ban on the free flow  of ideas.  [10] Mr. RUTTENBERG (United States of  America) said that, while his delegation consi-  dered that the concept of the resolution was a  worthy one, the fact that the opposition to any  information liable to develop a war psychosis was  specifically directed at Member States raised  delicate problems, and the United States Govern-  ment could therefore not support the resolution.  [11] Mr. WILLEMS (Belgium) having asked the  delegate of Yugoslavia to explain what methods  he envisaged using to enable his idea to be  realized, Professor BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia)  considered that it was the duty of Unesco, of all  the Governments and of all the National Commis-  sions to fight against a war psychosis: if Unesco  refused to conduct that fight, all its endeavours  would come to very little.  [12] Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) expressed  the agreement of the French delegation with the  substance of the Yugoslav proposal. Nevertheless  he expressed doubts as to the possibility of apply-  ing it, since, in most of the democracies, the  governments did not dispose of the necessary  machinery. He proposed that the principle of the  Yugoslav amendment should be adopted, and that  the Drafting Committee be instructed to prepare  a new text.  [13] The CHAIRMAN considered that more was  at 1ssue than the form of the amendment. The  Drafting Committee did not know the attitude of  the various delegations and would not be able to  draw up a text.  [14] Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) proposed  a new resolution as follows:  Recommend to Member States lo use the means  available within the framework of their national  legislations to oppose the propagation, by the press,  the cinema or the radio, of national, racial or reli-  gious hatred.  He emphasized that the Yugoslav proposal could  not be carried out by Member States. Moreover,  it had a negative aspect, while Unesco’s task was  lo promote positive action and to combat a war  psychosis by active measures. Mr. Sedar Senghor  added that the French counter- amendment would
305  suppress the second part of the Yugoslav reso-  lution, which in fact only repeated the first part.  [16] Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) proposed  inserting in the French amendment the words  “and of the Universal Dcelaration of Human  Rights” after “within the framework of their  national legislations”.  Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) accepted this  amendment.  [16] Mr. RUTTENBERG (United States of  America) said that, in view of the position of  Congress, he would suggest eliminating the words  “within the framework of their national legisla-  tions”.  [17] It was agreed to postpone further discus-  sion of this proposal until the text of the two  amendments was available in both languages.  G. Relief Assistance Services.  [18] Mr. HOWELL (United States of America)  announced that his delegation was opposed to  this chapter in so far as it extended Unesco’s pro-  gramme to a new sphere, namely, to the victims  of natural calamities. The United States had  been among the most vigorous supporters of re-  construction in the post-war period and were very  anxious that Unesco’s work in this field should  be completed, but they were opposed to its  extension.  Mr. Howell therefore proposed that sections 1,
2 and 3 should be redrafted to exclude the refer-  ence to this new area of work, and that section 4  (International Voluntary Work Camps) should be  transferred to Chapter A (Education). In reply  to a question from the CHAIRMAN, he added that  there was no question of deleting the activities  outlined under sections 1-3 in so far as they ap-  plied to calamities resulting from wars. He ob-  jected only to the new emphasis on permanent  relief services.  [19] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that  the Executive Board had proposed replacing the  term ‘“‘reconstruction” by “relief assistance ser-  vices”. It had seemed that a section for re-  construction had no place within the framework  of a permanent programme, but in fact recon-  struction was not restricted to the ravages of war.  Thus during the Fourth Session of the General  Conference, Unesco’s help had been enlisted by  the Government of Ecuador, whose country had  just been laid waste by a natural disaster. Simi-  larly, the Secretariat had only recently received a  telegram from the Chairman of the Economic and  Social Council of the United Nations, drawing      =  E t   m e   d i l l   l e m   T f   p a   R y   a E  L I E S   M  ‘       Unesco’s attention to the destruction caused by  an earthquake at Cuzco (Peru). The Director-  General recalled that at the beginning of the cur-  rent Session he had emphasized that Unesco’s  work in the sphere of education, science and cul-  ture would be of no avail unless an appeal was  made to the generosity of Member States. It was  important that the less favoured peoples should  have tangible proof that the world solidarity  called for in the Preamble to Unesco’s Constitu-  tion was a reality.  Within the framework of the Technical As-  sistance Plan for economic development, it was  important that Unesco should carry out a long-  term task. It was not enough to send missions  to study technical problems on the spot and to  give advice to the authorities concerned; they  must also provide concrete assistance. In ac-  cordance with the Constitution, it was for the  Organization to establish a relief assistance ser-  vice which would be permanently at the disposal  of countries laid waste both by war and by natural  disasters. No doubt Unesco’s budget was in-  adequate to carry out a programme of this kind;  but it was for the Organization to conduct  campaigns and to use its influence in the col-  lection of funds which would enable a relief  assistance programme to be financed.  The Director-General concluded by underlining  that provision for such a service would have to  be made in the Basic Programme, since it con-  cerned Unesco's whole future.  [20] Sir George THOMSON (United Kingdom)  stated that his delegation associated itself com-  pletely with the views expressed by the Director-  General. They had concurred in the resolution,  passed at an earlier session of the Conference,  recommending the gradual transfer of activities  from work of reconstruction to construction; but  they thought that there must be some unit which  could bring relief to countries devastated by con-  temporary disasters other than war.  As to the second proposal by the delegate of  the United States, namely to transfer section 4 to  the Chapter on Education, he fully supported it.  [21] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought the relief  assistance service should be one of the essential  planks in Unesco’s programme. Youth move-  ments should be associated with this task, and  the Commission should concentrate not so much  on a detailed programme as on concrete and im-  mediate activities.  Mr. Francois seconded the amendment of the  United States delegation transferring section 4 to  the Chapter on Education.  [22] Professor CALO (Italy) also supported the  United States amendment. He insisted, however,  that the question of international voluntary work  camps should be separately considered during the  debate on the 1951 Programme.  Sections 1 (Information on Needs), 2 (Direct  Assistance) and 3 (Voluntary Assistance Cam-  paigns) were adopted.’  [23] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered that  section 4 was better suited to the Chapter on  Education; he therefore suggested altering  item A.37 by adding the words: “and in par-  ticular, the international voluntary work camps”.  [24] Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) thought it  desirable to maintain section 4 within the relief  assistance services. Apart from international  camps, civilian services also needed help. He  had no objection to the alteration to item A.37  proposed by the Director-General.  [25] Sir George THOMSON (United Kingdom)  favoured adding a phrase to item A.37 on the  lines suggested by the Director-General, but  would have preferred the word “including”,  instead of “in particular”,  As regards the remarks of the Swiss delegate,  he noted that item A.37 already included the  words “encourage the activities of youth move-  ments and adult education organizations”, and  he therefore moved the addition of: *“... includ-  ing international voluntary work camps”.  [26] Mr. MARIC (Yugoslavia) thought the in-  ternational work camp movement had a big  future. A separate place should therefore be kept  for it in the Programme, and section 4 be  maintained as it stood.  [27] The United Kingdom amendment, second-  ed by the delegations of AUSTRLIA, BELGIUM,  LEBANON, LIBERIA and NETHERLANDS, was  adopted by 17 votes to 2.”  The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m.
1. In final form: Resol. G.1. G.2 and G.3.
2. In final form: Resol. A.37.