the original title of “Procedure Committee”, on  the grounds that the Committee had operated  successfully for five years and that everyone  knew what its functions and terms of reference  were.  This proposal, seconded by Mr.  (Australia), was adopted by 9 votes to 5.  BEAGLEHOLE proposed the substitu-  DAVIES  [14] ‘Dr.  ELEVENTH  tion of the word “and” for “particularly” in the  first line of paragraph 1 of Rule 32. Agreed.  The Belgian proposal, thus amended, was  seconded by Mr. MAJUMDAR (India) and adopted  unanimously.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.
1. In final form: Resol. 40.58.  MEETING  Thursday, 15 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman:  Draft resolution submitted by the Italian  delegation on the subject of meetings of  Representatives of National Commissions  [document 5C/PRO/8 (11) |.  [1] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Italian  resolution had been held over from the previous  meeting, and that the wording had been revised  by a small drafting sub-committee. He called for  the adoption of the new wording, as it appeared in  document 5C/PRO/8 (II), page 10, paragraph 7.  The resolution was adopted.’  Two resolutions concerning amendments to  the Rules of Procedure submitted by the  Budget Committee [document 5C/BUD/2,  page 5].  [2] The CHAIRMAN observed that there was no  time for the Committee to discuss the exact  wording proposed by the Budget Committee, and  he therefore suggested that the Secretariat should  be asked to consider the matter and submit a  proposal to the Procedure Committee at the begin-  ning of the Sixth session of the General Conference.  Agreed.  [3] The CHAIRMAN recalled that at the meeting  of the Nominations Committee which had been  called to propose candidates for the vacant posts  on the Executive Board, there had been some con-  fusion regarding voting procedure which the Pro-  cedure Committee had been asked to consider. The  question was whether or not a ballot paper was  valid if it contained more names than there were  vacant seats on the Board. On three previous
1. In final form: Resol. 40.87.  Professor Jakos NieLsen (Denmark)  occasions, it had been agreed that a ballot paper  containing more names than there were seats  available was invalid. If the Procedure Committee  decided to make that practice a rule, it would  entail an addition to Rule 89 of the Rules of  Procedure. He suggested that the Secretariat  should be asked to make an exact proposal on those  lines to the Procedure Committee at the beginning  of the Sixth Session of the General Conference,  Agreed.  [4] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) took note of a  request from Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) that the  Secretariat should study the question of the obli-  gatory use of a standard ballot paper for the  election of members of the Executive Board, and  submit a proposal to the Sixth Session of the  General Conference.  [5] Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) requested that dele-  gates should receive the new draft Rules of Pro-  cedure prepared by the Secretariat before the  opening of the Sixth Session of the General Con-  ference.  [6] In order to economize funds, Mr. SABA  (Legal Adviser) hoped that delegates might be  satisfied with provisional correction slips before  the General Conference, so that the revised Rules  of Procedure would only have to be published  once, after the Conference had approved them.  Agreed.  Second Report of the Procedure Committee  [document 5C/PRO/8 (1I)].  The report was adopted.  The meeting rose at 5 p.m.