net 4  FIRST PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 22 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  CONTENTS  Page  I. Opening of the Session by the Head of the Australian Delegation . . . . 41  II. Establishment of the Credentials Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . 44  President: Dr. E. RonaLD WALKER (Australia).  I. Opening of the Session by the Head of the  Australian Delegation.  [1] The PRESIDENT — Mr. President, it is my  privilege to express, on behalf of the General  Conference of Unesco, our deep appreciation of  the honour which you have conferred upon this  Organization through your presence at the open-  ing of the Fifth Session of the General Confer-  ence. We are most grateful for the invitation of  the Italian Government, which has enabled us to  convene our annual Conference in Florence,  thereby continuing in most happy fashion  Unesco’s policy of holding the Conference in a  different part of the world each alternate year.  This policy is designed, on the one hand, to  bring the activities of Unesco visibly before the  people of our Member States, and on the other,  to afford to delegates and members of the Secre-  tariat an opportunity of learning more, at first  hand, about the problems and achievements of  our Member States of Unesco. The implemen-  tation of this policy of holding our Conference  in various contries depends, however, upon the  desire of Member States to receive the Conference  on their own soil and, following our most suc-  cessful visits to Mexico and Lebanon, we were  overjoyed when the Italian Government invited  us to come to Florence in 1950. Of all European  countries, Italy offers to Unesco an unexcelled  opportunity to draw inspiration from the tradi-  tions and monuments of the past, and at the  same time to appreciate the problems of recon-  struction in the post-war world. This city of  Florence, so long a centre of international pil-  grimage on account of its exceptional beauty, its  unique artistic treasures and its historic role in  the development of the modern mind, offers to  our eyes today tragic evidence of man’s capacity  for destruction. If need there were to impress  upon our minds the seriousness and urgency of  Unesco’s task, what reminder could be more  telling than the daily contact with the life of this  war-scarred city?  [2] Between the acceptance of an invitation and  the practical realization of an international con-  ference on this scale, lie many difficulties, and  we are glad to have this opportunity of express-  ing our thanks to the Departments of the Italian  Government and of the City of Florence that,  along with the Italian National Commission for  Unesco, have borne the burden of preparing the  material arrangements for the functioning of the  Conference, and for the accommodation of the  delegations and Secretariat. In this connexion we  are happy, on the occasion of your visit to the  Conference, Mr. President, to have with us, in  addition, the Honourable Professor Guido Go-  nella, Minister of Education, the Ambassador Vit-  torio Zoppi, Secretary-General of the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs, representing the Minister of  Foreign Affairs, and Sindaco Fabiani, Mayor of  Florence. The excellence of the material arrange-  ments for our meetings, combined with the  inspiration that we shall all draw from the beauty  and the historical associations of this city, will  undoubtedly assist the Conference to take wise and  bold decisions on the important questions coming  before it. But the General Conference of Unesco  is not merely an occasion for transacting the  business of the Organization and for planning its  future work. The Conference is also in itself an  essay in international understanding. At every  session friendships are made between delegates of  different nationalities, races and creeds. I am  sure that all the delegates from other countries  look forward to strengthening the ties between  their own countries and Italy through friendships  developed at this Conference in this city over the  coming weeks.  [3] Mr. President, our appreciation of the  honour of your presence on this occasion as Head  of the Italian State is enriched by our admiration  for the distinguished economist, who in addition  to making outstanding technical contributions to    his own branch of learning, has always, even in  most difficult circumstances, worked for the  recognition of the human rights and fundamental  freedoms which Unesco, like the United Nations,  is pledged to defend. It is because, to our re-  spect for your high office, and to our friendly  feelings towards your country, there is added pro-  found admiration for your own intellectual  achievements and your life of service to the ideals  for which Unesco stands, that your presence at  this inaugural session, Mr. President, is a source  of great encouragement as the Conference begins  its labours.  [4] Mr. Luigi EINAUDI, President of the Repub-  lic of Italy — [Translation from the Italian]  Mr. President, I am indeed grateful to you for  your kind words; but my country will be even  more grateful when it learns of those of your  words which moved me most, words which ex-  pressed to us once more your deep regard for  Italy and the strong and compelling reasons  which induced you to accept the Italian Gov-  ernment’s invitation to hold your Conference in  Florence. Conscious of the contribution it has  always made to cultural progress, and proud of  the century-old traditions represented by its mo-  numents, and of the charm exercised by its  landscapes, Italy is extremely sensible of your  eloquent praise. But it is particularly touched  by the sincerity of your sorrow at the wounds  inflicted on Florence during the recent conflict.  These wounds are part of innumerable material  and spiritual ruins which impose on men the  duty of carrying out a reconstruction that must  be moral as well as physical. Delegates, my  country has devoted itself to this task of recon-  struction with faith and determination. Many,  and by no means unimportant, results bear wit-  ness to its efforts. But the magnitude of the  tragedy we have lived through, and the exigencies  of a complete rebirth, which seems impossible  when ideals and interests are irremediably op-  posed, have convinced us of the necessity of  co-operating in that work of spiritual unity which  is one of the fundamental aims of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization.  [5] As the host of your Conference, and as a  participant in its work, Italy has a double reason  for turning all its attention to Florence today.  It is fully aware of the progress which Unesco  has already made along the path it has traced out  for itself, and is ready to help it not only in word,  but also in deed; for it is convinced that the  problems of education and of scientific and cul-  tural progress, for which you are endeavouring  to find solutions, are the very essence of the most
42  vital of all problems: the spiritual and social  improvement of all peoples.  [6] In accordance with your universal mission,  and after holding Conferences in Mexico and  Lebanon, you are now meeting in the city whose  most distinguished son, Dante Alighieri, said,  more than six centuries ago, that men are born  in order to pursue virtue and knowledge. I would  like to regard Dante's wanderings in the nether-  world as a happy presage for the future of  mankind, which, after re-ascending from the  abyss of hatreds and wars to a work of purifica-  tion and reformation, of which your Organization  is one of the noblest proponents, will not fail to  respond to the appeal of those supreme ideals to  whose service it has been dedicated by that “love  which moves the sun and the stars”.  [7] [The speaker continued in English]  Dr. Walker, international friendships are quickly  made in international meetings, and those friend-  ships are, as you say, the best part of those  meetings. But our acquaintance, Dr. Walker,  did not begin today. Seventeen years ago two  people met in Turin in a room filled with books,  old and new. One was a distinguished young  Australian student in his twenties who was  visiting Italy and Europe as a Fellow of the  Rockefeller Foundation for the Social Sciences,  the other was from Turin University, and re-  presentative for Italy of the said Rockefeller  Foundation. That meeting was short, perhaps  too short for men who live in such distant  countries. Then as now, the position is the same.  Science 1s not parochial but universal. Today,  myself President of Italy, you, Dr. Walker, in  this Conference of this great international Organ-  ization, we are working again for truth. Truth  is progress—material and spiritual progress—and  truth means also peace.  [8] The PRESIDENT — I am sure the delegates  would desire me to say again how grateful we  are for the inspiring words which the President  of the Republic has pronounced on this occasion,  and I would like to thank him also for his good  memory extending over so many years. 1 will  now ask Professor Gonella, Minister of National  Education, to address this Conference.  [9] Professor Guido GONELLA [Translation  from the Italian] Mr. President of the Republic,  the Italian delegation, over which 1 have the  honour to preside, deeply sensible of the  honour conferred on us by your presence and we  regard it as a good augury for the work of the  Conference which is about to begin.  [10] Mr. President of the Conference, delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, who have come from all  parts of the world, I have the honour to extend
1S      to you on behalf of the Italian Government the  most cordial welcome. The Italian Government  hopes that your brief stay in Florence will remain  one of your happiest memories.  [11] The Government and people of Italy are  deeply attached to the principles upon which the  Constitution of Unesco is based. From the day  when, in 1948, Italy became a member of the  Unesco family, it has been daily conscious of its  duty of making a positive contribution to the  development of the Organization’s activities, both  in the national and in the international fields.  The presence of Italian delegations at the sessions  of the General Conference at Beirut and in Paris,  the participation of Italian experts in the various  committees assembled by Unesco, and the work  done by the Italian National Commission, which  includes among its members the most outstand-  ing figures in the fields of education, science and  culture—all these are so many concrete proofs of  the interest felt by the Government and people of  Italy in Unesco’s ideals and activities. The una-  nimous and enthusiastic approval, by the fifty-  four Member States of Unesco, of the proposal to  hold the Fifth Session of the General Conference  in Italy was, for us, both an encouragement and a  tribute.  [12] It is of some significance that the work of  this Fifth Session of the General Conference of  the United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization should have begun, in all  solemnity, in this hall, where the genius of art  has left so conspicuous a mark and where history  seems to have left behind at once a warning and  a suggestion. We have here the traces left by the  Florentines, who were ready to die for freedom  and who dedicated this sanctuary of their civil  life to Christ, their only King; and we have here  too, across the ages, the memories of the dawn  of our national unity, which was consecrated  within these walls. The history of these Confer-  ences of recent years and the words, with their  very human appeal, spoken by Mr. Maritain at  Mexico City, and now here today in the temple of  Italian renown, in this Hall of the Five Hundred,  show, I think, that the spiritual tasks falling to  our Orzanization are ever increasing, both in  breadth and depth. The hallmark of this history  is the search for a culture and a science that  spread throughout, and nourish themselves upon,  human life; there is, and should be to an ever  greater degree, a concern to make the intellect an  instrument of understanding and union, and not  an instrument of dissension and war, as has too  often happened in recent years. This whole-  hearted furtherance of the mission of peace and  brotherhood which the peoples expect of Unesco  and which alone can make our Organization into  something truly living and constructive, is, it
43  seems to me, a process to which the very human  formula “veritatem facientes in caritatem” may be  applied.  [13] These words, used by that great spirit that  was the first to postulate the need for an under-  standing between souls and intellects, across all  the barriers of race and nationality, are, in a way,  a pointer to the spirit in which all our work  should be performed. It is, too, the simplest and  most mandatory message that can be devised to  speed our present work.  [14] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] 1 should like to thank the Minister for  what he has said and will now ask Mr. Fabiani,  Mayor of Florence, to address you.  [15] Mr. FABIANI [Translation from the  Italian] Florence is delighted to welcome  Unesco’s General Conference, not only for the  honour it confers upon her, but because she is  convinced that she is worthy of that honour. In  her name, I thank you, the revered head of our  young Italian Republic, the members of the Gov-  ernment and the Unesco Committee, which has  worked so hard and so patiently to have Florence  chosen as the seat of this very important Confer-  ence. There is no doubt that the work of this  important cultural organization will find a worthy  setting in a city which for centuries has been a  centre of culture, from long before the Middle  Ages, up to the Renaissance and to the Risorgi-  mento. Not only has Florence produced geniuses  whose names are inscribed in the golden book of  man, and adorned herself with works of art  admired by the whole universe; but she has  produced those geniuses and created those works  because of a deep awareness of the value of culture  and of beauty in all their forms. Today, once  again, Florence is making every effort to be  worthy of her noble tradition, so much so that,  after the horrors of the war, one of her first  concerns has been to heal, so far as possible, the  wounds inflicted on her scientific institutions, and  to re-equip her museums.  [16] If, in the past, this city has achieved con-  quests which have left their mark upon civiliza-  tion, it was undoubtedly because the Florentines  were ever aware of the need, both spiritually and  intellectually, of transcending their own narrow  confines, even such wondrous confines as are  formed by the walls of their city and the soft hills  surrounding it. The Florentines were among the  first to make long journeys, not only to find an  outlet for the exuberance of their temperament and  for the products of their arts, but also in order to  get to know other men, other countries, other  customs and other places; in order to gain experi-             |  :
3  ]  il  |     ence and, at the same time, to extend their  understanding and their tolerance. Culture—that  has been the main preoccupation of Florentines  throughout the ages, and it is that of this youthful  organization, Unesco. Culture, which means free-  dom for the individual, presupposes, over and  above the individual, universal brotherhood.  Only when the mode of life of other peoples 1s  known, with their needs, their sufferings, their  errors, ideals and efforts, will the barriers of  misunderstanding which lead inevitably to armed  conflict disappear. It is in this sense that cul-  ture can be an inexhaustible source of good:  material good, giving all men the feeling that they  can live without fear of sickness and poverty;  spiritual good, which is based on the former and  realizes itself in universal understanding and fel-  lowship. It is in this sense that peace can be  won and safely conserved until all peoples adopt  the same attitude towards life and the same sys-  tem of mutual relations.  [17] Men of culture from many different parts  of the world have assumed this noble task, which  is not only mentioned in the first Article of  Unesco’s Constitution, but is also dictated by  their conscience, and expresses the will of count-  less masses without distinction of race, nation,  party or ideas. May Unesco’s Conference find in  Florence serenity and inspiration. It is with my  whole heart that I express this wish on the city's  behalf.  [18] The PRESIDENT — The words of welcome  which we have heard from the President of the  Republic, the Minister of Education and the  Mayor of Florence, make, I am sure, every one of  us feel very much at home in the city of Florence,  and give us very great heart as we embark upon  the labours of the Conference.  [19] I therefore declare open the Fifth Session  of the General Conference of Unesco. We shall  suspend the meeting for a few minutes to permit  the President of the Executive Board, the Direc-  tor-General and myself to accompany His Excel-  lency the President of the Republic. I should ask  delegates to remain in their places and the plenary  meeting will resume its regular work within a few  minutes.  The meeting resumed at noon.  [20] he PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] 1 have great pleasure in welcoming to  our Conference Mr. Laugier, Assistant Secretary-  General of the United Nations. He has come here  as representative of the Secretary-General of the  United Nations and will address you after the  Conference has elected its President.
44  II. Establishment of the Credentials Com-  mittee.  [21] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] We will now proceed with the agenda:  Establishment of a Credentials Committee. In  accordance with the revised Agenda and the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference, we have  to set up the Credentials Committee which will  meet immediately afterwards. Under Rule 27 of  the Rules of Procedure, the Credentials Committee  consists of nine members elected by the General  Conference on the proposal of the Acting Presi-  dent. I propose that the Committee be formed  by the delegates of the following countries: Bra-  zil, Canada, Cuba, France, India, Lebanon, the  United Kingdom, the United States of America  and Yugoslavia. I request the Conference's  approval for the appointment of this Credentials  Committee. Are there any objections? I declare  the members of the Credentials Committee elected  and will now ask the delegate of Czechoslovakia  to address you.  [22] Mr. Adolf HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia)  — [Translation from the French] As 1 was not  appointed a member of the Credentials Com-  mittee, I have the honour to present the latter  with a recommendation. It is well known that  the Central Government of the People's Republic  of China has informed the United Nations Organ-  ization that it refuses to recognize the represen-  tative of the Kuomintang group as having the  right to represent China and to speak on behalf  of the Chinese people. Hence the presence of a  delegate of the Kuomintang at the Fifth Session  of the General Conference of Unesco, a Specialized  Agency of the United Nations, is illegal. Instruc-  ted by my Government, I demand the exclusion  of this group from Unesco, and I have therefore  the honour to present this request, first of all as a  recommendation to the Credentials Committee and  then, after the verification of credentials, in the  form of the following draft motion:  The Fifth Session of the General Conference of  Unesco has decided to exclude the Kuomintang  group from membership of Unesco.  [23] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] 1 intend, or rather I hope to be able,  in a few minutes to adjourn the meeting so that  the Credentials Committee may meet and start  work. The Czechoslovak delegate has submitted  a recommendation on behalf of his Government.  He has also presented the terms of a motion he  would like to place before the Conference. This  motion cannot, of course, be debated until the  credentials of all delegations met here have been  approved by the Conference. At this moment no            delegation’s credentials have been approved by  this Conference. Our first task therefore is to  hold a meeting of the Credentials Committee so  that our credentials may be examined and the  delegations duly accredited to this Conference.  The leader of the Hungarian delegation has asked  to speak. I give him permission to do so on con-  dition that he addresses himself solely to the  matter of procedure and the situation as I have  just explained it.  [24] Dr. Gabér TOLNAI (Hungary) — [Trans-  lation from the Italian] Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, on behalf of the People’s Republic  of Hungary, and after listening to the address of  Mr. Hoffmeister, the Czechoslovak Ambassador,  we delegates of the Hungarian People’s Republic  declare that we too are unable to speak at the  Conference in the absence of delegates of Free  China. The delegates of the Kuomintang are not  the delegates of China.  [25] The PRESIDENT — The delegate of Hun-  gary has stated his views on the question of the  admission of one of the delegations at the Confer-  ence. That matter, however, is not open for  discussion at this time. The only business before  the Conference has been so far the appointment  of the members of the Credentials Committee.  The Committee has been elected by the Conference  on the proposal of the President in accordance  with the Rules of Procedure and I would ask the
45  members of the Committee whose names were  read, and whose names I shall read again, to meet  immediately upon the conclusion of the present  meeting. The members of the Committee are  Brazil, Canada, Cuba, France, India, Lebanon, the  United Kingdom, the United States and Yugo-  slavia. It is for the head of each delegation to  designate a member of his delegation among those  that I have read to serve on the Credentials Com-  mittee. This Committee will meet, immediately  on the conclusion of this session, in the Room of  the Two Hundred. I would request that the  members of the Committee lose no time in  meeting. There is no further business before the  plenary meeting at this moment. We propose  to meet again this afternoon at 3.30.  [26] The first business this afternoon will be to  receive the report of the Credentials Committee,  and to take action upon its report. When that  has been done the Conference will be properly  constituted and we will then proceed to the  election of the President of the Conference. In  order that that may take place it will be necessary  for us, after we have dealt with the report of the  Credentials Committee, to call a meeting of the  Nominations Committee, consisting of the heads  of delegations. That Committee will then bring  back into the plenary session in the course of the  afternoon, proposals for the election of the Presi-  dent and the Vice-Presidents of the Conference.  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.     e e   L E   t s ”   p e e l   G T )   |