SECOND MEETING  Wednesday, 24 May 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman :  Modification in the order of the work of the  Session [document 5C/BUR/1 Annex I].  [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Confer-  ence would sit on Wit Monday, 29 May, which  was not a holiday in Italy; on the other hand,  since Corpus Christi Day was a public holiday,  the Conference would have to interrupt its work on  Thursday, 8 June. It was decided to alter the  time-table accordingly.  Inclusion of a new item on the agenda of the  General Conference [document 5C/20].  [2] The CHAIRMAN informed the General Com-  mittee that the United Kingdom delegation had  notified the Director-General in a letter dated
23 May 1950, that it was proposing the insertion  in the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Confer-  ence of an item: Draft Resolution concerning the  Status of Associate Membership of Unesco. The  United Kingdom delegation had remitted a draft  resolution on this matter [document 5C/20],  accompanied by a memorandum setting forth the  reasons for its proposal [ibid., Annex I]. As the  revised agenda proposed by the Executive Board  had been adopted by the General Conference on
22 May, this was a new question, and procedure  under Rules 14 and 36, paragraph 3 of the Rules of  Procedure, therefore applied.  [3] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) pointed  out that his delegation did not suggest granting  associate members the right to vote at the Confer-  ence or in its Commissions, nor did it propose  that they should be eligible for the Executive  Board. As to their contributions, the resolution  proposed the adoption of the principle observed  by WHO.  [4] At the proposal of Taha HUSSEIN Bey  (Egypt), seconded by Mr. MAURIAC (France),  it was decided to return to the question at the next  meeting of the General Committee, after the texts  submitted by the United Kingdom delegation had  been studied.  Count STEFANO Jacint (Italy)  Progress of the work of the Session.  [5] The CHAIRMAN proposed that at each  meeting of the General Committee, the Chairmen  of commissions and committees should report on  the stage reached in the work of the body they  presided over. Adopted.  New Draft Resolutions.  [6] The CHAIRMAN announced that a number of  new draft resolutions had been submitted to the  Director-General and that it was for the General  Committee to divide them between the different  commissions of the Conference.  Document 5C/2: Establishment of a committee  to prepare a declaration of the duties of the State  in regard to education, science and culture for  the purpose of ensuring a better understanding  between peoples (draft proposal presented by  Norway).  [7] It was decided to forward this proposal to the  Programme and Budget Commission.  Document 5C/10: Draft amendments to the  Programme for 1951 (Arts and Letters; Libraries  and Documentation Services) (presented by the  United Kingdom).  [8] It was decided to forward this drafts to the  Programme and Budget Commission.  Document 5C/11: Draft international convention  for the protection of monuments, centres of  historic interest, cultural institutions and works  of art in the event of armed conflict (proposal  presented by Italy).
19] It was decided to forward this proposal to  the Programme and Budget Commission.  Document 5C/12: Draft resolution concerning  the presentation of the annual programme and  budget (presented by the United Kingdom).  [10] It was decided to forward this draft to the  Programme and Budget Commission, but, as jt  had budgetary implications, it would also go
04                  automatically to the Budget Committee under the  procedure laid down.  Document 6C/13: Proposed amendments to  draft resolutions 4.62 and 4.621 presented by  Switzerland).  [11] It was decided to forward these proposals to  the Programme and Budget Commission.  Document 6C/14: Draft amendments to Regula-  tions 25 and 26 of the Financial Regulations  (presented by Australia).  [12] It was decided to forward these proposals to  the Administrative Commission.  Document 5C/15: Draft amendment to the pro-  gramme for 1951: resolution 1.122 (presented  by the United Kingdom).  [13] It was decided to forward this proposal to  the Programme and Budget Commission.  Document 5C/16: Draft resolution to provide  that the General Conference shall meet biennially  (presented by the United States of America).  [14] It was decided to forward this proposal to  the Procedure Committee.  Document 5C/17: Draft resolution inviting all  workers in the fields of education, science and  culture, together with their organizations, insti-  tutions and agencies, to give their full support  to the World Movement of the Defenders of  Peace (presented by Czechoslovakia).  [15] Dr. WALKER (Chairman, Nominations  Committee) could not see to which of the main  commissions this proposal should be sent. He  pointed out that it was the custom of ILO to set  up a special Resolutions Committee. He did not  propose this procedure for the moment, although  there were obvious advantages in such a com-  mittee’s studying resolutions that involved more or  less political appeals. He felt that the question  ought to be dealt with by the General Committee  directly.  [16] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) seconded  this proposal and hoped that it would be discussed  subsequently to the decision by the Credentials  Committee on the position of Nationalist China.  Adopted.  Document 5C/19: Draft resolution for the con-  vening of a Congress on Intellectual Co-operation  before the end of 1950 (presented by Yugo-  slavia).  [17] It was decided to forward this resolution to  the Programme and Budget Commission.  [18] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) stated that  items 10.5.1 (Resolutions adopted by the General  Assembly of the United Nations concerning the  Programmes and Budgets of the Specialized Agen-  cies) and 10.5.2. (United Nations resolutions on  educational problems in the non-self-governing  territories), which appeared on the agenda of the  Official and External Relations Commission, would  also be submitted to the Programme and Budget  Commission and to the Administrative Commis-  sion. The final report on these matters would  have to be presented by the Official and External  Relations Commission.  [19] At the request of Dr. WALKER (Chairman,  Nominations Committee), it was explained that the  part of the Executive Board's report dealing with  these resolutions would also be submitted to the  three main commissions.  Communication from the Chairman of the  Budget Committee.  [20] The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the  Chairman of the Budget Committee requesting  that, in order to assist the work of the Conference,  (a) Every proposal affecting the budget for  the 1951 Programme should be considered by the  Budget Committee before it was considered by a  Commission, and  (b) The time-limit for submitting any new  proposals or amendments involving changes of  substance in the Programme or Budget Estimates  should be fixed for the evening of 24 May.  [21] At the proposal of Taha HUSSEIN Bey  (Egypt), it was decided to extend this time-limit  by 24 hours, namely until the evening of 256 May.  Admission of New Members.  [22] At the proposal of Dr. WALKER (Chairman  Nominations Committee) it was decided that item
13 of the agenda (discussion of the recommenda-  tions of the Executive Board for the admission of  new Members) would be taken by the Plenary  Meeting immediately after the discussion of the  Director-General’s Report, in order that these new  members might participate in the proceedings as  soon as possible.  The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m.