SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE COMMITTEE OF EIGHT  FIRST MEETING  Wednesday, 14 June 1950, at 9.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. Roger Seypoux (France)  [1] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the General  Committee had decided to establish the present  committee (composed of eight members, five of  whom were chairmen of other commissions and  committees of the Conference) to adjust the final
1951 Programme to the total budget figure for  that year.
12] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Com-  mittee) stated that the Budget Committee had  made total savings of $39,659. However, there  was a large increase of $204,000 due to new reso-  lutions (this included provision for the Spanish  language at General Conferences, and an enlarged  programme for Germany and Japan). At the  present time, therefore, the budget estimates were  $114,327 over the ceiling figure of $8,200,000.  On the other hand, there would be a further  saving of $100,000 when the local salary scales  were introduced in 1951.  [3] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) added that some reso-  lutions had still not been received from the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission but that, as far  as he knew, only one of these required budgetary  provision; this concerned dissemination of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the  estimate was expected to be approximately  $50,000.  [4] Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) said  that it was not clear wheher the estimated saving  of $100,000 on the local salary rates was to be  included in the Budget or not, and a discussion  ensued on this point.  [5] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) said that the Budget  Committee had assumed that this sum would be  available for spending in the 1951 budget. He  explained that, out of the total budget of  $8,200,000, the Organization expected to receive  contributions amounting to only $7,700,000. An  additional sum of $180,000 would be available  from the contributions of new Member States not  included in the 1950 budget, and a further  $247,000 representing the surplus for 1947 was  to be surrendered. The remaining $73,000  would be made up from miscellaneous income  and, if necessary, by withdrawal from the Work-  ing Capital Fund.  [6] Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) felt that it  would be far more realistic for the Organization  to expect a total income from contributions of  only $7,500,000.  [7] Miss LAISE (United States of America) con-  firmed that her delegation had felt that the  £100,000 saving on the local salary scales should  be available for spending in 1951, in order to  ensure that the Organization would be able to  carry out its full programme.  [8] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Com-  mittee was not competent to reopen a discussion  as to the total income the Organization might  expect in 1951, since this had been decided in the  Programme and Budget Commission. The busi-  ness of the Committee was merely to decide by  how much present estimates would have to be  reduced, and where this reduction was to be  effected.  [9] It was finally agreed that the $100,000  estimated saving on the local salary scales would  be available for spending in 1951. This left the  Committee with the sum of $14,327 over the  budget ceiling, plus an estimated $50,000 for the  dissemination of the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights, i.e., approximately $65,000.  [10] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-
567     LT LE EL  strative Management and Budget) added that  there were three further resolutions which had  been passed by the Programme and Budget Com-  mission with a request that funds be provided if  available after budgeting had been completed.  The sums involved were:
(1) Field Science Offices . $25,000
(2) Education Textbooks $10,000
(3) Grant-in-Aid to WFUNA . $10,000  [11] The CHAIRMAN knew for certain that the  resolution concerning the World Federation of  United Nations Associations had been passed with-  out this reservation of funds being available; the  total sum to be reduced was therefore $75,000.  [12] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed  out that the Director-General was completely at  liberty to propose a reduction in the grant to  WFUNA, as in other cases, if funds were not  available.  [13] Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) then  raised the basic question of whether the Emer-  gency Fund for relief should be maintained in  its present form, or whether the practice of the  United Nations and WHO should be followed:  no actual Emergency Fund existed, but the Dir-  ector-General and the Executive Board were  authorized to withdraw sums up to a certain  limit from the Revolving or Working Capital  Fund for emergency relief. The General Confer-  ence, in the following year, authorized the re-  placement of such sums. He felt that this  question should be studied as a matter of prin-  ciple, especially since there was a tendency to  spend the total amount of any sum provided for  a specific purpose (i.e., the Emergency Fund),  whereas expenditure would probably be less if  withdrawals had to be made from the Working  Capital Fund.  [14] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that this  question was outside the competence of the Com-  mittee and Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget  Committee) added that the Budget Committee had  already discussed this matter and decided that it  would involve much study by the Secretariat, the  Executive Board and the different organs of the  General Conference. Dr. ZOOK (United States of  America) therefore agreed that the question  should be deferred for consideration in future  years.  [15] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL poin-  ted out that the term “Emergency Fund” was  used in Unesco to cover not only emergencies  arising in the course of the year, but also what  the General Conference considered to be emer-  gency situations already existing. Apart from a
968  small sum for relief aid for unpredictable disast-  ers, the money allocated to the Emergency Fund  was actually appropriated in advance by the Gen-  eral Conference for specific purposes. Dr. Zook’s  proposal was interesting in so far as provision for  disasters was concerned, but the Deputy Director-  General agreed that it would be more appropriate  to deal with this matter another year.  [16] He was glad to see that the gap between  the programme and the budget was so small. He  suggested that it might help the Committee if the  Secretariat were to prepare concrete proposals  indicating where the necessary cuts might be  effected, and what consequent modifications of  the programme would be necessary.  [17] Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) wel-  comed this suggestion, but felt that the opinion  of the Budget Committee should also be sought:  the Budget Committe had carried out a detailed  examination of the Budget estimates and had  indicated certain areas where further savings  might be effected. The Secretariat should con-  sider these indications in formulating its proposals  for the further reductions necessary.  It was agreed that this would be done.  [18] Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) sug-  gested that the Secretariat might prepare two  proposals: one including the two resolutions on  Field Science Offices and Educational Textbooks  for which provision had not yet been made, and  another excluding these items.  [19] Professor NIELSEN (Denmark) pointed out  that the Secretariat could either propose small  reductions on a large number of projects, or  make one or two large cuts involving one or two  specific projects. He would prefer the second  alternative.  [20] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL said  that this was the Secretariat’s only alternative,  since the Budget Committee had reduced the  estimates for all projects to an absolute mini-  mum and it would not be possible to make fur-  ther cuts without deleting functions or eliminat-  ing a project completely. He would make the  reservation that the Secretariat be authorized to  reinstate any function so deleted if funds were to  become available during the year. Agreed.  [21] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) sug-  gested, however, that it might be possible for the  Secretariat to make certain small cuts which the  Budget Committee had not been able to make  through its lack of experience of the Organization.  The meeting rose at 11.10 p.m.