THIRD MEETING  Wednesday, 24 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman:  Examination of the Budget Estimates (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (II)].  Natural Sciences [Part III, Chapter 2].  PROGRAMME Costs [III.2.A].  [1] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia), as a general  observation, remarked that there were various  items for the purchase of books and periodicals  in the budget, and suggested that all such items  might be grouped under the Library Service to  avoid risk of duplicating purchases.  [2] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) replied that all actual  purchasing of books and periodicals was done by  the Library Service, but that, for specialized book  requirements, they were charged against the  budgets of the various units in conformity with  the method of showing a project budget.  DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC Co-  OPERATION, SCIENTIFIC ORGANIZATIONS [III.2.B (1) |.  [3] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) asked, with re-  spect to item 2.113, whether the World Health  Organization also made a financial contribution  and, if so, what was the percentage of the con-  tributions made by WHO and Unesco.  [4] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) replied that the World  Health Organization did in fact make the larger  contribution in money, goods and services, the  percentages being 70 to 30.  [6] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) pointed out that  there was no programme resolution attached to  item I on page 117, and felt that the Committee  was not therefore empowered to approve requests  for funds for this item.  [6] He was supported by Sir Ronald ADAM  (United Kingdom), who felt that the Committee  must have a specific programme resolution to cor-  respond with each request for the allocation of  funds. If funds were allocated without the spe-  cific programme resolution, the result would be  a series of hidden reserves in the budget.
485  Dr. F. Benner (Netherlands)  [7] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) pointed out that it was  almost impossible to cost the entire budget by  programme resolutions, as provision had to be  made for general overheads.  [8] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) added that, although not a re-  serve, funds such as these were essential in the  programme departments in order to obtain advice  needed eighteen months from the time of con-  sideration of the budget.  [9] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) agreed  that allowance must be made for overheads, but  did feel that specific resolutions should be attached  to requests for funds for the programme, and  suggested that the Committee should pass a re-  solution to the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion to this effect.  [10] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of Amer-  ica) said that his delegation could not agree with  the general principle of having a specific resolu-  tion to cover each budget item.  [11] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) pointed out that the General Committee  had that morning decided to transmit to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission and the Budget  Committee a resolution submitted by the United  Kingdom with regard to the co-ordination of the  programme and the budget. The Budget Com-  mittee would therefore discuss this matter at a  later stage.  [12] In view of this, and on the suggestion of  Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America), it was  decided that it would not be in order to pass a  formal resolution on this matter at the present  time.  [13] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) suggested that  the Committee should merely note in passing that,  in examining proposals in the budget under its  existing form, the Committee had found on  occasions that items for which funds were re-  quested did not seem to be supported by a pro-  gramme resolution. Agreed.              [14] In reply to questions, Professor AUGER  (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) gave  an explanation of the way in which Unesco con-  trolled the financial aid it gave to outside organ-  izations. Each organization receiving money from  Unesco submitted its programme of work to the  Secretariat and the Executive Board for considera-  tion and approval. If, for any reason, the organ-  ization could not use the funds provided by  Unesco in the manner requested, full explanations  had to be submitted to the Secretariat and the  Executive Board and prior approval obtained for  new plans utilizing Unesco monies.  [15] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked what criteria Unesco used in determining  the amount of contributions to outside organ-  izations: was this a programme of continuing  support?  [16] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) replied that the authority for  such contribution was contained in Article I (c)  of the Unesco Constitution, and that the amount  was decided by the amount of money available in  the Unesco budget in conjunction with the re-  quirements of the various recipient organizations.  As he knew of no higher or more competent  inter-governmental authority than Unesco in the  field of science, it was Unesco itself which decided  the size of its contributions to other scientific  organizations. Generally, when it co-operated  with another organization to organize a scientific  congress or other similar activity, Unesco con-  tributed about 50 per cent of the total amount,  but Professor Auger emphasized that, in addition,  the inviting country or town usually provided  most generous services, the value of which fre-  quently exceeded the total amount provided by the  two organizations.  [17] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked for further explanation with regard to items  such as 2.115 whereby Unesco provided financial  aid and services to assist the activities of the Inter-  national Union for the Protection of Nature. He  asked what was the proportion of the contribution  made by Unesco as compared to the contribu-  tion provided by the organization receiving a  grant.  [18] Professor AUGER (Director, Department  of Natural Sciences) replied that such contribu-  tions were not so much grants-in-aid as contracts  whereby Unesco contracted with the Union con-  cerned to carry out a certain task. The financial  payment made to the Union was actually for  services rendered.  [19] Professor FANTAPPIE (Italy) felt that  Unesco should continue to give maximum aid  to existing organizations in order to increase their  facilities and make the best possible use of their  trained personnel.  [20] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) remarked that the  same general points he had raised during the dis-  cussion on the Department of Education applied  also to the Department of Natural Sciences. With  regard to the large sums being requested for  publications, he would like to know the percentage  of these publications which could be sold and  what income could be expected from them.  [21] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) replied that,  under the present publications policy of the  Organization, every effort was being made to re-  duce the number of free distributions of pub-  lications. A publications revolving fund had been  established under authority of the Third Session  of the General Conference, as amended by the  General Conference at its Fourth Session, provid-  ing that all receipts reverted to the publications  fund. The Director-General was required to  report twice yearly on the state of this fund to  the Executive Board.  [22] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) asked if the Com-  mittee could incorporate in its general report the  suggestion that a balance sheet of publications costs  and receipts be prepared and circulated to each  session of the General Conference. He felt that,  in addition to providing useful financial informa-  tion, it would enable delegates and the Secretariat  to see clearly which publications were selling suc-  cessfully and which fields of Unesco’s work were  most popular.  SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE AND MaTeriaL [I11.2.B (2) ].  [23] Professor AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) assured Sir Ronald ADAM  (United Kingdom) that the OEEC and the  International Organization for Standardization  were being fully consulted in carrying out item
2.131.  Fierp Science Co-operation Orrices [I11.2.CJ.  [24] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) assured Mr. POL-  LOCK (Canada) that the Director-General held full  consultations with the Secretary-General of the  United Nations and all Directors-General of Spe-  cialized Agencies before submitting plans for the  location of a Field Science Co-operation Office,  in order to ensure the maximum co-ordination of  all branches of the United Nations.
486                                             ASSISTANCE TO RESEARCH FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF  THE Living ConpiTIONs or Mankinp [1I1.2.D].  [25] In reply to Mr. WEEDEN (Australia), Pro-  fessor AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the proposed International  Institute of the Arid Zone had no resources out-  side Unesco at the present time. However, as  soon as the Constitution of the Institute was estab-  lished, it was expected that several countries  interested in this project would make contribu-  tions.  TEACHING AND POPULARIZATION OF Science [III.2.E].  [26] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) and Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia) both emphasized that they felt several  items under this heading could be dealt with  more effectively and more economically by  National Commissions rather than by the employ-  ment of Unesco personnel.  [27] The CHAIRMAN agreed that these remarks  would be taken into account in the report of the  Committee.  NATURAL Sciences Inpirect Personnel Costs  [111.2.F].
128] No comments.  Social Sciences [Part III, Chapter 3].  PROGRAMME Costs [II1.3.A].  [29] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America),  seconded by Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom),  pointed out that the personnel chart for this  department (page 142) indicated a very high per-  centage of secretarial and clerical staff in propor-  tion to the number of high grades.  [30] It was agreed to bear this matter in mind  for later consideration.  Ain To INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC CO-OPERATION  I.3.B].
31] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) having asked  what percentage of the total revenue of the organ-  izations grouped under paragraph 1 on page 147  was supplied by Unesco, Dr. ANGELL (Acting  Director, Department of Social Sciences) replied  that, since these organizations had only been  formed during 1949 and 1950, their revenue out-  side Unesco was still very small, perhaps 10 to
20 per cent—the exception being the International  Studies Conference which was revived after the  war. However, they were all making great efforts  to increase their membership and raise more funds.
487  [32] Dr. Angell also assured Sir Ronald ADAM  (United Kingdom) that, with regard to para-  graph 1v (page 148), he did not feel that the  number of surveys to be undertaken should be  reduced. A meeting had already been held in  Paris; the other organizations concerned were  most enthusiastic and plans were well prepared  for the completion of this task in an efficient  manner.  Stupies or SociaL Tensions [III.3.C].  [33] In reply to Sir Ronald ADAM (United King-  dom), Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) explained that items 3.24 and
3.25 had been left vague intentionally, as Unesco  wished to consult a group of experts meeting in  July in order to formulate the most important  and most useful types of studies to make in this  connexion.  Reports of the Budget Committee.  [34] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Chair-  man of the Executive Board wished to make a  statement before the Committee adjourned.  [35] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) explained that the creation of this new  {ype of Budget Committee was an experiment sug-  gested by the Executive Board, and he outlined  the type of reports it was hoped the Committee  might be able to make:
(1) A provisional report to the Programme  and Budget Commission before its meetings de-  voted to consideration of the programme for
1951. This report might indicate how far the  Budget Committee felt that the budget presented  by the Director-General corresponded with the  programme presented by the Executive Board and  how accurate and reasonable that budget was.
(2) A report indicating specific areas where  it was thought general economies could be made;  this report should be made preferably before the  Programme and Budget Commission discussed a  provisional total budget figure.
(3) A final report on the budget in the light  of the total budget figure voted, in the light of  decisions taken on the programme by the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission.  [36] Finally, if the Committee had sufficient  time, the General Conference would appreciate a  recommendation as to the method which might  be used in preparing and considering the budget  at the next session.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.