SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS  OF THE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  Friday, 26 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman:  Opening of the meeting.  [1] The CHAIRMAN opened the session with a  tribute to his predecessors, Sir John Maud, Dr. Bee-  by and Professor Carneiro.  Election of Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteur.
(2] The following were elected:  Vice-Chairmen: Dr. C. E. Beeby (New Zealand)  Dr. Tevfik Saglam (Turkey).  Rapporteur: Mr. Marcel Florkin (Belgium).  Adoption of the Agenda [document 5C/1 (Rev.),  Part III].  [3] The agenda was adopted with the following  amendments:
(1) Under item 8.4, the deletion of the words  “and of the Statement of Methods of the Organiza-  tion”:
(2) Consideration under item 8.8 of draft  resolution 5C/12 (Presentation of the Annual Pro-  gramme and Budget of the Organization);
(3) Consideration of the comments presented  by the Executive Board in documents 5C/OXR/4  and 5C/OXR/5 (items 10.5.1 and 10.5.2 of the  Agenda):
(4) Inclusion of a new item 8.10.1: Considera-  tion and discussion of questions relating to the  problem of peace.  Establishment of a Drafting Committee.  [4] The CHAIRMAN suggested the immediate  establishment of a Drafting Committee under the  chairmanship of the Rapporteur and consisting of  the delegates of the following countries: United  Mr. Roger Seypoux (France)  States of America, France, Mexico, and the United  Kingdom. Agreed.  Presentation of the Basic Programme by the  Chairman of the Executive Board [document
5C/5 (I) Rev., Part I].  [6] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  stated that the Basic Programme was one for which  the Board took entire responsibility. The Board's  view was that it was possible and indeed desirable  to present to the Fifth Session of the General Con-  ference a programme in two parts: a Basic Pro-  gramme and an Annual Programme. He would  describe the Basic Programme as a statement of  the foundations of the work which the Board  thought Unesco could and should do for the next  few years.  Summarizing the questions which the Commis-  sion should answer, Sir John asked:
(1) Whether a Basic Programme was wanted  at all;
(2) If there was to be a Basic Programme,  whether it should be a mixture of resolutions and  preambles;
(3) If so, under what chapter, headings and  sub-headings the mixture of resolutions and pre-  ambles ought to be grouped;
(4) If the Commission thought it could 1m-  prove on the work of the Executive Board, how  it considered that could best be done.  [6] The CHAIRMAN thanked Sir John for his  explanations and expressed his admiration for the  clarity and objectivity of the proposed Programme,  the presentation of which was a considerable im-  provement on the corresponding documents of  previous years.  *  —   à  a   —   =   " e a   |   A   F I T   A
4  #  |"   ‘  w m   +   i  £  Ï  A L             Discussion of the Basic Programme.  [7] Dr. HUXLEY (United Kingdom) stated that  his delegation wished to congratulate the Board  on the new form of presentation. With certain  alterations, the Programme in that form could  become a valuable link between Unesco and its  general public. However, from a detailed drafting  point of view, the United Kingdom delegation  would, in due course, suggest certain changes,  intended to make the Basic Programme shorter,  clearer, more logical, more attractive to read,  and more capable of making an impact on the  public.  [8] The CHAIRMAN thought that the Drafting  Committee could properly be called upon to polish  the style and revise the translations; however, it  was for the Commission to consider the general  form of the document and to determine whether  it was unduly long or unbalanced.  [9] Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  associated himself with Dr. Huxley's remarks,  and proposed that the Commission should merely  approve the preambles and submit them to the  Drafting Committee for revision and improvement,  on the understanding that they would come be-  fore the Commission again.  [10] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) observed  that the work done on the Basic Programme was  tremendously appreciated by his delegation; at  showed a fundamental change of great importance.  However, while fully approving the intention be-  hind that change, it considered that the result  was unsatisfactory. There was an enormous  amount of repetition, absence of any real mean-  ing, and the whole document was far too long.  There were preambles and sub-preambles, re-  dundant resolutions or statements of intentions,  and resolutions or sub-resolutions which repeated  in detail the proposals in the main statements. It  seemed to the New Zealand delegation that the  preambles should be obliterated completely, with  one possible exception—the preamble to Mass  Communications, which seemed very good; but  the delegation would really prefer to see all the  preambles completely discarded or, if the meeting  was opposed to that idea, referred to a drafting  committee for careful, radical redrafting. That  harsh criticism, however, was an attempt to meet  the proposals of the Board with the serious con-  sideration which it obviously expected and for  which it had so clearly and so generously asked.  [11] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that  objections of that kind had been anticipated when  the document was being considered by the Ex-  ecutive Board. He emphasized that it was the  result of a great deal of work on the part of all  members of the Board; they had considered and  discussed at length the whole programme, which  had finally been adopted in its present form for  the following reasons. Under its Constitution,  Unesco was required to appeal to the general  public, but a numbered programme could be of  no interest to the man in the street; in such a  form it could not fire the imagination of the  public, for which purpose it was necessary to show  the connexion between the proposed activities and  the aim in view. The more formal a text, the  more limited its appeal. The Drafting Committee  could perhaps frame a better text, but it would be  inadvisable to discard the preambles, whose  interest for the general reader should not be dis-  counted.  The Director-General thought it necessary to  begin with a consideration of the resolutions,  after which it could be seen whether the preambles  were necessary; the Drafting Committee should  be relied upon to prepare the final text.  [12] Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) suggested  the immediate discussion of each individual resolu-  tion, after which some decision could be reached  regarding the necessary deletions.  [13] Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) admitted  that anyone reading the Programme for the first  time might well be confused; nevertheless, it was  an excellent document in that it provided a clear  view of the desired aims, while giving a concise  account of Unesco’s work. It was perhaps not  an ideal document (the terminology might be  made more uniform), but its general outline  should be preserved as it satisfied the demands  both of the Cartesian mind (in the preambles)  and of the experimental mind (in the actual  resolutions).  [14] The CHAIRMAN explained that both the  English and French versions were original drafts,  so that neither could be called a translation.  Mr. Photiades’ proposal that the Commission  should begin by considering the resolutions, after  which it could turn its attention to the preambles,  was supported by ten delegations and adopted.  A. Education.
1. IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATION THROUGH EXCHANGE  OF INFORMATION.  Item A.1.  [15] Professor CALO (Italy) explained that his  delegation’s intention, in presenting the amend-  ment (document 5C/68), was to urge Unesco to            take advantage of the co-operation of all private  bodies.  [16] The CHAIRMAN considered that the resolu-  tion would be more appropriate in the Statement  of Methods (document 5C/5 (I) Rev., Part V), a  suggestion which Professor CALO (Italy) accepted.  Item A.1 was therefore adopted unchanged.”  Item A.11.  [17] In reply to a remark made by Dr. JAMALI  (Iraq), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that the  document before the meeting was a basic pro-  gramme for Unesco’s future action, and that all  financial matters would be discussed when the  Programme for 1957 came under review,  [18] On a point of order, Dr. STODDARD  (United States of America), supported by Shafik  GHORBAL Bey (Egypt), proposed that the Com-  mission should move directly from the general  statements in the Preamble and the Basic Pro-  gramme to the consideration of the corresponding  items in the 1951 Programme.  Mr. ABRAHAM (France) thought that Dr. Stod-  dard’s motion arose out of a confusion: the re-  solution read “promote by means of financial  aid”, but that did not imply any immediate alloca-  tion of funds. For the time being, only the  principle involved had to be discussed, and the  question would come before the Commission  again when it was a matter of implementing the  resolution.  The motion of the delegate of the United States  of America was rejected by 22 votes to 5.  [19] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) having enquired  whether the action contemplated under item A.11  did not overlap with that being carried out by  the International Bureau of Education, Professor  PIAGET (Switzerland) observed that the work of  the International Bureau of Education was fully  co-ordinated with that of Unesco; close collabora-  tion had been established between the organiza-  tions.  Item A.11 was adopted without change.?  Items A.12 to A.15.  Adopted without comment.®
2. EXTENSION OF EDUCATION.  Item A.2.  [20] Miss PARKINSON (United Kingdom) sug-  gested the following amendment: “develop edu-
1. In final form:
2. In final form:
3. In final form:  and A.15.     Resol. A.1l.  Resol. A.11.  Resol. A.12 to A.13, A.132, A.14
0  A CN   cational systems especially in the fields of fun-  damental education’. Adopted."  [21] Mrs. ROSS (Denmark) referred to the meet-  ing held in December 1949 at Unesco House in  connexion with the United Nations Commission  on the Status of Women and the discrimination  still exercised against them in some fields. She  stressed the extreme interest taken by women all  over the world in that part of Unesco’s Pro-  gramme, and asked the Secretariat to bear her  observations in mind when a resolution affecting  it was taken.  Items A.21 and A.2}.  [22] Miss PARKINSON (United Kingdom) pro-  posed that, in items A.21 and A.24, the words  “where appropriate, offer” should be replaced by  “make available on request to”. Adopted.?  Item A.211.  [23] Mr. LOURENCO-FILHO (Brazil) having  suggested the deletion of the words “the setting  up ‘of . centres”, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL  thought it preferable to amend the text to read  as follows: “encourage the training of staff and  the production of material for fundamental educa-  tion, and, in particular, the establishment of  centres to this end’. Adopted.”  Item A.22.  Adopted without discussion.‘  Item A.23.  [24] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) proposed the fol-  lowing amendment: ‘‘co-operate with universities,  colleges and other institutions of higher learning  in the various Member States’; Mr. ABRAHAM  (France) preferred: ‘Collaborate with universities  and educationists in general”. while Professor CA-  LO (Italy) requested the inclusion of scientific  institutions.  On the CHAIRMAN ’s proposal, the following text  was adopted: “Collaborate with universities,  scientific institutions and educationists in gen-  eral”.®  Item A.231.  [25] Various amendments to item A.231, pro-  posed respectively by ANAS Khan (Afghanistan),  Senator PECSON (Philippines), Mr. MASSAQUOI     (Liberia) and Dr. PLAZA (Venezuela), were  rejected.
1. In final form: Resol. A.2.
2. In final form: Resol. A.21 and A.24.
3. In final form: Resol. A.211.
4. In final form: Resol. A.22.
5. In final form: Resol. A.23.       At the CHAIRMAN'’s suggestion, the following  wording was adopted: “in the initiation of re-  search into the most appropriate methods of fun-  » 1  damental education’.  Item A.232.  Adopted without discussion.”  Item A.24.  Adopted without further change.’  Item A.25.  [26] Professor CALO (Italy) suggested the addi-  tion. after the word “improvement”, of “and the  more effective organization”.  That proposal was supported by Mr. LOURENÇO-  FILHO (Brazil), Mr. ABRAHAM (France), ANAS  Khan (Afghanistan), Professor VERNIERS (Bel-  gium), Mr. VERHOEVEN (Netherlands) and  Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) and adopted, subject  to revision by the Drafting Committee.*  Item A.26.  Adopted without discussion.’  Items A.27 to A.278.  [27] Dr. LAZERTE (Canada) asked to what  extent the activities under “Education for Han-  dicapped Children” were the concern of WHO  and the Department of Social Affairs of the United  Nations, and asked for an assurance that Unesco  would not be working in the same field.  [28] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that  Unesco and the other Specialized Agencies had  collaborated to very good purpose over the past     Resol. A.231.  Resol. A.232.  Resol. A.24.  Resol. A.25.  Resol. A.26.  In final form:  In final form:  In final form:  In final form:  In final form: Ot   Ws   QO   BD   =~   |  few months. Unesco’s Draft Programme had  been communicated to the various Specialized  Agencies, which had made no comment on that  particular point.  [29] Dr. PLAZA (Venezuela) was of the opinion  that the programme should be expanded to cover  normal children as well, and suggested the fol-  lowing sub-heading: “Education for Handicapped  and Normal Children”.  [30] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) thought  that the problem of maladjusted children was of  prime importance in connexion with education  for peace.  [31] There followed a discussion between  Mr. LOURENCO-FILHO (Brazil), Mr. PINEROS  CORPAS (Colombia), Miss PARKINSON (United  Kingdom), Professor CALO (Italy), Dr. TRON-  COSO SANCHEZ (Dominican Republic) and  Dr. PLAZA (Venezuela).  [32] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that  the whole chapter was thus at stake; he asked  Dr. Plaza to submit a resolution on the matter  at a later date if he so desired.  [33] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) considered it  desirable to keep to the heading as it stood, as  that proposed by Dr. Plaza would cover all types  of children and would be equivalent to “Educa-  tion of Children”.  It was decided, by 15 votes to 1, to maintain the  original heading (“Education for Handicapped  Children”).  [tems A.27 to A.273 inclusive were adopted by
18 votes to 2.”  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.
1. In final form: Resol. A.27 to A.273.