mentioned that this sum, which was less than  that in the Budget for 1950, was accounted for  by the fact that technical workers recruited out-  side for the maintenance of the building were paid  under this heading.  INDIRECT PERSONNEL Costs [II.F].  [25] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) was surprised  at the difference between the sum of $93,076 for  contributions to the Pensions Fund and Medical  Benefits in 1950 and that of $107,898 applied for  in 1951.  [26] Mr. WEITZ (Head of the Bureau of Ad-  ministrative Management and Budget) answered  TWENTY-FOURTH  that the figures for 1950 were only an estimate.  The final figures, which he thought would be  higher, could not be stated until after the end of  the financial year.  [27] Before closing the discussion of Part II,  the CHAIRMAN proposed that, in the final re-  port, it should be mentioned that the Budget  Committee had taken note of the problems of  securing co-ordination between the Archives, the  Library and the Registry, and that the Director-  General should be asked to report to the Sixth  Session on that matter.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 9.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. Sipney Porrock (Canada)  later: Dr. FF. BeNnnper (Netherlands)  Examination of the Budget (continued) [docu-  ment 5C/5 (1I)].
4. Cultural Activities.  PROGRAMME Costs [1II.4.A].  [1] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) again raised the  question of consultants, pointing out that in view  of the funds provided for consultants in the Office  of the Director-General, it should not be neces-  sary to make such provision in the Programme  Department also. In any case he felt that saving  might be achieved by including instead a smaller  amount for expert advice under Fees.  [2] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) explained that when the Director-  General desired advice on a matter affecting the  whole Organization, such as publications, funds  for this purpose were charged on the Budget of  his Office. However, it was often necessary for  Programme Departments to secure expert advice  on specific matters, and provision for this was  made in the budgets of the various Departments.  This particular case had been discussed at length  with the Executive Board and it had been agreed  that it would be necessary to seek expert advice
046  on several fields of the cultural activities Pro-  gramme, in particular, Arts and Letters.  [3] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) proposed the dele-  tion of the $3,100 requested for the advice of  consultants, since he felt this Department already  had a sufficiently large provision for securing the  advice of experts on a fee basis.  [4] This proposal was seconded by Sir Ronald  ADAM (United Kingdom) and Miss LAISE (United  States of America) who felt that this extra provi-  sion of $3,100 for consultants was really in the  nature of a contingency reserve.  [6] It was agreed to delete this item unless in  considering the budget of this Department, the  Secretariat were able to indicate a specific project  where the services of a consultant would be re-  quired beyond all doubt.  Unesco Library [III.4.B].  [6] The CHAIRMAN recalled that in its pre-  liminary discussions the Committee had concluded  that, in view of the expenditures in 1949 and 1950,  the sum provided for the purchase of books in
1951 could be reduced without handicapping pro-  gramme operations.                                     [77 Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) explained that it had been  estimated that four years would be required to  build up the basic needs of the Unesco Library  and that within a year it was hoped to reduce the  purchasing programme quite considerably. How-  ever, reference books and periodicals of the type  required by Unesco were expensive, and it was not  worth handicapping programme operations for the  sake of the small saving which could be effected  under this item.  [8] Replying to Sir Ronald ADAM (United King-  dom), Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) stated that, out  of the total of $15,000 requested for the purchase  of books, the sum of approximately $4,000 would  be devoted to the purchase of periodicals. Sir Ro-  nald ADAM proposed a reduction of $3,000 under  this heading.  [9] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sup-  ported this proposal, but suggested that, instead  of reducing the sum for the purchase of books,  the same amount should be taken off personnel  costs by suppressing the file index of the Library  of Congress and the corresponding post on the  Secretariat.  [10] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) explained that the Director-General  had reduced the personnel of the Unesco Library  to an absolute minimum and that it would be  dangerous to make further cuts here. The pro-  posal of Sir Ronald Adam was less dangerous,  although nevertheless regrettable.  After further discussion it was agreed to make  a general cut of $2,000 in the budget of the  Library, it being left to the Director-General to  decide how and where this cut should be applied.  PHirosopHy AND Humanistic Srupies [111.4.CJ.  Paragraphs I, II and III (page 171 and 172).  [11] The SECRETARY announced that there was  no change in the budgetary implications of para-  graph 1, altough the Programme and Budget Com-  mission had made certain alterations to resolutions
4.111-4.1115. As to paragraphs mm and mi, the  amendments implied no budgetary changes.  Paragraph IV (page 172).  [12] The SECRETARY stated that there had been  no change in resolutions 4.122 and 4.124.  [13] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) proposed a cut  of $2,000 out of the $4,000 provided for the pre-  paration of individual reports on the teaching of  philosophy, since several of the National Com-  missions could assist in carrying out this project.
547  After further discussion, this proposal, seconded  by Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), was  adopted.  Paragraph V (page 172).  [14] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) explained that the Programme  and Budget Commission had transferred the funds  provided under 4.123 and 4.124.  [16] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) felt it was un-  reasonable to expect the Budget Committee to  approve a sum for a publication whose size was  not known.  [16] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) explained that it was not possible  at the time for the Secretariat to give accurate  figures.  Paragraph VI (page 172).  | 17] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) explained that the Programme  and Budget Commission had combined resolutions
4.13 and 4.131 in an amended form. The re-  ference to planning an abridged version of the  Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind for  the use of secondary school teachers had been  deleted, since it was not considered that this work  could be carried out in 1951; hence a reduction of  $400 had been made in the cost of the project.  [18] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) having pointed  out that the Programme and Budget Commission  was out of order in amending a resolution without  first obtaining approval of the new estimates from  the Budget Committee, it was agreed that this  Was so.  ARTS AND LeTTERS [1I1.4.D(1)].  Paragraphs I and II (page 179).  [19] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) explained that under a draft re-  solution submitted by the United Kingdom, item
4.211 had been combined with 4.212 and amended.
4.211 had been maintained without budgetary  provision, resulting in a saving of $8,000. 4.213  had also been maintained without budgetary pro-  vision, resulting in a further saving of $2,000. A  new resolution, 4.2121, had been inserted, whereby  the $10,000 saved would be used to hold a seminar  and to publish the results. The Secretariat  estimated that roughly $5,000 would be spent on  the seminar (since the inviting country—the  United Kingdom—had undertaken to bear a large  part of the cost) and $5,000 on publication of  the results.        [20] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) felt that the Bud-  get Committee should state it had not had an  opportunity to examine the estimates for this  project. For himself he felt that the sum of $5,000  for publications was too high, and he would have  liked further information on the matter.
121] After discussion, it was agreed that the  United Kingdom delegation would re-examine the  cost of the seminar and that the Secretariat would  study the publication costs involved.  Paragraph III (page 179).  [22] Resolution 4.213 had been replaced by a  series of new resolutions, the estimates for which  were contained in CUA-12, which had been ap-  proved by the Committee.  Draft Final Report of the Committee:  No. 1 (continued).  Report  [23] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) stated that the  TWENTY-FIFTH  Drafting Committee had prepared the report con-  taining proposals for amending the Rules of Pro-  cedure, but no remarks had yet been made on the  general role of the Budget Committee and its  functions at a General Conference, since it was  felt that further discussion was required on this  subject.  [24] It was decided to pass on immediately to  the Procedure Committee the first part of the re-  port, requesting new Rules of Procedure stating  that: (1) the Budget Committee will meet one  week in advance of the opening of a General Con-  ference: and (2) new resolutions will be sub-  mitted by Member States two weeks before the  opening of a General Conference.  [25] The Drafting Committee would meet again  to consider the report on the functions of the  Budget Committee, which could be presented  later, since it would have no effect on the Rules of  Procedure.  The meeting rose at midnight.  MEETING  Tuesday, 13 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Constitution of a special committee (Com-  mittee of Eight).  [1] The CHAIRMAN informed the Committee of  the General Committee's decision to set up a spe-  cial committee composed of some members of the  Programme and Budget Commission and of the  Chairmen of the Administrative Commission, the  External Relations Commission and the Budget  Committee. The group, which would meet once  in the evening of the following day, would con-  sider the Budget Committee’s figures and recom-  mendations.  [2] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) suggested that the  Chairman should, at that meeting, urge a study  of the Programme and Budget in relation to the  human resources of the Secretariat, and the neces-  sity to reduce the present strain on the Organ-  Agreed. ization’s staff.  Dr. F. Benper (Netherlands)  Detailed examination of the Budget (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (II)].
4. Cultural Activities (continued).  ARTS AND LETTERS (continued) [III.4.D(1)].  Paragraphs I and II (continued) (page 179).  [3] The SECRETARY announced that the costs  of the new resolution 4.2121 would be $5,500  for the seminar itself, and $2,500 for publishing  the conclusions, which represented a saving of  $2,000 over the original estimate. Approved.  THEATRE AND Music.  Paragraph IV (including an amendment to resolu-  tion 4.2213).  [4] Approved without comment.