NINTH MEETING  Saturday, 27 May 1950, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman:  Examination of the Budget Estimates (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (II)].  General Policy (continued) [Part I].  GENERAL CONFERENCE (continued) [Part I].  [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Secre-  tariat would present the figures requested  regarding the economies which would result from  the reduction of the length of the Sixth Session of  the General Conference from three weeks to two.  [2] Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Plan-  ning) listed the following possible reductions in  the proposed expenditure:     Temporary Posts . $10,400  Official Travel . 2,500  Contractual Printing . 4,000  Rental of Premises. . . .' … . 1,500  Rental-of Official Cars . . . . . 700  Other Contractual Items. . . . . 800  Rental of Furniture, etc. 1,500  Total . . 821,400  [3] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether a  decision had been taken as to the number and  location of the rooms to be hired in connexion  with the holding of a General Conference in Paris.  [4] Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Plan-  ning) replied that, on the experience of the Fourth  Session, the Secretariat would suggest hiring the  Salle de l’Aéro-Club de France in the Avenue  Kléber. This room could be hired for the dura-  tion of the General Conference at a total cost of  $4 500.  General Administration [Part II].  CONFERENCE  [ILE].  PLANNING AND GENERAL SERVICES  [5] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) announced that  he had put written questions on this subject and  was awaiting replies from the Secretariat.  [6] In reply to Mr. WEEDEN (Australia), Mr.
005  Dr. F. Benner (Netherlands)  WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative Manage-  ment and Budget) explained that, at the moment,  the Archives Service was neither part of Registry  nor of the Library, but a separate unit. The  closest co-ordination was maintained between these  three services, and a survey was in process of  completion to decide what organizational adjust-  ments might be advisable in order to ensure the  maximum efficiency of these three services.  [7] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) felt  that, as the Archives unit supplied reference  services, it should more properly be combined with  the Library.  OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL [II.A].  [8] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  queried, as a matter of general principle which  recurred throughout the Budget, the sum of $750  requested for the replacement of personnel on sick  and annual leave in the Office of the Director-  General. Her delegation felt that it was normal  for an administration to absorb such leave without  the provision of extra personnel.
19] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) replied that, in a small  unit such as this, the absence of one person for a  few weeks might cause serious dislocation of work.  Past experience had shown that, whereas an extra  person was often necessary for a short period,  there was not sufficient work to justify an addi-  tional permanent post. However, when the  Organization had greater experience, it might be  found more economical to establish one or two  additional permanent posts in the typing pool to  cover all such emergencies throughout the Secre-  tariat.  [10] In reply to further questions, Mr. WEITZ  announced that the total sum requested in the  Budget Estimates for this item was $2,975.  [11] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) agreed that an  extra permanent post in the pool would be a more  efficient and, in the long run, more economical  method of dealing with this problem.  [12] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) said that his dele-  gation was concerned about another question of        general principle which recurred throughout the  budget. The various offices listed under Part Il  clearly fulfilled a number of distinct services, but  at the same time, many of their functions  appeared to overlap. He referred in particular to  possible overlapping in the fields of outside liaison  work (Office of the Director-General and External  Relations Service), travel on official business  (Office of the Director-General, External Relations  Service, Bureau of Conference Planning), and  financial investment and control and staff manage-  ment (Bureau of the Comptroller, Bureau of  Administrative Management and Budget, Bureau  of Personnel). In view of the small budget of the  Organization, it seemed that a large degree of co-  ordination and integration was necessary on the  administrative side.  [13] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  believed this was a difficult problem in view of  the nature and youth of international organiza-  tions; but he felt that greater efforts should be  made to avoid duplication of functions. For  example, the functional statement concerning the  Office of the Director-General (page 46) contained  the following sentence:  Its staff ensures that all matters coming before the  Director-General for attention are properly prepared  and that the decisions of the Director-General are duly  carried out.  It would therefore appear that certain high-grade  officials in the Office of the Director-General were  employed to supervise the work of programme  department Heads; this should be quite unneces-  sary.  [14] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) replied that the  wording of this statement was unfortunate and  rather misleading. The staff member in the  Office of the Director-General responsible for  ensuring that documents submitted to the  Director-General were properly prepared, actually  carried out liaison and “‘ clearing-house ” func-  tions to ensure proper and complete co-ordination  between the work of the many specialists in  different parts of the Organization.  [15] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked why the  Office of the Director-General should need the sum  of $2,100 for Consultants, since there should be  enough specialists on the staff of the Organization  to advise the Director-General on all matters of  policy.  [16] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that  there were nevertheless a number of points in the  programme and the administration upon which
006  the Director-General sometimes found it valuable  to secure outside advice.  [17] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  remarked that the amount provided for travel in  the Office of the Director-General seemed  excessive, especially since the Director-General and  his Deputy must, of necessity, spend a large  amount of time at the Paris headquarters.  [18] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that  the Director-General felt that personal visits to  Member States by himself and his Deputy were of  the greatest benefit to the Programme, and that  he intended to undertake the maximum number of  missions compatible with his duties in Paris.  BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET  MI.B].  [19] Professor SAMBURSK Y (Israel) raised again  the question of flexibility in the staffing of the  Organization in connexion with the sum of  $2,500 requested for temporary posts.  [20] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that it  was not possible to use personnel from other  departments, since the heavy work load in the  Bureau of Administrative Management and Budget  coincided with heavy work loads in all depart-  ments, i.e., immediately before sessions of the  General Conference and meetings of the Executive  Board.  BUREAU OF THE COMPTROLLER [II.C].  [21] In reply to Mr. GUIGNOLET (France),  Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) gave figures  indicating the increase in the work load of the  Bureau and explained that this increase was due  partly to the addition of several functions, such as  supervision of the Publications Revolving Fund,  and partly to the increasing rhythm of work in the  Organization. He also explained that it was not  always possible to carry out financial negotiations  with foreign banks by correspondence, and that a  certain amount of travel was necessary in this  respect. He confirmed that the system for the  payment of staff salaries was now a completely  mechanical process.  Bureau or Personner [I1.D].  [22] Replying to Mr. WEEDEN (Australia),  Mr. PYM (Head, Bureau of Personnel) confirmed  that the rate of recruitment was now fairly steady  and might be expected to diminish as more longer-  term contracts were established.
123] In reply to Professor FANTAPPIE (Italy),  Mr. PYM gave the following outline of procedure  followed for the recruitment of personnel:
(1) Personnel already on the staff of  Organization were considered first;
(2) All files received from Member States and  non-governmental organizations were checked for  suitable candidates:
(3) If time allowed, Member States  consulted and asked to propose candidates;
(4) In the case of the secretarial staff, trans-  lators and minute writers, selection was made on  the basis of tests and examinations.  [24] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) supported the  previous remarks of Miss Laise with regard to the  provision of funds for the replacement of person-  nel on sick leave. He felt that, especially in view  of the small amount requested, suitable arrange-  ments could be made to absorb this type of leave.  the  were  External Relations [Part III, Chapter 8].
125] Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt  that the reorganization of this Service showed a  great improvement over the previous year, but she  queried the necessity for such a large number of  personnel in the Division of Relations with Inter-  national Organizations, in view of the many  facilities (including large travel provisions)  already existing in the various programme  departments. In addition, the Office of the Di-  rector-General and the New York Office carried  quite large staffs specifically to deal with this  question. Miss Laise felt that this was a matter  in which there was great danger of overlapping.  [26] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) replied that the reorganization which had  taken place in the Bureau of External Relations  had resulted in simplification of procedures,  better co-ordination between the various units, and  general economies. He assured the Committee  that there was the utmost co-ordination and  integration of all departments in the question of  relations with international organizations, and  pointed out that the volume of liaison work with  the United Nations was increasing steadily as the  activities of the United Nations expanded. The  strengthening of the New York Office had resulted  in a large decrease in the amount requested for  travel (from $19,469 in 1950 to $4,800 in 1951)  and for the travel of delegates to conferences and  meetings (from $14,674 in 1950 to $8,000 in
1951).  [27] In reply to Sir Ronald ADAM (United  Kingdom), Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External  Relations Service) explained that Geneva was  becoming more and more the focal point for  international conferences, as it was the head-  quarters of so many international organizations.  It was difficult to suggest holding such confer-  ences in Paris, as Unesco was unique in being the  only Specialized Agency to have its headquarters  there.  [28] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) asked Mr. de  Blonay to prepare for the next meeting an  explanation of the exact functions of staff mem-  bers employed on liaison with the United Nations.  in the Regional Office in Latin America, and at  headquarters of the Division for Relations with  Governments and National Commissions.  [29] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) supported this  request and also the remarks of Miss Laise with  regard to overlapping in this field. He emphasized  that great care must be taken to avoid duplication  of functions between the Office of the Director-  General, the External Relations Service, the New  York Office, the various regional offices and the  programme departments.  Common Service Costs [Part IV].  [30] In reply to Mr. POLLOCK (Canada),  Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) explained that the pro-  vision of $5,400 for “contingencies” (page 311)  was made for the purchase of extra furniture to  accommodate temporary staff members, and that  the figure was based on the annual increase in  personnel of the Organization.  . The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.