of America), Mr. WEITZ added that it was the  policy of the Organization to maintain a six-  monthly stock of expendable supplies. A large  order was placed twice a year and small local  purchases were made as necessary.  Mr. Brunswick's proposal, seconded by Mr. POL-  LOCK (Canada), was adopted.  D. RENTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF EqQuip-  MENT.  [17] No comment.  E. STAFF WELFARE ACTIVITIES.  [18] Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) raised two  queries in this section: (1) The salary of $3,500  paid for the part-time services of a French  physician seemed extremely high in relation to the  normal remuneration of a doctor in Paris. (2)  The sum of $6,000 provided for the staff language  training scheme also seemed unreasonably high.  In view of Unesco’s limited budget, it might even  be considered as unnecessary and deleted alto-  gether.  [19] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) explained that  he could not say exactly on what terms the con-  tract with the Paris hospital responsible for pro-  viding the Unesco medical service had been fixed.  This contract, however, had resulted in a definite  improvement of the medical service which was  used extensively by staff members. As to the  language training programme, Mr. Weitz said  that all the classes were extremely well attended  by the staff, who also contributed to the cost. He  believed that this scheme was followed by other  Specialized Agencies.  [20] Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) said that he  would not insist on any reduction of the estimates  presented, but would propose (1) that the Secre-  tariat study the expenses of the medical services  before the next General Conference with a view  to proposing economies, and (2) that the staff  language training scheme be borne in mind as an  area where possible savings might be effected.  Agreed.  F. PERMANENT EQUIPMENT.  [21] Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt  that the estimate for the replacement of furniture  was extremely high.  [22] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) explained that  Unesco had insufficient experience in this matter,  since the Organization had no furniture at all  when it was first established. This estimate for  replacements had been made with great care, but  it might be possible to reduce the figure in future  years.  [23] Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) suggested that,  in order to indicate the feeling of the Committee  on this matter and since there was considerable  flexibility in the budget of this section, the aver-  age of $200 per unit replacement be reduced to  $175. Since 77 unit replacements were involved  this would mean a total reduction of $1,925.  Agreed.  G. MISCELLANEOUS COMMON Costs.  [24] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) suggested the  provisional adoption of these estimates as this was  a section in which reductions might be made at  a later stage if necessary. Agreed.  The meeting rose at midnight.  TWENTY-THIRD MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. F. Benner (Netherlands)  Sone Final Report of the Committee: Report
0. 1.  [1] The CHAIRMAN submitted to the Com-  mittee the draft report, which would form docu-
043  ment 5C/BUD/2. If the draft were approved, it  would have to be referred (1) to the Procedure  Committee, in view of the changes involved in  the Rules of Procedure of the Conference, and (2)  to the Nominations Committee, since it would be
7   T E   A  a  A  R E A   necessary to appoint the members of the Sixth  Session Budget Committee before the end of the  current session.  [2] The first three paragraphs, introducing  the report, were not completely satisfactory  to the whole Committee. Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia), Mr. POLLOCK (Canada), Miss LAISE  (United States of America) and Sir Ronald  ADAM (United Kingdom) felt that the draft  submitted to the Committee did not sufficient-  ly indicate the usefulness of the Budget Com-  mittee during the current session, nor did  it indicate the need for future sessions to make  provision for the establishment of a similar com-  mittee as one of the organs of the Conference.  Moreover, the second paragraph left in some doubt  the responsibility which was to be entrusted to the  Committee by the General Conference.  [3] It was decided that Mr. Pollock (Canada),  Miss Laise (United States of America) and  Mr. Brunswick (France) should redraft the intro-  duction.  Examination of the Budget (continued) [docu-  ment 5C/5 (II)].  Part I. General Policy.  GENERAL CONFERENCE [I.A].  [4] Dr. EVANS (Executive Board) observed that  it might be necessary to extend the Sixth Session  if the General Conference decided to hold its ses-  sions biennially in the future.  [5] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) thought it was  difficult to foresee at once what effects that deci-  sion would have on the presentation and examina-  tion of the budget. The time necessary for the  consideration of the budget would vary according  to the amount of detail included in its prepara-  tion.  [6] In reply to questions from Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia), Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference  Planning) stated that:
(1) If the duration of the Sixth Session were  limited to two weeks, there might be a reduction  of $21,600 in the corresponding budget;
(2) The amount of travelling expenses on offi-  cial business at the time of the Conference de-  pended on the date of the session, as the problems  of recruiting temporary staff were different in the  spring and autumn;
(3) The provision of $9,500 under the heading  of “Other Contractual Items” covered the fees of  the auditors, which had previously appeared in  Section I.B.  [7] At the request of Mr. GUIGNOLET (France),  Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Planning)  explained that 16 interpreters were required dur-  ing the Conference in order to comply with the  Rules of Procedure. As the Secretariat had only  five permanent interpreters, it was necessary to  recruit 11 temporary ones.  EXECUTIVE Boarp [1.B].  No comment.  Part II. General Administration.  [8] In reply to a question from Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia), Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Ad-  ministrative Management and Budget) explained  that the Administrative Commission's discussion  of general matters and, in particular, of the salary  and allowance system for the staff of the Secre-  tariat, had not resulted in definite recommenda-  tions which could be immediately expressed in  figures.  OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL [IL.A].  No comment.  BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT AND Bub-  GET [IL.B]-  [9] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked why the  Administrative officer (grade 10), for whom pro-  vision was made in the budget of the Department  of Mass Communication (page 217) was not  attached to the Bureau of Administrative Manage-  ment and Budget.
110] M. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) replied that the func-  tion of that official, like that of all the Admini-  strative officers attached to heads of departments,  was to ensure, within the department, that the re-  gulations concerning staff movements, travel on  official business, provision of material or services,  etc., were observed. Primary responsibility was  departmental. When the Budget was being pre-  pared, those officials co-operated particularly with  the Bureau of Administrative Management and  Budget in drawing up the budgets of their own  departments, but their contacts with other ad-  ministrative Bureaux were equally close. It was  therefore quite proper for them to be attached to  individual departments instead of to one or other  of those Bureaux.  BUREAU OF THE COMPTROLLER [II.C].  [11] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wished to know  whether the three new posts provided for in the                                         budget had already been filled; if not, he wond-  ered whether it would not be difficult to fill them,  in view of the Administrative Commission's deci-  sion to suspend the recruitment of “local” staff  until the new salary scales had been brought into  force.  [12] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) replied that  those posts, for which provision had been made  for 1951, would not be filled in 1950.  Bureau or PErsonnNEL [1I.D].  [13] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) remarked that  the experience acquired by the Secretariat in  earlier years was particularly noticeable in the ad-  ministrative services, the estimates being clearly  justified. He wished to point out, however, that  there might be some criticism if it was impos-  sible to make any savings in Part II. He wished  to know the Executive Board's opinion on the  matter.  [14] Dr. EVANS (Executive Board) explained  that the Board felt that the budgetary reduc-  tions made by the General Conference should  affect both the programme and the general ad-  ministration of the Organization, though not  necessarily in the same proportion. Part II could  be examined on its merits and justified or not.  When the hard core was reached, the necessary  amount must come from the programme.  [15] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the saving  due to the adoption of a local salary scale in 1951  for staff in the lower grades would also be spread  over Parts I and II of the Budget, particularly the  latter.  [16] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  stressed two points to which he had already drawn  the Committee’s attention at previous meetings:
(1) The fact that provision was made for re-  placing members of the permanent staff on sick  leave;
(2) The high proportion of secretaries in rela-  tion to the total numbers of the staff.  As the second point had already been con-  sidered [document 5C/BUD/1], he merely wished  to remind the Committee of it. With regard  to the first point, on the other hand, he suggested  that the sums budgeted for the payment of  temporary personnel for staff on leave should be  cut out ($750 in Part IT.A; $755 in Part IT.C, and  $830 in Part II.D). It was unusual to call in out-  side staff to take the place of officials on annual  Or sick leave. Such an arrangement was, in fact,  formally prohibited in the government service of  the United Kingdom and other countries.     D45  [17] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) explained that  the reason for temporary replacements for sick  leave was the special nature of the work done by  the Bureau of the Comptroller and the Bureau  of Personnel, which could not be delayed in any  way without involving serious complications in  the machinery of the Organization.  [18] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  thought that the difficulty might be overcome by  calling on the services of staff lent by depart-  ments or bureaux.  [19] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) added that it  would take no longer to train such staff for the  special work of the administrative bureaux than  to train people recruited outside.  [20] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) pointed out  that, while the administrative bureaux were over-  worked, the Programme Departments also had  to cope with a very heavy load of work, and it  would be extremely difficult for them to spare  any staff.  [21] Dr. EVANS (Executive Board) stated that  the Board would not be in favour of the idea of  transferring staff normally employed on the execu-  tion of the programme to general administration.  [22] In reply to a question from Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia), Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Ad-  ministrative Management and Budget) mentioned  that the staff’s output had increased considerably  in the last few years, instancing the case of the  Bureau of the Comptroller, which was coping  with a very much increased volume of work with  the same number of officials. The high output  was, however, necessarily accompanied by over-  strain, which resulted in many periods of sick  leave. This question, which was causing the  Director-General serious concern, had already  been brought to the attention of the General Con-  ference by several members of the Executive Board  and by Professor Piaget.  [23] The proposal made by Sir Ronald ADAM  (United Kingdom) that the sum of $2,335 for re-  placing staff on sick leave should be struck out,  was seconded by Mr. WEEDEN (Australia), and  adopted.  (GENERAL BUREAU OF CONFERENCE PLANNING AND  Services [I.E].  [24] In reply to a question from Mr. GUIGNO-  LET (France) regarding the sum of $12,000  provided for the payment of overtime,  Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Planning)             mentioned that this sum, which was less than  that in the Budget for 1950, was accounted for  by the fact that technical workers recruited out-  side for the maintenance of the building were paid  under this heading.  INDIRECT PERSONNEL Costs [II.F].  [25] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) was surprised  at the difference between the sum of $93,076 for  contributions to the Pensions Fund and Medical  Benefits in 1950 and that of $107,898 applied for  in 1951.  [26] Mr. WEITZ (Head of the Bureau of Ad-  ministrative Management and Budget) answered  TWENTY-FOURTH  that the figures for 1950 were only an estimate.  The final figures, which he thought would be  higher, could not be stated until after the end of  the financial year.  [27] Before closing the discussion of Part II,  the CHAIRMAN proposed that, in the final re-  port, it should be mentioned that the Budget  Committee had taken note of the problems of  securing co-ordination between the Archives, the  Library and the Registry, and that the Director-  General should be asked to report to the Sixth  Session on that matter.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 9.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. Sipney Porrock (Canada)  later: Dr. FF. BeNnnper (Netherlands)  Examination of the Budget (continued) [docu-  ment 5C/5 (1I)].
4. Cultural Activities.  PROGRAMME Costs [1II.4.A].  [1] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) again raised the  question of consultants, pointing out that in view  of the funds provided for consultants in the Office  of the Director-General, it should not be neces-  sary to make such provision in the Programme  Department also. In any case he felt that saving  might be achieved by including instead a smaller  amount for expert advice under Fees.  [2] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) explained that when the Director-  General desired advice on a matter affecting the  whole Organization, such as publications, funds  for this purpose were charged on the Budget of  his Office. However, it was often necessary for  Programme Departments to secure expert advice  on specific matters, and provision for this was  made in the budgets of the various Departments.  This particular case had been discussed at length  with the Executive Board and it had been agreed  that it would be necessary to seek expert advice
046  on several fields of the cultural activities Pro-  gramme, in particular, Arts and Letters.  [3] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) proposed the dele-  tion of the $3,100 requested for the advice of  consultants, since he felt this Department already  had a sufficiently large provision for securing the  advice of experts on a fee basis.  [4] This proposal was seconded by Sir Ronald  ADAM (United Kingdom) and Miss LAISE (United  States of America) who felt that this extra provi-  sion of $3,100 for consultants was really in the  nature of a contingency reserve.  [6] It was agreed to delete this item unless in  considering the budget of this Department, the  Secretariat were able to indicate a specific project  where the services of a consultant would be re-  quired beyond all doubt.  Unesco Library [III.4.B].  [6] The CHAIRMAN recalled that in its pre-  liminary discussions the Committee had concluded  that, in view of the expenditures in 1949 and 1950,  the sum provided for the purchase of books in
1951 could be reduced without handicapping pro-  gramme operations.