of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the  contributions due from it for the last financial year.  Thus a State which had paid nothing in respect  of 1949 could not take part in the General Confer-  ence of 1950. That did not seem to be an over-  heavy sanction, and it could be applied even if  the General Conference’s sessions were to be made  biennial.  Finally, as regards the present Session of the  General Conference, had some States made a token  payment for 1948 only in order to have the right  to vote?  [26] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL con-  firmed that, at present, a token payment on  account of an unpaid 1948 contribution would  secure the country’s right to vote at the Florence  Session of the General Conference.  [27] Dr. WALKER (Australia), representative  of the Executive Board, stressed that the Board  suggested that, if a State had any outstanding  amount for the preceding two years, certain  sanctions, to be decided by the Conference, would  be applicable to it automatically.  The CHAIRMAN held that the question was so  complex that it was better to refer it to the Sub-  Committee.  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) agreed  with the Chairman and withdrew his resolution.  SECOND  [28] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada), supported by  Dr. WEN Yuan-Ning (China), emphasized that  two entirely separate issues should be considered:
(1) arrears when the Member State was obviously  unable to pay, and (2) those due to unwillingness  only. In his opinion the first case could not be  settled by the General Conference without further  preliminary study of the question; in the second,  sanctions should be automatic.  [29] Mr. de VILLIERS (Union of South Africa)  wondered who could decide between inability and  unwillingness. In his opinion, the principle of  sanctions should be clear, the sanctions should be  adequate and, in order to avoid discrimination,  they should be universally applied.  [30] It was decided to set up a Sub-Committee  composed of the delegates of Australia, Canada,  Denmark, the United States of America, France,  Lebanon, the Philippines, the United Kingdom  and Venezuela.  The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Sub-  Committee should also examine resolutions
20.2551 (“that no surplus shall be declared when  in fact the book surplus has not been realized in  cash”) and 20.2552 (Application of Regulation 25  under those circumstances).  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 29 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara CHanp (India)  Member States whose contributions are in  arrears (continued).  Distribution of book surpluses which have not been  received in cash and application of Financial Regula-  tions 25 and 26 in these circumstances [document  oG/AM/5, part (c)].  [1] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL ex-  plained that the problem involved was twofold  (surpluses and deficits): although both aspects  were closely related, he felt they were better dealt  with separately.  ERLE ml AT
613  The question of a book surplus revolved around  Financial Regulations 25 and 26. The book sur-  plus was the difference between the anticipated  income of the Organization (according to the scale  of contributions and the total budget voted by the  General Conference) and the actual obligations  incurred during the financial year. The problem  facing the Organization arose from the existence  of arrears of contributions from certain Member  States. On the basis of Financial Regulations 25  and 26, the Organization had declared a surplus  for the years 1947, 1948 and 1949; but this was  only a book surplus and did not exist in actual  fact.        [2] There were two principles to be decided  by the General Conference:
(1) That in future no book surplus should be  declared before a real surplus existed for any given  vear (the Director-General, the Auditors and the  Executive Board were agreed on this point);
(2) That no surplus should be declared for any  year if a net (accumulated) deficit still existed  in the Organization (the Executive Board did not  agree with the Director-General and the Auditors  on this point, and was recommending the sur-  render of the surplus for 1947).  [3] On the question of deficits, the Deputy  Director-General felt it would be clearer to distin-  guish between the existing deficits for 1947, 1948  and 1949, the probable deficit for 1950, and the  possibility of a deficit in 1951. Owing to devalu-  ation and other circumstances favourable to the  Organization, the total deficit for 1947, 1948 and
1949 was only in the neighbourhood of half a  million dollars, and this could be carried in the  Working Capital Fund on the assumption that  Member States would bring their contributions  up to date and that this deficit would not increase  in future years. However, the position with regard  to 1950 and 1951 could not be foretold and would  depend entirely on the extent to which contribu-  tions and arrears were paid.  [4] The Deputy Director-General emphasized the  necessity for a decision by the General Conference  as to whether the Director-General was to assume  that all arrears and future contributions would be  paid or, if not, whether the resulting deficit was  to be made up from another source. The Director-  General did not believe the General Conference  should reduce the budget for 1950 below the level  voted at the Fourth Session, simply because some  of the anticipated contributions might not be paid.  When the General Conference in Paris, being in  possession of the full facts regarding arrears, voted  a budget figure together with a scale of contri-  butions for the year 1950, the Director-General  could only carry out his mandate to implement  the programme to the full extent of the budget.  A decision of the General Conference now to  reduce the figure voted for 1950 would result in  checking the development and growth of the  Organization.  [6] With regard to 1951, the Director-General  joined with the Executive Board in suggesting two  possible courses of action:
(1) A supplementary assessment on Member  States to ensure the effective collection of the whole  budget;
(2) The assessment of a deposit from all Mem-  ber States to the Working Capital Fund to enable  the Director-General to draw on this Fund to  make up the total budget figure. This extra deposit  could be reimbursed to all Member States as soon  as a net surplus could be declared.  [6] The suggestion had been made that the  General Conference might vote a programme and a  budget, and then request the Director-General to  adjust expenditure in order to remain within the  total income actually received. The Director-  General felt however that, if the General Confer-  ence decided that certain exceptional circumstances  justified non-payment of contributions, it should  also provide special funds to replace the resulting  deficit in the budget voted. Any attempt by the  Director-General to adjust the budget voted to the  actual contributions received would result in a  series of complications. The following facts had  to be taken into consideration:
(1) A large proportion of the Programme  resolutions were continuing activities representing  a normal development of projects begun in 1947,
1948 or 1949; such projects could not be arrested  temporarily and restarted when funds became  available;
(2) The planning of the actual programme was  done on an extremely long-term basis and it  was quite impossible to plan in a realistic manner  if future contributions were not to be depended  upon;
(3) A substantial part of the budget was  devoted to personnel costs; it had been suggested  that such costs were too high and should be  reduced, but the very nature of the Organization  required a large staff and these costs could neither  be reduced nor temporarily arrested;
(4) Ten per cent to 15 per cent of the total  budget being devoted to interests outside Unesco,  i.e., contratcts with other Organizations, participa-  tion in Seminars and assistance to Member States,  the Director-General was required to make com-  mitments on behalf of the Organization quite a  long time in advance of the time at which action  would be taken; it was essential that the Director-  General should know to what extent he could make  such commitments:
(5) Temporary reductions could not be made  in the central administrative costs of the Organ-  ization: the activities of the Bureaux of the  Comptroller, of Administrative Management and  Budget, of Conference Planning and General Ser-  vices, for instance, could not be closed down  temporarily.  [7] In view of those facts, any reductions in  expenditure the Director-General might be obliged  to make owing to the non-payment of contributions  would fall entirely on certain sections of the pro-  gramme. This, of course, was most undesirable.  The Director-General therefore sought the deci-  sion of the General Conference regarding not only
614                        the size of the Programme and the budget for
1950 and 1951, but also regarding the means  whereby collection of the total budget figure was  to be assured.  [8] The CHAIRMAN said that there appeared to  be two main problems:  (a) The immediate problem of the arrears for
1947, 1948 and 1949—bearing in mind the recom-  mendation of the Director-General and the Audi-  tors, and that of the Executive Board;  (b) The problem of how probable future defi-  cits should be met.  He proposed that the Commission should  adjourn while the sub-committee established at  the morning meeting met to consider those prob-  lems.  The meeting rose at 5 p.m.  THIRD MEETING  Tuesday, 30 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara CAND (India)  Scale of Contributions of Member States  for 1951 [document 5C/ADM/3].  [1] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) intro-  duced document 5C/ADM/3 and drew attention to  its third paragraph and to the formula in page 2,  according to which the contributions of the  Member States were computed. A document was  In course of preparation, giving an illustration of  how the formula would affect the contributions  aîter the new Members had been assessed.  [2] Mr. SMITH (Australia) stated that his delega-  tion was in agreement with the proposed formula.  He asked, however, on what basis special percen-  tages had been granted to certain States.  [3] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) ex-  plained that the contribution of Austria had been  reduced from 0.26 per cent to 0.12 per cent, and  that of Hungary from 0.28 per cent to 0.15 per  cent, at the special request of those two countries.  [4] Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) asked  whether those reductions meant that Austria’s and  Hungary’s ability to pay was less than anticipated.  [5] Professor PHOTIADES (Greece) pointed out  that this question had been studied during the  Second Session of the General Conference; it  would be well to ascertain the origin of these  differences in treatment and correct the position.  It was agreed to postpone the discussion of this  item until the information requested by the Com-  mission was available.  Currency of Contributions by Member States  |document 5C/ADM/4].  [6] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) ex-  plained that, up to the Fourth Session of the  General Conference, each country had paid its  entire contribution in a given currency. The ques-  tion had now arisen whether certain countries  should pay in hard currency and the others con-  tinue to pay in a soft one. The document contained  two suggestions:
(1) That the present practice be continued, or
(2) That every Member State be asked to pay  part of its contribution in hard currency.  The computation of the Organization’s hard cur-  rency requirements could be found on page 2 of  document 5C/ADM/4; the total figure was 47,6 per  cent (including a safety margin of 5 per cent and
5.6 per cent for the Book Coupon Scheme), leaving
52.4 per cent for soft currency. The States whose  contribution still remained to be assessed were  Yugoslavia, Costa Rica, Korea, Hashemite Jordan  and Indonesia.  [7] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wanted to empha-  size that Unesco was not the only organization  receiving contributions partly in hard and partly  in soft currency, as a result of its headquarters  being in a so-called soft currency country. The  position was similar in the case of OEEC (whose  headquarters were also in France), the currency  in which contributions were paid varying with the  country making the payment. Nor apparently was  soft-currency expenditure evenly spread over all  member countries of the United Nations; thus