FOURTH MEETING  Thursday, 25 May 1950, at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. F. BenpEr (Netherlands)  Constitution of a Drafting Committee.  [1] The CHAIRMAN suggested that Sir Ronald  Adam (United Kingdom), Mr. Sedar Senghor  (France) and the officers of the Committee should  form a drafting committee which could begin work  that evening on its interim report. Agreed.  Examination of the Budget Estimates (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (II)].  Social Sciences (continued) [Part III, Chapter 3].  STUDIES oF INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION [III.3.D].  [2] Mr. KIRPAL (India) asked why the various  consultants mentioned in sections II and IV, on  pages 156 and 157, should be drawn from North  America and Western Europe.  [3] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) explained that the very spe-  cialized studies envisaged required personnel with  a very particular kind of training, which at present  was available only in those areas.  [4] Mr. KIRPAL (India) did not think such a  selection should be settled in advance.
15] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) said that, in an attempt  to make the best possible estimate of costs, it had  been necessary to choose the geographical area  from which the consultants were likely to come.
16] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  hoped the Secretariat would in future try to avoid  the implication that experts could not be found  elsewhere than in the areas listed.  | 7] Professor FANTAPPIE (Italy) wondered why  the World Federation of United Nations Associa-  tions received no subvention in 1951. It had  organized five two-week seminars and one six-week  seminar with 590 participants at a cost of $10,700  of Unesco’s money, whereas Unesco’s one seminar  with 82 participants from 32 countries had cost  $55,000. This showed that independent organiza-  tions did more work for less money and should be  encouraged by grants.  [8] The CHAIRMAN thought the question was  one for the Programme and Budget Commission  to consider.
19] Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) agreed with  resolutions 3.31 and 3.32, but he did not see the  necessity for the two expert meetings—of eight and  ten members respectively—when Unesco’s three  specialists could formulate the plans themselves.  [10] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) pointed out that there would be  only two Programme Specialists in 1951. The  studies described in 3.31 and 3.32 were most  important and it was felt that the best possible  advice was indispensable.  [11] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia), referring to  section 1V on page 157, asked for information as  to the difference between Consultants ($6,300)  and Fees ($2,400).  [12] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administra-  tive Management and Budget) stated that the rules  and regulations of the Organization were re-  sponsible for this difference; the first item  covered the $20, $35 or $50 a day which con-  sultants received: the second item was for extreme-  ly junior membres of the teams who were given  a flat bilateral contract on a fixed monthly basis.  [13] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) wished to draw a  distinction between the programme and the bud-  getary aspects of the question. A great deal of  work, by the Carnegie Foundation, the Associa-  tion for Economic Planning and the United Nations  was going on in that field, and he hoped their  work would be taken into account by the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission.  [14] Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) asked if the  Travel expenses mentioned in section II and IV, of  $900 and $700 respectively, could not be reduced  by sending one person instead of two. He also  wished to know if the other Specialized Agencies  participated in the work envisaged under resolu:  tions 3.33 and 3.34.
488                                                  [15] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) said that Dr. Sharp was in  closest touch with all the other Specialized Agen-  cies and the UN, as well as with the non-  governmental organizations working in that field.  The meetings and travel were budgeted separately,  but, if it was found possible to merge them, the  suggested saving would be realized. Unesco was  the only Agency with a Social Science Department,  and the other Agencies looked to it for that kind  of work.  [16] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) was concerned at  the disproportion between the permanent per-  sonnel costs of the Department (about $110,000)  and the sums for fees, consultants and contracts  (over $145,000).
117] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administra-  tive Management and Budget) pointed out that the  approximate percentage of funds for personnel  services was 55 per cent in Social Sciences, 47 per  cent in Natural Sciences, 53 per cent in Educa-  tion and 57 per cent in Cultural Activities.  [18] Dr. ANGELL (Acting Director, Department  of Social Sciences) stressed that a great deal of  Social Science work was farmed out because it was  practically impossible to do all the research  required at headquarters. The comparatively small  staff of the Department was able to examine, ana-  lyse and co-ordinate the work done outside because  it worked hard. Finally, in the last three years,  the Department had built up all over the world  groups of friends who helped and advised, and  formed a sort of additional staff.  [19] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) asked if the  Secretariat could supply the Committee with a  written statement of ICSU’S accounts.  Cultural Activities [Part III, Chapter 4].  PROGRAMME Costs [II1.4.A].
120] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked for written information concerning the hos-  pitality standards referred to in the last two lines  ON page 164.  Unesco LiBRARY [111.4.B.]  [21] In reply to Mr. WEEDEN (Australia),  Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) stated that the Beirut Conference had  decided on the creation of an historian’s post to  ensure the collection of all the documentation  about General Conferences and Executive Board  decisions.
489  [22] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of the  Netherlands, expressed the view that the sum of  $15,000 for the purchase of books seemed large.  [23] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) agreed that books could often  be borrowed in Paris; but many of them, essen-  tial for the daily work of the Organization, had  to be purchased by Unesco because they were  constantly needed by the various departments. Last  year, the library had acquired 4,532 books and
1,258 periodicals.  [24] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) having asked the  Secretariat for a statement showing the sums spent  on the purchase of books by the different depart-  ments, Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administra-  tive Management and Budget) pointed out that all  the relevant figures could be found on pages 318  and 319 of document 5C/5 (II).  PuirosopHy AND Humanistic Stupies [111.4.C].  [25] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  thought the International Co-operation Section  seemed to do the work for which grants-in-aid were  usually given. He asked for more information  concerning the work of the Head of the Division  and pointed out the high proportion of clerical  staff in the composition of the Division.  [26] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) was  sure money could be saved by increasing the grant  to the CIPSH (International Council for Philo-  sophy and Humanistic Studies) and leaving it  to do all the work outlined in resolution 4.11.  [27] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) reminded the Committee that  CIPSH was only fifteen months old. It was  developing extremely well, but had not attained full  growth and could not yet deal with all the requests  il received; these had to be sifted by Unesco,  which also had to consider the questions of grants  and publications. The grade 10 Programme Assis-  tant was really the permanent secretary of CIPSH  whose other staff was entirely voluntary. The grade
14 Specialist was more particularly in charge of  technical negotiations, while the Head of the  Division looked after the orientation of inter-  national studies and all other questions, and  advised CIPSH on many problems including the  choice of new members. Some tasks were left to  CIPSH because it was already able to undertake  them, but others were the Secretariat's own  responsibility by decision of the Conference itself.  [28] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  thought the tasks in resolutions 4.122, 4.123 and
4.124—all international questions—could be    carried out by CIPSH or by the National Com-  Missions.  [29] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  asked whether it was a sound policy to have  CIPSH’S permanent secretary on Unesco’s budget.  [30] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) agreed with  Sir Ronald Adam and Mr. Roseman. The period  of nursing and nurturing of an international  organization should be as brief as possible.  [31] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Adminis-  trative Management and Budget) explained that,  for the first years of the life of a new organization,  it was indispensable that Unesco should assist  it directly in its daily work. It was the Director-  General's intention that this period should be as  short as possible. He pointed out, in connexion  with paragraphs mm and mr (pages 171 and 172),  that the General Conference decisions, which were  being discussed by the Official and External  Relations Commission, gave no criteria as to the  character and duration of that assistance.  [32] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained in connexion with  resolutions 4.123 and 4.124 that it was intended to  enlist the help of the International Federation for  Philosophical Sciences. The National Commissions  would be asked to help in selecting the people to  be invited to participate in the symposium. Tech-  nical international surveys could be entrusted to  an international organization, but not the more  general ones which needed the Member States’  collaboration. In passing, he explained that  National Commissions were not mentioned in the  Work Plan because consulting them was one of  the standard working methods of the Secretariat.  [33] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) pointed  out that the sums for “consultants” and ‘“‘travel”  could be saved if the work was entrusted to a non-  governmental organization.  [34] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) assured him that National  Commissions would be asked for much more than  help in the selection of participants in the sym-  posium.  [35] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) thought ‘travel  on official business’ was always Secretariat travel.  [36] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administra-  tive Management and Budget) explained that  consultants always received their travel expenses,  unless locally recruited.  [37] Referring to paragraph 1v (page 172),  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) stressed that the project
490  under resolution 4.122 was quite simple and could  be referred to the National Commissions. The only  fee needed was a small one for the consolidation  of their reports.  [38] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) emphasized that the proposed  plan was based on two years’ experience. 4.122  was a very complex question, and it was hoped  that the National Commissions would help; but  really valuable collaboration could not be secured  without some financial compensation: the $4,000  were intended to cover about twenty fees of  $200 each.
139] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) held that 4.122  was not an individual but a team job: the appro-  priate National Commission could assemble the  teams which would cover the three points of the  resolution.  [40] Mr. KIRPAL (India) thought the Work Plan  rather vague and unsubstantial. He associated  himself with the previous speakers. He wished to  know how many conferences and meetings would  be necessary to prepare the symposium referred to  in paragraph mr (page 172), and what was the  meaning of “oriental studies’ in Resolution 4.1112.  [41] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that the plural in the  brackets in paragraph mr was an administrative  practice. In reply to Mr. Kirpal, he said that  Unesco wished to group in a permanent federation  the many existing associations for oriental studies  whose next Congress would be held at Istambul  in 1951.  [42] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) wished  to know how, at the initial stage of the work, the  Organization would spend the $33,400 mentioned  in paragraph vi.  [43] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) pointed out that the project  voted in Mexico, and discussed at Beirut and Paris,  was fairly advanced. Its plan was prepared in  December 1949 and the comments of ten National  Commissions and those of others had been  received. If the Conference approved the plan,  money would be needed in 1951 for the creation  of an international steering committee and for fees  for contributions to the first volume of the History.  [44] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  emphasized once again that he would prefer the  $4,410 for the post of permanent secretary to the  CIPSH to be carried by the regular Unesco budget.  ArTs AND LETTERS (III.4.D).  [45] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) asked                                       if the articles envisaged in paragraph 1 on page 179  could not be inserted in the International Arts  Review, or the Courier, to avoid more publications.  [46] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) was of the opi-  nion that the National Commissions could contri-  bute those articles without fees.  [47] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) recalled that the first two num-  bers of the Bulletin had already appeared. It was  thought that such very specialized material should  be published separately and not in the rather  popular International Arts Review . Material from  the National Commissions had been received and  published, but some technical articles ought to be  contributed by specialists who had to be  remunerated.  [48] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) thought the cost  of transportation and repairs of the exhibition  mentioned in paragraph 1, page 179, could be  covered by the recipient States.  [49] In reply to Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France),  Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) explained that the $1,000 for Other  Contractual Items (paragraph 11, page 179) was  intended to meet the assembling and packing of  the materials sent by the different countries.  [60] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of the  Netherlands and referring to paragraph xi on  page 180, asked if the round trip of a Unesco  official to the United States could not be econ-  omized by making the New York Office do the  work.  [61] In reply to Mr. WEEDEN (Australia),  Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) stated that the International Arts  Review’s budget for 1950 was $7,500 for fees and  $3,000 for contributions, for two numbers only.  The figures were actually slightly reduced by  devaluation. He reminded the Committee that the  project was conceived as an asset of the Organ-  ization and not as item of expenditure; the three  European editions of 10,000 copies each, published  in London, Paris and Zürich, and the 120,000 cop-  les printed in the United States of America—of
491  which the total figure should reach 300,000 copies  after one vear—should, according to expert estima-  tion, produce $60,000 in royalties.  [62] Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) was glad to  note that the Department of Cultural Activities was  able to contribute to Unesco’s finances. On the  other hand, he was of the opinion that the varied  sums listed in paragraph vir (page 180) for cata-  logues were excessive.  [63] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) stated that the Mozart and folk  music catalogues could not be produced more  cheaply. Their publication was entrusted to a  private firm, but long and fairly expensive pre-  parations had been needed. The catalogues should  sell as well as that on Chopin, and therefore also  produce some royalties.  [64] Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) asked if  some of the money collected in the Publications  Revolving Fund would be used for the 1951  budget.  [66] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administra-  tive Management and Budget) explained that the  Publications Revolving Fund was set up outside the  budget and not included in the organization's  accounts. The Director-General reported twice  annually as to the deposits to, and withdrawals  from, the Fund. It was a little early to decide  whether some of its assets could be used for  Programme activities.  [66] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) was glad to learn  that the International Arts Review was self-  supporting. He asked for information on the  position with regard to reproductions and to  Museum.  [57] Mr. ROSEMAN (United States of America)  was concerned at the diffusion of responsibility in  connexion with exhibitions and asked the Secre-  tariat for some information on the matter.  [58] The Committee decided to hear the Secre-  tariat’s replies after the lunch recess.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.