[28] As an amendment had been made to resolu-  tion 7.35, deleting the proposal for the estab-  lishment of an International Relief Council,  Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) seconded  by Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) proposed that the  sum of $1,840 set aside for that activity be can-  celled. Agreed.  Paragraph IV (page 255).  [29] No comments.  [30] Mr. KAYSER (France) announced that the  French delegation had considered the Report on  the Effectiveness of the Reconstruction Pro-  gramme, 1947, 1948 and 1949 and had found it  highly satisfactory. It commended the report to  [he Committee's attention, as it proved that the  funds had been wisely managed.  The CHAIRMAN noted that statement.  [31] Mr. BARGER (Reconstruction Service)  announced that resolution 7.32 had just been  amended on the basis of a proposal regarding re-  fugee intellectuals, presented by the delegation  of the United States of America, and it was there-  fore decided to consider that resolution, which had  substantial budgetary implications, at a later  meeting.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  TWENTY-SEVENTH MEETING  Wednesday, 14 June 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. F. BeEnpEr (Netherlands)  Detailed examination of the Budget (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (II)].
7. Relief Assistance Services (continued).  INTERNATIONAL VOLUNTARY Work Camps [III.7.C].  Paragraph 1 (page 258).  [1] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) indicated that  as resolution 7.41 had just been shifted to the  Education chapter, it had not been possible at
24 hours’ notice to examine the effects of this  transfer.  [2] In reply to Sir Ronald ADAM (United King-  dom), Dr. DRZEWIESKI (Head, Relief Assistance  Services) explained that, during the winter, the  camp libraries became travelling lending libraries,  and were thus ready for the following year’s  camps.  Paragraph 1 was approved.  Paragraphs II and III (pages 258 and 259).  [3] Approved without comment.  INFORMATION ON NEEDS, DIRECT ASSISTANCE AND  VOLUNTARY ASSISTANCE CAMPAIGNS (continued) [III.
7.B].  [4] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) referred to the
000  amendment to resolution 7.32, proposed by the  United States of America, concerning the exten-  sion of direct assistance to all intellectual refugees.  [6] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Administrative  Management and Budget) warned the Committee  that the amendment might have grave budgetary  implications of unknown extent.  [6] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) formally proposed  informing the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion that the amendment was not sufficiently clear  and that budgetary implications might be either  slight or very considerable; further, that the Com-  mittee was concerned at the possibility of adding  to the Secretariat's administrative burden. Agreed.  TOTAL TRAVEL COSTS FOR RELIEF ASSISTANCE  SERVICES.  [7] The total sums requested for Travel on  Official Business (pages 248, 2563 and 257) were  approved.
8. External Relations Service.  HEADQUARTERS [ITI.8.A (1)].  [8] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  thought the Committee should express its general      feeling that the External Relations Service was  too large.  [9] Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) held that  this very important service was not too large for  the world-wide work it was expected to do. It  should be remembered that the rules for corre-  spondence with Member States were not yet  standardized. If it was to ensure the smooth  working of the Organization and to harmonize its  liaison not only with Member States, but with  National Commissions, with the other Specialized  Agencies and non-governmental organizations, the  External Relations Service had a very heavy task  to perform.  [10] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the question  had been raised whether some of the work of the  External Relations Service could not be done by  the Departments themselves.  [11] Professor FANTAPPIE (Italy)  the view of the delegate for France.  [12] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) agreed with  the delegates for France and Italy, and pointed out  that the development of the External Relations  Service was justified by experience and results.  [13] Mr. SMITH (Australia) stressed that he was  not questioning the great importance of the  Service; but he did not think that liaison and co-  ordination work of that kind should have so large  a budget.  [14] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) agreed with  Mr. Smith. He would not disagree with what the  delegate of France had said: the size, not the  justification, of the External Relations Service was  the question before the Committee.  [15] Professor SAMBURSKY (Israel) associated  himself with the two previous speakers. In his  opinion many functions of the Service could be  decentralized without any harm to the Organiza-  tion. In addition, he was concerned about the  large number of high-grade officials (grades 14  and above) in the Service; there was no unit in  the Secretariat with more officers of that rank.  [16] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  agreed that the co-ordination functions of the  External Relations Service were a heavy and im-  portant task, but she felt sure that some reduction  in its budget was possible.  [17] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) was not  opposed to certain specific reductions, but only to  general criticism of the size of the Service.  [18] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) pointed out that the integration of ser-  vices and the reduction of appropriation for the  supported  Li  J 06  External Relations Service were the result of the  views expressed at the last General Conference.  He stressed that some functions should be dis-  sociated: Liaison with Germany and Japan (III.
8.B) for instance, was in fact a programme  activity, while the Legal Division (III.8.D) was  responsible for the study of all legal questions  raised within the entire Organization. He drew  the Committee’s attention to the fact that the  appropriation of the Service amounted to 8.5 per  cent of the 1949 budget, to 11.2 per cent of the
1950 budget, and to only 9.8 per cent of the total
1951 budget. The four regional units listed on  page 262 were indispensable to ensure and stimu-  lute the normal development of National Com-  missions, and they required very specialized staff.  The Field Services could function only through  the presence at headquarters of a competent  personnel to co-ordinate their activities with those  of the Organization itself. Liaison and co-ordina-  tion with the United Nations and Specialized  Agencies was absolutely essential, and the person-  nel of the Office had been pared down to a mini-  mum. The burden of the External Relations Ser-  vice had greatly increased during 1950, and the  only possible reductions would fall on travel, cer-  tain external posts and on national correspon-  dents.  In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. de BLONAY  confirmed that the $20,000 for fees on page 265  were intended to cover national correspondents  in five or six countries.  It was decided to recommend the deletion of  those $20,000.  [19] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. de BLO-  NAY (Head, External Relations Service) explained  that the $17,000 for contractual printing on page
265 covered the publication of the Official Bulletin  in two languages, of special reports to the United  Nations and of a supplement to the United Na-  tions Handbook.  [20] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  asked why, with such a large liaison office with  the United Nations in New York, so many jour-  nevs to America of members of the staff were  necessary.  [21] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) pointed out that the New York Office  had only recently received its full staff and  should in future be able to fulfil a larger part  of the work, but that a limited number of such  journeys would always be necessary because of  the complex problems which often had to be  solved.  [22] Mr. WEITZ  strative Management  (Head, Bureau of Admini  and Budget) asked the                                                 Committee to bear in mind all the different  functions of the New York Office, whose staff was,  however, smaller than those of ILO or WHO.  Briefs for the New York Office for discussions at  the working technical level were not difficult to  prepare, but at the agreement level it was usually  found necessary to send a substantive officer from  Headquarters to Lake Success to commit the  Organization, in so far as rules and regulations  allowed.  [23] Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) was of the  opinion that the size of the New York Office  should be inversely related to the number of jour-  neys from Headquarters. Either the one or the  other ought to be reduced.  [24] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) suggested saying  that savings could be made on travel.  [25] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) declared that  the Director-General would strongly resist any  wholesale last-minute general cuts in a budget  which he considered an absolute minimum to  carry out the Programme approved by the Con-  ference. He urged the Committee to propose only  specific functional cuts.  The CHAIRMAN supported Mr. Weitz.  Fico Revations Service [II1.8.A (2)].
126] It was decided to recommend that the total  travel figure in Latin America and the Middle and  Far East should be reduced by $4,500 to $25,000.  LIAISON WITH GERMANY AND JAPAN [IIT.8.B].
127] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  asked whether the posts listed on page 273 would  entail a reduction of the number of programme  specialists in the other departments, to which  Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Ser-  vice) explained that their activities were intended  to be complementary. Special projects must be  closely related with the normal programme, but  they required specialized staff.
(28] Dr. THOMPSON (Head, Unesco Office in  Germany) stressed that special as well as general  activities in Germany were increasing rapidly.  None of the programme specialists on page 273  Were engaged in educational work, except indirect-  ly with regard to the revision of textbooks.
129] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) entirely agreed  that the staff demanded for activities in Germany  was not excessive, but he felt sure that not all the  contemplated activities could be carried out dur-  ing 1951, and that Unesco’s rate of expansion  would not be as rapid as anticipated. , In con-      sequence, he proposed an arbitrary cut in one of  the sections shown in paper XR-2 (Rev.), relating  to the United States’ proposal 5C/55.  [30] Dr. THOMPSON (Head, Unesco Office in  Germany) asked the Committee to remember that  the task to be performed in Germany was an  urgent one: Unesco must win or lose in 1951.  [31] Sir Ronal ADAM (United Kingdom) having  proposed that one of the External Relations  specialists be replaced by an Education  specialist, Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Ad-  ministrative Management and Budget) emphasized  that the departments themselves had to have  special staff in order to enable the team in Ger-  many to do more effective work.  [32] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) stated that the least harmfu! cuts would  be the elimination of one field worker (the Press  specialist—grade 14) and one of the liaison pro-  gramme specialists at headquarters. In addition,  the secretary of the Department of Mass Com-  munication could be dropped.  [33] It was agreed to recommend a total  appropriation of $80,000 for the increased pro-  gramme activity in Germany. The reduction of  $18,000 would be made up of $12,100 saved  on two grade 14 posts, $1,000 on travel on  official business, $1,000 on travel of delegates,  plus a balance of about $4,000 to be found by the  Secretariat, which would not be strictly tied to  the work plan outlined on page 2 paper XR-2  (Rev.).  [34] The SECRETARY stated that the proposal  for Japan involved an additional expenditure of  $25,000.  [35] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations  Service) recalled that the relevant resolution had  been adopted at the end of the Joint Meeting of  the Programme and Budget and Official and  External Relations Commissions. The proposal  was for an additional expert on Japan at Head-  quarters, about $10,000, and for special activities  —vouth clubs and meetings, etc., in Japan—about  $15,000.  [36] Mr. SMITH (Australia) proposed that, in  the absence of a paper on the subject, the Com-  mittee should recommend a cut on the same scale  as for Germany.  [37] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) proposed reduc-  ing the $25,000 by $3,000, and leaving it to the  Secretariat to decide which  dropped.  could be activities              [38] Miss LAISE (United States of America) did  not approve of cutting for cutting’s sake; it might  seriously hamper a very useful activity without  producing a really significant economy.  [39] In reply to Mr. de LACHARRIERE  (France), Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Rela-  tions Service) explained that the $10,000 in the  project for Japan were not only for the salary  of a consultant but also for his travelling expenses.  The Committee approved an arbitrary cut of  $3,000, as proposed by Mr. Pollock.  Unitep Nations Liaison OFFICE IN NEw York [III
8.C].  [40] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) thought that  when the United Nations Headquarters were  moved to New York, Unesco's New York Office  would have many opportunities to save valuable  time and effort, so that a small cut should be  possible.  [41] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) agreed that,  when the New York staff no longer had to travel  to Lake Success, they would not be compelled to  work the present excessive overtime. À saving of  time would mean better reports to headquarters,  more efficient work, etc.  It was decided to reduce arbitrarily the total  appropriation by $1,672 to $60,000.  Division or LEGAL Arrairs [II1.8.D].  [42] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) introduced  document 5C/OXR/16, which contained a pro-  posal to increase the Legal Division at a cost of  $11,078.  [43] Mr. SABA (Head, Division of Legal Affairs)  explained that the Italian proposal [5C/11] for  the protection of monuments in the event of  armed conflict, and the Mexican proposal [5C/22]  concerning the protection of historic monuments  and art treasures had been adopted by the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission, which had also  decided that Unesco should collaborate very close-  ly in the drafting of conventions relating to  Articles 26 and 27 of the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights. It was to carry out those addi-  tional tasks that the $11,078 were necessary.  [44] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) was in  favour of reinforcing the Legal Division, in view  of the new tasks it would be called upon to  perform, but consultants might be more indicated  than an increase of staff, where only part-time  activity was concerned.  [45] Mr. SABA (Head, Division of Legal Affairs)  explained that it was intended to engage perma-  nent personnel in 1951, and to concentrate the  work in one service, so as to secure greater unity  of form and wider experience. Furthermore it  was absolutely necessary that co-operation with  the United Nations in implementing Articles 26  and 27 of the Universal Declaration should be  carried out by persons possessing a thorough  knowledge of the structure of the Secretariat.  The increase of $11,078 in the appropriations  of the Legal Division was approved.  [46] On the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, it  was agreed to cut the amount for fees on page 280  by $750.  [47] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) pointed out that  the Committee had reduced by $26,922 the  original total appropriation figure of $613,890  requested by the External Relations Service, and  increased it by $113,078. The net increase was  thus $86,156.
9. Documents and Publications Service.  DOCUMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS [IIT.9.A].  [48] Mr. POLLOCK (Canada) having asked  whether it might not be possible to provide the  necessary services on approximately the same  budget as the preceding year, Mr. DELAVENAY  (Head, Documents and Publications Service)  pointed out that III.9.A would actually have more  obligations than the appropriation because of nine  new posts: additional staff were necessary in  order to use printing funds more efficiently and  to enable the Service to function satisfactorily.  He stated that in his considered opinion no in-  dividual cuts were possible.  [49] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) stated that, if  the Committee wished to maintain the 1950  appropriation figure for the whole of the Docu-  ments and Publications Service, the only way to  do so was to eliminate the Spanish and Arabic  translation services, since only functional cuts  could be made in this Service.  [50] Mr. CAIN (France) declared that he  wished to be associated with the praise which had  been expressed for Mr. Delavenay’s work. He  asked to what extent the recommendations of the  Expert Committee on Publications could be put  into practice.  [51] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and  Publications Service) said that the recommenda-  tions in question did not concern the method of                                                  TEE AAA TRES  work of the Service, but general publications  policy. The publications budget was used by, but  not administered by, the Documents and  Publications Service.  [62] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom)  stressed that he was looking to future economies  as a result of the re-organization of the Service,  and felt sure that an increase of staff would  result in a decrease in the cost of publications.  [53] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. DELA-  VENAY (Head, Documents and Publications  Service) explained that the $21,500 for fees  (page 289) were intended to cover outside trans-  lations for which no staff could be made available  within the Organization.  [64] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) added that  exceptionally long, but not very urgent, docu-  ments were also given to outside translators.  [55] Mr. CAIN (France) was in favour of the  TWENTY-EIGHTH  policy of contracting out that type and other kinds  of specialized work.  [66] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and  Publications Service) stated that, by careful prun-  ing, a certain saving in operational time might be  effected. He wished to make it quite clear that  the staff at his disposal was inadequate in view of  the increasing volume of work, and asked the  Committee for a little latitude to enable him to  complete the re-organization of the Service.  [67] Miss LAISE (United States of America)  asked for some information regarding control over  the distribution of documents, and thought the  Committee might say that publications were too  diffuse in comparison with the results achieved.  In her opinion, their number should be decreased,  while every effort was made to increase their  audience.  The CHAIRMAN postponed  discussion until the afternoon.  this important  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 14 June 1950, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman:  Detailed examination of the Budget (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (II)].
9. Documents and Publications (continued).  DOCUMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS SERVICE (continued)  [TIT.9.A1.  [1] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) ex-  pressed dissatisfaction with the lack of a publica-  tions policy in the past. The cost of individual  publications was high; for instance, each copy  of the Copyright Bulletin seemed to cost about $1.  It would seem that many publications were pro-  duced for which there was no demand. He asked  whether there was a committee in the Secretariat  responsible for screening requests for printing  submitted by the various Departments.  [2] ‘Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and
099  Mr. Sioney PorLocx (Canada),  Publications Service) replied that there were two  separate problems:  The first was. how to control the work at its  various stages. A new system of document sym-  bols was being instituted which would enable sav-  ings to be made in terms of man-hours and to  reduce the considerable overtime being worked at  present.  [3] The second problem was the proper  functioning of a Publications Board. The present  Board, presided over by the Head of Documents  and Publications Service, included a representa-  tive of the Director-General, a representative of  the Bureau of Administrative Management and  Budget, a representative of the Department of  Mass Communication and a representative of the  unit requesting publication, but had full respon-  sibility only on paper.  {4] Mr. BRUNSWICK (France) again drew