Consideration of the resolutions adopted by  the General Assembly of the United Nations  concerning the Programmes and Budgets of  the Specialized Agencies [document 5C/  OXR/4].  [33] The DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL 1n-  troduced document 5C/OXR/4, some parts of  which dealt with Unesco’s relations with the other  Agencies. He pointed out that Annex II con-  tained a series of resolutions relative to the Bud-  gets for 1950 which could be divided in two  groups: (a) those of a Programme and Budget  FIFTH  character and (b) those of an Administrative  nature. He suggested that paragraphs 1 and 2  of the Annex should be considered by the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission, and the re-  mainder beginning with paragraph 3 (including  nearly all of heading C) by the Administrative  Commission. He suggested further that the Com-  mittee which was considering surpluses and de-  ficits should examine the whole document and  report on it before the Commission discussed it.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  MEETING  Wednesday, 31 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chatrman:  First Report of Committee No. 1 [document
5C/ADM/18].  Mr. SMITH, Rapporteur, introduced the report of  the Committee on Member States’ contributions  and on possible amendments of the Financial  Regulations.  Although the Committee had not gone into the  question of disposal of surpluses and amendment  of financial regulations, paragraph 1 indicated  that the Committee did not foresee the possibility  of any budgetary surplus being surrendered to  reduce the contributions of Member States to the  budget of 1951.  In paragraph 2, the Committee expected that  the Administrative Commission would wish to  point out clearly that the serious financial situa-  tion of Unesco was due to the failure of certain  countries to pay their contributions.  In paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 the Committee had  stated that in its opinion expenditures for each  of the years 1950 and 1951 should be kept within  the income reasonably expected to be received in  respect of that year.  Paragraphs 3 and 4 referred more particularly  to the level of expenditure for 1950, which should  be kept within the estimated maximum income  of the Organization. The Committee felt it was  the duty of the General Conference to advise the  Director-General of the amount of income reason-  Dr. Tara Cuanp (India)  ably to be anticipated; but the Director-General  should be left free to modify the figure in the  light of the information at his disposal after the  session of the Conference. As the Director-  General, after discussion with the Executive  Board, had already made modifications to the pro-  gramme for 1950 to effect certain economies, the  Committee felt it desirable that any further neces-  sary economies be left to his discretion.  Paragraph 5, however, underlined that the  General Conference should assume responsibility  for deciding where economies were to be made,  and therefore recommended to the Programme  and Budget Commission that it divide the Pro-  gramme activites for 1951 into two sections:  firstly, priority activities the cost of which should  not exceed available funds; secondly, activities  of lesser urgency, to be undertaken if extra funds  became available.  The Committee felt that the scale of contribu-  tions of Member States would be an influencing  factor in the decisions to be taken by the General  Conference concerning the activities of the Organ-  ization and so had included paragraph 6 in its  report. In view of later discussions of the full  Commission, this paragraph was no longer ap-  plicable.  Dr. MASON (New Zealand) said his delegation  was satisfied with the report, particularly with  the paragraph requiring the Organization to limit
624                      its activities to those which would have budgetary  cover. He enquired how the figure of $7,500,000  was arrived at, in view of the fact that the budget  was about 38,000,000 and the contributions  received amounted to about 10 per cent of this  figure.  Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) explained that the  present deficit of the Organization (approximate-  ly $500,000) had been deducted from the total of  $8,000,000.  Mr. SMITH (Rapporteur) added that the  SIXTH  estimate of $7,500,000 was “the income which the  General Conference reasonably anticipates to be  available in respect of that year (1950)”, as in-  dicated in paragraph 3 and not necessarily re-  ceived within the year 1950.  The Rapporteur pointed out that paragraph 6  was longer applicable and proposed its deletion.  Agreed.  The report [document 5C/ADM/18] was adopted  unanimously, subject to deletion of paragraph 6  The meeting rose at 4.30 p.m.  MEETING  Thursday, 1 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. Tara CHAND (India)  Draft resolution on the scale of contributions  for 1951 [document 5C/ADM/3, Corrigendum 1].  [1] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that document
5C/ADM/3, Addendum II illustrated the formula  for the scale of contributions as they would be  fixed if the contribution of the United States of  America were fixed at 35 per cent.  The resolution contained in document 5C/ADM/
3 (Corr. I) was adopted.  It was agreed that the resolution contained in  document 5C/ADM/19 be transmitted to the  Plenary Meeting.  Annual Report of the Director-General on  action taken in application of the Staff  Regulations [document 5C/ADM/8].  [2] Mr. PYM (Head, Bureau of Personnel) in-  formed the Commission that the UN Consultative  Committee on Administrative Questions had not  yet completed its study for a revision of Staff Reg-  ulations. Annex I to document 5C/ADM/8 listed  revisions of Staff Rules made since the last ses-  sion of the General Conference.  [3] The CHAIRMAN therefore proposed post-  ponement of revision of rules. The question of  the Appeals Board [document 5C/ADM/11] would  be considered at a later meeting of the Commis-  sion.
625  Sir Henry FRENCH (United Kingdom) moved  the adoption of the report.  The preamble of the report and Section A of  Annex I were adopted.  Section B.  I. Loans To STAFF MEMBERS (2034).  [4] Mr. SMITH (Australia) pointed out that the  administration of a working capital fund would  automatically amend Regulation 2034, and re-  imbursement of loans to staff members would  normally be limited to a twelve-month period.  [5] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) recalled that at  the Fourth Session of the General Conference the  French delegation had specially insisted that  loans made to staff members should not be for  a longer period than the balance of their con-  tracts. He therefore sought an assurance that this  requirement, which was not mentioned under  Item 2034, had indeed been taken into account  by the Secretariat.  [6] Mr. WEITZ (Head, Bureau of Admini-  strative Management and Budget) confirmed that  strict financial controls were maintained as  regards final payments to terminating staff mem-  bers.  [I. DISLOCATION ALLOWANCE.  [7] Mr. SMITH (Australia) asked the Secretariat