SIXTH MEETING  Wednesday, 31 May 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr.  Progress of the work of the Session (con-  tinuation).  [1] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Com-  mittee) announced that his Committee had ter-  minated its preliminary examination of the budget  on Monday, 29 May, and that it hoped to report  to the Programme and Budget Commission in the  course of the day, or the following morning. The  work of the Committee had been made partic-  ularly complicated, owing to the fact that dele-  gations continued to submit new resolutions after  the deadline of 25 May. The Committee still had  some sixty resolutions to examine, and feared that  it could not complete its work by the end of the  week, so that it would be unable to start its  detailed examination of the budget on Monday,  © June. The Budget Committee intended to  suggest in its report that, at future sessions of  the General Conference, no resolutions might be  submitted after the first two days of the session.  [2] In view of the time spent on the preliminary  examination of the Budget, Dr. Bender doubted  whether the Committee would be able to keep  pace with the work of the Programme and Budget  Commission. He pointed out that the Committee  had already met several times in the morning and  had held a number of night meetings. He  requested Mr. Seydoux to indicate how the work  of his Commission was progressing.  [3] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme and  Budget Commission) stated that the Commission  would hold its eighth meeting that day; the  previous day, it had completed its examination of  the Basic Resolutions, with the exception of one  resolution. In the course of the day, it would  consider the preambles and the general presenta-  tion of the Programme, and if it had time, the  Statement of Methods. The Commission was  behindhand with its schedule, and it was anti-  cipated that, unless discussions of the 1951 Pro-  gramme were accelerated, the twenty-eight meet-  ings foreseen by Mr. Seydoux would not be  sufficient.  [4] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Com-  mittee) read Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure
261  Davip R. Harpman (United Kingdom)  which provided that Commissions might appeal  for assistance to the Executive Board. As the  Budget Committee was confronted with resolu-  tions whose cost was estimated at $650.000, he  thought that it would be helpful if tne Board  could examine those resolutions, indicating  which, in its opinion, formed an essential part  of the programme.  [6] While assuring the General Committee that  members of the Board would wish to assist in any  way possible, Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Ex-  ecutive Board) expressed the opinion that it would  be a disastrous procedure for the Board to resume  its meetings in the middle of the Conference and  to intervene in the discussions on the programme  and budget. He hoped that the Budget Com-  mittee would continue its excellent work and give  its preliminary view of the Director-General’s  provisional estimate of the cost of the new resolu-  tions coming from delegations.  [6] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew attention  to three possible solutions of the difficult problem  before the Committee: (1) the Executive Board  could be requested to intervene; (2) the Confer-  ence could work on Saturday and Sunday, 3 and
4 June, in spite of the excursions arranged by the  Italian Government; (3) the Conference could be  lengthened by a few days. His own view was  that the first solution would be the most  satisfactory, as the Board had prepared a well-  balanced and carefully thought-out programme  for submission to the Conference, and it was  therefore in the best position to judge how far the  introduction of the new resolutions would upset  the balance of the programme.  [7] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme and  Budget Commission) proposed that, before appeal-  ing to the Board for assistance, the Chairman of  the Board should be requested to call a small  meeting of the Chairman, Vice-Chairmen and  Rapporteurs of the Commissions and of the Bud-  get Committee, requesting them to consider a  new time-table for the rest of the Conference  which, in Mr. Seydoux’s opinion, should not con-  tinue after 18 June at the latest. The small meet-  ing thus convened could make proposals to the       _  p  tm  fo, -  i Ee  E
1  L    General Committee, which would then judge  whether or not to call upon the Executive Board.  [8] Dr. WALKER (Chairman, Nominations  Committee) asked Mr. Seydoux when he thought  that the Programme and Budget Commission  would discuss the total budget figure. In his  view, the debate should take place as soon as  possible, otherwise the discussions on the budget-  ary implications of the additional sixty resolutions  would be purely academic.  [9] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme and  Budget Commission) agreed with Dr. Walker,  and proposed that the’ discussion of the total  Budget figure should take place before the three  days’ break in the work of the Conference.  [10] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the total  Budget figure could not be discussed until the  Administrative Commission had presented its  report on ways in which to make good the deficit  caused by arrears in contributions.  [11] Taha HUSSEIN Bey (Egypt) proposed that  consideration of all resolutions submitted after the  agreed time-limit should be postponed until the  next session of the General Conference.  [12] The CHAIRMAN recalled Mr. Seydoux’s  former proposal to ask the Chairman of the Board  to call a meeting of the Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen  and Rapporteurs of the Commissions and of the  Budget Committee. He himself was in favour of  that solution.  [13] Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Com-  mittee) also supported Mr. Seydoux’s proposal.  [14] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL still felt doubts  regarding the wisdom of the proposal. He  pointed out that the Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen  were all members of the General Committee,  which had more authority than such a small  committee. He did not think that the General  Committee would be justified in asking the  Chairman of the Board to assume that added  responsibility.  [15] Referring to the proposal made by Taha  Hussein Bey, the Director-General observed that  many of the additional resolutions were not  supposed to have budgetary implications; they  could only be postponed if the Secretariat found  that they had indeed budgetary implications. He  therefore proposed that the Secretariat should  make a rough estimate of the cost of the resolu-  tions, submitting that estimate to the Executive  Board which could then, through its Chairman,  give advice to the Programme and Budget Com-  mission. The Director-General did not see how  the Programme and Budget Commission could  change its schedule as, after considering the  preambles, the Statement of Methods and the
1951 Programme, it had to consider the prob-  lem of Technical Aid before 6 June, when  Mr. Adiseshiah was to leave for Lake Success to  represent him at the Conference on Technical  Assistance.  [16] In the light of the discussion, Sir John  MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board) agreed that  it would be worth while convening a meeting of  the Executive Board, provided that it could be held  without delaying the work of the Programme and  Budget and the Administrative Commissions.  He hoped that the Secretariat would supply a  provisional budget figure for each resolution.  [17] Dr. HASAN (Pakistan) moved that the  Board should meet the following morning,
1 June. Adopted.  [18] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme  and Budget Commission) seconded by Mr. SAR-  GEANT (United States of America), proposed  that the General Committee should draw the  attention of the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion to the Draft Agreement on the Importation of  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials,  suggesting that any draft amendments should be  submitted before 5 June at midnight. Adopted.  Draft Resolution submitted by the Czecho-  slovak delegation [document 5C/17].  [19] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that,  although the Czechoslovak delegation had with-  drawn from the Conference, there was no rule  stipulating that a resolution could not be dis-  cussed in the absence of the mover; moreover, the  Hungarian delegation had expressed the hope that  the departure of the Czechoslovak delegates would  not prevent the resolution from being discussed.  He therefore proposed that the resolution be  referred to the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion. Agreed.  The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.