are raised on many sides calling for the restoring  of the bridges between East and West or for the  building of new causeways, we who are the sworn  servants of the United Nations deem it our duty  to remind all men that one bridge still stands,  built by the will and with the consent of all, the  Charter of the United Nations signed by all Mem-  ber States, binding on all of them, and containing  all the mechanisms needed for negotiation and  for adjudication of the differences arising in the  world today. The most urgent present need is to  restore the normal functioning of the United  Nations system, and it is in an endeavour to  accomplish that high task that the Secretary-  General is travelling from capital to capital, a  pilgrim in the cause of international co-operation  and the world radius of international institutions,  placing his final trust in the wisdom of gov-  ernments and knowing that in all countries, in  Fast and West alike, the common people follow  him with their prayers for the success of his  mission of peace. Through my unworthy lips he  asks that all of you whatever your task in life,  should support him an should bring your united  strength to help the effort to restore the full  effectiveness of the United Nations as an agency  for peace.  [50] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] Gentlemen, your applause makes it un-  necessary for me to seek to express your thoughts,  your gratitude to M. Laugier and the Secretariat of  the United Nations for the powerful and master-  ful contribution he has just made to our proceed-  ings. The President and Vice-Presidents of the  Conference and the Chairmen of the Nominations  and Credentials Committees having been elected,  a part of the General Committee of the Confer-  ence is now in being. Its numbers will be  completed later when the Chairmen of the  Commissions and Committees have been elected.  | shall ask the members already appointed to the  Committee and the Chairman of the Executive  Board, as an ex-officio member, to attend a preli-  minary meeting to take place at the end of this  meeting in the Sala dei Duecento.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 23 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  CONTENTS  Page  VII. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning  the admission to the Fifth Session of observers from international non-  governmental organizations oi  VIII. Establishment of Commissions and Committees . . . . . . 2 2 . © 57  IX. Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Director-  General’s Report on the activities of the Organization from 1 September 1949  to 1 May 1950 and discussion thereon:  Speeches by the Director-General and the delegate of Greece . . . . 58  President: Count STEFANO JAcINI (Italy).  [1] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] As I am sure the Conference is anxious  to hear the Director-General’s Report, we will  despatch the secondary questions before us as  quickly as possible. I have the following  announcements to make:
(1) The General Committee of the Conference  held its first meeting late yesterday afternoon.
00  It examined the proposed organization of the work  of the Fifth Session, which, in accordance with  the Constitution, was prepared by the Executive  Board, and without discussing in detail the pro-  posals and time-table contained in the document,  it asked the ‘General Conference to accept it  provisionally as a working basis. The General  Committee approved, in particular, the draft  A  a v   L A B   .  F a   l e   N i e   rE   T O C   T N   d ' a   i i   C N   -      resolution adopted by the Executive Board at its  Twentieth Session, defining the composition and  terms of reference of the Budget Committee. The  text of this resolution is reproduced in docu-  ment 5C/BUR/1, Addendum and Corrigendum.  The General Committee recommended the General  Conference to adopt this draft resolution subject  to the following amendments :  Paragraph 1: The membership of the Com-  mittee, originally given as eleven, has been cor-  rected to twelve. With the nomination of Iraq,  the paragraph should now read: “The Budget  Committee shall consist of thirteen members.”  ’aragraph 3 (c): Read: “Prepare, in the light  of the recommendations of the three Commis-  sions, and submit to the Conference through the  Programme and Budget Commission ...”. The  rest remains unchanged.  This Committee must start work as rapidly as  possible. The General Committee therefore re-  commends that it should hold its first meeting  this afternoon. Lastly, the General Committee  has fixed its next meeting for tomorrow morning,  Wednesday, at 10.30, and the second meeting of  the Credentials Committee for Thursday at
9.30 a.m. Does the General Conference accept  the proposals of the General Committee? As  there are no comments, these proposals are  adopted.
(2) Declaration by the World Health Organ-  ization and the International Labour Office. It  is a tradition that the representatives of the  United Nations and Specialized Agencies shall  address the Conference before the consideration  of the Director-General’s Report. Yesterday, we  had the pleasure of hearing Mr. Laugier, Assistant  Secretary-General of the United Nations, speaking  on behalf of the Secretary-General of the United  Nations. I now call upon the representative of  the World Health Organization, Dr. Grzegor-  zewskl.  [2] Dr. E. GRZEGORZEWSKI (World Health  Organization) — Mr. President, on behalf of the  Director-General of the World Health Organiza-  tion, I have the honour to address the Fifth Ses-  sion of the General Conference of Unesco. The  World Health Organization is grateful for the  opportunity to be represented at this General  Conference, for, as the Health Assembly 1s in  session at this moment in Geneva, the Director-  General of WHO regrets that he is unable to  come here in person. I need not dwell upon the  significance of this Conference for our common  effort. Besides the projects in which our Organ-  izations are to co-operate, we share a broad con-  cern for the development of scientific knowledge  and for its application in such a way as to  advance the cause of peace and human dignity.
06  We have also a particular sense of responsibility  with regard to this Conference because the  Director-General of Unesco has invited WHO to  comment upon the health aspects of the Unesco  draft Programme for 1951. By so doing he has  made a positive contribution towards the effort  to use to best advantage the slender resources of  both Agencies by planning together in advance  and pooling our resources when we can. We  shall bring such suggestions as WHO has to offer  to the attention of the Programme Commission.  WHO values any action to advance health either  directly or indirectly. One of our constitutional  obligations is to collaborate in all such activities  and we are eager to fulfil this obligation, pro-  vided, of course, that the activities are properly  co-ordinated. It is a satisfaction to report to you  that such collaboration is taking p'ace in several  fields which have often been mentioned by the  representatives and in the reports of both  Agencies. With the ideas which are presented  in the Unesco Programme for 1951 WHO agrees  wholeheartedly.  [3] Concerning the implementation of this  programme, we wish to assure you of our willing-  ness to collaborate so far as there 1s adequate  provision in the approved programme of WHO  or so far as our activities can be adjusted to  Unesco projects which relate to health. As you  are well aware, certain activities of either Spe-  cialized Agency must be reviewed and approved by  this Conference or by the World Health Assembly  before they can be put into effect. They must  first be worked out by the Director-General, then  included in a draft Programme and Budget for  consideration by Member States and the Executive  Board. Necessary appropriations must be made  well in advance. The procedure for approving  the project so that it can go into action takes  considerable time. It sometimes happens that,  although there may be full understanding and  great sympathy for a project, it cannot be im-  plemented, simply because the necessary formal  steps could not be taken in good time.  [4] The synchronization of all such steps would  appear to be the most practical way of achieving  fuller collaboration. The aim would be that the  participating organizations should have proposals  for collaboration before their General Conferences  at the same stage of development of the project  and at the same time. This in turn would require  joint planning at an earlier stage by the technical  services of the interested Agencies. We hope  that, as our experience increases, we may soon  reach the point where the plans of each Agency  for participation in the work can be submitted  for approval in their respective programmes and  budgets for the same year. Such a procedure  may also assist the delegations sent by a gov-    ernment to each of the collaborating Agencies in  adopting a co-ordinated position with regard to  each Agency’s part of the project. May I say that  Unesco’s co-operative attitude towards other  Agencies gives us the certainty that joint effort  will efficiently serve the needs of member  nations, which is our common aim and duty.  VII. Consideration of the recommendations  of the Executive Board concerning the admis-  sion to the Fifth Session of observers  from international non-governmental organ-  izations.  [6] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] 1 thank the delegate of the World  Health Organization for his excellent speech. We  shall now pass on to item 6 of the Agenda:  Consideration of the recommendations of the  Executive Board concerning the admission to the  Fifth Session of observers from international non-  governmental organizations (document 5C/8). 1  call upon Sir John Maud, Chairman of the Ex-  ecutive Board.  — [6] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom)  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a  small but rather important point which the  Executive Board now wishes you to consider.  Under our Constitution, organizations which have  consultative status with Unesco are automatically  invited to send observers to our General Confer-  ence, but the Constitution provides for the Ex-  ecutive Board to suggest certain other organiza-  tions which are of international scope. The  Conference can then decide, if necessary by a  two-thirds majority vote, whether to invite ob-  servers from such bodies. The Board on this  occasion wishes to propose to the Conference that  the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  and the Rockefeller Foundation should be invited  to send observers. I think, Mr. President, that  the Conference may particularly welcome this  prophetic gleam on the part of the Executive  Board in having suggested, in the Rockefeller  Foundation, a body which, in fact, laid the foun-  dation many years ago of that personal relation-  ship between the President of the Republic of  Italy and the late Acting President of this Con-  ference—that relationship to which the President  of the Îtalian Republic paid such moving tribute  when he addressed us yesterday and particularly  delighted his English-speaking friends.  [7] And so, Mr. President, I have the honour  on behalf of the Board to propose the following  resolution that  Having regard to Article IV, paragraph 13, of the  ov  " ; T a i | AE i =  Constitution and to Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure,  and to the recommendation of the Executive Board :  The General Conference decides to admit observers  of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  and of the Rockefeller Foundation to the Fifth Session  of the General Conference.  I beg to move this resolution.  [8] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] Does anyone wish to comment on the  recommendation by the Chairman, Sir John  Maud? The recommendation is seconded? The  Chinese representative has asked to speak.  [9] Mr. WEN YUAN-NING (China) — Fellow  colleagues, I think it is a very good proposal and  I heartily second it.  [10] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] If there are no objections, the proposals  of Sir John Maud will be considered as approved  by the Conference. The two organizations are  therefore authorized to participate in the work of  the Fifth Session of the General Conference.  VIII. Establishment of Commissions and  Committees.  [11] Dr. E. Ronald WALKER (Australia)  Mr. President, the Nominations Committee met  this morning and considered proposals which it  desires to make to the General Conference regard-  ing the composition of the Budget Committee  and the officers of the various Commissions and  Committees of the Conference. The decision on  these matters rests with the appropriate bodies—  that is to say, it is for the plenary Conference to  nominate the members of the Budget Committee;  on all the other Committees all delegations are  represented and it is for the Commissions or  Committees to appoint their officers.  [12] The proposal of the Nominations Com-  mittee with regard to the membership of the  Budget Committee is as follows: delegates of  Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, India, Iraq,  Israel, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, Turkey, United  Kingdom, United States of America. The Nom-  inations Committee will propose to the Budget  Committee that the Chairman of that Committee  should be Dr. F. Bennper of the Netherlands, that  the Vice-Chairman should be the representative  of Canada, and the Rapporteur should be the  representative of Israel, and we are informed that  in that event the person in question for Israel  would be Dr. Pinmas Konn.  [13] With regard to the other Commissions, the  following are the proposals of the Nominations  Committee:    Programme and Budget Commission :  Chairman: Mr. Roger SEypoux, of France:  Vice-Chairmen: Dr. Beesy of New Zealand,  and Mr. Aur HEKMAT of Persia; Rapporteur:  Professor FLORKIN of Belgium.  Official and External Relations Commission:  Chairman: Dr. Mariano BruLL of Cuba; Vice-  Chairman: Professor PraGeT of Switzerland,  with a delegate of Burma as second Vice-  Chairman; Rapporteur: a delegate of Norway,  whom we understand would be Professor Som-  MERFELT.  Administrative Commission:  The Nominations Committee proposes, as  Chairman, the delegate of India, as Vice-  Chairmen, the delegates of Greece and Thai-  land, and as Rapporteur, Mr. St. CLAIR SMITH  of Australia.  Procedure Committee:  For the position of Chairman the Nominations  Committee recommends Professor NieLsen of  Denmark, for Vice-Chairman the delegate of  the Philippines, and as Rapporteur the delegate  of Sweden.  [14] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] As the General Conference has approved  the recommendations of the General Committee  concerning the constitution of the Commissions  and the Budget Committee, and has heard the  recommendations of the Nominations Committee,  it is necessary to establish these bodies im-  mediately so that they may elect their Chairmen  and begin work. We shall adopt a shortened  procedure similar to that adopted last year in  Paris. 1 shall convene here the three Commis-  sions in turn and invite them to elect their  Chairmen. We shall then resume the meeting  and revert to the Agenda of the General Confer-  ence. The meeting is therefore temporarily  suspended.  The meeting resumed at 11.15 a.m.  IX. Presentation by the Cbairman of the  Executive Board of the Director-General’s  Report on the activities of the Organization,  and discussion thereon.  [156] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] We still have to consider item 5 of the  Agenda: Presentation and discussion of the  Director-General’s Report. In accordance with  the Constitution, the Chairman of the Executive  Board will present to the Conference, with or  without comment, the Director-General’s Report  on the activities of the Organization. Printed
58  copies of this Report, which is numbered 5C/3,  have been distributed to delegations, as well as  a stencilled supplement, 5C/3 Addendum, contain-  ing the most recent information concerning  Unesco’s activities. I now call upon Sir John  Maud, Chairman of the Executive Board.  [16] Sir John MAUD (Chairman of the Ex-  ecutive Board) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, as Chairman of the Executive Board I  have the honour, under the provisions of the Con-  stitution, to present to you, as the General Con-  ference, the Report of the Director-General on  the activities of Unesco in the period between  November 1949 and May 1950, and the first com-  ment that I want to make on behalf of the Board  is that we think the Director-General’s Report a  first-rate document. We think that what he says  is true, and that he has rendered all of us an  important service, not only in telling us so  clearly what has happened since the General  Conference’s last session, but also in speaking  with such honesty and openness about certain  mistakes; all of us in Unesco must try to im-  prove on our past practices.  [17] My second comment on behalf of the Board
1s that we are convinced that in the author of this  first-rate Report we have a first-rate Director-  General. We want to tell the General Conference  quite frankly that we have always had confidence  in our Director-General, but the events of the last  eight months which are recorded in this Report  have greatly strengthened our confidence both in  the Director-General, and in his colleagues who  form the rest of the Secretariat. And here,  Mr. President, I must say how greatly indebted  we think the Organization is, and always will be,  to Dr. Laves, the Deputy Director-General.  [18] Now on behalf of the Board, I would next  like to pay special tribute to the closeness and  continuity of the collaboration between the  Director-General and his colleagues on the one  hand, and us eighteen members of the Executive  Board on the other. Most partners have some-  times treated each other with brutal frankness,  as any partners in a great democratic organiza-  tion must do, and naturally we have often ex-  pressed different points of view. But I cannot  remember any point of substance on which we  have not finally found agreement, and what I  think is still more important is that in the process  of this democratic collaboration we members of  the Board have become personal friends of the  Director-General.  [19] Now, these last eighteen months the Secre-  tariat has really had an almost impossible task.  Besides playing their part in the execution of the  Programme, they have had to prepare for two       Sessions of the General Conference, not to men-  tion eight Sessions of the Executive Board. In  our opinion the Secretariat has succeeded to an  extent which we had no right to expect in dis-  charging that almost impossible task, but we  must not ask them to continue to compete against  such heavy odds. The amount of sick leave in  the Secretariat, to which the Director-General  draws attention, is clear evidence of something  wrong, and the Director-General himself has  taxed his physical powers much more than he  should. He has been sick quite often and he has  taken far too little sick leave. That makes us all  the more delighted that he is obviously fighting-  fit today. But we must do what we can as a  General Conference to relieve the strain in future  for him and his colleagues, and I would here pay  respectful tribute to that senior member of the  Secretariat who died in harness, Dr. Ramos, at  the head of the Social Science Department.  [20] Now before speaking further of the health  of the Secretariat, I want to turn, on behalf of  the Board, to the health of that great part of  Unesco which is not housed in Unesco House in  Paris, I mean, the health of the national States  who are the members of Unesco. The Board  entirely agrees with the Director-General when  he says in his Report:  Only through the will and acts of Member States can  Unesco fulfil its true purpose, to be a network of  mutual services and a directive force working for the  transformation of the world.  Now we are all of us delighted that the number  of Member States 1s now fifty-six, and has in-  creased by six since the last session of the Gen-  eral Conference. We welcome most heartily our  new colleagues from Ceylon, Guatemala, Panama,  Sweden, Yugoslavia and Costa Rica, and we are  glad that three more States are applying for  membership at this Session of the General Con-  ference. For our purpose, if I may again use the  Director-General's words:  Co-operation from the most diverse quarters is indis-  pensable and it is only on the widest possible inter-  national basis that our mandate to transform the  ideal of universal intellectual and moral solidarity into  a living reality can be fulfilled.  [21] Within the Member States, there is also  some welcome evidence of increasing activity.  At the beginning of 1949 there were thirty-one  National Commissions and today there are forty-  three. Well, what of the health of these Member  States? We believe in the Board that that health  is better than it has ever been before, but we also  believe that it must be vastly improved. It is, in  our opinion, a fact and the Director-General had  the courage to report it, that except in a few  fields in a few countries, the action of Member  States is still unsatisfactory. Now let every one  of us delegates, if I may become a delegate for  a moment, ask ourselves a few straight questions  like this: in my country does public opinion  support Unesco with the energy and enthusiasm  that it should do? How much account does my  government take of Unesco’s purposes (which it,  that government, solemnly endorsed when it  joined Unesco) in framing the government's edu-  cational policy, its customs policy and its taxation  policy, and so on? Does the National Commis-  sion in my country, if there is one, mobilize as  it might all those forces of teachers, for example,  scientists, artists, churches, trade unions, and  the private citizen? Well, no member of the Ex-  ecutive Board could give entirely satisfactory  answers to any of those questions. I think we  must all agree with the Director-General's ver-  dict which I quoted just now, and yet we are all  convinced that it is on the increased intensity of  the activities inside Member States that Unesco’s  future largely depends.  [22] What should our response be to this  challenge, the Board has asked itself? Well,  first, if I may be brutally frank, on behalf of the  Board, by paying our subscriptions in full and  promptly. No club can be satisfied with itself  unless all its members pay their dues, and cer-  tainly no organization can be business-like unless  its annual expenditure is matched by the annual  income which it has a right to expect, and on  which it has based the scale of its activities.  That is the first point.  [23] And the second response. We feel we must  correct the disproportion between Unesco activi-  ties in Member States which, as the Director-  General rightly says, should be fundamental,  and the activities of the Secretariat which, as he  says, cannot be anything but instrumental. We  must agree, ladies and gentlemen, upon a rate of  work which is within the reasonable capacities  of both the Secretariat and Member States, and  then we must do our utmost, all of us, to keep  in step.  [24] Now the Director-General foreshadows  some abatement in the pace at which the Secre-  tariat has been working in recent months. It has  been a bit too hot, even for him, and it has cer-  tainly been a bit hot for some of the Member  States. But we delegates from Member States,  I believe, must pledge ourselves to step up the  pace of activity inside our national frontiers to  whatever degree we realistically think possible.  That is the only way in which the Secretariat and  the Member States can help each other as they  should and so help Unesco. If I may put it in  this way, we are all of us, Secretariat and Member      States, in the same boat. - Now what sort of boat,  I am not quite sure, but I think the Board would  agree the boat is not a gondola, and our good  Director-General is not a gondolier. We cannot  expect to be paddled along by the Secretariat.  The delegate for Greece knows more about those  ancient Greek vessels, the triremes, than I do,  and you, Mr. President, know more than I do  about those ancient Roman vessels, the quin-  quiremes, but I think myself that if we are in the  same boat the boat is perhaps rather like a quin-  quireme or a trireme, with a lot of people bending  and sweating away at the oars, and a steersman.  And what matters, what will determine our pace  through the water and whether this voyage of  exploration 1s well directed, depends on all of us  responsible for getting that boat moving, rowing  in tune and keeping our bodies swinging to-  gether.  [25] The third response which the Board sug-  gests we should make to this challenge is that we  should develop what the Director-General has  rightly said has perhaps been Unesco’s greatest  success so far—collaboration with international  organizations. First in the natural sciences, and  now in cultural activities and reconstruction,  Unesco has found it possible in practice to join  hands and keep in step with these independent  international organizations and, we think, with  palpably valuable results. Incidentally, no other  organ of the United Nations—I hope Mr. Laugier  will check me if I am wrong—has the advantage  that Unesco has of consultative agreements with  over a hundred non-governmental organizations.  [26] We on the Board have spent a lot of time  reviewing the results of this particular method of  work and we believe that the money and man-  power expended by Unesco in this way have made  and are making a notable contribution to in-  creased understanding and collaboration across  frontiers. And we are convinced that the tech-  nique can be used by Unesco to still greater  effect in future. We agree with the Director-  General that one of the invaluable characteristics  of this collaboration is that it respects the free-  dom of the human spirit and enables Unesco to  foster independent research and helps to secure  for the world more of the inestimable benefits of  free enquiry. Incidentally, it transfers from the  Secretariat responsibility for various kinds of  work (work on which scholars and scientists  working in their private capacities are probably  far more likely to» do well than even the finest  international civil servant) though I think that  in this great trireme there are a few small shells  or racing vessels which we can send out from the  main boat, Unesco probably providing the boat  itself and keeping an eye on the way in which it  is directed, but letting the international organ-
60  izations and these independent bodies of scien-  tists and artists get on with the work and increase  the scope of our total exploration.  [27] Now to return for a moment to the Secre-  tariat. Its manning and organization is primarily  the business, of course, of the Director-General.  He is our chief administrative officer. But on  behalf of the Board 1 want to draw attention to  three respects in which the Member States and  the General Conference have got to help the  Director-General in his efforts to make the Secre-  tariat a fully effective instrument of our common  will.  [28] First, we must help him to recruit first-rate  men and women. Now there never are, and I  suspect there never have been, enough first-rate  men and women to do the work either in national  or international efforts for peace. The Director-  General very frankly tells us that he had to  increase the size of the Secretariat and quite  frankly for filling these posts in the Secretariat,  second-rate men and women are worse than use-  less. But each Member State also needs all the  first-rate people it can lay its hand on and so let  us honestly try and answer the question: how  many of the right people must be spared for ser-  vice in the Secretariat? How large do we want  the Secretariat to be? And then when we have  agreed on that, do our utmost to make that  number of people available to the Director-  General.  [29] Particularly I think we must try and take  the Director-General’s advice and accept his  most reasonable request that universities and  government departments should be prepared to  second members of their staff for service in the  Secretariat with the certainty of a job waiting for  them when it is time for them to return to their  own country. On his side the Director-General  is doing his part by offering relatively long-term  contracts nowadays, and in that way reducing  the insecurity of tenure which certainly has  limited the possibilities of recruiting good people  in the past. So the first way we can help him  is by recruitment.  [30] Secondly, the General Conference can do  many things to enable the Director-General to  carry further the process of simplifying his ad-  ministrative organization. He has simplified it  since our last Conference, but if he is to simplify  it more, it largely depends on the General Con-  ference. Each time we are tempted to escape  from the odious need to reach a firm decision at  the General Conference by inviting the Director-  General to study the question further and pro-  duce a report, just let us remind ourselves of  the increased burden that such cowardice on our  part would place on the Secretariat. And each  time we are tempted to elaborate financial regu-  ;  |  ;       i  lations, let us pause and remember that by such  regulations we may well be enhancing the thick-  ness of the bureaucratic jungle, which at other  times we find it quite easy to deplore. Instead of  that, let us do everything we can to make it pos-  sible for the Director-General to establish condi-  tions in which all members of the Secretariat can  be responsible public servants, and at the same  time exploit their capacities for creative and lively  work. Let us help him to make the Organization  still more simple and the Secretariat still happier  people.  [31] And the third response is this : when we  come to consider our programme, which we are  not doing today, do let us make sure that there  is nothing in it which we do not honestly think  indispensable to Unesco’s purpose. Because,  unless our programme is concentrated on work  that we really think essential, we shall be only  half-hearted in our efforts to help the Director-  General to obtain the staff he thinks he needs.  [32] But the main purpose of the Director-  General’s Report is not to guide our future steps.  It is to report upon what Unesco has been doing  these last eight months and is doing now. And  so with this debate on the Director-General's  Report which we are now to have, our chief  business is to take stock of what Unesco has al-  ready done and search our consciences accordingly.  Later we shall be debating the Programme and  the Budget and that will be the time to consider  the future and try to apply such lessons from the  past as our heart-searching has taught us.  [33] Now as to what is recorded as having  happened and has happened in this Report, the  Board finds good reason for the friends of Unesco  to be glad and take new heart. Here is a record  of real achievement by Unesco after four years of  unremitting efforts, first under the leadership of  Dr. Julian Huxley, whom I know we are all very  glad to have with us again, and for the last  eighteen months under the leadership of the  present Director-General. And it is a record of  achievement, the Board feels, not on paper or in  plans only, but literally in the minds of men.  Today I dare to say the minds of many men are  at least slightly different from what they would  have been if Unesco had not existed. Thanks to  Unesco there are some men, women and children  in almost every one of the Member States who  have rather more understanding of their neigh-  bours across the frontiers, and even some  experience of working with them in practice as  fellow members of a society wider than their own  nation. Let me give you one or two examples from  the multitude mentioned in this Report. There  are the men and women of many nations who  work together for several weeks on particular
61  concrete problems in those seminars which Unesco  has organized or helped to organize in Mysore, in  Rio de Janeiro and in Elsinore, to give three  examples. And there is the much larger number  of people in all those countries who are now being  influenced and will continue to be influenced by  the follow-up of the work of those seminars. And  then there are more than a hundred men and  women who have been enabled by fellowships or  travel grants to visit countries other than their  own for study or research or further self-education,  the wandering scholars of the twentieth century.  And there is the far larger number — an unknown  number — of all those who have gained similar  benefits by using the information which Unesco  has collected and made available in its publication,  Study Abroad, recording the thousands of oppor-  tunities offered in different countries to the  wandering scholars. And then there are tens of  thousands who have read articles in those
400 newspapers which now regularly make use  of Unesco features made available every fortnight  by Unesco to editors throughout the world. And  there are hundreds of thousands who hear broad-  casts from those 490 radio stations which make  use of a similar service rendered each fortnight  by the Unesco Secretariat.  [34] I will not prolong the list, but I would  draw your special attention, on behalf of the  Board, to the many kinds of aid which, through  Unesco, men and women in the technically more  developed parts of the world are enabled to bring  to men and women in the less developed areas.  This has been happening throughout these last  eight months through educational missions and  the follow-up of these missions to Afghanistan,  Thailand and the Philippines, for example;  through the seminars; through all the work of  fundamental education; and through a large part  of the work of the exchange of persons and the  reconstruction programme.  [35] Now all this diversity of work is, I believe,  animated by one purpose, to change our minds,  so that we understand each other a little better  and learn to work together and live together as  neighbours in one world. And as that purpose is  spiritual, I know no way in which the achieve-  ment of it can be proved or measured except by  our personal experience. Now, I am personally  convinced, and I believe all my colleagues on the  Executive Board would say the same for them-  selves, that I am different today from what I would  have been if I had not had the experience of work-  ing with colleagues from many countries for four  years on the Executive Board and at four sessions  of the General Conference. I do not for a moment  mean to suggest that I am better, but I am differ-  ent from what I would have been if I had not             had that experience. And I believe that all of us,  whether we have been fortunate enough to have  the experience that I have had on the Board and  at General Conferences, or at those seminars, or in  the scientific conferences and congresses which  Unesco enables to take place, 1 believe all of us  are slightly different; and in that experience, if  we have it, I think we can find proof that Unesco  does in fact help to change men’s minds and  spirits, proof that it can in fact make the world  in the end rather more friendly, more civilized,  and more delightful.  [36] For these reasons, Mr. President, I do  believe, myself, that at this moment Unesco is  making a contribution to peace. We on the Board,  and the Director-General, want to leave the dele-  gates to this Conference in no doubt that we  must see at this Conference whether we cannot  make that contribution to peace a little bigger, a  little more immediate. But whatever new things  we find to do, whatever new methods we may  decide to try, do let us anyhow pledge ourselves  to do better what we know from past experience  we can do well. Let us wield with greater cour-  age and perseverance the weapons that have  already proved their worth.  [37] We have come to this Conference, to this  City of Florence, to this Palazzo Vecchio, from  fifty-six parts of a distracted world. Since the  Constitution was drafted in 1945 the peace of the  world does certainly seem to have become even  more precarious than it was then. The atom  bomb and the hydrogen bomb, the conflicting  policies of the Great Powers, these are facts, and  we in Unesco must face them. We must remem-  ber the wise words of Mr. Laugier which he spoke  to us yesterday on behalf of the Secretary-General,  and accept our responsibilities as an integral part  of the United Nations. But surely our very pre-  sence in Florence in the Palazzo Vecchio is some  response to that challenge. This Conference  itself is an act of faith in the teeth of much  evidence that men in the modern world cannot  long live at peace with one another. We believe  the opposite, otherwise our governments would  not have troubled to send us here and we should  not have troubled to come. In the teeth of the  evidence we believe that men can learn through  mutual understanding and collaboration. In the  teeth of the evidence we dare to assume that there  is still time for men to learn these lessons.  Against those other facts of fear and hatred and  misunderstanding we set the facts recorded in this  Report, the modest but solid achievements of  Unesco, the result of countless acts of faith  wrought by men and women all over the world  over the last four years. And do not let us be  dismayed by the comparison of these two sets of  facts. Of course, we are a minority movement  —Ilet us accept that; but all movements which  have ever moved the world were minority move-  ments once. Let us on no account be content  with what has so far been done by Unesco. But  do not let us be ashamed of it. In the Board's  opinion we have no reason to be ashamed of what  Unesco has done and is doing. And so it is with  modesty, but also with some pride, and in high  spirits, that on behalf of the Board I have the  honour to present this excellent Report on the  activities of the Organization by my friend, our  excellent Director-General.  [38] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] After the very interesting address just  made by Sir John Maud, I have great pleasure in  calling upon the Director-General, Mr. Jaime  Torres Bodet.  [39] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation  from the French] Mr. Chairman, I wish to tell  you to begin with how deeply touched 1 was by  your magnificent address. 1 sincerely thank you  for your generous words. You have greatly facili-  tated our task. 1 venture to see in this fact  powerful encouragement; indeed, to use one of  your own expressions, first-rate encouragement.  In greeting you at the opening of this Conference,  may I be allowed to express to the eminent states-  man who is presiding over our Assembly the  gratitude of the Unesco Secretariat to the Italian  Government and people, who have welcomed us  in so friendly a way and have so ably and effec-  tively simplified our work? 1 should like, equally,  to express our gratitude to the Florentine author-  ities for the hospitality they are according us  here. Humanism, like Antaeus, has but to renew  contact with this soil to draw fresh strength.  [40] What a lesson in humility for Unesco is this  visit to Florence! And at the same time, as always  when humility is sincere, what a splendid spur to  ambition! All around wus in front of our  dwellings, in the streets along which we pass, we  see examples of what men can do when they live  according to their hearts, rather than in a spirit  of passive adhesion to official injunctions—which  no artists ever accept without demur and without  heart-searching. There are not many places in  the world where one realizes so clearly as on the  banks of the Arno that wisdom and beauty are  the twin arches of that invisible bridge which  leads from the individual conscience—ever  rebellious against its destiny—to man’s collective    conscience—ever in search of general progress.  This city’s greatest citizen was an exile. His  Divine Comedy confirms it for us: for free men  the longing for the lost fatherland is but the            aspiration to another fatherland that may always  be won—humanity itself. Every statue, every  picture, that we stop and wonder at here, every  Florentine stone we look at, would give us the lie  were we so arrogant as to conceive our mission as  a substitute for the original creative mission of  educators, artists, poets, and scholars. Happily,  we think no such thing. Our Organization does  not so mistake its role. We know that to seek to  impose uniformity on the infinitely diverse and  spontaneous life of culture would be illusory. If  Unesco should attempt, by bureaucratic methods  to sap the originality and individuality of the  different national cultures, it would be unfaithful  to its very origin, born as our Organization was  of a free covenant in which the representatives of  the Governments strove to speak on behalf of the  peoples. The reason for our existence is not to  create what none can create by order, by rules  and laws. The clear intent is rather to serve the  creative minds among mankind by putting them  in more direct relation with the problems of the  masses, and at the same time to serve those masses,  who, in the longing of the unsatisfied needs, aspire  towards education, and through it towards  freedom. Culture is produced by the world’s  élites. They, of course, themselves issue from the  people; but culture is slow in returning to the  people, from whom it ultimately comes and to  whom it rightly belongs. In an inter-governmen-  tal institution such as ours, we could never vie  with life's infinite and anonymous multiplicity.  Our aim is much more modest: we seek to open  the channels of communication with the people  in every domain of culture; for without such  channels, culture itself must become impoverished  and in the end perish in isolation.  [41] Thus, in clearly recognizing our limitations,  we become the better aware of our ambitions.  There is no Unesco science, no Unesco art, no  Unesco philosophy. But there are many dark  places among men; to light up these places  requires a joint effort on the part of all the differ-  ent countries: a faith which no individual State  can furnish, a truth of which no State is the sole  repository, a wisdom and knowledge which no  one single State possesses.  [42] Our greatness will lie in serving. But  how? What can fifty-six assembled countries do  to strengthen peace by means of education,  science and culture? What more can they do  —some will ask—than they were doing before  they joined Unesco? I could not accept such a  sceptical attitude. Fifty-six countries working  together in the pursuit of so lofty an ideal can  together do infinitely more than each in isolation,  within its own boundaries and by its own unaided  First of all, countries working together means.  in this manner can regularly exchange informa-  tion, and can agree simultaneously to take the  most effective measures to surmount or remove  obstacles to the free flow of culture. Again, they  can study and try out together the various modern  means of helping men to participate actively in  the progress of the international community.  They can undertake together to further all steps  which may help educators to form citizens con-  scious of their rights and yet equally conscious  of their duties towards their fellow-men of every  nation, language, race and religion. Above all,  they can infuse a spirit of justice and concord in  their domestic and foreign policies, so that there  may prevail between peoples and governments  that atmosphere of mutual confidence which is  essential for peace. Such an atmosphere is  indispensable for the success of Unesco’s mission  also. Only in a world free from the continual  threat of war can culture, science and education  bear their finest fruits. Fear can corrupt the very  aim and essence of education and of research. It  can distort them entirely to meet the demands of  another war. It can transform these factors of  peace into instruments of hate and destruction.  It is thus of the most fundamental importance  that governments should do everything that lies  within their powers, to fight against the obsession  of war, to act as members of Unesco not only when  they speak at Unesco, but also and still more when,  outside the Organization, they are taking decisions  with regard to all those questions which may  affect our aims and ideals—and unfortunately do  them harm. These are some of the things which  fifty-six countries cannot undertake seperately  but which, working together, they could achieve.     [43] This would be a great achievement. Yet it  would not be enough. If for instance education  does not provide equality of prospects to all men  and women—the same men and women who, on  the political plane, guarantee collective security  with their lives—then collective security will rest  upon bases which are fundamentally unjust, and  therefore unstable and precarious. So that all  countries may provide this equality, there exists  a sacred duty of reciprocal help, on some aspects  of which Unesco has already made a beginning.  Such assistance must not remain merely a supple-  mentary activity, designed to promote the econ-  omic development of the less fortunate countries.  Our co-operation with the United Nations in the  technical work which it is proposing to undertake  does not free us from the duty of carrying out  —indeed of extending—our own specific pro-  gramme of direct aid.  [44] According to our Constitution, we are an  institution whose guiding purpose it 1s to ensure  peace by means of international understanding,      and to help to promote that international under-  standing by means of education, science and  culture. These are our ultimate aims. Nothing  that we undertake must deflect us from them.  None the less, if we would not have Unesco foun-  ded in empty phrases, we must admit that peace  will not be won by us alone. Our authority is only  of a moral character. It cannot by itself produce  the political and economic decisions which could  limit armaments and halt preparations for war.  The path which is set for us is assuredly long and  hard. Far from discouraging us, the difficulties  of the present hour should rather strengthen our  resolve. Are not freedom of the individual, and  respect for the dignity of man, the very bases of  the system set up by the United Nations? Without  the support of the common will of all the peoples  of the world, peace would be no more than a truce,  under constant threat of new conflagrations.  [45] I said: “The peoples of the world” and 1  want to make it clear that I mean all the peoples  of the world, without distinction of ideological  tendency or party. Yesterday you heard from  Mr. Laugier of the concern of the Secretary-General  of the United Nations at the fact that, whether  from permanent abstention or what I hope are  temporary withdrawals, not all the peoples are  represented at our meeting. 1 share his concern,  for an organization dedicated to education, science  and culture cannot attain the kind of universality  essential to it merely by increasing the number  of its Member States. The universality of the  human spirit is not a matter of arithmetic, but  consists essentially in a unity with diversity of  opinions, systems and points of view. Without  that diversity, Unesco will not be universal and  unless in fact it does seek to be universal I can see  no significance in it.  [46] Our work, then, does not lie in the domain  where diplomats erect the legal groundwork of  peace. Our work is less spectacular. We are  dealing with the very stuff of culture. Yet, will  culture ever be separable from the political and  social circumstances which condition it? For us  peace is not something taken for granted, interna-  tional understanding is not a postulate. On the  contrary, we regard both one and the other as the  result of a series of efforts which must be com-  bined and harmonized, so as to satisfy the longing  for justice which burns in man.  [47] As every year, the fate of our Organization  is in your hands. You have before you three main  documents. The first condenses, in the form of  specific resolutions, the programme which the  Executive Board proposes to you for 1951. The  second gives you the budget estimates which the  Secretariat considers necessary for carrying out  the resolutions the Board proposes. The third
64  document, the Basic Programme, justifies and  explains the other two.  [48] The 1951 programme gives us, in a certain  measure, a picture of Unesco as it now is. The  Basic Programme, on the other hand, should give  us a picture of what Unesco may become. The one  limits and circumscribes our work. The other  defines our ambitions and, by defining them, gives  us encouragement. I must not fail to point out to  you that these two documents are still separated  by an immense gulf. The Secretariat will never  be able to bridge that gulf unaided. It is for  Member States and their peoples, by their unselfish  and resolute efforts, to do so.’ I do not know  what view you will take of the programme sub-  mitted to you by the Chairman of the Executive  Board. But I am bound to tell you that, however  concrete and consistent it may appear to you when  it leaves your hands, it will remain a frail thing  until we frankly acknowledge that the malaise from  which Unesco suffers is due not so much to a  surfeit of international “resolutions” as to a lack  of national resolution in each country to put them  into effect. 1 will not go into the arguments  developed in the introduction to my Report; but it  is my duty, I think, to draw your attention to at  least one of them. Unesco’s programme must not  be reduced almost entirely to a plan of work for  the Secretariat. The programme of an organiza-  tion like ours must be something more than a set  of instructions to the Director-General; and the  Director-General’s Report should in future cease to  be the sole starting point for the general debate  with which the annual Conference of Unesco opens  its plenary meetings. In my opinion it is impor-  tant and urgent to see that the programme effec-  tively combines the constructive work that devolves  upon Member States with the function of liaison,  stimulation and co-ordination which is the Secre-  tariat’s. Similarly, in order to understand Unesco’s  real situation, it would be desirable not only to  judge it by the Director-General’s Report, but to  illuminate its conclusions by an impartial study of  the reports sent in to the:Organization by Member  States. In this way the Member States and the  Secretariat would be linked more closely both by  the programme and by the various reports of  activities.  [49] Until these two conditions are fulfilled,  public opinion may look upon our annual meetings  as no more than occasions for administrative  exchanges of views between the Governments and  the Secretariat. However indispensable, however  cogent, such exchanges may be for myself and my  collaborators, Unesco’s mission cannot be meas-  ured by the efforts of the Secretariat alone. For  that reason it is of the first importance that these  general debates should also provide the opportunity            for another fruitful encounter—the bringing face  to face before the Organization as a whole of the  true instruments of our programme, namely the  States which founded Unesco and which maintain  it. Only a confrontation of this kind will enable  every programme, present or future, to be firmly  rooted in international fact. The concentration of  our work would be of no avail if it failed to satisfy  the needs of the peoples as they should find expres-  sion in the Reports of Member States. To be more  practical, our resolutions must be based upon a  study of those Reports. But for that purpose, if  you will allow me to say so, the Reports must be  at once fuller and more precise than most of those  —and there are not very many of them—that we  have so far received. An examination of what  each country is doing for Unesco, of how it is  applying the recommendations of the Conference,  and of the response evoked in the men for whom  we work, would provide a more solid basis to our  discussions. It would help us to dispel the idea  that our work is too theoretical, and above all, it  would allow us more effectively to adapt means  and ends.  [50] Doubtless many projects will be submitted  to the present session. All those which promise  to be valuable to Unesco will assuredly be warmly  welcomed. Nevertheless, I hasten to urge, even  before I know them—for later you might think  that I was taking exception to some specific  project—that, before presenting new proposals,  you should ask yourselves in all sincerity: “Will  the delegations who approve this or that proposal  be able to count upon their governments for the  full effort that will be needed if the proposal is  not to be rendered fruitless by niggardliness in its  execution?”  [51] The effort I refer to must first of all be  financial. A programme without a budget is a  voice crying in the wilderness. The day will come  —1 hope so for the sake of my successors—when  critics will be astonished that in May 1950 men  who believed in Unesco asked for only a little more  than eight million dollars in order to carry out for  a year, in fifty-six countries, a great international  work of culture, science and education. The  Budget that you will be discussing, however, was  one that had to accord with the resolutions pro-  posed by the Executive Board. It had to take  account of the spirit of the discussions of the  General Conference and, lastly, it could not dis-  regard the financial situation created by the failure  of certain countries to pay their contributions. If  it was possible in Paris, when considering an  increase of $220,000, to accuse the administration  of Unesco of being “expansionist”, what, I wonder,  would have been said of an increase larger than  that which I am proposing to you? Yet how could  I do other than strongly recommend this increase,  believing as 1 do that in the present circumstances  any curtailment of the Secretariat’s activities would  delay for several years the coming into being of  that living Unesco, of which the Secretariat must  in future be only the centre of liaison? As I  pointed out in my introduction to the Budget  Estimates, the small increase of $150,000 over the
1950 Budget is not quite enough to maintain the  Secretariat’s activities at their present level. In  fact it means a reduction in the funds available for  those activities, because of the increase in the  unavoidable overheads of a developing organiza-  tion.  [52] It is not only a matter of appropriations for  the Secretariat. Many of the National Commis-  sions can have only a paper existence until they  too are in possession of a budget allowing them  to undertake the surveys and the work of informa-  tion, consultation and sometimes practical action,  which our Organization urgently requires of them.  Additional resources for the National Commissions  are more than ever necessary when the Secretariat’s  budget remains static—and this at a moment  when the growing number of States Members  opens up new possibilities for the Organization  and at the same time increases its responsibilities.     [563] The time has come to redouble our endea-  vours to embark resolutely upon constructive work.  The stage of growth reached by the Organization,  the experience it has acquired in these early years,  the documentation it has assembled and the surveys  “.  it has carried out with regard to numerous ques-  tions, added to the network of non-governmental  international organizations which collaborate with  us, place Unesco now and henceforward in a  position to undertake tasks on a scale beyond that  of the advice, the suggestions, the token services,  to which it has hitherto been confined. I mean  tasks which, in a given field and for a particular  area, would involve a transformation of existing  conditions. Shall we for ever be content to be a  mere laboratory of model techniques? The  peoples of the earth do not respond to formulae,  but to achievements. And if international colla-  boration is to appear ever more desirable to States,  before all it must show that it is effective. This  battle for effectiveness, in which the whole future  of our Organization is engaged, we can never hope  to win with the sole resources of the Secretariat  on their present scale. On the other hand, unless  the National Commissions develop very vigorously,  there is no certainty that the participation of  Member States at the national level will make itself  felt in time to avert general disillusionment. It  may therefore be necessary to try out fresh  methods, committing Unesco’s collective action to       more immediate work in connexion with specific  problems of international importance  [54] The work of the Secretariat, as defined in  the programme, answers in the main to a perma-  nent need for intellectual co-operation in the  exchange of information, comparative research  and the dissemination of knowledge. As such,  and with the help of the National Commissions  and non-governmental international organizations,  it makes up a system of basic services which an  institution dedicated to the promotion of the  intellectual and moral fellowship of man could not  rightly reduce. But besides these permanent  services, which, though in the long run certainly  effective, are slow and indirect in their results,  there may be room for collective undertakings by  Member States—along the lines worked out for  technical assistance for economic development—  for the solution of certain problems which may  arise in a particularly acute form in one or another  part of the world and which present an obstacle  to the general progress of mankind, if not a poten-  tial threat to peace itself. As in the case of tech-  nical assistance, we should have to draw up a  programme of specific objectives to be realized in  a given number of years. Participation in this  scheme would be entirely voluntary and States  could contribute to it in the form of money,  supplies or services; it would further be under-  stood that States directly benefiting from the  scheme would agree to fulfil the conditions neces-  sary for the success of this international assistance.  Such schemes would benefit from the services of  the Secretariat as a whole, and from any outside  help that might be forthcoming. All these efforts  would have to be co-ordinated and combined for  the purposes of a concrete undertaking, and no  longer be scattered, as they so often are today,  over different specialized fields of work. In this  way Unesco would give proof of unity in action,  and at the same time realize its true vocation. In  any case, for my part I do not see any other way  in which the Organization can advance from the  stage of investigation and stimulation to the stage  of practical accomplishment, so long as its ordinary  budget remains at the present figure or until  Member States play a very much larger part in  the carrying out of the programme.  [66] I have spoken of the financial effort that  devolves on Member States. There is also the  moral effort without which nothing can be  achieved. Participation in our work cannot consist  solely in paying a subscription into the Secre-  tariat’s account. Without the moral contribution  of every people, the financial contribution by their  governments would be ineffectual. Can we fail  to see that the spiritual conditions in which Unesco  works have changed since 1945? The breath of  human fellowship that we felt about us when we  met in London has steadily weakened. A dark  cloud of anxiety has veiled the high hopes that  inspired us when, while the nations were joined  in the last battles for liberation, we laid the moral  and intellectual foundations of permanent co-  operation in the cause of peace.  [56] In several respects the situation today is  worse than that which faced the world at the end  of the first world war. Compare the obstacles  which the 1918 Armistice imposed upon victors  and vanquished, with the barriers that the present  situation has raised not only between the enemies,  but between the allies of yesterday! Never, in  time of peace, has travel been so necessary and  physically so easy, yet administratively so cumber-  some and difficult. The frontiers, closed with  barbed wire in the war, are still dotted with  firmly-entrenched customs posts and wearisome  controls of currency and passports. Before, it  was the armaments merchants who were suspect;  now even scholars and poets are regarded with  mistrust. Everywhere we see conflict, or provo-  cation to conflict, between ideologies which con-  sider themselves irreconcilable. We are trying to  remove from children’s history books a few ten-  dentious pages, a few prejudiced versions of  events. Yet we show no particular alarm when  we see grown-up people applauding in the news-  papers and on the screen, in books or on the stage,  everything that flatters nationalist self-esteem,  even though it must wound the answering sensi-  bilities of other nations. Here, at this Conference,  we are recommending close co-operation between  the Member States. But are we prepared solemnly  to acknowledge that this co-operation, if it is to  bear fruit, must be total, and that co-operation in  things of the spirit demands the spirit of co-  operation everywhere?  [67] Because of the fields in which it operates,  and of the nature of its methods, Unesco, in  carrying out its mission of peace, must mainly  focus upon the future. The deeper it enters into  its tasks the more time will it take to show results:  for habits of thought and feeling call for patient  and difficult adaptation. But are we sure that  we have all the time we need? That is a question  we cannot escape from. And even if peace is  maintained, is it fitting that we should not have  helped in maintaining it? The future is the child  of the present. If we stand aside today, we shall  forfeit the authority to win acceptance for our  ideal tomorrow.  [568] As I said to you in Beirut when accepting  the position to which you had elected me, it is  our duty to make of Unesco the conscience of the  United Nations, and conscience can never stand  aside from the main streams of history. Therefore       Unesco must associate more closely in the work  of the United Nations. Admittedly, its strictly  technical sphere is different from that of the poli-  tical organization at Lake Success of which it is a  Specialized Agency. But that should not prevent  it from taking its part today in the defence of  peace—remembering that never before have edu-  cation, science, culture and mass communication  been such important factors in political action and  practice.  [59] It is said that Leonardo da Vinci once  uttered these despairing words: ‘Hate sees more  clearly than love.” Let us not be defeated by such  pessimism, against which Leonardo himself so  ardently fought. Were not the smiles of the  Gioconda and of St. Anne in the Louvre painted  after he had said this? We ask ourselves today  what suffering he had to endure in order to give  being to those two smiles, which have in them  such infinite wisdom and forgiveness. Nol—for  Leonardo, hate was not more clairvoyant than  goodness. Nor will it be so for us. After all, if  civilization has continued it is because, like the  smiles of those unforgettable faces, every culture  contains the message of a hope that has been  tempered and purified by grief.  [60] When I consider the troubles of our con-  temporary world, in turn avid, then repentant,  [ am reminded of Raphael in Balzac’s story La  Peau de Chagrin. lt is the account of a man  consumed by a burning impatience for power and  fortune. An antiquary makes him a present of a  wild ass’s skin which has the power of fulfilling  every wish of him who possesses it—everything,  that is, except life itself. For the talisman takes  its revenge: it shrinks as each desire is satisfied,  and so measures at each instant the time which  is left to him to live. Let us beware, gentlemen,  lest this tale become a symbol of twentieth century  man. Never has science been so docile to man’s  biddings. Though wide-awake, we are living a  vast fairy tale. Yet are we not constantly in  danger of finding ourselves once again the slaves  of our power? What profits us our mastery of  nature if we cannot learn to master ourselves?  The hero in Balzac’s story had to admit this, when  he felt his end approaching—his days shortened  by the talisman, of which he was the prisoner,  though he thought himself its master. “Power”,  he then exclaimed, “makes greater only the great.”  To be truly great, man must first break down the  barriers of egoism and hatred, of falsehood and  injustice. Unless it is accompanied by social  progress, material progress carries with it an  immense danger. And how can we imagine social  progress without a fair chance for all of an educa-  tion that liberates each one, without the consola-  tion of a culture in which each one can find his
6  happiness? Unesco’s very name indissolubly links  the trinity of science, culture and education. The  realities to which those words correspond require  towards all three of them an equal loyalty. In a  world from which science were missing, culture  would again become subservient to magic, and  education would decline into an automatic and  tyrannical machine. On the other hand, in a  world where progress depended solely upon science  —where education lacked the influence of human-  ism, and culture was without warmth or vitality,  where power would end by outgrowing the capa-  city of the mind that controlled it—the inventor  would be merely the victim of his inventions.  Vanquished by his own victories, conquered by  his conquests, Man, placed between the tyranny  of technical triumph and the responsibility of  freedom, would no longer know how to choose.  [61] Happily, humanity is under no compulsion  to abdicate in order to continue its onward march.  The peace we aspire to would be a poor pretence  if we thought to build it upon the repudiation of  science, the restriction of teaching, or the placing  of culture in leading strings. On the contrary,  Unesco is fighting for a fellowship of free men,  a fellowship of human beings capable of full self-  expression and genuine self-realization. It is  only with men thus worthy of the name of men  that we shall be enable to assure a true peace.  May your debates, gentlemen, be inspired by the  ideal of such a peace!  [62] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] Gentlemen, your applause makes it  unnecessary for me to convey the thanks of the  Conference to the Director-General. I shall there-  fore call upon the first speaker, the delegate of  Greece.  [63] Professor A. PHOTIADES (Greece) — Fel-  low delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Quid vult  concursus ad amnem? This is the question which  we are again asking ourselves at our Fifth Confer-  ence upon entering these historic precincts where  we have always, wether on the banks of the Arno  or on those of the Tiber, met with Italian hospita-  lity. Many of my countrymen enjoyed this hospi-  tality before and after the days of Lorenzo de  Medici and it is a historical fact that in return  they contributed to the development of culture  according to our tradition, whether here, in Rome,  in Venice, in Milan, Bologna or in Messina.  Today, in different circumstances following so  generous an invitation, the Greek Government and  our delegation want to express their warmest  thanks to the Government of the Republic of Italy  and to our numerous friends here, the aristoxenoi,  as Petrarch called Lello Stefani. Let us remember         that Petrarch wrote that nature asserts her prero-  gative of fashioning great souls in every land and  under every sky, and let us believe that this truth  underlies all Unesco’s concursus. We of the  Greek delegation consider that it is our duty to be  imbued with Petrarch’s feelings. We do not  forget how he reacted when receiving from  Nicholas Sygerus, in 1354, the first copy of Homer  which passed from the East to the West. We do  not forget how the sacrifices of many Italians of  that period helped to bring the light of culture to  the West which nowadays bears the torch of  human civilization more steadfastly. But we also  remember, and more especially here, that it 1s to  Petrarch’s efforts, more than to any of his pre-  decessors, that we owe the fact that the culture  of the Renaissance became a living force in the  development of Europe. It is the same spirit  which we are seeking in this Florentine forum,  where we do not come to express divergencies or  to find adjustments and rich compromises, but  bring with us the conviction that we shall learn  from our discussions how to improve our under-  standing of other aspects than our own for what  concerns education, other ways than the ones we  know for a wider improvement of scientific know-  ledge, and other behaviour than our own for what  we may consider a genuine culture. In this way  we intend to contribute to the search for a com-  mon factor in our final decisions. We shall keep  a spiritual objective in view, with independence of  thought and with a conviction of our inter-  dependence on each one of our sister delegations  and on the whole they form, which is the very soul  of Unesco. It is in the same spirit that we intend  to examine the Director-General’s Report. Crit-  icism does not mean fault-finding. Its main  business is to penetrate below the surface of  things, to apprehend their true significance and to  appraise their just value. This intellectual faculty  has evolved from the time when we were preparing  the Constitution of our Organization, and I cannot  find a better guarantee for the future of Unesco  than this mutual comprehension which constitutes  the essence of a wider sympathy between us all.  [64] The Director-General has mentioned Dante's  words on the necessity of the development of intel-  ligence throughout the whole of humanity, but we  must not take Dante’s words as having a meaning  coinciding with modern nationalism with its  materialistic outlook. Intelligence in Dante's  mind had a meaning which Benedetto Croce  admirably expounded through the conception of  the spiritual nature of reality, and it is in this  wider field that we natives of the Mediterranean  would like to see more definite gestures coming  from Unesco. How can we understand the word  “masses” which has often cropped up in the midst
68  of our Conferences if we forget what Croce quoted  from a letter from Lanfrey to Maxime de Camp:  “On a systématiquement tué l'homme au profit des  masses. Nous avons à relever l’âme humaine.” ?  We would ask therefore for a more accurate  appreciation of the idea of masses in terms of  people, and in the way in which Giuseppe Mazzini  understood it, a distinction which Benedetto Croce  had so well determined. It is by his conception  that we shall better learn how to avoid uniformity  or equalization of means or standardization of  process, and that we shall have a clearer under-  standing of quality in our very wide activities  instead of being impressed only by problems of  quantity.  [65] It is much more on ethical and spiritual  lines that our Organization must play its proper  rôle in the march of progress. In fact, it is by  fostering the recognized moral order, the rule of  law, and by improving the general outlook of both  young and adult persons on the meaning and end  of coercive measures, that we can improve men’s  characters, because men’s characters are the best  pillars of the temple of peace. How can we obtain  sound results if we have no closer co-operation  with the spiritual and moral guides of the people  and how may we hope to attain our object if we  do not pay more attention to youth, the men and  women of tomorrow, the youth on which such  terrible blows were and still are systematically  inflicted.  [66] These are the fundamental priorities which  must lie below the surface of our activities, for  which we would like to see our Organization adopt  a straightforward policy emanating from our pro-  gramme, notwithstanding the difficulties that we  have to face, with the moral courage which is  necessary for those who do not like to hide them-  selves behind their finger. Without this moral  courage, no education, no culture and no science  can be claimed.  [67] After taking in hand his tremendous task  which in reality began in the first months of last  vear, the Director-General, who inherited from the  Beirut Conference a Programme difficult to apply,  simplified it with praiseworthy dexterity, and with  the help of the Executive Board and a better grasp  of Unesco’s mission on the part of the Paris  Conference of September 1949, the Director-  General, with his Secretariat, accomplished the  impossible. We owe him our deep gratitude.  From our point of view, three distinct courses  were, and still are, open to him. First, concen-  trate Unesco’s work specifically on outstanding  projects chosen from the whole, second, decen-  tralize the turmoil by increasing the work of the  National Commissions; and third, demand special             credits in order to have a freer hand for a signal  decision of this Conference.  [68] The main problem of Unesco is to find the  necessary equilibrium between these three policies,  which depend on time and space, namely, on the  actual economic difficulties and the geographical  situation of each one of our Member States.  [69] The first policy, namely more concentration  of specific projects in a world-wide organization,  is very difficult in the beginning of the life of  Unesco, especially so if we want to increase the  interest of the peoples of our Member States, who  have heterogeneous problems to solve, and in fact,  as the Director-General mentioned already, we do  not know always the real problems of each Member  State.  [70] The second, namely the decentralization of  Unesco’s efforts and promotion of the work of  National Commissions, 1s feasible, though closely  related to the means which are at the disposal of  the Ministries of Education through state budgets.  Let us be frank and say that it is a long-term  policy, and to decentralize our activities is  obviously to have already the right persons in the  national centres of Unesco. 1 believe that if we  wait for the right evolution of National Commis-  sions by themselves in many of our countries we  shall lose precious time. The representative of the  United Nations, Mr. Laugier, reminded us yester-  day in the most moving way of the real situation  that we have to face, and which we must bear in  mind during this Conference.  [71] The third point, namely special credits for  paramount and world-wide activity, would be  possible even through other sources than our  budget. A signal decision for action would inspire  our people after being accepted by all of us. We  intend to discuss this matter further during our  deliberations, and we definitely think that in our  present times it is to this last solution that we  must turn more of our attention, granting our  Director-General our confidence concerning the  ways and means by which he will give our
69  Organization a definite new impulse. The United  States’ initiatives for great projects were salutary  in many fields. Let us hope that with poor means  our Organization will be able to imitate their  enormous post-war moral contribution to man-  kind, the contribution to more than civilization,  which 1 may be permitted to call welfare civiliza-  tion, a civilization deriving from a better appreci-  ation of spiritual and moral values. The work  from the first days of the conception of Unesco,  to which we gave all our affection and trust, has  to be expanded if this Organization is to be worthy  of the hopes of any cultured group and of every  Member State and of a suffering world for a civil-  ized peace.  [72] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] As the next speaker, the Yugoslav  representative, has announced that his address will  be a fairly long one, I think it would be better  to suspend the meeting until this afternoon, when  the delegates of the following countries will speak:  Yugoslavia, Denmark, Netherlands, Switzerland,  Lebanon, Italy, Canada, Belgium.  [73] As the General Conference has accepted the  recommendations of the Executive Board con-  cerning the organization of the work of the Session  transmitted to it by the General Committee, I draw  its attention to the following resolution on page 8  of document 5C/BUR/1:  Member States are requested to submit two copies in  writing, not later than the close of the third working  day of the Session (the evening of 24 May), of any  new proposals, draft resolutions or amendments in-  volving a substantial modification of the Programme  and the Budget Estimates for 1951.  I therefore invite delegations desiring to present  new proposals or amendments involving a sub-  stantial modification of the programme and budget  estimates to hand them in to the Secretary of the  Conference as soon as possible.  The meeting rose at 1.50 p.m.