2 ‘   -  _      TWENTY-THIRD MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Consideration of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I) Rev., Part II].
4. Cultural Activities (continued).  SECTION 4.4 (Historica MONUMENTS) (continued).  Draft international conventions for the protection  of historic monuments and art treasures, sub-  mitted by Italy and Mexico [documents 5C/11,
5C/11 Add. 1, 5C/22 and 5C/22 Add.].  [1] The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  decide whether the draft conventions submitted  by the Italian and Mexican delegations should be  referred to the Director-General for consideration  and later circulated to Member States.  [2] In connexion with document 5C/11, Mr. PI-  LOTTI (Italy) explained that the draft had been  framed by the Italian Fine Arts Association, in  consultation with the National Commission, on  the basis of another draft prepared by the Inter-  national Museums Office in 1936. The draft was  designed to secure the preservation of historic  monuments and cultural treasures, both movable  and immovable, in the event of armed conflict.  Mr. Pilotti recalled that, at the end of the 1914-
1918 War, the Netherlands Government had con-  vened a committee of technical experts at The  Hague, which had drawn up the “Hague Rules”,  on which any later draft conventions were to be  based. Moreover, at the beginning of the last  war, in 1940, the Netherlands Government had  approached other governments with a suggestion  for a convention to secure the preservation of  historic monuments: this scheme had not borne  fruit, owing to the rapid development of events  thereafter.  The draft convention submitted by the Italian  delegation was accompanied by a draft resolution  (document 5C/11 Add. 1), requesting the Director-  General to submit the draft convention to  Member States. Mr. Pilotti said that the Secre-  tariat had already done excellent work in con-  nexion with the preservation of works of art, by  preparing a draft declaration for signature by  Unesco’s Member States (document 5C/PRG/6).
413  Mr. Roger Seypoux (france)  [3] Mr. de ICAZA (Mexico) stated that the  Mexican delegation wished to add to the inter-  national convention it had proposed (documents
5C/22 and 5C/22 Add.) the following draft re-  solution:  The General Conference authorizes the Director-  General to consider an international agreement by  which the signatory States would undertake the  following commitments:
(1) To issue cards to tourists in order to secure for  them free access to public museums and monuments  on payment of a single fee;
(2) To employ the funds thus obtained for the  protection of works of art and historic monuments and  for the establishment and improvement of museums;  and
(3) To transmit to Unesco a sum in proportion to  the amount obtained by the sale of these cards, for  the purpose of establishing an international fund to  assist in the implementation of the recommendation  put forward by the Committee of Experts on Sites and  Monuments of Art and History.  |4] The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission  that it was not required to discuss the drafts sub-  mitted to it in detail. It simply had to decide  whether they should be referred to the Director-  General for study.  [5] Mr. LARREA (Ecuador) supported the draft  conventions submitted by the Italian delegation,  which met the requirements of the moment. He  also thought that many points in the Mexican  proposal deserved serious consideration.  [6] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) pointed out that, in its comments on the  Programme (document 5C/5 (I), Rev., page 88),  the Board had proposed that the General Con-  ference should draw up a priority list of the prin-  cipal problems on which it wished the Secretariat  to prepare such conventions. Sir John noted that  the Italian and Mexican delegations had gone  much further, since they themselves had prepared  drafts. The Executive Board had, however, in-  tended that the General Conference should not  discuss the wording of the conventions in ques-  tion, but should decide whether to submit them  to the Director-General for study.  [7] Dr. GIORDANO (Uruguay) said that his        delegation gave its full support to the Italian  proposal.  [8] Mr. CAIN (France) thought that both the  drafts submitted to the Commission were equally  important. The Mexican proposal, however,  raised a new question, requiring long and dif-  ficult study, but which might produce very  valuable results. The Italian proposal was more  immediately practicable, being based on the very  detailed work which had been carried out by the  International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation  and by the meeting of experts at The Hague.  Mr. Cain entirely favoured the latter proposal.  [9] Professor DURING (Sweden) also supported  the Italian proposal.  Mr. BOLLA (Switzerland) was likewise in  favour of the Italian draft, which would very  suitably supplement the conventions prepared in  Geneva the previous year for the protection of  persons. He was also sympathetic to the Mexican  draft, but it seemed to him to be less urgent than  the Italian proposal.  Mr. VERHOEVEN (Netherlands) supported the  Italian proposal, but wondered whether it would  not be advisable to combine the two.  [10] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt sure that  the Italian delegation would have no objection to  the Secretariat's preparing a single combined text  containing the best of both proposals, and cir-  culating it to Member States.  He pointed out that both proposals would affect  the budget. The Italian one would necessitate  consulting experts, particularly a military expert  and a jurist; the Mexican one involved establish-  ing contacts with the International Tourist Associ-  ation and consulting a legal expert, entailing ex-  penses estimated at $500.  Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) had no objection to the  amalgamation of the two drafts.  [11] Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) mentioned that he  had received instructions from his Government to  give warm support to the Italian proposal. He  had no objection, however, to considering other  proposals, and entirely agreed with the Director-  General on the procedure to be followed.  [12] It was agreed that the Mexican proposal  should be sent to the Director-General for study,  with a view to its transmission to Member States.  [13] The CHAIRMAN pointed out a slight dif-  ference in the wording of the two draft resolu-  tions: the Italian text laid down that the Director-  General should be instructed to submit the draft  convention to Member States, while the Mexican  text requested him first to study the document  and transmit it to Member States.
414  [14] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought the  Italian delegation would not object to a revision  of its texts by the Drafting Committee, as it was  to be amalgamated with the Mexican draft.  [15] It was decided to refer both the Italian and  Mexican proposals to the Drafting Committee for  combination along the lines suggested in the  discussion.  BunceT TasrLe III.4.E.  page 185].
5C/5 (ID, [document  Adopted without discussion.  LIBRARIES AND DOCUMENTATION SERVICES (4.5).  Item 4.51. Draft resolution jointly presented by  France and Switzerland [document 5C/26].  [16] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said the Board was favourably disposed  towards this suggestion, but would nevertheless  prefer the Director-General to be auhorized to  consider the question from the point of view of  its budgetary consequences.  [17] Mr. CAIN (France) did not believe that  such assistance would involve additional expendi-  ture, since provision was already made under  item 4.51 for work on Unesco’s part in prepara-  tion for a meeting of representatives of various  associations.  [18] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that item 4.51  related to a joint meeting in which a number of  associations would take part; the meeting con-  templated in document 5C/26 would probably not  coincide with it. He therefore thought that the  adoption of the Franco-Swiss proposal would af-  fect the budget.  The French delegation withdrew its proposal  in 5C/26.  Item 4.51 was adopted without modification.‘  Items 4.52 and 4.521.  [19] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that a slight  amendment would have to be made in the French  text of item 4.52, which should read: “Biblio-  thèques ex-allemandes en Italie” instead of  “d'Italie”.  [20] Professor SYME (United Kingdom) an-  nounced that his delegation would withdraw its  proposed amendments to items 4.52 and 4.521  (document 5C/104), in favour of the amendments  to the same items proposed by the United States  delegation (document 5C/107).
1. In final form: Resol. 4.511.                                       |  |  |  |  [21] Dr. STODDARD (United States of Amer-  ica), submitting the draît amendments in doc-  ument 5C/107, mentioned that his delegation  wished to make two changes in the new item 4.52  contained in that document. In the English ver-  sion, the word “parties” should replace “author-  ities”, and the words “without prejudice to the  legal situation of these establishments” should  replace “pending a satisfactory permanent estab-  lishment”.  [22] In reply to a question from the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL, Dr. STODDARD said that, when the  American delegation used the word “parties”, it  had in mind the German Government.  [23] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out  that a very special problem would then arise:  could the Unesco Secretariat consult States which  were not members of the Organization?  [24] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to an  alternative text for these items, submitted by the  Italian delegation (document 5C/108).  Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) explained that the Italian  delegation had proposed the amendment in ques-  tion because of the difficulties which were arising  pending the conclusion of a peace treaty. He  mentioned, however, that his delegation was  prepared to support the United States proposal as  amended.  [25] Professor DURING (Sweden) thought the  question was very important but raised a difficult  problem. It was a delicate matter for a non-  political organization like Unesco to undertake  negotiations with “interested parties”. Professor  Diiring felt, however, that Unesco might embark  on such a course, and he was therefore in favour  of the United States proposal. He thought the  Director-General should be authorized to under-  take negotiations and should enjoy very wide  discretion for the purpose.  [26] Mr. BOLLA (Switzerland) was in favour of  any proposal enabling Unesco to take immediate  action to secure the reopening of the ex-German  libraries in Italy. It was a disadvantage to stu-  dents to be unable to consult those libraries, and  any delay might mean that such valuable pro-  perty continued to remain in jeopardy. The  Swiss delegation was not competent to pronounce  on a political matter, but thought that Unesco  should act as intermediary and facilitate a solu-  tion without itself intervening directly. Those  concerned should remember that, in the field in  question, the needs of culture should take pre-  cedence over any other considerations.  [27] Mr. CAIN (France) agreed with the Swiss  delegate. Unesco’s work in connexion with those  libraries had been very much appreciated and  no-one would decline to consider fresh negotia-  tions.  The French delegate was anxious, however,  that any motion passed should not differ too  widely from the Executive Board's proposal,  which had been drafted after a long and tho-  rough study of the question.  [28] In reply to Dr. ZEISSL (Austria), Mr. THO-  MAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities)  said that: (1) the reopening and maintenance  of the libraries would require approximately  $60,000; (2) no money had been spent on those  libraries in 1949, as the Beirut Conference had  hoped that it would be possible to reach an  agreement. A grant-in-aid of $5,000 had, how-  ever, been made, and $13,000 had been sent to  the International Institute in Rome as a con-  tribution to its minimum expenses; (3) a sum of  $4,800 for 1951 had been proposed to the Union  of Rome Institutes to help it maintain the  libraries in question. The United States proposal  would mean putting the latter sum at the  Director-General’s disposal.  [29] Professor SYME (United Kingdom) thought  that, in any case, it was important that some-  thing should be done for those libraries. The  legal position could not be settled for the time  being, but the Director-General should be author-  ized to establish contact with the institutions  concerned instead of with the German Govern-  ment.  [30] Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) was in  favour of Mr. Cain’s proposal that the wording  suggested by the Executive Board for item 4.52  should, as far as possible, be maintained.  [31] Mr. VERHOEVEN (Netherlands) agreed  with Professor Syme that contact should be  established with the institutions concerned.  [32] Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) stressed the need for  immediate action to give access to the libraries  in question. The situation was becoming a  public scandal, although Unesco was not in any  way responsible for it. Certain works from the  Austrian Institute, for instance, were immobilized  in those libraries. That point should be borne in  mind, moreover, when any definite action was  taken.  [33] Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  felt it necessary, in view of the remarks made by  certain delegations, to make it clear that his dele-  cation did not intend to include the Bonn  Government among the “interested parties”.  [34] The CHAIRMAN said that the word           cu   H s   Tal  a  -  =   F i t   “4   -  A C   >   i  |  e s   a  ll }
4  We   [i dl   g  si p  E T   iy   N A T   a   A  Ë  a;   "   “parties” would in any case have been interpreted  in the sense of “authorities at present in command  in Germany”, and, for the time being would refer  to the Allied High Commission.  [35] Mr. CAIN (France) asked that any vote  taken on the draft amendments to items 4.52 and
4.521 should deal solely with the question of  principle, subject to rewording by the Drafting  Committee.  [36] In reply to a -question from Dr. JAMALI  (Iraq), Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that the libraries in  question were the Hertziana Library in Rome, the  German Archaeological Institutes in Rome and  Florence, and the former History Institute in  Rome. At the moment, those establishments  were unable to carry on their work because they  had no money. The purpose Unesco had in view  was to make them once more accessible to stu-  dents and scholars.  [37] Mr. MOHR (Norway) agreed with Mr. Cain  that the wording suggested by the Executive  Board for item 4.52 was very good and required  no amendment.  [38] Dr. STODDARD (United States of Amer-  ica) emphasized that any decision regarding  property involved questions of law and that the  Director-General could not, by himself, settle  such questions.  The United States amendment to item 4.52, as  contained in document 5C/107 was adopted by
27 votes to 6.  [39] Mr. CAIN (France) proposed that the fol-  lowing sentence be added to the new text:  Pending the result of these negotiations, the libraries  shall continue to be administered internationally by  the Union of the Institutes, under the auspices of  Unesco.  [40] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out  that the mention of “under the auspices of  Unesco” implied that the proposal would have  some effect on the budget.  [41] Mr. CAIN (France) believed that a certain  sum had been included in the 1950 budget for  those libraries and was still available.  [42] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that the sum had  appeared in the budget for 1949, not for 1950,  and that no money was therefore available.  [43] Mr. CAIN (France) maintained his amend-  ment, though he deleted the reference to Unesco’s  auspices.  Mr. Cain's amendment was seconded by the  delegates of the NETHERLANDS, YUGOSLAVIA  and URUGUAY.  [44] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) considered that  Unesco could hardly state who should be made  responsible for the administration of institutions  whose fate was dependent on the peace treaty.  Mr. CAIN (France) had in mind only an  interim solution.  [45] Dr. ZEISSL (Austria) emphasized that,  since the ex-German libraries were administered  by the Union of Institutes, the Commission was  not called upon to express an opinion on that  point.  [46] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) se-  conded Mr. Cain's amendment, but thought that  the word “satisfactory” in item 4.521 should be  replaced by “final”.  Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) thought it would be  better to omit the word “satisfactory” entirely.  [47] The CHAIRMAN suggested  Mr. Cain's proposed amendment,  “pending the result of” be replaced by:  Commission recommends that . . .”  Mr. Cain’s proposal, thus modified, was  adopted by 25 votes.  The texts of resolutions 4.52 and 4.521 pro-  posed by the United States delegation in doc-  ument 5C/107, were adopted, subject to the fore-  going amendments and to revision by the Drafting  Committee, by 23 votes to 1.2  that, in  the words  “The  SECTION 4.53 [LOAN AND PURCHASE OF  PUBLICATIONS).  (EXCHANGE,  Item 4.531.  Adopted without discussion.”
632.  [48] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that  the Executive Board’s text did not make it quite  clear that the Secretariat’s work would be to  arrange for contact between centres. He sug-  gested an addition along those lines.  Item J  =   [49] Mr. BOLLA (Switzerland) recalled that the  centres set up by the International Federation of  Library Associations already arranged for the  international loan of books. He hoped that re-  solution 4.532 would make it clear that inter-  national loans were conducted under the auspices  of that Federation and called for a general ob-  servance of the principle that Unesco should in  its various activities collaborate with international  non-governmental organizations.     . In final form: Resol. 4.512 and 4.5121.  In final form: Resol. 4.521. RO   |                                         Item 4.532 was adopted, subject to revision by  the Drafting Committee.‘  [60] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) felt there was no need  for maintaining the proposal presented by the  Italian delegation in document 5C/38, as it was  covered by the amendment to item 4.532 re-  quested by the Director-General.  Item 4.54.  [51] Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) described  his country’s attitude towards Unesco coupons.  Yugoslavia was in urgent need of books and  scientific equipment and found equal difficulty  in obtaining French francs and United States dol-  lars. The coupon scheme would therefore be of  no use to Yugoslavia unless it could purchase the  coupons in its national currency.  [52] Mr. E. J. CARTER (Libraries Division) ex-  plained that the Secretariat was continuing its  effort to facilitate the purchase of coupons in  local currency.  Item 4.54 was adopted without change.”  SECTION 4.55 (BIBLIOGRAPHY AND DOCUMENTATION).  Item 4.551.  Adopted without discussion.’  Item 4.85611.  [63] Mr. CAIN (France) presented a draft re-  solution (document 5C/105) prepared by the  French delegation, in agreement with the Swiss  delegation, to secure co-ordination in the imple-  mentation of Unesco’s various bibliographical  activities.  [54] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized  that, while that resolution had no direct budget-  ary implication, it would considerably increase  the work of the Libraries Division: it would be  difficult to find a place for it in the 1951 Pro-  gramme, as it would not be covered by any  budget item.  [65] Mr. CAIN (France) accordingly suggested  that the sum of $1 should be set aside for the  resolution.  [56] John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) was against the adoption of such a reso-  lution, as it would create a dangerous precedent.  He urged that the programme should remain as  brief as possible.  [67] Mr. BOLLA  Sir  (Switzerland) supported
1. In final form: Resol. 4.522 and 4.5221.
2. In final form: Resol. 4.523.
3. In final form: Resol. 4.531.
41  Ny  Mr. Cain's proposal. He thought that there was  no field in which confusion might prove more  dangerous than in bibliography, and that it was  important to obtain the assurance that the  Libraries Division of Unesco would go into the  matter in 1951.  [58] The CHAIRMAN was of the opinion that  the text could be inserted in the work plan for  cultural activities, without being made into a  specific resolution. Agreed.  [569] The CHAIRMAN presented a draft resolu-  tion jointly submitted by the French and Swiss  delegations, in connexion with the universal  decimal classification system (document 5C/60).  [60] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) felt that, although such a resolution had  no budgetary implications, it would mean a need-  less expansion of the Programme.  [61] The proposal of the French and Swiss  delegations was seconded by the delegates of  BRAZIL, NETHERLANDS and PERSIA, and  adopted by 21 votes.!  Item 4.511 was adopted without discussion.”  J Items 4.5612 and 4.5613.  Adopted without discussion.?®  SECTION 4.56 (PuBLiC LIBRARIES).  Items 4.567 and 4.562.  Adopted, without discussion.*  [62] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) re-  called that the United Kingdom delegation had  presented a draft resolution regarding the pre-  paration of a handbook on public libraries (doc-  ument 5C/10, point 2). He stressed that the  United Kingdom delegation attached great im-  portance to Unesco’s work for libraries. It had  been pleased to note that Unesco published spe-  cialized handbooks to assist librarians, but it also  considered it essential to issue a handbook setting  forth the principles on which public libraries  should be based. It was merely intended that a  handbook should be prepared in 1951, to be ready  for publication in 1952.
163] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered the  United Kingdom's proposal excellent, and paid  tribute to the careful distinction made between  preparation and publication, in order to spread  expense over two years. He estimated that the
1. In final form: Resol. 4.532.
2. In final form: Resol. 4.5311.
3. In final form: Resol. 4.533 and 4.534.
4. In final form: Resol. 4.541 and 4.542.     preparation would cost $2,250 and the publica-  tion $5,000.  Nevertheless, he pointed out that provision had  already been made for additional expenditure  under other chapters of the budget, and feared  lest the Conference might be unable to keep  within the $8,200,000 ceiling, if it went too far  in that direction.  He thought that at the next session of the  Conference, the question of libraries might be  classified among the three or four major concerns  of Unesco, and that the allocation of larger funds  for that purpose might then be considered.  [64] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) expressed disapproval of Mr. Thompson's  proposal on the grounds that it would burden the  Programme.  [65] Senator PECSON (Philippines) shared the  views of the United Kingdom delegate regarding  the need for preparing a handbook on public  libraries. It would be most helpful to the Philip-  pines, where a comprehensive scheme for the  opening of libraries had been set on foot. But in  her opinion its preparation should be left to the  initiative of each country, as problems differed  with each region.  [66] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) with-  drew his proposal on account of its budgetary  implications, but urged the Secretariat to take the  method into consideration.  BunceT TasrLe III.4.F [document 5C/5 (II),  pages 190 and 191].  Adopted without discussion.  SECTION 4.6 (COPYRIGHT).  Item 4.61.
167] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) said his delegation  considered it useless to publish two bulletins on  copyright; it might be wise to combine the two  existing bulletins.  [68] Mr. BOLLA (Switzerland) supported this  proposal. He suggested an agreement between  the Berne Union, which published Copyright, and  Unesco, with a view to the amalgamation of the  two bulletins to form the official copyright organ,  one part being set aside for Unesco and the other  for the Union. The bulletin would be published  in French, English and even in Spanish. The  funds provided for the publication by Unesco of  the International Copyright Bulletin would be  kept at the same level and used for the publica-  tion of pamphlets on copyright.  [69] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of
418  Cultural Activities) thought the suggestions put  forward by Mr. Pilotti and Mr. Bolla were valuable.  Nevertheless, the proposal should be considered  carefully in collaboration with the executive  organs of the Berne Union. It was not for the  Commission to take a decision regarding the pos-  sibility of amalgamating the two bulletins.  Contact had been established between Unesco and  the Berne Union, and it would be necessary to  await a reply from the latter. If the negotiations  were successful, they would also be proof of the  co-ordination between Unesco and the Union.  [70] Mr. BOLLA (Switzerland) explained that he  had never contemplated an immediate fusion of  the two bulletins, but merely an investigation of  the possibility.  [71] Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) said that the matter  raised by Mr. Pilotti and Mr. Bolla had already  been considered by the Mexico Conference, which  had discussed the inauguration of the Copyright  Bulletin.  [72] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) queried  the expediency of the proposals. Unesco was  intended to be a link between various bodies  concerned with copyright and had a definite duty  to fulfil in publishing its Bulletin.  Item 4.61 was adopted without change.‘  Items 4.62 and 4.621. Draft amendment pre-  sented by Switzerland [document 5C/101].  [73] Mr. BOLLA (Switzerland) drew attention  to a typing error in the second line of the French  version of document 5C/101, which should read  “dans un but d’entente” instead of “dans un but  d'attente”.  He urged that the decision regarding the con-  vening of an inter-governmental conference to  frame an international copyright convention  should not be taken at the Fifth, but at the Sixth  Session of the General Conference, which would  have to decide on the advisability of such à  meeting in the light of the replies of governments  to the “request for suggestions”.  The replies of governments would, moreover,  have to be considered in collaboration with the  Copyright Union and the Literary and Artistic  Union, which would be able to offer Unesco  valuable assistance. The Literary and Artistic  Union had itself expressed a wish to assist in that  study.  [74] Professor DURING (Sweden) endorsed  Mr. Bolla’s remarks, and thought that the pro-  posed preliminary work would not lessen the
1. In final form: Resol. 4.61.                                  interest being shown in a universal copyright  convention.  [75] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) paid  tribute to the Secretariat’s work in preparing the  draft Convention, but wondered whether the  “advice of an international expert committee”  would not involve additional expenditure.  [761 Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that, since the  Secretariat was apparently unable to draw up a  draft convention without the assistance of experts  of the various governments, and since it was also  wished to save money, interested governments  might include a copyright expert in their delega-  tions to the Sixth Session of the General Confer-  ence. The meeting of experts could then be held  concurrently with the General Conference and  would not involve any special expenditure.  [77] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought the  Swiss proposal had been excellently drafted, and  he suggested the following addition:  Member States shall be requested to include among  Lhe delegates to the next session of the General Con-  ference specialists who would be competent lo  consider this problem.  the Committee of Experts mentioned in the Swiss  proposal was the same as that provided for under  item 4.621 of the original text, and should there-  fore meet in 1950. However, he approved the  suggestions made by the Director-General and  Mr. Thomas.
178] Mr. BOLLA (Switzerland) explained that  [79] Professor SAMBURSKY (Rapporteur, Bud-  get Committee) explained that the meeting pro-  vided for under resolution 4.621 would not be  able to assemble full data and that a second  meeting would have to be arranged for 1952,  volving a further expenditure of $12,000.
180] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) therefore pressed his proposal,  for he thought that the General Conference  of 1951 would be the crucial moment for the  question of the convention. Agreed?
181] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) suggested insert-  ing the words “which is to meet in 1950” after  “Committee of Experts” in the text proposed by  the Swiss delegation for item 4.62.  [82] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) mentioned that his  delegation would withdraw its proposed amend-  ment to item 4.62, as its contents were implicil  in the Swiss amendment.  ——     [83] The amendment to item 4.62 proposed by  the Swiss delegation (document 5C/101) with the  addition suggested by Mr. Weeden, was seconded  by the delegates of SWEDEN, URUGUAY,  YUGOSLAVIA, NETHERLANDS, DENMARK,  ECUADOR, UNITED STATES of AMERICA,  ISRAEL, AUSTRIA, LIBERIA, ITALY and UNITED  KINGDOM, and adopted by 33 votes."  [84] The amendment to item 4.621 proposed by  the Swiss delegation (document 5C/101), se-  conded by the delegates of ITALY, LIBERIA,  UNITED STATES of AMERICA, DENMARK,  PERSIA, SWEDEN and NORWAY, was adopted  by 27 votes.”  BunceT TasLE 111.4.G. [document 5C/5 (II),  page 196|.  [85] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) pro-  posed :
(1) Cancelling the sum of $1,000 for fees  (paragraph 1, page 197);
(2) Altering the figure of 56,000 for con-  tractual printing (paragraph I, page 197), which  could be halved if the Bulletin were smaller:
(3) Altering the figure of $12,000 for travel  (paragraph 11.A., page 197), which could be  reduced to $1,000 if the expert meeting coincided  with the General Conference.
186] Professor SAMBURSKY (Israel) said he  shared Mr. Thompson's views concerning the  importance of the Copyright Bulletin.  [87] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities), considered only (1) and (3)  of those suggestions acceptable. As to (2), a  reduction of the figure from $6,000 to $3,000  would be the death blow to the Bulletin.  [88] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium)  defended the Copyright Bulletin, which he consi-  dered essential.  Mr. CAIN (France) also thought the Bulletin  a valuable source of reference, which it would be  unwise to curtail or mutilate.  [89] Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) suggested that  the Budget Committee be requested to revise the  budget estimates in the light of the foregoing  discussion.  [90] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) ex-  plained that, contrary to what Mr. Thomas had  understood, he had not suggested taking away  $1,000 from the sum of $12,000 but reducing  the latter to $1,000. Substantial savings could  be made by holding the meeting of experts at the
1. In final form: Resol. 4.62         i t   w i
1. In final form: Resol. 4.622. 9 In final form: Resol. 4.621.
419          same time as the General Conference.  maintained his two other proposals.  [91] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL  possibly be reduced to less than $6,000.  [92] Mr.  other two points to the Budget Committee.  [93] Dr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) agreed  of the Copyright Bulletin should be continued.  It was the only bilingual publication on the  matter in the world, and even the general articles  should be treated on the same footing as reference  material.  He agreed that some reduction could be made  in the sum of $12,000 for travel, but he stressed  the need for the Head of the Copyright Division  TWENTY-FOURTH  He also  thought the  sum provided for printing contracts could not  THOMPSON (United Kingdom) re-  peated his request that the funds for fees should  be cancelled, and called for the submission of the  with  Mr. Thompson and Mr. Cain that the publication  of Unesco to attend copyright conferences held in  various parts of the world.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that pro-  vision was made in another section of the Budget  for the travel of Unesco staff. He again urged  the maintenance of the Copyright Bulletin.  [94] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) seconded Mr. Thomp-  son's proposal.  [95] It was decided that the Budget Committee  should consider the sum of $12,000 provided for  travel.  It was decided by 20 votes to 8 to maintain  the sum of $6,000 provided for printing contracts.  It was decided by 11 votes to 8 to cancel the  sum of $1,000 for fees.  Subject to those changes, the budget table  [11.4.G. was adopted.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman:  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I) Rev., Part II].
4. Cultural Activities (continued).  Annual Unesco awards [document 5C/PRG/4].  The conclusions of the report (section v) were  adopted.  Draft resolution submitted by France |document
5C/81].  [1] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board), stated that the Board had no objection  to the adoption of the amendment proposed in  document 5C/81.  The French amendment was seconded by the  delegates of ITALY, BRAZIL, UNITED STATES  of AMERICA, LIBERIA, PERSIA, PAKISTAN  and UNITED KINGDOM, and rejected.  Draft resolution presented by the Lebanon |doc-  ument 5C/53].  Mr. Roger Seypoux (France)  [2] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) recalled that the  General Conference, at its Second Session, in  Mexico City, had first adopted a resolution con-  cerning Unesco’s activities in the Middle East.  In execution of that resolution, the Secretariat had  carried out a survey in the Middle East, and a  further resolution had been adopted at the Third  Session, at Beirut. The Secretariat had then  embarked on the establishment of a Liaison Office  for the Middle East. It was now essential to  extend its field of action to include cultural  activities so that the Office might proceed with the  type of work which would be its permanent  responsibility.  [3] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board), although recognizing the importance of  integration between Member States themselves  and between Member States and the Secretariat,  observed that the draft resolution presented by the  Lebanese delegation went a step further than the  Board had done in extending the scope of Field  Science Co-operation Offices to the social sciences.