SECOND MEETING  Tuesday, 23 May 1950, at 10.15 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. E. Ronan WALKER (Australia)  Nominations for the offices of Chairmen,  Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the Com-  missions and Committees [document 5C/  NOM/2].  [1] The CHAIRMAN reminded the Nominations  Committee that, in making recommendations to  the various Commissions and Committees for the  election of their Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and  Rapporteurs, due attention should be given to  geographical distribution and to the difficulty  experienced by smaller delegations in providing  officers for organs of the Conference and in  attending the numerous Commissions and Com-  mittees.  In accordance with the Executive Board’s pro-  posal, the General Committee of the Conference  had met and considered the names to be put  forward for consideration by the Nominations  Committee.  Report of the Chairman of the General Committee of  the Conference.  [2] Count JACINI (Italy), Chairman of the  General Committee of the Conference, stated that.  in accordance with the procedure followed at the  Fourth Session of the General Conference, as given  in document 5C/NOM/2, the President and the  seven Vice-Presidents of the Conference, the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee and the  Chairman of the Executive Board had met on the  previous afternoon after the Plenary Meeting in  order to draw up a preliminary list of persons who,  in virtue of their competence and knowledge of the  Organization, might be considered as candidates  for the posts of Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and  Rapporteurs of the Commissions and Committees  of the Conference.  The General Committee of the Conference had  also taken into consideration the importance of  ensuring a fair geographical distribution.  Consequently, the General Committee submitted  the following recommendations to the Nomina-  tions Committee:
1. Programme and Budget Commission:  Chairman: Mr. Roger Seydoux (France) :
2  Vice-Chairmen: Professor Louis Verniers (Bel-  gium) ;  À representative of Persia;  Rapporteur: Dr. C. E. Beeby (New Zealand).
2. Official and External Relations Commission:  Chairman: A representative of Mexico;  Vice-Chairmen: Professor Jean Piaget (Swit-  zerland ) ;  À representative of Burma;  Rapporteur: A representative of Norway.  J. Administrative Commission:  Chairman: A representative of India;  Vice-Chairmen: A representative of Greece;  A representative of Thailand;  Rapporteur: Mr. W. G. St. Clair Smith (Aus-  tralia).
4. Procedure Committee:  Chairman: Professor Jakob Nielsen (Den-  mark) ;  Vice-Chairman: A representative of the Phi-  lippines;  Rapporteur: A representative of Sweden.
5. Budget Committee: The General Committee,  having accepted the draft resolution presented  by the Executive Board, defining the composi-  tion and terms of reference of the Budget  Committee [document 5C/BUR/1-Add. and  Corr.], recommended that the latter Com-  mittee should consist of twelve members and  be constituted as follows:  Chairman: Professor H. R. Kruyt (Nether-  lands) ;  Vice-Chairman: À representative of Canada;  Rapporteur: A representative of Israel;  Other members: A representative of each of  the following countries: Australia, Brazil,  France, India, Italy, Mexico, Turkey, United  Kingdom, United States of America.  On submitting the recommendations of the Gen-  eral Committee, Count Jacini pointed out that the  Nominations Committee was not in any way bound  by those recommendations and could consider  them as mere suggestions. Moreover, the Com-  missions, Committees and subsidiary bodies would  remain quite free to elect their own Chairmen,  Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs in accordance  with Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure.                                   In conclusion, Count Jacini invited the delega-  tions, if the proposals of the General Committee  were accepted, to indicate in writing the names  of the members designated by them for the posts  in question.  Programme and Budget Commission.  [3] The CHAIRMAN informed the Committee  that Dr. C. E. Beeby (New Zealand) was unable  to accept the office of Rapporteur of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission.  Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) thanked the  Committee for having recommended him as Vice-  Chairman of the Commission; but, since  Dr. Beeby could not accept the onerous duties of  Rapporteur of the Commission, Professor Verniers  proposed that he should be nominated Vice-Chair-  man, and that another member of the Belgian  delegation should be appointed Rapporteur. For  the latter office, he recommended Mr. Marcel  Florkin, who had been Vice-Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commission at the Beirut  Session of the General Conference. Agreed.  Subject to that change, the nominations for the  Programme and Budget Commission were  accepted.  Official and External Relations Commission.  [4] Dr. WEN (China) observed that three of  the names put forward for offices on the Official  and External Relations Commission were those of  delegates of countries which had recognized the  Communist Government in China.  The CHAIRMAN replied that the Credentials  Committee would deal with that matter.  Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico), much flattered  by the recommendation that he should again be  appointed Chairman of the Official and External  Relations Commission, suggested that that posi  should be entrusted to another delegation: he  recommended Dr. Mariano Brull y Caballero,  Head of the Cuban delegation. Agreed.  Dr. BRULL Y CABALLERO (Cuba) thanked  Mr. Castro Leal for having proposed him as  Chairman of the Commission. He would ende-  avour to carry out those important functions to  the best of his ability.  With that change, the nominations for the  Official and External Relations Commission were  accepted.  Administrative Commniission.  [5] The nominations for the Administrative  Commission were accepted.
653  Procedure Committee.  [6] Although the Procedure Committee was then  in session, the CHAIRMAN proposed that the  General Committee’s nominations for that Com-  mittee should be presented to the Plenary Session.  Agreed.  Budget Committee.  [7] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that nomina-  tions not only for the officers of the Budget Com-  mittee, but also for its membership, had to be  considered for recommendation to the Plenary  Session of the Conference.  Professor KRUYT (Netherlands) stated that it  would be impossible for him to accept the Chair-  manship of the Committee. He proposed instead  Dr. F. Bender of the Netherlands delegation for  that office. Agreed.  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq), recalling the Chairman’s  earlier reference to geographical distribution,  declared that his delegation did not feel that Israel  had the right to such representation as proposed  on the Budget Committee; he asked for a vote  to be taken on the countries nominated for a seat  on that Committee.  The proposal was  (China).  Professor SAMBURSKY (Israel) recalled that it  was the second year of Israel's full membership of  Unesco and that his country had a right to  representation on all bodies of the Conference.  He therefore took exception to the remark of the  Iraqi delegate. He proposed the name of Dr.  Kohn (Acting Head of the Israeli delegation) for  the office of Rapporteur of the Budget Commiitee.  Subject to the substitution of Dr. Bender for  Dr. Kruyt, the General Committee's nominations  for the Budget Committee were accepted by
26 votes to 3 and 1 abstention.  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) made it clear that he had  voted against the nominations, not because he  objected to the constitution of the Budget Com-  mittee as a whole, but because he objected, on  grounds of regional representation, to the inclu-  sion of the member whom he had already  mentioned.  In order to meet the objection made by the  delegate of Iraq, and in the interests of equitable  regional representation, Mr. HARDMAN (United  Kingdom) proposed that the Budget Committee  should be enlarged to include another member  from the Middle East.  The proposal was seconded by several delegates,  including those of PAKISTAN, BRAZIL, FRANCE  and GREECE.  Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) pro-  seconded by Dr. WEN    posed to recommend the inclusion in the Budget  Committee of a member from Iraq.  The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  PAKISTAN and adopted.  The Nominations Committee agreed to recom-  mend that thirteen persons, including a delegate  of Iraq, should be selected to constitute the Budget  Committee.  The meeting rose at 10.50 a.m.  THIRD MEETING  Wednesday, 14 June 1950, ct 4.30 p.m.  Dr. k. Chairman:  Nominations for six new members of the  Executive Board.  [1] The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee of  the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article V of the  Constitution and of the need to ensure a balanced  geographical and cultural distribution.  He had received three nominations in writing:
(1) Dr. Mahmoud Hasan (Pakistan), proposed  by the delegations of Persia, Lebanon, Indonesia  and Burma;
(2) H. E. Mr. Antonio Castro Leal (Mexico),  proposed by the delegations of Cuba and Guate-  mala;
(3) Professor Rafael Jiménez (Colombia), pro-  posed by the delegations of Venezuela and Brazil.  [2] Mr. WEN (China) proposed the names of  Senator Gerônima Pecson of the Philippines and  Dr. Hu Shih of China.  Speaking of Senator Pecson, he pointed out that  hitherto women had been conspicuous by their  absence from the Executive Board; it was time to  repair that grave injustice. There was also a need  for greater representation of the Far East on the  Board; the position of the Philippines was  especially important, since they formed a vital  connecting link between the Far East and South  East Asia. From the point of view of personal  qualifications, Senator Pecson was an eminent  educator, administrator and social worker, without  whose talent the Executive Board would be the  poorer.  [3] Dr. Hu Shih belonged to no party and was a  true representative of all that was best in Chinese  life and thought. More honorary degrees had  been conferred on him by universities all over the  world than on any other living man. He was the
65  \ONALD WALKER (Australia)  leader of the ‘‘Renaissance” movement in China,  yet he was not only a Chinese, but a citizen of the  world. His contributions to Chinese history,  philosophy and education were familiar all over  the world.  [4] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America)  had great pleasure in seconding the Chinese  nomination of Senator Pecson. Apart from her  personal competency to fulfil the duties of a  member of the Board, her election would show  that Unesco recognized the place of women in the  present-day world.  [5] Dr. BARON CASTRO (Salvador) warmly  supported the nomination of Senator Pecson for  the reasons stated by the Chinese and American  representatives.  [6] Dr. BEEBY (New Zealand) proposed General  Sir Ronald Adam, leader of the United Kingdom  delegation after the departure of Mr. Hardman.  Sir Ronald was one of the best-known and most  highly respected persons in the Conference, his  honesty, sincerity and extraordinary fairness being  familiar both to delegates and to the Secretariat.  He had been in charge of Army Welfare and  Education during the war. He was a member of  the Colonial Office Advisory Committee on Educa-  tion, Chairman of the Institute of Education of the  University of London, Chairman of the National  Institute of Psychology and of the British Council,  and a former President of the British Library  Association.  [7] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) seconded the nomina-  tions of Senator Pecson, Dr. Hasan, Sir Ronald  Adam and Dr. Hu Shih.  [8] Mr. MAMELI (Italy) proposed Mgr. Jean  Maroun of the Lebanon, whose great personality