THIRTY-SECOND     MEETING  Saturday, 17 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Draft resolution on Aid to Arab Refugee  Children in the Near and Middle East and an  amendment to that resolution (continued)  [documents 5C/120 and 5C/51].  [1] Miss LAISE (United States of America),  Chairman of the Budget Committee, stated that  the Budget Committee had examined the two  resolutions. The resolution in document 5C/120  had no budgetary implications. The budgetary  implications of the Iraqi amendment [document
5C/51] could not be estimated exactly, as they  depended upon the interpretation of the resolu-  tion, but the Budget Committee recommended that  a maximum of $150,000 should be allocated for  the purpose out of the $188,000 available for  Emergency Relief.  The recommendation of the Budget Committee  was approved.  [2] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) expressed his delegation's  gratitude to the Chairman and members of the  Commission, and especially to the Budget Com-  mittee. He hoped that the sum of $150,000  would be considered only as a beginning, and that  others would subsequently be added to it.  Although this beginning would be greatly appre-  ciated, it would cover only a small portion of the  cost of the educational care of the refugees.  The draft resolution contained in document
0C/51 was adopted,” that in document 5C/120  having been adopted at the previous meeting.  [3] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Com-  mission had completed its work. Summing up  the results achieved during the Fifth Session, he  observed that there was a debit and a credit side to  every undertaking.  On the credit side, the Commission had arrived  at a more coherent and effective programme in the  field of Fundamental Education. In resolutions
1.     In final form: Resol. 7.23.
469  Mr. Roger SEynoux (France)  addressed to Member States, the latter had been  invited to work in much closer co-operation with  Unesco. The Commission had adopted a very  favourable attitude towards international conven-  tions, and had approved the draft Agreement on  the Free Circulation of Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Materials. Two resolutions on works  of art, presented by the Mexican and Italian del-  egations, had been adopted. The Chairman  wished to pay a special tribute to the United States  delegation for its resolutions concerning human  rights, which had been adopted by the Com-  mission. Lastly, the Commission had achieved  an intensification of work in Germany and Japan.  [4] On the debit side, an inhuman effort had  been required of delegates and the Secretariat,  since, instead of the twenty-four meetings which  had been anticipated, it had been necessary to  hold thirty-two. The result had been that the  Chairman had been obliged to limit the length of  speeches, so that some delegates might feel that  they had not been given an adequate opportunity  of expressing their views. Furthermore, much  time had been spent on detailed discussions of  many programme items, which had meant that  insufficient time had been available to discuss  certain big, important projects, such as the popu-  larization of science, the free circulation of  educational, scientific and cultural materials, and  Human Rights. The Chairman considered that  more time should be devoted to such projects at  the Sixth Session of the General Conference.  The Chairman concluded by thanking the del-  egates and members of the Secretariat for their  collaboration.  [5] Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) moved  a vote of thanks to the Chairman and the  tapporteur.  The motion was adopted by acclamation.  The meeting rose at 11.10 a.m.