the Committee’s task was to approve or disap-  prove the credentials submitted. However, in this  particular instance, the speaker was inclined to  favour Professor Carneiro’s proposal.  Dr. LAZERTE (Canada) also supported Profes-  sor Carneiro’s proposal.  [10] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  thought they should consult the United Nations  and meanwhile refrain from taking any decision.  If there were any suggestion of approving the cre-  dentials of the Chinese delegation pending a  policy decision by the United Nations, the dele-  gation of India would oppose it.  [11] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the report  to be rendered to the Plenary Meeting be first  submitted to their Committee for approval. The  report could be in three parts (introduction,  summary of views expressed, conclusions), and  the members of the Committee could thus express  their views on each part separately.  [12] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of Amer-  ica) supported that proposal and asked the Chair-  man to undertake the drafting of the report.  Adopted.  [13] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) wished it to  be noted in the report of the Committee that his  delegation was against the adoption of Professor  Carneiro'‘s proposal
114] The CHAIRMAN read a communication  from the Heads of the Czechoslovak and Hun-  garian delegations to the President of the General  Conference, to the effect that the presence of the  Kuomintang delegates was prejudicial to the  General Conference's authority and indicating  that, if no decision were taken before Friday,
26 May 1950, the Czechoslovak and Hungarian  delegations reserved the right to draw the logical  conclusion.  The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m.  THIRD MEETING  Monday, 29 May 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: H.E. Mr. Jean Désy (Canada)  Draft Report of the Credentials Committee.  Part I.  Paragraph 1 was approved without comment.  Part II.  Paragraphs 2 and 3 were approved without com-  ment.  [1] Mr. SARGEANT (United states of Amer-  ica) asked that in the seventh line of Paragraph J  the words “in the capital of China” should read  “in Pekin”. Approved.  Paragraph 5 was approved without comment.  [2] Mr. JOXE (France) proposed a textual  amendment in the French text of the first sen-  tence of Paragraph 6. Approved.  [3]
6)  sud  In Paragraph 7 the Committee decided:  To delete, after the word ‘‘technical” in the  eighth line, the words “under the terms of Art-  icle Il to members of the United Nations’, so that  the paragraph continued from: “The authority  which issued ...”  To delete, in the second sub-paragraph the  words: “in deciding which government should  exercice the rights of membership”.  Paragraph 8 was approved without comment.  [4] Paragraph 9. Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISH-  NAN (India) observed that at the previous  meeting he had drawn attention to the fact that  the Chinese member of the Executive Board  would be present during the session of the Gen-  eral Conference. He asked that this remark might  be mentioned in the Report.  [5] After a short discussion on the right place  for this new paragraph, it was decided to add the  following words in Paragraph 6:  It was further remarked that there was a Chinese
693     member of the Executive Board, who might represent  Chinese culture within the Organization, even though  no Chinese delegation would be taking part in the  work of the Conference.  Part I as a whole was approved.  Part III.  [6] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) proposed that  part Il be replaced by the following text:
10. The Credentials Committee considers that the  General Conference is qualified to decide on its own  authority the question of the credentials of all delega-  tions and consequently of the Kuomintang delegation  as well:
11. Taking into consideration the communication  from the Government of the People’s Republic of  China, which is the only legal representative of the  Chinese people, the Credentials Committee proposes  that the General Conference should not validate the  credentials of the Kuomintang delegation and should  not authorize that delegation to take part in the work  of the Fifth General Conference.  [7] After an extensive discussion in which Sir  Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Mr. KHOU-  RY (Lebanon), Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil),  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), Mr. SAR-  GEANT (United States of America) and Mr. RIB-  NIKAR (Yugoslavia) took part, the first para-  graph of the amendment (No. 10) was rejected  by 6 votes (Brazil, Canada, Cuba, France, Leb-  anon and the United States of America) to one  (Yugoslavia) with two abstention (India and the  United Kingdom); and the second paragraph  (No. 11) was rejected by 6 votes (Brazil, Canada,  Cuba, France, Lebanon and the United States of  America) to two (India and Yugoslavia) with  one abstention (United Kingdom).  FOURTH  [8] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that  as Part I of the Report contained a record of the  opinion expressed by the members of the Com-  mittee, it would be expedient to mention at the  end of Paragraph 8 of that part the vote just  taken. Any delegation could of course submit a  draft resolution to the General Conference in  Plenary Session.  [9] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) reserved his  right to present to the General Conference the  complete text of the amendment rejected by the  Credentials Committee.  [10] Paragraph 10 in the form in which it ap-  pears in Part III of the Report was approved by
8 votes (Brazil, Canada, Cuba, France, India, Leb-  anon, United Kingdom, United States of Amer-  ica) to one (Yugoslavia).  [11] Paragraph 11 in the form in which it  appears in Part III of the Report was approved by
6 votes (Brazil, Canada, Cuba, France, Lebanon,  United States of America) to two (India and  Yugoslavia) with one abstention (United King-  dom).  Paragraph 12 was approved without comment.  Paragraph 13 was approved by 8 votes (Brazil,  Canada, Cuba, France, India, Lebanon, United  Kingdom, United States of America) to one  (Yugoslavia).  The Report as a whole was approved by 8 votes  to 1.2  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.     |. In final form: Resol. document 5C/CRE/1.  MEETING  Wednesday, 14 June 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman:  [1] The SECRETARY announced that Indonesia,  Monaco, Sweden and Turkey had now submitted  credentials which were properly signed and in  order.  These credentials were accepted unanimously.  H.E. Mr. JEAN Désy (Canada)  [2] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) read the follow-  ing telegram which had been received from the  Government of Syria:  Government of Syria has instructed Mr. Wadji Mallat