FOURTEENTH MEETING  Tuesday, 6 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. Roger Seypoux (France)  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part II].  {. Education (continued).  SECTION 1.213 (continued).  [1] The CHAIRMAN read the Drafting Com-  mittee‘s proposed text for Professor Verniers’ and  Mrs. Ross’ recommendations:
1.2134: Member States are invited to associate repre-  sentatives of workers’s organizations with the  work of their National Commissions:
1.2135: Member States are invited to ensure that the  interests of workers’ organizations are repre-  sented in their delegations to the General  Conference.  [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL advised bringing  out more clearly the aim of the first recommen-  dation—adult education. With regard to the  second recommendation, he thought the General  Conference might recommend to Member States  the inclusion of a representative of workers in  their delegations.  It was decided to refer item 1.2134 to the  Drafting Committee which would bear those re-  marks in mind.  [3] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) was in sympathy with  item 1.2135, but he found it quite inapplicable  to certain parts of the world. As a hope, it was  excellent; but he thought that extending an  invitation, when that invitation could not be im-  mediately responded to, was out of place.  Mr. ABRAHAM (France) explained that the  Drafting Committee had not wished to imply that  labour organizations should send delegates, but  merely that contacts should be established with  organizations, with a view to representing their  interests.  Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) considered the  wording rather vague; if it was merely a matter  of bearing the interests of workers in mind, they  were automatically included in all the national  interests bound up with Unesco’s work.  Item 1.2135 was adopted by 22 votes to 1.  ————
1, In final form: Resol. 9.82.
347  SECTION 1.22 (continued) (HANDICAPPED CHILDREN).  Draft resolution of the United States of America  [document 5C/57].  [4] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) could not  agree to the substitution of that study for the  whole section on handicapped children, but it  was a most valuable proposal, that might well be  considered, since the deletion of items 1.222 and
1.223 would result in considerable savings which  could go to finance the United States proposal.  Professor Piaget therefore moved its adoption  under the heading Preventive Education.  Mr. SEDAR SENGHOR (France) thought that  preventive education and remedial measures  should be considered together, and he suggested  adopting the United States proposal for insertion  after resolution 1.221.  [5] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) asked  how much money would be saved by the elimina-  tion of items 1.222 and 1.223, and what was the  estimated cost of the United States resolution.  Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that the reply to the first question  could only be a provisional figure, as the matter  still had to go before the Budget Committee; but  the estimate given to that Committee would be  an approximate saving of $25,000 out of the  $45,000 originally budgeted for section 1.22.  With regard to the United States resolution, the  Chairman of the Executive Board had at the pre-  ceding meeting quoted the cost as $13,000. In  point of fact, there would probably be a possi-  bility of some further saving on the whole section.  [6] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) wished to  know whether, should the proposal be accepted,  it would be necessary to call on the assistance of  the World Organization for Early Childhood  Education. If so, he would suggest adding to  the end of the paragraph the words: “in col-  laboration with the national sections of the World  Organization for Early Childhood Education”.  Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) believed that  the Secretariat would wish to invite the assistance  of that Organization, and possibly of others.  [7] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive
2  |  ;  ; :        Board) thought that the Commission ought not  to vote on the proposal until the Budget Com-  mittee had given its opinion about the financing  of the new proposal.  Agreed.  BupceT TasrLe III.1.C. (2) [document 5C/5 (II),  pages 97 and 98].  Adopted without discussion.  Education for International Understanding (1.3).  SECTION 1.31 (CurricULA AND METHODS).  Item 1.311.  [8] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) asked that the  findings of the proposed study should be com-  municated to the educational authorities before  being published and disseminated.  [t was decided to adopt item 1.311 with a  request that the Drafting Committee bear in mind  the amendment proposed by the Lebanese del-  egation.?  Items 1.312 and 1.313.  [9] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) considered the six  weeks proposed for the seminars in those two  items to be too long a period. If they were  reduced to four weeks, not only would some  $5,000 be saved on each seminar, but certain per-  sons who could not give up so much time would  then be able to attend.  He pointed out that seminars were now far  more carefully prepared by expert preliminary  investigations. Such being the case, a four  weeks’ seminar would, in his view, be quite  adequate.  [10] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) agreed  with the points made by the delegate of France,  which were strong ones. There was however  another point, perhaps less tangible but no less  real, and even more convincing. His past ex-  perience had been that there was a kind of  periodicity about a seminar, a rhythm; a seminar  had a life of its own. During such meetings  there was a considerable amount of international  understanding, which lessened during the fourth  week, but rose again during the fifth or sixth  weeks. From that experience, therefore, he  would say that seminars were a live history of  international understanding, which required about  six weeks to come to fruition.  [11] Professor ARMFELT (United Kingdom)  said his delegation was aware that the matter
1. In final form: Resol. 1.311.
348  under discussion was a very controversial one  and that there were arguments for four weeks  and for six weeks. Taking into account the con-  siderations mentioned, his delegation was In-  clined to support the delegate of France for the  reasons the latter had given.  [12] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL advised against  the adoption of a fixed principle regarding the  length of seminars; he urged the meeting to  trust the Secretariat, which would always give  due consideration to the preparation of the  seminars, the number of participants and the sub-  ject with which they were to deal.  He shared the views of the New Zealand del-  egate. He was well aware that France and the  United Kingdom were highly developed countries  where brilliant experts could be appointed to  attend short seminars, but that was not always  lhe case: seminars should not be regarded as  meetings consisting entirely of leading authorities  who could deal quickly with very complex  questions. The Director-General requested the  the case; seminars should not be regarded as  minars in every circumstance, as participants  from States with less technical preparation could  not derive the same advantage from them.  [13] Professor VERNIERS (Belgium) recom-  mended that lecturers for those seminars should  be chosen as far as possible from among par-  licipants; he was strongly against inviting ex-  perts from countries far from the seminar to give  a small number of lectures.  The CHAIRMAN requested the Secretariat to  bear those remarks in mind.  [14] Dr. ZOOK( United States of America) ob-  served that his delegation had presented three  proposals in connexion with human rights: two  draft amendments to items 1.313 and 1.321 (doc-  ument 5C/66) and a draft resolution concerning  an enlarged project connected with Human Rights  (document 5C/56). The United States delegation  was withdrawing its amendments to items 1.313  and 1.321, but was still in favour of an enlarged  programme and was intending, to bring up the  matter in the wider context of the Mass Com-  munications programme (item 6.31).  Items 1.312 and 1.313 were adopted  changed.?  un-  DRAFT RESOLUTION PRESENTED BY THE ÎTALIAN DEL-  EGATION [document 5C/69].  [15] Professor CALO (Italy) explained that the  draft resolution, called for the adoption of a code  of principles in the field of education.
1. In final form: Resol. 1.312 and 1.313.                                   Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  said that the Board was naturally sympathetic to  the proposal, but felt that it was not proper for  the General Conference to specify ways in which  the Secretariat and the Director-General should  discharge their duties. Nor was it thought that  such resolutions were appropriate in any annual  programme. Though not in any disagreement  with the intention of the resolution, the Board  felt bound to advise the Commission not to agree  to its inclusion in the 1951 Programme.  Professor CALO (Italy) suggested transferring  the proposal to the Preamble so as to avoid the  difficulties to which the Chairman of the Ex-  ecutive Board had referred.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL doubted the pos-  sibility of transferring to the Preamble of the  Basic Programme the code of principles to which  the Italian delegation wished to draw attention,  whereupon Professor CALO withdrew his pro-  posal.  TEXTBOOKS AND TEACHING SECTION 1.32 (ScHoo.  MATERIAL).  Item 1.32 [document 5C/5 (I) (Rev.) - Adden-  dum |.  [16] Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) sup-  ported the new text in the belief that it was a  natural sequence of the*1950 seminar.  [tem 1.32 [document 5C/5 (I) (Rev.) — Ad-  dendum], was adopted unchanged.?  Item 1.321.  [17] Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) re-  minded the meeting that his delegation had  withdrawn its draft amendment to that item  (document 5C/66), but it would present its draft  resolution 5C/56 again in connexion with  item 6.31. He would, however, point out that  the amount of money provided for items 1.321  and 1.322 did not seem very adequate to carry  on what, to his delegation, was a very important  part of the Education Programme.  [18] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed with the  United States delegate that the funds allowed for  that section were lamentably small. However, he  reminded him that the deletion of certain re-  solutions would make additional funds available;  they could be re-allocated in such a way as to  focus Unesco’s energies on certain important  tasks. The Director-General enquired into the  possibility of devoting those additional funds to  certain projects for education, as the inclusion in  the Programme of the United States resolution  concerning early childhood education (document
0C/57) would probably absorb such funds.
1. In final form:  | =  [D1  ————
349  Should the Commission prefer to distribute the  budget evenly among the various Programme  activities, the Director-General thought that the  Education Department's resources should be in-  creased in that section rather than others.  [19] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that the Board was particularly  anxious that the final Programme should be a  better one than that with which the Commission  had begun. The Board had done its best to  secure a balance in its Programme, and the Com-  mission was in turn seeking to improve its work.  Sir John therefore suggested that the Commis-  sion, if it felt that a certain part of the Board's  Programme should be diminished or soft-pedalled  or deleted, should indicate its wishes in such  respects. He hoped that the Chairman would  allow delegates who wished to propose a dimi-  nution in one item of the Programme, to indicate  at the same time the section which they hoped  would benefit from such a diminution.  [20] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) asked whether the  living languages referred to were French and  English; if so, he did not see any need at all for  the resolution.  Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) replied that it was not proposed to limit the  studies to any two languages.  Item 1.321 was adopted unchanged.  Item 1.322 was adopted without comment.”  Item 1.323.  [21] Professor CALO (Italy) did not approve  the term “model textbook”, as in his view,  history textbooks should have a centre of interest  which might not be the same for all peoples. To  his mind, textbooks should merely be free of any  remarks prejudicial to international understand-  ing, any expression of national pride and of  hatred or contempt for other peoples; they had  to bring out the contributions of every country to  civilization as well as the inter-play of cultures.  Accordingly, the Italian delegation suggested sub-  stituting “the improvement of history text-  books” for “the preparation of model history  textbooks”.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL approved that  wording as being more flexible; but he advised  against discussion of the principle of the prob-  lem, as Unesco was shortly to organize a seminar  on the subject in Brussels.  Professor CALO (Italy) maintained that the  work of the seminar should be guided by certain  principles which could not be disregarded, and  again moved his draft amendment.    ee —  I.
2. In final form: 1.322.        [22] Professor ARMFELT (United Kingdom)  sympathized with the views expressed by Profes-  sor Cald, and noted the advice given by the  Director-General. = Professor Armfelt proposed  that the word “model” should be deleted, and re-  placed by the words “examples of”. His del-  egation distrusted the word “models”, as they  were afraid of uniformity in schools. They  would like their teachers to make their own choice  of textbooks, and thought the words suggested  more suitable.  Mr. MONTEL (France) suggested “the pre-  paration of sample textbooks” as an expression  that might meet with the approval of the Italian  delegation.  Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) pointed out  that there would be no occasion for the Italian  delegation’s misgivings on that score if it were  understood that it was not a question of one  model textbook but of several sample textbooks;  he emphasized that the word should be in the  plural.  He expressed his support for item 1.323, which  provided for no recommendations to govern-  ments but for examples on which other textbooks  might be modelled.  Professor CALO (Italy) supported the amend-  ment proposed by the British delegation.  -l  [23] The CHAIRMAN suggested referring  item 1.323 to the Drafting Committee for the  framing of a new text in both languages which  would take into account the British amendment.  Agreed.  SECTION 1.33 (Hicaer EpuUCATION).  Item 1.331.  [24] Professor ARMFELT (United Kingdom)  wondered how the budgetary provision of  $3,000 for this item would be incurred. It  seemed to the United Kingdom delegation that  it would be possible for the information to be  collected by correspondence without any more  expense than postage. They supported the inten-  tion of the resolution, but questioned whether-  such expenditure was necessary.  [25] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) replied that the budgetary provision was  $2.000, and the reason for it was the need for  supplementing reports from Member States with  a comparative study; it was felt that there was  no one in the Secretariat with the particular pro-  fessional competence to make such a study.  Item 1.331 was adopted unchanged.?
1. In final form: Resol. 1.331.
300  SECTION 1.34 (EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH).  Item 1.341.  [26] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) suggested ad-  ding: ‘and the obstacles that stand in its way”.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that  this addition would considerably enlarge the  scope of the proposed study and would conse-  quently involve an increase in the funds required.  Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) withdrew his amend-  ment in view of the budgetary repercussions to  which the Director-General had referred.  Item 1.341 was adopted unchanged.’  Item 1.342. Draft amendment presented by the  Yugoslav delegation [document 5C/88].  [27] Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) thought it  unwise to confine the studies to psychological and  educational questions; provision should also be  made for economic, social and cultural studies.  Professeur PIAGET (Switzerland) observed that  the research would cover the educational prob-  lems involved in education for international under-  standing and for that purpose it was necessary to  begin with child psychology. He suggested using  the term “psycho-sociological”.  Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  said the Executive Board sympathized in prin-  ciple with the Yugoslav amendment, and as it had  no budgetary implications and was merely a matter  of substance, he thought the matter could be left  to the wisdom of the Commission.  Professor UVALIC (Yugoslavia) would be in  favour of the following wording: “ the study  of certain psychological, sociological and educa-  tional questions ...”  Item 1.342, thus amended, was adopted.”  SECTION 1.35 (TEACHING ABOUT THE UNITED NATIONS  AND THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES).  [28] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL wondered whe-  ther it would be more logical to change the  heading of that programme section to lay stress  on teaching about Human Rights and suggested  the following: “Teaching about Human Rights  and the United Nations System”. Agreed.  Item 1.851. Draft resolution submitted by the  delegation of the Dominican Republic [document
5C/50].  [ Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican  Republic) stated that his delegation’s draft pro-  posal was submitted in order that the second part  of item 1.351 should have a structure identical
1. In final form:
2. In final form:     Resol. 1.341.  Resol. 1.342.                            with that of item 1.352. He did not insist on  retaining paragraph 3 of the resolution (doc-  ument 5C/50, page 2), as its inclusion in the
1951 Programme would have budgetary implica-  tions. Member States should, however, be invited  to ensure that the subject was incorporated in  the curricula of primary and secondary schools.  He asked the Secretariat for information on the  “sample tests” mentioned in item 1.351.  [30] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland), referring  to the checks provided for in item 1.351, advised  against leaving them solely to the responsibility of  Member States, whose findings were likely to re-  flect a certain degree of optimism; in his opinion,  the Secretariat should also initiate surveys, for  there were at the present time many obstacles to  teaching about the United Nations and Human  Rights. It was necessary to call upon sp-=cialists  to check the results already obtained in that field.  [31] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered that  a new text should be drafted for item 1.351,  since the Dominican Republic's amendment was  a second invitation to Member States that could  hardly be included under the same item. Re-  ferring to Professor Piaget's remarks, the Director-  General feared lest work on the part of the Secre-  tariat would involves budgetary and technical  complications, at least in 1951. He advised re-  stricting the project for the time being to verifi-  cation by Member States and providing for the  Secretariat to undertake studies only in 1952.  Agreed.  [32] Dr. FAWZI (Egypt) urged the need for  using simpler terminology for item 1.351 since  it referred to teaching in schools. The term  “Specialized Agencies” was, in his opinion, not  clearly understood outside international organiza-  tions.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that the  Commission had already approved an amend-  ment to the heading of that section, deleting the  expression “Specialized Agencies”. In his opi-  nion, it would be wrong to give pupils merely  à general view of the United Nations Organiza-  tion, leaving them without any information on  the work of the various Specialized Agencies.  Dr. FAWZI (Egypt) was not advising against  teaching about the Specialized Agencies; he  merely hoped that a more readily understood term  could be found.  The CHAIRMAN suggested referring item 1.351  to the Drafting Committee with the request that  it should frame a new draft in the light of the  foregoing remarks. Agreed.  Item 1.352.  [33] Professor ARMFELT (United Kingdom)
301  said that this delegation was disturbed by the  suggestion that such matters be dealt with in the  curricula of primary and secondary schools, and  offered an alternative phrase: “to encourage  teaching about the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights to pupils of suitable ages”. Ac-  count should be taken of a child’s capacity not  merely to learn by rote, but to understand. The  United Kingdom delegation would prefer the  word “suitable”, so that teachers could introduce  the subject when they felt that their pupils were  ready for it.  [34] The CHAIRMAN suggested adding to the  item: “by such means as the adaptation for chil-  dren of the Universal Declaration of Human  lights”.  Mr. MOHR (Norway) stated that his delegation  preferred the original text, with the addition of  the words proposed by the Chairman.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL saw no point in  mentioning an instance of teaching methods;  moreover, the idea of adapting the Declaration  did not appeal to him, as, in certain cases, the  new version might not be in keeping with the  spirit in which the proposal had been put for-  ward.  [35] Professor SAMBURSKY (Israel) feared that  the resolution as it stood would remain a dead  letter as long as it was not accompanied by pro-  posals for the preparation of suitable textbooks for  the teaching of Human Rights. He doubted very  much whether a primary or secondary school  teacher was qualified to teach on such a subject.  He asked whether “the promotion of appropriate  teaching methods” implied the preparation of  suitable textbooks.  Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) replied that the Secretariat would hesitate  to publish textbooks, but was going to publish a  teachers’ guide, hoping that teachers in every  country would make the appropriate adaptation.  ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) observed that the  dissemination and teaching of the principle of  Human Rights and the introduction of those stud-  ies in schools needed great technique. He pro-  posed adding to the end of the resolution:  ‘“... . by disseminating documents already pre-  pared”.  Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) pointed out that it was intended to dis-  seminate documents. There was an appropriation  for publishing a teacher's guide in three lan-  guages, incorporating the results of the studies  previously mentioned.  It was decided to refer item 1.352 to the Draft-  ing Committee, with the request that it should  frame a new text, taking the foregoing remarks  into account.     Draft resolution submitted by the delegation of  Persia [document 5C/113].  [36] Mr. SADIGHI (Persia) gave his delega-  tion's reasons for presenting a resolution in favour  of the World Federation of United Nations As-  sociations. He described the work already carried  out by that Federation to promote Unesco’s aims,  notably by means of a number of most success-  ful seminars. The speaker reminded the meeting  that WFUNA was the only non-governmental  organization with a formal agreement with  Unesco for which no grant-in-aid had been  provided in the 1951 budget, and he explained  that the purpose of the Persian delegation’s pro-  posal was to enable the Federation to continue  with its work.  In conclusion, Mr. Sadighi drew the Commis-  sion s attention to the Basic Programme (Educa-  tion: Preamble to Section 3), stating that  “Unesco must help the competent organizations  and institutions” working in that field.  [37] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) stated that the Board had not had an op-  portunity of considering that particular sug-  gestion. The Board knew well the valuable work  of WFUNA, and the only opinion Sir John  would give on the Board’s behalf was that it did  not think that a resolution of the kind proposed  was appropriate for the 1951 Programme. That  did not mean that the Board thought that money  should or should not be given to WFUNA: if  there was a particular piece of work which  WFUNA could do on behalf of Unesco, that  would be the occasion for a subvention.  [38] Professor CALO (Italy) suggested referring  the matter to the Budget Committee for recon-  sideration.  [39] Mr. ENNALS (World Federation of United  Nations Associations) said it was true that  WFUNA, in co-operation with the Education  Department of Unesco, had, during the past
18 months, organized a series of five seminars  on methods of teaching in schools about the  United Nations and its Specialized Agencies. They  had encountered a number of problems in that  connexion. The seminars had, however, given a  considerable stimulus to countries represented,  and, as a result, a programme had been sub-  mitted to Unesco for four more seminars. It was  felt that the results so far achieved had been so  encouraging that it would be a pity to interrupt  the movement at the present stage, and the  Federation would be glad if consideration could  be given by the Budget Committee to the possi-  bility of some help being given to WFUNA in the  organization of the seminars in question. It was  not a question of a subsidy;  was slight help from Unesco.  The CHAIRMAN proposed referring the question  to the Budget Committee for reconsideration.  [40] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) thought the point  raised by the Executive Board had already been  answered; there were specific bodies which  Unesco could help in that respect. He therefore  supported the proposal of the delegate of Persia.
41] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) agreed with the delegate of Iraq, but it  was clear that the proposal did involve an in-  crease in the Board's Programme, and therefore  an increase in the Budget. He therefore agreed  with the Chairman of the Commission that the  next step was for the Budget Committee to con-  sider the matter and report back to the Commis-  sion. Agreed.  all they asked for  SECTION 1.36 (YouTH MoVEMENTS AND CHILDREN'S  (COMMUNITIES).  Draft resolution submitted by the French delega-  tion [document 5C/62].  [42] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) presented the  proposal embodied in document 5C/62, stating  that the French delegation had considered it  necessary to concentrate all Unesco’s work on be-  half of young people. It was felt that Unesco  should include a service responsible for co-  ordinating such activities and maintaining con-  tact with school and other youth organizations  concerned with international understanding. It  was Mr. Francois’ view that, among international  organizations, Unesco was specially qualified to  deal with all matters affecting youth: it should  therefore be aware of their needs, keep them in-  formed of its work and make every effort to assist  them to attain its objects.  He suggested setting up a co-ordination service  in Unesco to be responsible for contacts with  youth movements, voluntary work camps and  children’s communities; the service would also  work in collaboration with the Exchange of Per-  sons Service, with a view to promoting foreign  travel for young people.  [43] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was in agree-  ment with the substance of the French delega-  tion's proposal, but he did not think it could be  considered by the Programme and Budget Com-  mission, as it was mainly a matter of internal  organization, which was more within the terms  of reference of the Administrative Commission.  [44] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that the Board had considered the  French draft resolution: but it was felt very                                 strongly that the Conference should resist the  temptation to put into its Programme matters  which ought to be left to the discretion of the  Director-General. It was hoped that the French  delegation would not misunderstand the attitude  of the Board in the matter for, if there was any  way in which the Programme for youth could be  concentrated, that was a perfectly appropriate task  for the Commission; but a resolution such as that  proposed should not be pressed for inclusion in  the 1951 Programme.  [45] Mr. FRANÇOIS (France) felt that the  French delegation’s proposal could be introduced  at the end of section 1.36 in the form of a  recommendation to the Director-General. How-  ever, he was prepared to rely on the Director-  General to act in accordance with the proposal, if  it were not included in the Programme.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked the French  delegate and assured him that his proposal would  be taken into consideration.  [tem 1.361. Draft resolution presented by the  delegation of the United States of America [doc-  ument 5C/66, item 2].  [46] Dr. ZOOK (United States of America) felt  that as there was a place for youth education in  many sections of Unesco’s Programme, it would  be quite appropriate to make a simple combina-  tion of items 1.361 and 1.142. The combination  would not diminish their scope nor entail any  budgetary implications.  The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was under the im-  pression that the Commission had already voted  in favour of combining the two items and, if it  were still agreeable, the Drafting Committee only  had to be requested to take that into account.  It was agreed to refer item 1.361 to the Drafting  Committee for incorporation in the amendment  proposed by the United States delegation.  [tem 1.362.  [47] Professor CALO (Italy) drew attention to  an 1nstructive experiment carried out in Italy  under specially difficult circumstances, but which  had yielded most satisfactory results. In his  opinion, such experiments should be encouraged  and continued at the international level.  [48] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) drew at-  tention to the value of children’s communities as  an international movement on behalf of malad-  justed and more particularly of delinquant chil-  dren. He felt that the Secretariat should take  account of experiments already carried out,  notaby in Italy, and should subsequently embark  on a pilot project on the problem of children’s
393  communities, with the assistance of experts with  wide experience in that field. Professor Piaget  explained that he was not putting forward any  formal proposal, in view of present budgetary dif-  ficulties; but he stressed the value of such ex-  periments.  Item 1.362 was adopted unchanged.?  Bupecer  Tasux “HIL.1.D.  pages 103 and 104].  [49] The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's  attention to the Budget Committee’s remarks with  [document 5C/5 (II),  regard to item 1.331 (document 5C/BUD/1 -  Annex I).  Budget Table III.1.D. was adopted without  discussion.
2. Natural Sciences.  SECTION 2.1 (DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL  SCIENTIFIC (CO-OPERATION).  Item 2.11 [document 5C/5 (I), Rev. - Adden-  dum |.  OF  Adopted without discussion.?  Item 2.111. Draft resolution submitted by the  delegation of the United States of America [docu-  ment 5C/64, item 1].  [50] The draft resolution, presented by  Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America), was  seconded by Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) who felt  that the calling of a world conference of engineer-  ing bodies was essential, because their full co-  operation must be assured if success was to be  achieved.  [51] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) asked whether such a  conference was not within the sphere of ILO,  and whether Unesco was not overlapping with  that Organization.  [62] Professor AUGER (Director, Department  of Natural Sciences) explained that it was not  proposed to convoke a professional engineers’  organization but a council to co-ordinate work  carried out by existing international scientific  unions. The co-ordinating council would have  similar responsibilities to those of the Council for  the Co-ordination of International Congresses of  Medical Sciences (CCICMS) and the Inter-  national Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies (CIPSH); it had been thought neces-  sary to extend such liaison work to the applied as  well as to the basic sciences. Professor Auger     L
2.  Resol. 1.363.  Resol. 2.11.  In final form:  In final form:       was not in favour of affording delegates an op-  portunity of meeting once only, without enabling  them to continue their work. He stated that the  resolution provided for a constituent meeting for  the council, for which a preliminary meeting had  already been held; consideration should also be  given to the subsequent work of the council to  enable it to achieve as satisfactory results as the  two large Councils already existing.  Mr. MONTEL (France) agreed with the views  expressed by Professor Auger and was in favour  of adopting item 2.111.  [63] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that, when the Board considered the  United States amendment, it was given to under-  stand that the effect of adopting it would be that  $11,000 less would be spent than if the resolution  put forward by the Board were adopted by the  Commission.  [54] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) having asked  whether or not the Advisory Committee was still  a temporary one, Professor AUGER (Director,  Department of Natural Sciences) explained that it  was a matter of setting up a permanent council  on the same lines as the CCICMS and CIPSH,  in accordance with the decision of a provisional  advisory committee which had suggested bring-  ing together the delegates of the one hundred and  fourteen existing organizations, which had agreed  to establish the Permanent Council. Funds had  therefore been set aside to cover that council's  initial work.  The amendment of the United States delegation  (document 5C/64) was adopted by 18 votes to 4.1  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.
1. See next meeting.  FIFTEENTH MEETING  Wednesday, 7 June 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Dr. C. E. Berry (New Zealand)  [1] Before continuing the discussion of the  Programme, the CHAIRMAN announced that the  Rapporteur of the Budget Committee would be  present at the meetings of the Commission to  advise it on any budgetary implications of new  resolutions. The General Committee suggested  that any delegate who wished to present a new  resolution should first find out from the Secre-  tariat what would be its approximate cost.  Finally, he reminded the Commission that no  resolution having budgetary implications could  be finally adopted until it had received the sanc-  tion of the Budget Committee.  Appointment of a Sub-Committee (Draft  Agreement on the Importation of Educa-  tional, Scientific and Cultural Material).  [2] On behalf of Mr. Seydoux, the CHAIRMAN  proposed the appointment of a Sub-Committee to  examine the Draft Agreement on the Importation  of Educational, Scientific and Cultural Material  [document 5C/PRG/11], to be composed of
304  representatives of Australia, Belgium, the United  States of America, France, Mexico, the United  Kingdom and Switzerland. The member for the  United Kingdom, who had chaired the Committee  of Experts in Geneva, might be appointed Chair-  man of this Sub-Committee, and Mr. Bourgeois,  the Swiss member, who had also taken part in  the Geneva discussions, might be appointed  Rapporteur. Agreed.  Examination of the 1951 Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev., Part II].
1. Education (continued).  SECTION 1.214 (continued) (WORK WITH UNIVER-  SITIES).  Draft resolution submitted by the Italian delega-  tion [document 5C/33].  [3] Professor VITO (Italy) explained that, in  certain European countries, the social service