SECOND PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 22 May 1950, at 3.30 p.m.  CONTENTS  Page  III. Report of the Credentials Committee 46  IV. Adoption of the Agenda 49  V. Establishment of the Nominations Committee . . . . . . . . . . . 49  VI. Report of the Nominations Commitiee and election of the President and  seven Vice-Presidents of the General Conference . . . . . . . . . . 50  President: Dr. E. RonaLp WALKER (Australia),  later: Count STEFANO Jacint (Italy).  III. Report of the Credentials Committee.  [1] The PRESIDENT — We shall now take up  the report of the Credentials Committee. 1 will  call upon Ambassador Désy, the Chairman of the  Credentials Committee, to present his report.  [2] Mr. Jean DESY (Canada) — | Translation  from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, I have the honour to present the report of  the Credentials Committee, which met this  morning after the plenary meeting:  The Credentials Committee, set up by the General  Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scien-  tific and Cultural Organization at the meeting on
22 May 1950 during its Fith Ordinary Session, met  to-day, its members being representatives of Brazil,  Canada, Cuba, France, Lebanon, India, the United  Kingdom, the United States of America and Yugosla-  via. As its Chairman the Committee elected the head  of the Canadian delegation. It then proceeded to  examine the credentials submitted to it by the  Director-General of the Organization, from the States  named below, and decided, firstly, that the delegates  of the States thus named had been duly accredited  in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Proce-  dure of the General Conference by instruments under  the hand either of the Head of the State or of their  Ministers of Foreign Affairs. The States in question  are: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burma,  Canada, Ceylon, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark, Domi-  nican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Guatemala,  Hungary, India, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia,  Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nor-  way, Pakistan, Panama, Persia, Philippines, Swit-  zerland, Thailand, Union of South Africa, United  Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela and  Yugoslavia. The Committee recommends that the  delegations of the Member States aforesaid be
46  admitted to participation in the Fifth Session of the  General Conference with full voting rights.  [3] Credentials have been submitted by those repre-  senting the governments of the States named below  in the form of letters, telegrams or other documents  issued either by some Minister of the country they  represent other than the Minister of Foreign Affairs  or by heads of diplomatic missions, or by senior offi-  cials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The States  in question are the following: Argentina, Bolivia,  Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, El Salvador, Greece, Haiti,  Honduras, Monaco, Peru, Sweden, Turkey and Uru-  guay. The suggestion of the Committee is that these  documents should be deemed to constitute provisional  credentials for those named as representatives of the  countries aforesaid, subject to later presentation of  credentials in due form, and that meanwhile the said  delegations be admitted to participation in the Fifth  Session of the General Conference with full voting  rights.  [4] The Committee then examined the credentials of  the observers representing the following States or  entities not being members of Unesco: Bulgaria,  Indonesia, Korea, Nepal, Nicaragua, San Marino, the  Vatican, and the Allied High Commission.  [5] Regarding the credentials of the Chinese delega-  tion, to which objections have been raised by the  delegations of Czechoslovakia and Hungary, the Com-  mittee, following a discussion to be continued at a  later meeting, has decided to suggest to the General  Conference, for the avoidance of delay in the opening  of the same, that it approve this Committee's report  regarding the powers of the remaining delegations  and apply Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference in the case of the Chinese  delegation.  [6] The PRESIDENT — I call on the delegate of  China, who has asked to speak on the Credentials  Committee's report.   [7] Mr. WEN YUAN-NING (China) — Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow-colleagues, before the adoption of the  recommendations of the Credentials Committee  I would just like to say one word. So far as my  delegation is concerned, our position is clear  bevond any doubt whatsoever. My Government  has been invited to send a delegation to attend  this Conference of Unesco. The members of my  delegation have been sent by that Government  which has been invited. Now the only business  of the Credentials Committee is to examine  whether these credentials are genuine or not.  That is to say, whether these credentials have  really been issued by that Government which  has been invited by the Director-General of Unesco.  To do anything more than that is ultra vires and  not within the competence of the Credentials  Committee.  [8] The PRESIDENT — The Conference has  heard the report of the Credentials Committee.  Are there any objections to the adoption of the  report? 1 call on the delegate of Czechoslovakia.  [9] Mr. Adolf HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia)  — [Translation from the French] Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to offer  my formal greetings to the delegates to the Fifth  Session of the General Conference of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization. May I draw your attention to the  word “Scientific” in this Organization’s title. In  my view it would be a clear contradiction of the  scientific spirit to regard the non-existent as exist-  ing in order to serve the interests of a particular  policy. Having met here on the strength of being  men possessing education, science and culture, it  is our duty to draw logical conclusions and not  to fear to call things by their true names. The  existence of China as one of the largest powers  in the world physically is a geographical, his-  torical and political fact. Through the heroic  endeavours of the Chinese People’s Army and by  the will of millions upon millions of that country’s  people, a People’s Republic under a central gov-  ernment has been set up over the whole of the  Chinese territory. A different China exists only  in the schemes of those whose policy is to protect  the enemies of Democratic China, and in the per-  sons of the Kuomintang representatives still en-  sconced in various international bodies. We are  not prepared to tolerate this false and illogical  situation anv longer, nor to cover ourselves with  ridicule in the light of present realities and in  the eyes of history; and further we ask for the  exclusion of the Kuomintang group from Unesco  because we consider that its continued participa-  tion constitutes a threat to peace and to all  constructive work towards that supreme goal. As  previously, so now again, we demand categorically  that this source of disagreement and possible war  be removed from our society. Observing that the  report of the Credentials Committee does not  accept the motion I had the honour to propose  this morning, and that the measures adopted are  no more than a temporary and regrettable com-  promise, the Czechoslovak delegation is not pre-  pared to accept such a provisional solution.  Unesco has deemed itself entitled to grant mem-  bership to States, including Italy itself, which  are not members of the United Nations, and there-  fore Unesco is just as much entitled to expel  China, that expulsion being no more of a political  act than the admission of Italy, Austria, and Hun-  gary. If the General Conference lacks the courage  itself to decide a question ripe for decision, so  much the worse for Unesco. As far as the Cze-  choslovak delegation is concerned, we are not  prepared to be party to diplomatic delaying actions  er to a policy of postponing all problems to the  Greek Calends.  [10] Mr. President, I must formally request that  the motion I presented this morning be put to  the vote in this honourable assembly.  [11] The PRESIDENT — The Conference heard  a few minutes ago the report of the Credentials  Committee. The report stated that the Committee  was still engaged on a discussion which had not  heen completed, relating to the objections made  by certain delegations to the credentials of the  Chinese delegation. The Credentials Committee’s  proposal, which 1 thought was made quite clear  by the Chairman of the Committee in his report,  is that the Credentials Committee should continue  its discussion, which it had not completed, in  order not to slow up the work of the Conference.  I would remind the Conference that at the present  time, no delegation’s credentials have been  accepted, and the Conference is not yet in a posi-  tion to transact business. It is a matter of the  utmost urgency that the Conference establish itself  by recognizing the credentials of delegates seated  at the table. Under Rule 24 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure, when objection is taken to the presence  of any delegation, provision is made for the delega-  tion to be seated provisionally with the same rights  as other representatives. The Credentials Com-  mittee—referring to Rule 24—has suggested that  this Rule should be applied. Personally, as  Chairman of this meeting, I can see no other  alternative than to apply that Rule until such time  as the Conference takes some other decision.  [12] The Credentials Committee has informed  us, through its Chairman, that it has not yet  completed its examination of the objections raised   against certain representatives here, and in those  circumstances Rule 24 would clearly apply. It  seems to me, therefore, that the appropriate stage  for the Conference to consider what further action  might be needed in connexion with the proposal  read this morning by the delegate of Czechoslo-  vakia would be when the Conference receives the  subsequent report of our Credentials Committee  on that matter. The only matter before the Con-  ference at the present time, therefore, is the  adoption of the Credentials Committee's first  report, which was read a few minutes ago by its  Chairman. There is not before the Conference  at this stage—particularly before the credentials  of any delegation have been established—a pro-  position of substance which could be the subject  of a debate on this occasion.
113] I would ask again, therefore, as I asked  previously, whether there is any objection to the  adoption of the Report of the Credentials Com-  mittee as read by the Chairman of the Credentials  Committee. The delegate of Czechoslovakia wishes  to speak. I can hear him on a question of pro-  cedure or on the question whether or not we now  adopt the Credentials Committee’s report, but not  on the substance of the matters which were  referred to in his recent statement. 1 did not  previously wish to interrupt him, although I did  have the feeling that his remarks were not strictly  in order as a comment on the Credentials Com-  mittee’s report.     [14] Mr. Adolf HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia)  — Mr. President, what I want to ask is just  whether there is a date fixed for the final decision  of the Credentials Committee.  [16] The PRESIDENT — According to the Rules  of Procedure, it is the function of the General  Committee of the Conference to fix the hour, the  date and the order of business of plenary meetings  of the Conference, to co-ordinate the work of the  Conference, its Commissions, Committees and  subsidiary bodies, to consider a request for sup-  plementary items and to assist the President in  directing the general work of the session. It  would appear to me that in accordance with Rule
36 it would be for the General Committee to  decide when the next meeting of the Credentials  Committee should be held, provided always that  sufficient delegates’ credentials have been adopted  by the General Conference to enable the Con-  ference to proceed with its work.  [16] Mr. Adolf HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia)  — Is this your final decision concerning my  request about the vote on China? I asked you  whether the China decision will be taken very
48  soon, say, tomorrow, or whether it had already  been decided to postpone it until some later date.  [17] The PRESIDENT Unless the General  Conference decides otherwise, the Credentials  Committee will meet again and resume its discus-  sion, its incomplete discussion, of the resolution  proposed by Czechoslovakia in relation to the  Chinese representatives at a time and date to be  fixed by the General Committee. In my personal  opinion the General Committee should arrange  for that discussion to proceed at the earliest pos-  sible date, but that is for the decision of the  General Committee, which still has to be elected  by the General Conference after the credentials  of delegates have been approved.  [18] Mr. Adolf HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia)  — [Translation from the French] In view of the  President’s statement I have no choice but to  indicate that, as long as the Kuomintang represen-  tatives remain in any organ of Unesco or in Unesco  as a whole, the Czechoslovak delegation can take  no part in the proceedings of this Conference.  [19] The PRESIDENT — Does anybody else wish  to speak? 1 call on the delegate of Hungary.  [20] Mrs. Boris FAI (Hungary) — [Translation  from the French] The delegation of the People’s  Republic of Hungary entirely concurs in the  attitude of the delegation of the Republic of  Czechoslovakia. It is absolutely impossible for us  to accept a postponement of this question. As the  Kuomintang representatives in fact represent no  one, their presence at the proceedings of any Con-  ference or in any organization can never serve to  bring us any nearer to the fine goal we have set  ourselves as members of Unesco—that of the  attainment, through the co-operation of the  nations of the world, of peace among the nations  and the general prosperity of all mankind.  While peace is threatened by the dreadful arma-  ments race initiated by the imperialists, by the  atomic bomb, and by the H-bomb, while the  culture of humanity is menaced, it is not for us,  who are members of an organization designed to  defend peace by the means suited to men of  culture, to seek for solutions in a form of words—  we must rather put out our fullest effort to raise  the cultural level of the greatest possible numbers  of the masses. That is being done in actual fact  by the People’s Democracies, headed by the great  Soviet Union; and the new People’s China has  given us a glorious example of the same high  endeavour in conquering, as it has, the atavism  of centuries and giving to the masses so far denied  it the chance of drinking from the springs of      culture and science. We of the People’s Demo-  cracies favour deeds, not words. We can assure  you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the People’s  Republic of Hungary as in the other People’s  Democracies, whether we attend this Conference  or not, our work goes on; we shall continue to  redress the evils committed by our former feudal  lords, who kept culture as the prerogative of a  small privileged class. In our country the build-  ing of schools, universities and theatres, the giving  of culture to the masses who have never had it  goes on, and I feel that Unesco, an organization  serving culture, pursuing closer friendship be-  tween the peoples through culture, will lose much  more if it loses the democracies that are working  effectively for culture’s increase than if it excludes  the members of a delegation whose government has  never done anything to raise the culture of the  masses and never will. I repeat again that we  of the Hungarian delegation support the proposal  of the Czechoslovak delegation and that we cannot  remain at these proceedings side by side with a  delegation representing no one.  [21] The PRESIDENT — The only proposal  before the Conference is that made by the Cre-  dentials Committee. A verbal objection has been  made to the Committee’s report. I think perhaps  I had better put the report to the vote. The  report, which you have already heard, validates  the credentials of certain delegations, admits  other delegations provisionally, and notifies us  that the question of the Chinese delegation is  under consideration by the Committee and that  meanwhile the provisions of Article 24 should  apply. The Conference will now vote by a show  of hands.  [22] The PRESIDENT — (The vote was taken  by a show of hands.) The votes recorded are:
32 in favour of the acceptance of the report, 1  against and 1 recorded abstention. 1 therefore  declare the report of the Credentials Committee  adopted by the Conference.  [23] I should also just mention in passing that  there is a provision in the Constitution relating  to the right to vote being dependent on the  financial status of the members of the Organization  and I understand information has been circulated  to the delegations showing the state of contribu-  tions. My impression is that there is no delega-  tion present which is not eligible to exercise the  vote on these grounds, but it was envisaged that  in the event of any such problem arising, such  delegation should address, if it so desired, a com-  munication to the President of the Conference,  which would be submitted to the General Com-  mittee, since the Constitution provides that in
49  certain circumstances, this particular restriction  may be waived. I merely mention that in passing  in order that the procedure may be known to any  delegation at any stage which finds that its power  to vote at a conference is rendered doubtful by  the state of its financial contributions to the  Organization.  [24] The next point on our Agenda is the adoption  of the Agenda of the Conference, and 1 will call on  the Chairman of the Executive Board to present  the Agenda.  IV. Adoption of the Agenda.  [25] Sir John MAUD (Chairman of the Executive  Board) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  under our Constitution, it is the duty of the  Executive Board to prepare the Agenda of the  General Conference. That your Executive Board  has done on your behalf, and it is my privilege,  as Chairman of the Executive Board, to present  for consideration and, I hope, for adoption by the  General Conference, the Agenda which is set out  in the first number of the Journal of the Con-  ference, issued this morning. It is also set out  in a Conference document, 5C/1 (rev.), but I think  it will be for your convenience to consider it as  it is set out in the Journal of the Conference for
22 May, pages 1 to 5. Mr. President, I beg to  submit that Agenda for the approval of the General  Conference.  [26] The PRESIDENT — The Conference has  heard the proposal of the Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board that the Conference adopt the Agenda  as set out in the Journal for today. Is there any  objection to that proposal? Are there any further  proposals? If not, I shall declare the Agenda, as  set out in the Journal, adopted.  V. Establishment of the Nominations Com-  mittee.  [27] The PRESIDENT — The next point on our  Agenda is to establish two Committees: the  Nominations Committee and the Procedure Com-  mittee. These Committees consist of all delega-  tions. The Procedure Committee will not meet  until tomorrow morning at 10.30 at the Palazzo  Pitti in Room P.21, but it is proposed to call  the Nominations Committee immediately in this  room. 1 shall therefore suspend the meeting  and ask delegations to remain seated in order  that we may hold a meeting of the Nominations  Committee, which will have its task lo  prepare recommendations for Conference  as  the    with a view to the election of the President  and seven Vice-Presidents of the Conference. The  members of the Nominations Committee are the  heads of delegations or, in their absence, another  member of the delegation appointed by the head.  After the meeting of the Nominations Committee,  the plenary meeting will again be called in order  to receive the Nominations Committee’s report.  The plenary meeting of the Conference is now  suspended.  The meeting adjourned at 4.30 p.m. and resumed  at 5 p.m.  VI. Report of the Nominations Committee  and election of the President and seven Vice-  Presidents of the General Conference.  [28] The PRESIDENT — At this stage in our  proceedings in the plenary meeting, the Acting  President should call on the Chairman of the  Nominations Committee to report on the proceed-  ings of his Committee. However, as the Nomina-  tions Committee has graciously invited myself  to act as its Chairman, I am under the obligation  of delivering the report of the Chairman of the  Nominations Committee from the Chair of the  Conference itself.  [20] The Nominations Committee has considered the  proposals which it wishes to recommend to the  Plenary Session for the position of the President of the  Conference and for the seven positions of Vice-  Presidents. The Nominations Committee desired unani-  mously to offer the presidency to the delegation of  Italy. The leader of the Italian delegation, Professor  Gonella, has informed the Nominations Committe that  owing to his other duties as Minister of Education, he  would find it difficult, if not impossible, to assure the  continuous attention to the work of the Conference  which he felt the position of President would entail,  and he therefore proposed that the Italian delegation  should be represented in the person of Senator Jacini,  Italian member of the Executive Board and leader of  the Italian delegation at previous sessions of the  General Conference.  This proposal was adopted by the Nominations  Committee with acclamation, and it gives me, as  retiring President of the Conference and as leader  of the Australian delegation, very special pleasure  to propose to the plenary meeting that we now  follow the good example of the Nominations Com-  mittee and elect our friend and colleague, Count  Jacini, President of the General Conference, by  acclamation.  [30] Before I call on Count Jacini to take the  Chair, I should complete my report as Chairman  of the Nominations Committee by informing you  that the Nominations Committee recommends the  following elections to the positions of Vice-  OÙ  Presidents of the Conference, namely, the delega-  tions of Brazil, Egypt, France, Pakistan, United  Kingdom, United States of America, and Vene-  zuela. The President, at a later stage, after he has  assumed the presidential Chair, will communicate  to the plenary meeting the names of the delegates  who have been indicated by the leaders of the  delegations as the persons to serve in the position  of Vice-Presidents.  [31] Now I have the very pleasing duty of asking  my friend and colleague, Count Jacini, to come  to the platform and to take over the duties of  President of the Conference.  The Chair was taken by H.E. Count Stefano  Jacint.  [32] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] It is not without warm emotion and a deep  sense of gratitude that I assume an office made  honourable by my distinguished predecessors in  it, the late Miss Ellen Wilkinson and Mr. Léon  Blum, H.E. Mr. Manuel Gual Vidal, H.E. Mr. Ha-  mid Bey Frangie, and Dr. Ronald Walker. It is  in vain for me to tell myself that the high distinc-  tion fallen to me is in no sense personal but  merely an honour done to my country in con-  formity with a tradition of courtesy obtaining  since Unesco’s earliest days; the honour still  remains as great as the responsibility it carries 1s  heavy. I could enlarge on how I shall strive to  be worthy of it by diligence and impartiality, but  none of you will ever have expected anything else,  least of all our good Director-General and my  distinguished colleagues of the Executive Board.  They have seen me at my work for two years past  and have thus had proof that, whatever I lack  in talent and authority, I have brought to my work  all the faith and all the energy that are in me.  So it is not on this point that I want to speak to  vou.  [33] What I should like to explain briefly are  the reasons for which my friends and I have so  ardently desired that this Conference should meet  in Italy and specifically in Florence; why we  have brought such devotion to its preparation—  though only the future can show with what  success—and why we repose such fervent hopes  in a happy issue to our labours. Believe me, our  motives are far other than the desire for a sop  to our self-esteem, however well deserved, and an  understandable outburst of pride in our country.  [34] The supreme goal of the United Nations’  policy is peace—and that too is Unesco’s goal,  which it seeks, in its own sphere, by the way of  science, culture and education. After five years  of endeavour and praiseworthy experiment, of suc-  cess and failure, both alike useful and instructive,  we have come, as it were, to a turning point in               Unesco’s history; I think I am right in saying  that we must now adopt once and for all a par-  ticular line and method, that we must pick a star  to steer by and plot our course in successive stages  planned in advance with full regard for the means  at our disposal.  [36] Obviously, fundamental education, mass  communications, the relief of depressed areas and  the restoring of the moral and material destruction  everywhere wrought by the war are the very  essence of our duty and our most obvious task:  when the house is on fire and its occupants lack  bread to eat, it would be fatuous to discuss  redecoration. On one condition only can we hope  to perform the work we have to do, that of draw-  ing strength into ourselves through roots striking  deep into the rich soil of the cultural traditions  common to mankind. Whether the task be build-  ing up a body of teachers worthy of the name, or  preparing textbooks for the masses at once accurate  and comprehensive, or giving currency to a clear,  simple and wholesome view of life in general, we  must rely on a chosen few, and these can draw  their sustenance only from the living sap of the  great humanistic traditions.  [36] Thus at the beginning of a new stage in our  work we have felt the need to bathe anew in  the springs of our past, to look once more on the  majestic relics of the Renaissance here assembled  before our eyes in unmatched richness. As |  have said repeatedly, these traditions and these  monuments of other days belong to you as fully  as to us: the sole special privilege we in Italy enjoy  is to be their natural guardians. Here the past  still lives, and works on our innermost feelings  with a force unknown elsewhere: that is why we  have sought to have you, for a brief month,  breathe this air with us that our work may thereby  be freshened and vitalized. Among us the past  does not die and the pattern retains its unity from  the enigmatic smile of the carven figures reclining  on Etruscan sarcophagi, in the halflight of ancient  burial vaults, down to the revolutionary popular  upsurge of the Risorgimento, which a century ago  brought freedom and union to our country.  [37] This morning, on the Ponte Vecchio, you  might have thought you met the young Dante in  scarlet tunic and snowy capeline, as Giotto painted  hin, pretending absorption in the goldsmiths’  windows but following out of the corner of his  eye the slim figure of a girl, almost a child, at  the bridge’s farther end, who as she passed had  given him frank and friendly greeting:  Tanto gentile e tanto onesta pare  La donna mia quand’ella altrui saluta. . .  Farther on, the echo of fresh laughter which you  seemed to hear from behind an ancient wall thick  ol  with wistaria came to you down the centuries from  the lips of Florentine beauties, whose minds Boc-  caccio was distracting from the horrors of the  plague. The mighty voice, resounding through  vast cloisters adorned by Fra Angelico, was  Savonarola’s condemning the vanities of the age  of the Medici; and the pungent scent which steals  down the hill towards you comes from Arcetri,  where old Galileo, almost blind, lay in his bed  of state debating with his disciples the fun-  damental laws of nature.  [38] That is humanism, living and eternal. Nor  is it something exclusive to our land, Montaigne  was its heir in France, Bacon in England and  Erasmus in the Netherlands. The philosophers  of the Arab world had sown its seed and the  earth’s most distant lands were to gather the  harvest; in West and East alike, to Europe’s far-  thest confines, the hoard of treasure was to grow.  And so it was that over the centuries there spread  throughout the world—like a Unesco born before  its time—the worship of beauty, truth and learn-  ing, eternal and victorious, which devastation,  internal discord or bloody conflict can never  utterly destroy.
139] It is from that past, so alive to our hearts  and spirits, that you are to draw life. Nor will  it blind you to your present tasks. When, in  the leisure left you by our meetings, you visit the  towns of Tuscany and Italy in rivalry for the  honour of receiving you, you will be able to see  the daily toil of a hard-working people, sober and  intelligent, absorbed in rebuilding the commerce  and agriculture damaged by the war, in the defence  of its currency and in a work of social renewal  which does not hesitate at the boldest reforms,  though rejecting all that is totalitarian, whether  Left or Right. In such a society only accurate  knowledge is needed of Unesco’s role as the trustee  of a world-embracing notion of peace and progress  for it to cover the land like a life-giving dew and  to win the suffrages that count the most, those  of the lowly and the humble. Our work begins  with fair auguries. May the Eternal Source of  all wisdom aid it and may the great spirits of  humanism which haunt the shadows of this  Palace, look on it with favour. Let us then to  work.  [40] I shall now read out the list of the countries  allocated Vice-Presidencies and the names of those  members of delegations appointed to those Vice-  Presidencies. Brazil: H.E. Mr. Clemente Mariani  Bittencourt; Egypt: H.E. Taha Hussein Bey;  United States of America: Dr. Howland H. Sar-  geant; France H.E. Mr. Yvon Delbos; Pakistan:  Dr. Mahmoud Hasan; United Kingdom: Mr.  D. R. Hardman; Venezuela: H.E. Dr. C. Parra-  Pérez. 1 have the honour to declare the President         of the Conference and the delegates just named  duly elected. I call on Mr. Laugier, Assistant  Secretary-General of the United Nations.  [41] Mr. Henri LAUGIER (Assistant Secretary-  General of the United Nations) — [Translation  from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, this is the first time that circumstances have  permitted my representing the Secretary-General  of the United Nations at the General Conference  of Unesco. I am deeply sensible of the honour  fallen to me in bringing, in the Secretary-General's  name, the greetings and good wishes of the United  Nations to the distinguished organization whose  task in this troubled world is to secure the general  increase of education, science and culture in every  part, and to dedicate the work, research and  achievements of thinkers. educators, scientists,  philosophers and artists to the maintenance of the  peace which, though still precarious and in con-  stant peril, is yet the enduring hope of all peoples  in the world’s four corners.  [42] Ladies and gentlemen, Unesco has before  it an almost unlimited programme, which it is  very properly endeavouring to cover in its entirety  through laying down the priorities and the time-  table made necessary by its extent. I cannot of  course discuss nor even enumerate, on this occa-  sion, all the items in your specialized programme  which are of joint interest to the central organs  of the United Nations and to Unesco itself and  where accordingly co-operation is necessary and  the concentration and marshalling of our forces  are essential. However, I do wish to mention  how warm and unclouded the co-operation between  the United Nations and Unesco has been, and for  it I offer my sincerest thanks to Unesco, to its  Director-General and to its governing bodies.  There is one matter on which I should like to  dwell a little, that of the struggle for respect for  human rights throughout the universe. It is a  field in which joint action has been specially  fruitful in the past and which, in the near and  distant future alike, requires both of Unesco and  of the United Nations a new and determined  effort.  [43] Ladies and gentlemen, the history of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in the  short space of time which divides us from the  date of its proclamation, the story of how it has  taken root in the thought and practice of indivi-  duals, non-governmental organizations and gov-  ernments themselves in that brief period, is  among the most suggestive, the most abundant  in lessons and the most encouraging of our age.  We all remember the memorable evening eighteen  months ago on 10 December 1948 when the Uni-  versal Declaration was adopted in Paris. That  ( L a   F  t  Declaration was the work of thousands of men and  women; not of delegates alone or jurists alone,  but of the common folk of our own age and the  past who in a thousand battles made safe the  victory of Human Rights. You remember the  appeal by the Assembly in Paris to the gov-  ernments of Member States, to the Specialized  Agencies and to non-governmental organizations,  asking them to neglect no means in their  power to forward the publication of the text  of the Declaration and to ensure that it be  distributed, read and expounded in schools and  other educational establishments. It will be  Unesco’s glory, and it will be deemed one of  Unesco’s best achievements, that it has used  all the means of communication available to the  modern world to bring the message of the Uni-  versal Declaration of Human Rights to the  knowledge of the peoples, so that its principles  may inform their throughts and their whole lives  and inspire their daily striving for the liberation  of mankind. During the month which followed  the Declaration’s adoption, your distinguished  Director-General summoned all your Member  States to emulation in the tasks of spreading that  message. The last Conference of Unesco in Paris  laid down the general lines for a vast programme  of publications and of action. Human Rights Day  was celebrated on 10 December 1949, the first  anniversary of the adoption of the Universal  Declaration, in 42 countries. From every quarter  reports come in that teaching about the Declara-  tion has been included in the syllabuses of primary,  secondary and higher schools. In the launching  of all these undertakings Unesco has co-operated  closely and strongly with the United Nations.  Since then, the work undertaken and the results  achieved make an impressive total which bears  witness to the effectiveness of education joined  with action. In numerous decisions by major  organs of the United Nations, the moral authority  of the Universal Declaration is the basis for  recommendations designed to redress violations of  Human Rights. There are signs that the Declara-  tion is becoming a source of law and increasingly  incorporated in national or international systems.  The annex to the Instrument establishing the  Netherlands-Indonesian Union includes nineteen  articles closely resembling those of the Universal  Declaration and setting out the fundamental  rights and liberties vesting in the Union's  members. The newly drafted Statute of Jerusa-  lem includes many of the rights and liberties  proclaimed in the Declaration. In the new Trustee-  ship Agreement for Somaliland, the Declaration  affords a basis for guarantees of Human Rights.  A special Commission of the Canadian Senate,  with the task of “reporting on Human Rights and  fundamental liberties”, has had before it a bill         or draft declaration on Human Rights consisting  of 18 articles, mostly borrowed from the Universal  Declaration, and in the Conference, Governing  Body and expert committees of the International  Labour Office, days and weeks are devoted ot the  impassioned discussion of such questions as the  protection of trade union rights, forced labour,  slavery, statelessness, freedom of information, and  the fight against discriminatory measures, all of  them matters involvings Human Rights.  [44] If I have detailed at such length the results  achieved in a field which is truly of vital impor-  tance, it 1s because those results are evidence of  the effectiveness of close co-operation between the  United Nations and Unesco and because they also  point to the need for further joint action. The  peoples forming the United Nations have barely  begun the struggle for respect for Human Rights.  They cannot close their eyes to the iniquities which  are the hallmark of our tragic age, to the chains  which still bind the limbs and souls of men in  so many lands, to the discrimination still so  widespread, to the unequal position forced on  women, to the multitude of arbitrary arrests and  condemnations or to the disregard of the economic  and social rights to which men and women should  be entitled.  [45] Of all these evils there is one to which I  want to draw your attention, because it has already  been the subject of recommendations by the  United Nations and because an enquiry into it is  already on the stocks in your own Organization:  I refer to discrimination. There can hardly be a  duty more urgent today than that of inculcating  into the conscience of the world the basic prin-  ciples of non-discrimination affirmed in all the  provisions of the United Nations Charter and the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights. To do  this we must publish abroad the truth, the facts  which science has established, and drag into the  light the mendacious quibbles of the theories  which are advanced to justify racial, religious or  any other prejudice. You will recollect that in  March of 1949 the Economic and Social Council  suggested that Unesco “consider the desirability of  initiating and recommending the general adoption  of a programme of disseminating scientific facts  designed to remove what is commonly known as  racial prejudice”. Effect was given to this sugges-  tion in your 1950 programme and the launching  of the enterprise appears to be progressing satis-  factorily. But however active you may be, can  this gigantic and vitally important task be com-  pleted in 1950? I find that difficult to believe,  and if I am right I want to impress on you how  greatly it is to be desired that this investigation  be retained in your 1951 programme. This is a  question in which the United Nations, and more  particularly the Commission on Human Rights
03  and its Sub-Commissions, have urgent need of  Unesco’s support. This is not merely a personal  view. As lately as 4 May last, the Commission  on Human Rights stated that it was anxiously  awaiting the next documents from Unesco on race  considered in the light of contemporary scientific  knowledge; and it went on to ask Unesco, to  “proceed as soon as practicable with the prepara-  tion, publication and dissemination of simple and  readable books or pamphlets, based on scientific  facts, explaining the fallacies of mistaken race  theories” on which discriminatory prejudices are  based. I draw your special attention to this  recent request, being persuaded that, here as every-  where else, the United Nations will receive  Unesco's generous support and co-operation.  [46] Ladies and gentlemen, I may perhaps have  dwelt too long on the question of Human Rights,  but before Unesco in council I do not apologize; I  still recall the noble words of your Director-  General on the Declaration: “The authors of that  document did not see themselves as historians  submitting for the applause of specialists a survey  of our legislative inheritance. They threw down  a challenge, and in that challenge, though in the  language of lawyers, lives the cry of man. Every  right is a basic demand of the individual or of  society; it is an act of defiance of the forces of  injustice”. And that is just what the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights is: it is a long-range  manœuvre by the United Nations in their fight  for peace and a permanent declaration of war in  all theatres of the world against all such causes of  strife as injustice, oppression, tyranny, discri-  mination, prejudice, the poverty and the suffering  of men. Let us but advance shoulder to shoulder  and together we shall see the triumph of this  great and noble cause.  [47] Ladies and gentlemen, Unesco’s programme  is so abundant, so rich in projects pregnant with  hope for the future of mankind, that it would be  vain on this occasion to seek to comment, even  superficially, on all its sectors. But I do want  to take up your time for a few more minutes to  attempt to express as faithfully as possible the  ideas of the Secretary-General on certain items of  immediate urgency, of which a part but not the  whole is within your competence and in which  Unesco 1s intimately concerned. Ladies and  gentlemen, had he been able to be among us today,  the Secretary-General, knowing the high tasks  entrusted to the Specialized Agencies and the great  responsibilities which are theirs, would without  doubt have appealed to the States here represented  for their warm support, within their national  spheres by all the means at their disposal, of the  Specialized Agencies, which are all in varying  degrees suffering from the consequences of the           cold war. As it is, I make the appeal in his name.  To be more explicit, in Unesco’s case, it is my  earnest hope that National Commissions may  receive full support in every Member State. I  pray that thus they may become active allies, your  critics, and creators in their own right, bringing  powerful aid from the perimeter to Unesco at the  centre, devising national programmes inspired by  Unesco’s resolutions and assisting towards the  mobilization of the resources, material and spi-  ritual, of Member States for the achievement of  those programmes. Thus Unesco’s influence  would reach far out to all departments of  intellectual activity in all Member States and this  close network would contribute effectively to  intellectual co-operation for peace throughout the  world.  [48] Nevertheless, gentlemen, if circumstances  had allowed him to come here today, the Secretary-  General would also have given voice, as he did a  few days ago before the World Health Assembly,  to the uneasiness he shares with all men of feeling  at the present state of the world. He would have  told you, as he told the Administrative Committee  on Co-ordination in Paris, of his deep distress  that so many seats of Member States remain empty  in the Specialized Agencies, and others vacated,  though let us hope but temporarily, in so many  of the central organs of the United Nations. He  would have told you that the close connexion  between economic, social and cultural matters  and political affairs means that there must be  total solidarity between the Specialized Agencies  and the United Nations in the world’s effort to  ensure peace. He would have read you the Joint  Declaration signed in Paris by the Directors-  General of 11 Specialized Agencies, which asso-  clates all members of the great family of the  United Nations in a common faith, in a common  hope and in total solidarity. May I read that  declaration now:  The present division of the world and increasingly  serious conflicts of policy among the Great Powers  have gravely impaired the prospects for world peace  and for raising the standard of living of the peoples of  the world.  The United Nations and the Specialized Agencies are  founded upon the principles that lasting world peace  can only be achieved and maintained by world organ-  ization, and that world problems like disease, hunger,  ignorance and poverty, which recognize no frontier,  can never be overcome unless all the nations join in  universal efforts to these ends.  We reaffirm the validity of this principle of  universality. The United Nations system makes ample  room for diversity within a universal framework. We  believe it would be a disaster if efforts to realize the  principle of universality in practice were to be  abandoned now.  We believe that the greatest efforts should, on the
04  contrary, be directed towards achieving in fact true  universality in the membership and programmes of  the United Nations and of those of the Specialized  Agencies which are founded on that principle.  We also believe that it is necessary for all govern-  ments to renew their efforts to conciliate and nego-  tiate the political differences that divide them and  obstruct economic and social advancement.  Specifically we believe that it is essential to the  future of both the United Nations and the Specialized  Agencies that the present political deadlock in the  United Nations be resolved at the earliest possible  moment.  The peace and well-being of all peoples demand  from their governments a great and sustained new  effort by the nations of the world to achieve a  constructive and durable peace.  That is the conclusion of the Declaration unani-  mously adopted by the heads of the Specialized  Agencies represented at the Conference in Paris  a few weeks back.  [49] Ladies and gentlemen, had the Secretary-  General come to Florence, he would have told  you how heavily the years through which we are  living weigh upon our leaders at a time when  their policies must combine boldness and imagina-  tion, intellectual courage, speed of decision and  prudence; at a moment when their slightest  gesture may tighten or relax the tension and  when everything proclaims that humanity is  passing through a decisive period in its tragic  history. I repeat, “decisive”; that is what I said at  Cleveland at the meeting of the American Natio-  nal Commission and I repeat it here today: in the  course of a few centuries the discovery of fire,  steam, the internal combustion engine, electricity,  chemical explosives and the mechanics of nuclear  fission have put into the hands of men immeasur-  able and overwhelming power which can be used  to destroy almost in a matter of seconds all the  human civilization created by the effort of the  ages, or slowly but surely to build a golden age  for all men. The days to come are decisive because  in them men will be required to make a decisive  choice whether their ideal shall be the vise man,  the homo sapiens of the zoologists, or the stupid  man, homo stultus. Whether the choice will  be made next month, next year, or in the years to  come no one can say; yet there can be no doubt  that it will be within the lifetime of this generation  that humanity must elect for wisdom or folly, for  union or extinction. Ladies and gentlemen, the  United Nations claim no monopoly. They wel-  come with gratitude every endeavour designed to  end the cold war and to ensure a just and living  peace, enduring because it can be adjusted to meet  the changing conditions of the world. The United  Nations pray for a happy outcome to all such  efforts fathered by good will, even if they by-pass  or disregard the United Nations. Yet when voices           are raised on many sides calling for the restoring  of the bridges between East and West or for the  building of new causeways, we who are the sworn  servants of the United Nations deem it our duty  to remind all men that one bridge still stands,  built by the will and with the consent of all, the  Charter of the United Nations signed by all Mem-  ber States, binding on all of them, and containing  all the mechanisms needed for negotiation and  for adjudication of the differences arising in the  world today. The most urgent present need is to  restore the normal functioning of the United  Nations system, and it is in an endeavour to  accomplish that high task that the Secretary-  General is travelling from capital to capital, a  pilgrim in the cause of international co-operation  and the world radius of international institutions,  placing his final trust in the wisdom of gov-  ernments and knowing that in all countries, in  Fast and West alike, the common people follow  him with their prayers for the success of his  mission of peace. Through my unworthy lips he  asks that all of you whatever your task in life,  should support him an should bring your united  strength to help the effort to restore the full  effectiveness of the United Nations as an agency  for peace.  [50] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] Gentlemen, your applause makes it un-  necessary for me to seek to express your thoughts,  your gratitude to M. Laugier and the Secretariat of  the United Nations for the powerful and master-  ful contribution he has just made to our proceed-  ings. The President and Vice-Presidents of the  Conference and the Chairmen of the Nominations  and Credentials Committees having been elected,  a part of the General Committee of the Confer-  ence is now in being. Its numbers will be  completed later when the Chairmen of the  Commissions and Committees have been elected.  | shall ask the members already appointed to the  Committee and the Chairman of the Executive  Board, as an ex-officio member, to attend a preli-  minary meeting to take place at the end of this  meeting in the Sala dei Duecento.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 23 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  CONTENTS  Page  VII. Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning  the admission to the Fifth Session of observers from international non-  governmental organizations oi  VIII. Establishment of Commissions and Committees . . . . . . 2 2 . © 57  IX. Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Director-  General’s Report on the activities of the Organization from 1 September 1949  to 1 May 1950 and discussion thereon:  Speeches by the Director-General and the delegate of Greece . . . . 58  President: Count STEFANO JAcINI (Italy).  [1] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the  French] As I am sure the Conference is anxious  to hear the Director-General’s Report, we will  despatch the secondary questions before us as  quickly as possible. I have the following  announcements to make:
(1) The General Committee of the Conference  held its first meeting late yesterday afternoon.
00  It examined the proposed organization of the work  of the Fifth Session, which, in accordance with  the Constitution, was prepared by the Executive  Board, and without discussing in detail the pro-  posals and time-table contained in the document,  it asked the ‘General Conference to accept it  provisionally as a working basis. The General  Committee approved, in particular, the draft  A  a v   L A B   .  F a   l e   N i e   rE   T O C   T N   d ' a   i i   C N   -