M RC RTE Faim dt LE, = -  wae re ="  He therefore asked the Committee now settled.  to instruct the Chairman to lay a report to this  effect before the General Conference.  [24] Dr. WALKER (Australia) pointed out that,  although the difficulty had been overcome on the  question of associate membership, the same dif-  ficulty would again arise when the Committee  came to consider document 5C/16 dealing with  biennial sessions of the General Conference.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  SEVENTH MEETING  Friday, 9 June 1950, at 4 p.m.  Chairman:  Report on the interpretation of certain  provisions of the Rules of Procedure (con-  tinued) [document 5C/PRO/6].  Amendment proposed by the New Zealand delegation  to Rules of Procedure 11 and 14.  PARAGRAPH (d).  [1] At the suggestion of Mr. COWELL (United  Kingdom), it was agreed to insert the phrase “in  accordance with Rule 36 (3)” at the end of the  first sentence of paragraph (d) of the amendment.  [2] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) further  proposed changing the last sentence of paragraph  (d) to the effect that no new item might be con-  sidered until seven days had elapsed after it was  placed on the agenda, unless the General Confer-  ence decided otherwise by a two-thirds majority  of the members present and voting.  [3] Mrs. BRUNAUER (United States of America)  pointed out that such a change would mean that  a two-thirds majority could demand immediate  consideration of a new item, whereas the original  text presented by the New Zealand delegation re-  quired the unanimous consent of all members. If  new items were of major importance, it was pre-  ferable to require unanimous consent.  [4] Mr. MURTINHO (Brazil) remarked that in  the original amendment, the questions to be in-  cluded in the agenda were qualified as “impor-  tant”. It was therefore essential that they be  considered, and Mr. Murtinho was consequently  in favour of the adoption of the United Nations  formula permitting delegations to ask their Gov-  ernments for instructions. He also supported the  Professor Jakos NieLsen (Denmark)  suggestion made by Mr. Cowell, which was  designed to enable such discussions to be ad-  journed.  The CHAIRMAN having seconded Mrs. Brun-  auer’s point of view, Mr. COWELL (United  Kingdom) withdrew his suggestion.  PARAGRAPH (9).  [6] The CHAIRMAN felt that paragraph (g) of  the amendment might be omitted as, according  to Rule of Procedure 48, the sections under con-  sideration applied to “commissions, committees  and subsidiary bodies of the Conference’. He  proposed substituting this wording for that pro-  posed in the New Zealand amendment.  [6] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) thought  the inclusion of the sub-committees, which were  of a more informal character, was inadvisable, as  they should not be governed by elaborate pro-  cedure. A generic term should be used, or else all  bodies enumerated.  Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) agreed with  Dr. Beaglehole. As the enumeration in the pre-  sent case was not long, he supported the New  Zealand amendment and moved its adoption.  [7] Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) proposed the  wording: “commissions, committees and sub-  sidiary bodies of the Conference’.  Mr. JAUME (France) pointed out that, in  sections XII, XIII and XIV, and especially in  Rules 61, 65 and 69, this was in fact the formula  used. He therefore proposed, in order to preserve  uniform terminology, that Mr. Sebastian's pro-  posal be adopted.  The proposal of the delegate for the Philippines  was adopted.     Consideration of the original text of document 5C/  PRO/6.  [8] The CHAIRMAN stated that sections I and  II of document 5C/PRO/6 had now been adopted,  with the exception of the final paragraph for Rule
11 of the Rules of Procedure.  It was decided to adopt the text proposed on  page 3 of the document as a last paragraph to  Rule 11, but to insert a (2) after Rule 14, so that  the sentence would conclude: “Rules 14 (2) and
36 (3) of the Rules of Procedure”.  Sections I and II were adopted.  Sections III, IV and V were adopted without  comment.  [9] The SECRETARY suggested that considera-  tion of section VI be deferred, in view of the estab-  lishment of a Budget Committee, which should  be included in the Rules of Procedure together  with the three former committees (Nominations,  Credentials and Procedure). The procedure con-  cerning new items with budgetary implications  should be studied as a whole.  It was agreed to defer a decision on section VI.  [10] As regards section VII, the CHAIRMAN  pointed out that the rule stipulating that the Pre-  sident and Vice-President of the General Confer-  ence should not vote would apply equally to the  Chairman and Vice-Chairman of subsidiary bodies  of the Conference.  Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) asked  whether this meant that these persons could not  record a casting vote in cases of parity.  [11] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that this  interpretation was correct. Rule 90 did in fact  stipulate that, if a vote were equally divided, a  second vote would be taken in the course of the  next meeting. If at that meeting the vote were  again equally divided, the proposal was considered  as lost. He added that, as Rule 90 was included  in section XV of the Rules of Procedure, it was  covered by Rule 48 and was therefore applicable to  discussions in the committees and commissions, as  well as to those in the subsidiary bodies.  Section VII was adopted.  Section VIII was adopted without comment.  [12] Presenting certain amendments under sec-  tion IX, Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) said these  had been drawn up in the light of the experience  gained at the present Conference. Their object  was to change the whole conception of the Pro-  cedure Committee, which the Belgian delegation  at present considered too narrow. It therefore  proposed to extend it by calling the Committee  “the Committee on Procedure and Legal Matters”.  This would merely involve recognition of a de
676  facto situation, since the Committee dealt with  constitutional and legal questions referred to it  by the other commissions.  This proposal would involve the  amendments to the Rules of Procedure:  following  RULE 31: COMMITTEE ON PROCEDURE AND LEGAL MATTERS.
1. The Committee on Procedure and Legal Matters  shall consist of . . . (Remainder unchanged)  RULE 32:
1.  FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMITTEE.  This Committee shall consider and report to the  General Conference on legal problems, especially  on amendments to or revisions of the Rules of  Procedure and amendments to or revisions of the  Constitution.  This Committee may appoint an advisory com-  mittee of nine members to consider and make  recommendations for dealing with legal or proce-  dural problems which may be referred to it . . .  (Remainder unchanged)  RULE 33:  ro   INTERPRETATION OF THE (CONSTITUTION.
1. The Committee on Procedure and Legal Malters  may . . . (Remainder unchanged)
4. In cases where the Organization is party to a  dispute, the Committee on Procedure and Legal  Matters may . . . (Remainder unchanged)  [13] Mr. LE BRAS (France) warmly welcomed  the Belgian proposal on behalf of his delegation.  The term ‘‘règlement’’ in French was much too  narrow, and was suggestive of rather petty and  tedious questions, whereas the Committee should  deal with all legal problems and be competent to  handle all legal difficulties.  The Belgian amendment was also seconded by  Mr. de ICAZA (Mexico) and Mrs. BRUNAUER  (United States of America).  [14] The CHAIRMAN suggested that, if the  proposal to change the name of the Committee  were accepted, it should be left to the Secretariat  to make the necessary amendments throughout  the Rules of Procedure.  [16] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) was not  altogether favourable to the change, as he felt  names of committees should remain as simple as  possible. Furthermore, the proposed new name  gave a false idea of the functions and composi-  tion of the committee, which was, in fact, not  formed of lawyers. The legal branch of the Secre-  tariat, and not the Procedure Committee, was the  body to deal with juridical matters.  [16] Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) stated that  he had first thought of the name “Legal Com-  mittee’, as covering both “règlement” and pro-  cedure; but it had been pointed out to him that  such a title might be unwelcome to the Confer-  ence and also be confused with the special legal  committee contemplated for the examination of                           international conventions. The object of the  Belgian amendment was to make the name of the  Committee correspond to present realities.  [17] Mrs. BRUNAUER (United States of Amer-  ica) found the proposed change in name a mere  recognition of fact. Legal questions had always  been referred to the Procedure Committee, which  was, in fact, making the laws within the Organ-  ization and adapting them in the light of experi-  ence.  [18] Dr. ROBBINS (Canada) enquired what was  the practice in other Specialized Agencies.  Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) could give only a  partial answer. The United Nations had a legal  committée (the Sixth Commission), as did ILO  and the International Civil Aviation Organization.  He had no information concerning the other  Specialized Agencies.  [19] Mr. LE BRAS (France) referred to the legal  difficulty which had arisen at the previous  evening's meeting of the Programme and Budget  Commission with regard to the right of resuming  a discussion after a formal decision had been  taken. He asked whether Unesco had any body  competent to decide questions of that kind.  The CHAIRMAN stated that, during the life of  Unesco, questions of interpretation of rules had  always been referred to the Procedure Committee,  but this was not explicit in Rule 31 of the Rules  of Procedure. It might therefore seem advisable  to request an alteration in the Committee’s terms  of reference.  Mr. LE BRAS (France) concluded from this that  the Procedure Committee was in fact a real legal  committee. It should constitute a kind of Council  of State, dealing with all legal questions without  necessarily being composed of professional  lawyers. As he considered that what was lacking  in Unesco was precisely a body for taking deci-  sions on legal problems, he not only warmly sup-  ported the Belgian proposal, but went further and  recommended the setting up of a committee which  could deal with all legal problems confronting  the Organization, without being confined to ques-  tions of procedure.
120] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) also thought the Com-  mittee’s present name was too restrictive—at least  in certain languages. Thus he did not see how  the question which had arisen in the Programme  and Budget Commission could have been referred  to the Procedure Committee. As to the member-  ship of the Committee, Mr. Pilotti himself had  for many years presided as a judge with the assist-  ance of two engineers who had done excellent  work, although they were not lawyers. The name
677  of the Committee should be as simple as possible.  “Comité de procédure”, in French, would be some  improvement, but for himself, he would prefer  simply “Legal Committee” (Comité juridique).  [21] Mr. de VILLIERS (Union of South Africa)  considered the term “legal committee” too narrow  in English, and proposed “Constitutional Com-  mittee” as the title of this body. All legal prob-  lems with which the Committee dealt arose from  the Constitution itself.  [22] Dr. BLANCO Y SANCHEZ (Cuba), support-  ing the Belgian proposal, proposed the term  “Committee for Legal Affairs” in English and  “Comité des Affaires Juridiques” in French.  [23] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the pro-  posed Belgian amendment might be put im-  mediately before the General Conference, together  with a request for alteration of the terms of refer-  ence of the Committee; alternatively, as many of  the Rules of Procedure might be changed when  a decision was taken on the question of biennial  meetings, it might be preferable to avoid a series  of successive modifications of the Rules, by en-  trusting this item to the body charged with re-  casting the Rules of Procedure.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  suggestion to defer this item.  Seeing that the majority seemed to favour his  proposal, Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) was  against deferring the discussion. He pointed out  that a legal committee would be precisely what  was needed for dealing with the questions referred  to by the Chairman.  [24] Mr. LE BRAS (France) noted that there  was agreement as to the need for having some  body to deal with legal problems that called for  more than mere interpretation of the Rules of  Procedure. Such a task should devolve upon the  Procedure Committee, subject to an alteration in  its name.  [25] It was decided by 10 votes to 1 to adopt the  Belgian amendment in principle, for inclusion in  the final report of the Committee, but no final  decision was taken concerning the new title of the  Committee.  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) requested  that the various suggestions for a new title be set  out for the consideration of members, so that they  could select the most appropriate at the next meet-  ing of the Committee.  Agreed.  The resolution on pages 6 and 7 of document
5C/PRO/6 was adopted as amended.?
1. In final form: Resol. 40.5 to 40.58.           Draft Rules of Procedure concerning recom-  mendations to Member States and inter-  national conventions covered by the terms of  Article IV, paragraph 4, of the Constitution  (continued) [document 5C/OXR/16, page 9].  [26] The CHAIRMAN proposed that discussion of  this document might be postponed, to allow mem-  bers time to study it.  Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the text  was merely a provisional draft which might, it  was suggested, be adopted for one year and sub-  sequently revised. Furthermore, account had  been taken of the various amendments presented  by Member States that had not participated in the  work of the Sub-Committee.  [27] Presenting the draft report, Mr. PILOTTI  (Italy), Chairman of the Sub-Committee, em-  phasized that it contained four observations in-  dicating that all the proposals were of an essential-  ly provisional nature. The rules were in the  nature of an experiment only, and would be given  their final form by a future Conference in the  light of experience. The Sub-Committee made no  claim to have exhausted the subject.  Mr. Pilotti concluded by recommending the  adoption of proposals, which had been carefully  considered; in modifying the Secretariat's draft  text, the Sub-Committee had, so far as possible,  taken into account all the amendments presented  to it.  [28] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Com-  mittee pass this document to the General Con-  ference without formally adopting it, informing  the Conference that, in drafting it, the Sub-  Committee had taken into account the proposals  of Member States.  [29] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that the  Programme and Budget Commission was waiting  for a report on this question from the Procedure  Committee. Moreover, he did not think that a  document drafted by a Sub-Committee could be  submitted directly to the Conference without  being first examined by the Procedure Committee.  He therefore considered it preferable to adjourn  discussion until a later meeting.
9 4 The meeting rose at 7.20 p.m.  EIGHTH MEETING  Monday, 12 June 1950, at 9 p.m.  Chairman:  Draft amendments to Rules 52 and 55 of the  Rules of Procedure (Working Languages)  presented by the Mexican delegation (con-  tinued) [document 5C/PRO/5].  [11] The CHAIRMAN read a communication from  the Budget Committee in reply to a question from  the Procedure Committee in connection with its  previous discussion on the adoption of Spanish as a  working language. The Budget Committee had  considered the budgetary implications of the  project, and considered that $99,422 was a  reasonable estimate of additional costs; if approved  by the Procedure Committee, the sum would be  included in the Budget Committee's final budget  figures.
6  Le  |  Professor Jakos NiELsen (Denmark)  Report of the Sub-Committee of the Proce-  dure Committee on the draft Rules of Proce-  dure concerning recommendations to Member  States and international conventions covered  by the terms of Article IV, paragraph 4, of  the Constitution [document 5C/OXR/16-Adden-  dum].  [2] Professor PILOTTI (Italy), Chairman of the  Sub-Committee, recalled that, at its Fifth Meeting,  the Procedure Committee had appointed a sub-  committee to study and report on the question of  the adoption of Rules of Procedure concerning  recommendations to Member States and inter-  national conventions. This Sub-Committee had  met on 7 and 9 June. It had taken note of the  comments and proposed amendments presented by  Q