SECOND MEETING  Saturday, 27 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. Rocer SEypoux (France)  [1] The CHAIRMAN stated that, in accordance  with a decision of the General Committee, the  problem of financing the Budget would be  examined by the Administrative Commission,  without whose conclusions the Programme and  Budget Commission could take no decision regard-  ing the total budget figure.  Discussion of the Basic Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), rev.].  [2] The CHAIRMAN clarified a few points con-  cerning the scope of the Basic Programme resolu-  tions. It was a long-term programme, and the  adoption of the resolutions embodied therein did  not mean that those resolutions would necessarily  be implemented the following year. Consequently,  they had no budgetary implications. However,  they provided an authority for the Annual Pro-  gramme resolutions, which was the reason why the  long-term programme was called the “Basic” Pro-  gramme.  [3] All the resolutions included in the draft  Programme for 1951 were covered by the resolu-  tions in the draft Basic Programme, and the num-  bers of the resolutions showed the relationship  between the two. Funds had to be authorized for  all Annual Programme resolutions, and the Budget  Estimates submitted by the Secretariat represented  the Executive Board’s estimate of the funds re-  quired for the draft Programme for 1951. The  Budget Committee was engaged on a technical  study of the estimates, and its preliminary report  on the matter would shortly be communicated to  the Commission.  [4] New proposals presented by delegations were  immediately referred to the Budget Committee,  which would refer them back, with its budgetary  conclusions, to the Programme and Budget Com-  mission. The latter could then come to a decision  regarding them, from the point of view of the  programme and the budget.  [5] Finally, the Chairman reminded the meeting  that the preambles, on which the Commission’s  decision had been reserved, had no legal force;  their sole purpose was to give the public a clear  idea of the guiding principles behind the Basic  Programme resolutions.  A. Education (continued).
2. EXTENSION OF EDUCATION (concluded).  Items A.271 to A.278.  [6] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) reverted to  these items, remarking that they covered substan-  tially the same ground: A.271 and A.272 dealt  with children, and A.273 with their teachers. He  therefore proposed that items A.271 and A.272  should be combined, to read: ‘‘encourage the  development and application of specialized educa-  tional techniques for maladjusted children”.  [7] Professor CALO (Italy) would have liked  some mention to be made in the resolution of  medical assistance. With regard to readjustment,  lt was necessary to bear in mind not only present  social conditions but also the supreme ideals,  pointing towards the future, on which the progress  of mankind depended. Professor Cald hoped that  boarding schools would be included among the  institutions whose establishment was contemplated  in item A.271. He suggested amending that item  to read: “‘and of special schools, experimental  classes and cultural centres for the use of families”.  [8] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) could not  agree with certain delegates who had advocated  amalgamating the three items A.271, A.272 and  A.273. The whole project was far clearer if those  three items were differentiated, each referring to  one particular field: organization of educational  services, preventive education and the training of  teachers.  [9] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) merely  wished to substitute a comprehensive text for items  A.271 and A.272, without modifying item A.273.  He observed at the same time that points covered  in A.271 and A.272 also occurred in the Pro-  gramme for 1951.  [10] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu-  cation) suggested that the difference of opinion
277     arose from a discrepancy between the English and  French texts: the point at issue would be clearer  from the French text. Item A.271 concerned  remedial education for children already mal-  adjusted, whereas item A.272 dealt with preventive  education for normal children.  [11] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE (New Zealand) did not  see the necessity for the maintenance of items  A.271 and A.272 as separate resolutions, and  moved the adoption of his substitute text.  The motion, seconded by Professor DURING  (Sweden), was rejected by 27 votes to 7.  [12] The CHAIRMAN pointed out to the delegate  of Italy that any mention of medical assistance  would be likely to cause some anxiety to the World  Health Organization, whereupon Professor CALO  (Italy) withdrew his draît amendment.  Items A.271 to A.273 were therefore adopted  without amendment.?
3. ÉDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING.  Item ÀA.3.  [13] Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) thought that the  words ‘Member States” were restrictive: quoting  as examples items A.23 and A.26, he noted that  Unesco should be free to assist all bodies working  for the same ends. He accordingly proposed the  insertion of ‘“‘and other countries”, wherever  appropriate throughout Section 3.  [14] Mgr. BORGONGINI DUCCA (Observer from  the Vatican) was gratified that Unesco had  included in its programme the development of  international understanding—an essential task in a  divided world. However, he felt that the Organ-  ization would fall short in its efforts if it failed fo  make it clear that tolerance did not mean indif-  ference; he would prefer the preamble to stress the  need for “seeking to unite all men not only  through tolerance, which may at times lead to  scepticism, but also through the earnest, single-  minded pursuit of those truths which may unite  them”.  [15] Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  supported Dr. Siddiqui’s proposal. As the text  stood, the section would prove more restrictive  than the programme approved at Paris and Beirut,  which had already extended Unesco’s activities to  Germany and Japan. He fully realized that the Gen-  eral Conference was at liberty to modify previous  decisions, but would like to take the opportunity to  refer to his remarks made the previous day.  [16] Mr. WILLEMS (Belgium) thought that
1. In final form: Resol. A.271 to A.273.  Dr. Stoddard was supporting Dr. Siddiqui’s amend-  ment for reasons that seemed to depart somewhat  from the spirit of that amendment. While  Dr. Siddiqui wished merely to prevent Unesco  from restricting its co-operation to the public  bodies of Member States, and to extend that co-  operation to organizations concerned with educa-  tion in other countries, Dr. Stoddard, on the other  hand, apparently wished Unesco’s activities not to  be confined to Member States only, but to be  extended as far as possible to countries not mem-  bers of the Organization. Mr. Willems neverthe-  less thought that some form of words might be  found to reconcile the two proposals, along some  such lines as “Unesco’s activities should be  extended to cover all countries in collaboration  with all public and private organizations concerned  with education for international understanding”.  [17] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that,  when Member States were mentioned in the docu-  ment, that term referred not only to the govern-  ment of those States, but also to all their competent  organizations. He warned the Commission that  the adoption of such an amendment would involve  the recasting of the whole programme, as the same  remarks was applicable to a great many other  resolutions.  While appreciating the high motives behind the  suggestion put forward by the United States dele-  gate, the Director-General pointed out that such  an extension of Unesco’s field of action might raise  budgetary problems which it would probably be  difficult to solve in existing circumstances. It  should be remembered that the General Confer-  ence in Mexico had adopted a resolution on that  subject, and the Commission would do well to  refer to it before taking any decision.
118] Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) appreciated the  point of view of the Director-General but expressed  his concern for the consistency of the text. He  thought that Unesco should be above considera-  tions of membership and should make its influence  felt wherever possible, both in Member, and non-  Member States.  [19] The CHAIRMAN shared the misgivings of  the Director-General: the Conference should not  shut its eyes to the difficulties that would confront  Unesco if its field of action were to be expanded  at a time when all countries were urging a con-  centration of its activities.  [20] Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) wished to main-  tain his motion and asked that it should be put to  the vote.  [21] Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  thought it irrational to restrict certain activi-  ties to Member States, when their extension to
278         Germany and Japan had already been followed by  resolutions and budgetary action. He was aware  of the need for ‘“concentrating’ the programme.  But surely concentration should not be practised on  the substance of international understanding, on  the re-education of German youth teachers and  democratic cultural leaders.  [22] The CHAIRMAN read the resolution adopted  by the General Conference in Mexico:  The General Conference decides that no State which,  while eligible for membership in Unesco, has not  applied for such membership should be offered  opportunities to participate in the execution of  Unesco’s programme to the extent that such participa-  tion would give it benefits and privileges enjoyed by  Member States.  [23] There was, of course, nothing to prevent  the present Session of the General Conference from  modifying that decision, but it was a matter for  the Conference to decide in plenary meeting, on  the recommendation of the Programme and Budget  Commission.  The Chairman further pointed out that Germany  and Japan were covered by a special programme  embodying the activities under discussion; the  United States delegate need therefore have no  anxiety on that score.  [24] Professor CALO (Italy) was prepared to  support Dr. Stoddard’s proposal as he did not  consider it to be at variance with the resolution  adopted in Mexico: assisting non-member coun-  tries was not necessarily the same as conferring  rights on them.  [25] The CHAIRMAN suggested referring the  matter to the Procedure Committee for its opinion,  and resuming the discussion on receipt of that  opinion.  That proposal was seconded by the delegates  of Greece, Cuba, Dominican Republic and Austria.  [26] Dr. STODDARD (United States of Amer-  ica) did not think it necessary to refer the matter  lo the Procedure Committee. He wished to make  it clear that he did not intend any extension of  policy or voting powers to non-Member States or  non-governmental organizations, but only the  regularization of action already taken and followed  by the appropriate financial measures, as, for  example, decisions taken in Mexico City.  [27] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) seconded the  United States motion: limitation of a programme  for international understanding to Member States  seemed paradoxical. He thought that it would be  in order to proceed to a decision without reference  to the Procedure Committee.  [28] Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) thought that the  considerations applicable to items A.23 and A.26  (the scope of which had been extended) should  also apply to item A.3.  [29] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) emphasized the univer-  sality of Unesco’s objectives and agreed with the  delegates of Pakistan and the United States. He  observed, however, that not all countries were  accessible, and suggested the addition of the words  “and all accessible areas outside the Member  States”.  [30] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) thought it should  be possible to solve the problem without reference  to the Procedure Committee. He drew attention to  the following sentence in the preamble to sec-  tion 3: ‘Unesco must help Member States and the  competent organizations and institutions in pro-  moting education. ” As mention was there  made, not only of Member States, but also of  competent organizations and institutions, it was to  be presumed that the following items were like-  wise applicable to organizations and institutions in  other countries.  [31] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive  Board) said that, whatever the General Conference  decided about work in Germany and Japan when  considering the 1951 programme, the Basic Pro-  gramme resolutions should be consistent.  The meeting might note that an amendment or  addition to the Basic Programme would be neces-  sary to cover at least whatever work was contem-  plated in Germany for 1951. But for the time  being there should be no insertion to cover work in  Germany or Japan.  Sir John approved the suggestion by the  Chairman that there was some need for further  advice, as the wording proposed by Dr. Siddiqui  would extend the Programme beyond Germany  and Japan. However, if the Chairman wished to  test the sense of the meeting on the Pakistan  resolution, he would have no objection. He would  only stress the importance of their not extending  the Programme without realizing the full scope of  the wording suggested by Dr. Siddiqui. For his  own part, Sir John was satisfied that it did, in  fact, extend the scope of Unesco as defined in the  Basic Programme.  [32] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was prepared to  adopt Sir John’s views regarding the programme  for Germany and Japan which was already covered  by a resolution adopted by the Fourth Session of  the General Conference. He was, however,  disturbed at the French delegate’s advocacy of an  unlimited extension of the Basic Programme: such  action would be quite impracticable in view of the  stringency of the budget, which totalled only  $8,150,000, and which there was no prospect of
2   =Z ._      increasing in 1951 or 1952. The Director-General  once again warned the Commission against the  danger of presenting Unesco with a programme  out of all proportion to the funds available. He  added that a legal problem was also involved,  namely, how Unesco could extend its activities to  non-Member States, and whether it should be at  the latter's request, or whether Unesco should  open negotiations on the subject.
133] Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  thought that Sir John Maud had made very helpful  suggestions. He also acknowledged the Director-  General’s call for realism. There had certainly  been no intention on the part of the United States  delegation of extending work to countries not  members of Unesco, unless such extension had  been previously sanctioned by the General Con-  ference. He had only wished to bring the text  into line with work already planned.  He suggested that ‘resolution A.3 should be  finally drafted consistently with the Programme  voted for 1951; that would allow for the prepara-  tion of a permissive text without reference to the  Procedure Committee.  [34] The CHAIRMAN asked the delegates of  Pakistan and the United States to prepare jointly  a draft for later consideration by the Commission.  Agreed.  [30] The CHAIRMAN enquired whether the Com-  mission was in favour of including in the Basic  Programme a special resolution covering Unesco’s  activities in Germany and Japan.  [36] Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) distinguished between  the immediate programme and the long-term pro-  gramme. The latter did not necessarily cover the  cases of Germany and Japan, which might prove  temporary, whereas he considered that Unesco  should make its influence felt wherever possible.  [37] The CHAIRMAN observed that he had  already replied to that question in calling upon  the delegates of Pakistan and the United States of  America to prepare a draft resolution.  [38] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) hoped that  special reference would be made to that important  matter in the resolution to be drafted jointly by  the delegates of Pakistan and the United States  of America.  It was decided that Professor Piaget should  assist the delegates of Pakistan and the United  States in preparing the resolution.  [39] Mr. JUMSAI (Thailand) withdrew a sug-  gested amendment to item A.3, on the Chairman's  assurance that the item already covered the main-  tenance of peace within the social framework of  the country concerned.  Item A.31.  [40] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) sug-  gested the following amendment, in order to give  greater freedom of application: “Assist the educa-  tional authorities and teachers in Member States to  devise, for primary and secondary schools, ex-  amples of syllabuses and methods designed to  increase international understanding”. Unesco  should not impose a syllabus or method, but  should help teachers to evolve their own.  In that connexion, the United Kingdom delega-  tion regretted the inclusion of the words “to  inculcate in classroom and textbook” in the first  sentence of the preamble, as this might prove a  limiting factor: the teaching and study of the  United Nations organization was of little use,  unless the boys and girls understood what contri-  butions they could make to the improvement of  world society.  Mr. Thompson held a more hopeful view of the  progress made in education in world citizenship,  and of that which would be made through Unesco,  than was implied in the last sentence of the  preamble.  [41] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) was of the  opinion that item A.31 might lead to a biased  presentation of historical and scientific facts to  suit current political trends. He would prefer  that item to put forward explicitly the principle  that teachers should always bear in mind the  impartiality of facts and avoid any distortion of  truth, even if the object of such distortion were  to foster friendlier relations between peoples. He  accordingly suggested adding to the end of item  A.31 the following: “without distorting scientific  truth” or “without prejudice’.  [42] Mr. SADIGHI (Persia) suggested mentioning  literature in fields between geography and civics.  [43] Mr. de VISSCHER (Belgium) drew atten-  tion to the reference to “Member States’, which,  in his opinion, should be taken to mean all public  or private organizations concerned with education  in the Member States.  [44] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL confirmed Mr. de  Visscher’s interpretation of item A.3: in speaking  of “Member States”, Unesco meant all public or  private organizations concerned with education and  culture.  [45] Mr. MOHR (Norway) referred to the diffi-  culty of adapting the Universal Declaration ol  Human Rights to the requirements of children.  The United Nations Association of Norway had  published a pamphlet entitled “Equal Rights for  All” which had emphasized that human rights  were as important in the life of children as in
280         adult society. The principle of the application of  the Declaration to the life of children should be  formulated. lt was necessary to interest youth in  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1f they  were to appreciate the value of international under-  standing.  [46] Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) drew attention to  à difference between the French and English texts,  which made it very difficult to follow the discus-  sion.  [47] The CHAIRMAN noted that the English ver-  sion of item A.31 required complete revision.  He again read the amendment proposed by  Mr. Thompson.  [48] Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) also sup-  ported that draft amendment which was pre-  ferable, in that it emphasized that methods  designed to increase international understanding  were not yet perfect, and called upon members of  the teachnig profession to assist in devising such  methods.  [49] The United Kingdom draft amendment, sup-  ported by the delegates of NORWAY, NETHER-  LANDS, BELGIUM, AUSTRALIA, AUSTRIA,  UNITED STATES of AMERICA and THAILAND,  was adopted by 29 votes.  [50] At the suggestion of Baron van der BRUG-  GEN (Belgium), a drafting amendment to the  French text of item A.31 was adopted without dis-  CUSSION.  [51] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on  the amendment to item A.31 proposed by the  delegation of Afghanistan.  Professor PIAGET (Switzerland), seconded by  Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) suggested the fol-  lowing wording: “methods designed to increase  international understanding and a sense of  objectivity”, so as to bring out the necessity of  not distorting history.  The amendment was adopted by 21 votes.  [52] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on  the amendment submitted by the Persian delegate,  to mention literature.  Mr. ABRAHAM (France) also wanted modern  languages, on which a seminar was shortly to be  held, to be mentioned.  The amendment presented by the delegation of  Persia and amplified by Mr. Abraham was  adopted.  [63] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Norwe-  glan suggestion should be considered during the  discussion on the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights. Agreed.  [54] Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) having en-  quired how the various amendments were to be  fitted into the text, Professor PIAGET (Switzer-  land) suggested connecting them by the deletion  of the word “particularly” whereupon Mr. GUI-  TON (Department of Education) explained that  that word was meant to imply that it was not an  exhaustive list and that other subjects might be  included in the resolution.  It was decided to entrust the final wording to  the Drafting Committee.’  Item A.32.  [55] Senator PECSON (Philippines) pointed out  that, although the aims might be highly commen-  dable, they might prove unattainable if the  teaching were not of a high standard. She there-  fore suggested the following wording: “Encourage  the training of teachers, and the improvement of  textbooks and teaching materials, etc.”. The item  would thus be in line with the last sentence of the  preamble. Item A.35 could even be deleted, since  it had become part of the Annual Programme.  The amendment to item A.32 was supported by  the delegate of Austria and adopted by 26 votes.”  Item A 33.  [56] Professor CALO (Italy) was of opinion that  the idea of the interaction of cultures and civiliza-  tions was not brought out forcibly enough in the  words “international relations’; he therefore sug-  gested adding: “and the interpenetration of the  various cultures and the various civilizations’.  Mr. ABRAHAM (France) considered that this  was indeed a task which should be shouldered by  higher educational establishment, and he suggested  the following wording: “and the interaction of the  various cultures and the various civilizations”.  This proposal, seconded by the delegates of  PERSIA, BELGIUM, AFGHANISTAN, MEXICO,  VENEZUELA and AUSTRIA, was adopted.®  Item A.3).  [57] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) called for some  mention of enquiries into propaganda against  international understanding.  Mr. JUMSAI (Thailand) enquired whether  experimental research was to be encouraged on  international or national levels, or both.  Mr. GUITON (Department of Education) ex-  plained that experimental research had been ini-  tiated both by Member States and at the inter-  national level.  Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) agreed with Mgr. Maroun,  -
1. In final form: Resol. A.31.
2. In final form: Resol. A.32.
3. In final form: Resol. A.33.                    $  i  LÀ  L  fi  i    :  :  :  but suggested that a separate resolution might be  framed.  Professor PIAGET (Switzerland) considered the  Lebanese proposal excellent, but feared that it was  over-specialized; he suggested adding merely  “the obstacles that stand in its way"; such a draft  would include propaganda against international  understanding.  Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) approved that for-  mula, and Dr. JAMALI (Iraq) withdrew his pro-  posal.  The text proposed by Professor Piaget was  adopted by 28 votes.’  Item A.35  [68] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the delegate  of the Philippines had suggested the deletion of  that item.  [59] Dr. STODDARD (United States of America)  recalled that item A.35 was the outcome of resolu-  tions adopted by the General Assembly of the  United Nations and of a specific mandate from the  Economic and Social Council. He failed to see  how the General Conference could ignore that  consideration.  [60] Dr. TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican  Republic) stressed the importance of item A.35.  In the opinion of his delegation, no means should  be spared to remind men that the lack of under-  standing between peoples had been the cause of  conflict and terrible catastrophes. All countries  should join together in seeking grounds for inter-  national understanding in science, education and  culture.  As childhood was the most receptive time of  life, schools should be the centres of campaigns of  instruction on the aims of the United Nations.  In that way, a basis would be provided on which  groups of people could ultimately harmonize their  own national interests with those of Unesco and  all mankind.  Dr. Troncoso Sédnchez would therefore have  welcomed a more explicit drafting of the text  providing for instruction in primary and secondary  schools on the bases, aims and functions of the  United Nations, its subsidiary bodies, and the Spe-  cialized Agencies. International understanding  would be further strengthened if two annual semi-  nars were to be held, instead of one. The pre-  paration of texts and programmes on the subjects  studied should be entrusted to Unesco experts.  Any text could then be adapted by the various  countries to prevailing conditions.  [61] In consequence, he moved that item A.35  should be amended as followed: ‘Assist in
1. In final form: Resol. A.34.  extending and improving teaching about the  United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, more  particularly through the preparation of pro-  grammes and school-texts for the establishment  of regular courses in schools”. In view of the  importance of the subject, he considered that the  course should last for several years, instead of the  one year contemplated in the 1951 Programme.  The amendment was not supported and lapsed.  [62] Mr. SADIGHI (Persia) was not in favour of  deleting item A.35 which, in his opinion, was very  valuable. He drew attention to the work carried  out by the World Federation of United Nations  Associations, which he personally had found to be  most successful in publicizing and promoting  Unesco’s ideals. In the 1951 Budget, the World  Federation was the only non-governmental organ-  ization having a formal agreement with Unesco for  which no grant-in-aid was provided.  Mr. Sadighi suggested referring item A.35 to the  Budget Committee, with the following recom-  mendation: “The Commission recommends a  grant-in-aid of $10,000 in 1951 to the World  Federation of United Nations Associations, to  enable it to continue its work in consultation  with Unesco’s Department of Education. It calls  for immediate consideration of the present recom-  mendation by the Budget Committee.”  [63] In view of the twofold aspect (programme  and budget) of that question, the CHAIRMAN  considered it preferable to reconsider it when the
1951 Programme came up for discussion.  Mr. SADIGHI (Persia) would agree if he were  assured that it would not then be too late to discuss  the matter.  [64] Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil) suggested  adopting the text as it stood in document 5C/5 (I)  wev., which seemed to him sufficiently flexible;  any definition of procedure would restrict rather  than amplify the proposed resolution.  [65] Senator PECSON (Philippines) explained  that, in proposing the deletion of item A.35, she  had not intended to belittle in any way the value  of teaching on the United Nations and Specialized  Agencies. The Philippines had been honoured by  the choice of General Romulo to preside over the  General Assembly of the United Nations. But,  referring to items A.31 and A.33, she had thought  the reference to the United Nations and the Special-  ized Agencies superfluous from a teaching point of  view. However, since the meeting felt that such  reference was necessary, she had no objection to  withdrawing her motion.  Item A.35 was adopted unchanged.’
1. In final form: Resol. A.35.
282   Item A.36.  [66] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) sug-  gested adding: “particularly in international  camps and other forms of community life”. A link  would thus be formed with the corresponding  activities of the Relief Assistance Services and, in  future, such a definition would cover a wider field  than the reconstruction camps, which were to be  discontinued after a certain time.  [67] The CHAIRMAN observed that the question  of youth camps was dealt with in the Basic Pro-  gramme under Relief Assistance Services, where-  upon Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) with-  drew his proposal.  [68] Mr. FLETCHER (Australia) submitted that  the methods suggested in the Basic Programme  were valuable but subject to modification, and  proposed that the original text should stand.  Agreed.’  New item.  [69] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) thought that the  importance of teaching the principles of human  rights had not been stressed sufficiently, and sug-  gested adding to the end of Section 3 an item to  the effect that the teaching of such principles  should be encouraged.  [70] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that item F.3  [document 5C/5 (1) Rev., page 25] instructed  the Organization to disseminate the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights as widely as possible.  The proposal of the Afghan delegate could be re-  considered when item F.3 was discussed.  ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) provisionally con-  curred.  [71] Dr. BEAGLEHOLE [New Zealand) wanted  to make sure that the measures adopted would not  lead to duplication of work in the Secretariat or  among those working on projects. He quoted, as  an example, possible overlapping which might  occur between the Departments of Social Sciences  in their studies of social tensions, and the Depart-  ment of Education in the application of item A.34  as amended.  The meeting rose at I p.m.
1. In final form: Resol. A.37.  THIRD MEETING  Monday, 29 May 1950, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman:  Discussion of the Basic Programme (con-  tinued) [document 5C/5 (I), Rev.].  A. Education (continued).  Items A.3, A.31 and A.33.  [1] The CHAIRMAN suggested  the proposal presented by the  Pakistan at the previous meeting.  Dr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) proposed the deletion  of the words ‘Member States” in items A.3, A.31  and A.33, so that the misunderstanding in the  minds of some of the delegates, that Unesco  would confine itself only to Member States,  would be removed.  The proposal, supported by the delegates of  re-considering  delegation of     Mr. Roger SEynoux (France)  AFGHANISTAN, AUSTRIA, UNITED STATES of  AMERICA, FRANCE, IRAQ, ITALY, SWEDEN  and SWITZERLAND, was adopted.?  New item (continued).  [2] The CHAIRMAN announced that the dele-  gate of Afghanistan had submitted a resolution  for inclusion in the Basic Programme: “En-  courage the teaching, by appropriate methods,  of the principles of human rights and their ap-  plication.”  [3] ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) remarked that  the programme made no mention of teaching  about human rights, which should be the basis  of education for democracy and might be very
1. In final form: Resol. A.3, A.31 and A.33.