FIFTH MEETING  Monday, 29 May 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr.  Letter from the Italian National Association  for the Preservation of the Countryside and  Monuments of Artistic Value.  [1] In this letter, the Italian National Association  for the Preservation of the Countryside and  Monuments of Artistic Value expressed the wish  that, in discussing the report under item 8.615 of  the agenda, steps should also be taken for the  protection of monuments of artistic value.  As this letter emanated from a national organ-  ization, it was decided to inform the Association  that the Conference could receive such a proposed  amendment only from a Member State.  Letter from the World Federation of United  Nations Associations.  [2] In this letter, the Federation regretted that  the budget estimates for 1951 made no provision  to ensure future co-operation between Unesco and  the Federation.  In accordance with Rule 68 of the Rules of  Procedure, it was decided that observers of this  international non-governmental organization might  make a statement on this subject before the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission, subject to the  approval of the Chairman of that Commission.  Reference of Draft Resolutions and Amend-  ments to Commissions and Committees of the  Conference.  [3] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) stated that  the list published in No. 7 of the Journal of the  Conference (pages 66-68) contained all the  proposals which had reached the General Com-  mittee by noon on Saturday, 27 May. Some twenty  fresh proposals were being translated and a list  of them would be given in the Journal on 30 May.  An amendment presented by the Czechoslovak  delegation had not, however, been included in  the list, as the point raised in it was still under  examination by the Credentials Committee.  [4] On the request of Dr. WALKER (Chairman,  Nominations Committee) who pointed out that
260  Davip KR. Harpman (United Kingdom)  a certain number of proposals of a political nature  had been referred to the Programme and Budget  Commission, the Yugoslav draft resolution [doc-  ument 5C/19] for the summoning of a Congress  on Intellectual Co-operation for the purpose of  combating the psychosis of war was read out.  [6] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme and  Budget Commission) urged that draft resolutions  and amendments should be examined in their  normal place in the discussion of the Programme.  However, in view of the large number of proposals,  he suggested that the General Committee should  recommend delegations to make a study of the  list already published, with a view to amal-  gamating so far as possible those with similar  alms.  Dr. BENDER (Chairman, Budget Committee)  supported this suggestion.  [6] Sir John MAUD (Chairman, Executive Board)  feared that this recommendation would remain a  dead letter if the initiative for making this amalga-  mation were left to delegations. He would prefer  the job to be done by the officers of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission.  [7] Mr. SEYDOUX (Chairman, Programme and  Budget Commission) adhered to his opinion. A  decision by the officers of the Programme and  Budget Commission would carry less weight with  delegations than would a recommendation by the  General Committee of the Conference.  Dr. PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela) and Dr. BEN-  DER (Chairman, Budget Committee) shared this  opinion.  [8] At the suggestion of Dr. WALKER (Chair-  man, Nominations Committee), seconded by  Dr. HASAN (Pakistan), it was decided to invite  delegations which had submitted proposals on  allied or similar subjects to meet and see whether  it would not be possible to group these in a single  resolution, and also to invite the officers of the  Programme and Budget Commission to take all  the necessary steps to this end.  The meeting rose at 10.15 a.m.