member of the Executive Board, who might represent  Chinese culture within the Organization, even though  no Chinese delegation would be taking part in the  work of the Conference.  Part I as a whole was approved.  Part III.  [6] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) proposed that  part Il be replaced by the following text:
10. The Credentials Committee considers that the  General Conference is qualified to decide on its own  authority the question of the credentials of all delega-  tions and consequently of the Kuomintang delegation  as well:
11. Taking into consideration the communication  from the Government of the People’s Republic of  China, which is the only legal representative of the  Chinese people, the Credentials Committee proposes  that the General Conference should not validate the  credentials of the Kuomintang delegation and should  not authorize that delegation to take part in the work  of the Fifth General Conference.  [7] After an extensive discussion in which Sir  Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Mr. KHOU-  RY (Lebanon), Professor CARNEIRO (Brazil),  Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), Mr. SAR-  GEANT (United States of America) and Mr. RIB-  NIKAR (Yugoslavia) took part, the first para-  graph of the amendment (No. 10) was rejected  by 6 votes (Brazil, Canada, Cuba, France, Leb-  anon and the United States of America) to one  (Yugoslavia) with two abstention (India and the  United Kingdom); and the second paragraph  (No. 11) was rejected by 6 votes (Brazil, Canada,  Cuba, France, Lebanon and the United States of  America) to two (India and Yugoslavia) with  one abstention (United Kingdom).  FOURTH  [8] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that  as Part I of the Report contained a record of the  opinion expressed by the members of the Com-  mittee, it would be expedient to mention at the  end of Paragraph 8 of that part the vote just  taken. Any delegation could of course submit a  draft resolution to the General Conference in  Plenary Session.  [9] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) reserved his  right to present to the General Conference the  complete text of the amendment rejected by the  Credentials Committee.  [10] Paragraph 10 in the form in which it ap-  pears in Part III of the Report was approved by
8 votes (Brazil, Canada, Cuba, France, India, Leb-  anon, United Kingdom, United States of Amer-  ica) to one (Yugoslavia).  [11] Paragraph 11 in the form in which it  appears in Part III of the Report was approved by
6 votes (Brazil, Canada, Cuba, France, Lebanon,  United States of America) to two (India and  Yugoslavia) with one abstention (United King-  dom).  Paragraph 12 was approved without comment.  Paragraph 13 was approved by 8 votes (Brazil,  Canada, Cuba, France, India, Lebanon, United  Kingdom, United States of America) to one  (Yugoslavia).  The Report as a whole was approved by 8 votes  to 1.2  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.     |. In final form: Resol. document 5C/CRE/1.  MEETING  Wednesday, 14 June 1950, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman:  [1] The SECRETARY announced that Indonesia,  Monaco, Sweden and Turkey had now submitted  credentials which were properly signed and in  order.  These credentials were accepted unanimously.  H.E. Mr. JEAN Désy (Canada)  [2] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) read the follow-  ing telegram which had been received from the  Government of Syria:  Government of Syria has instructed Mr. Wadji Mallat                                to represent Executive  Board.  it during election Members  NAZEM KouDSsI,  Minister of Foreign Affairs.  Mr. SABA explained that the Syrian Government  had previously refrained from sending a dele-  gation to the General Conference of Unesco; but  a Government had a perfect right to change a  decision of this nature. As far as the actual tele-  gram was concerned, it was quite in order and  could be accepted provisionally as constituting  legal credentials; according to normal practice,  the telegram would have to be confirmed before  the credentials could be finally accepted. How-  ever, there was a question involved since this was  the first time a Member State had proposed  sending a delegation to attend only certain limited  meetings of the Conference; this procedure would  appear to be quite in order according to rule 22  of the Rules of Procedure, but it was nevertheless  unusual.  [3] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America)  remarked that the text of the telegram did appear  to meet the requirements of rule 22.  Dr. BARALT y ZACHARIE (Cuba) agreed with  Mr. Sargeant and added that the question of the  limited attendance of a delegation must surely be  one which concerned only the Member State itself.  [4] Mr. KHOURY (Lebanon) stated that he had  been requested by the Syrian Government to sup-  port acceptance of Mr. Mallat’s credentials. He  explained that, at the time of the opening of the  Fifth Session, Syria was undergoing a govern-  mental crisis and that the new Government had  only been constituted five days previously.  [5] Mr. CAIN (France) also agreed with a  remark of Mr. Sargeant, but pointed out that a  question of principle was involved in the matter  of appointing delegations at any point in the
69  - 5  General Conference and for specific meetings only.  If this precedent were followed in future years,  the works of the General Conference would be  seriously hampered. He suggested that this ques-  tion be referred to the Procedure Committee.  [6] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that  the Procedure Committee had already completed  its work and suggested instead that the Director-  General be asked to send a circular letter to  Member States drawing their attention to this  matter and requesting them to expedite the sub-  mission of full credentials at the beginning of  each session of the General Conference.  The proposal, supported by Mr. CAIN (France),  was adopted unanimously.  [7] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America).  seconded by Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) and  by Mr. KHOURY (Lebanon), moved formally that  the credentials Committee find the credentials of  the Syrian delegate in order.  Dr. BARALT y ZACHARIE (Cuba) asked whe-  ther the word “provisional” should not be inserted  in this motion, since a telegram was not normally  considered sufficient for final acceptance of cre-  dentials. Of course, in this special case, the Con-  ference would probably end before tha full cre-  dentials could be received and finally accepted.  After discussion of this point, Mr. SARGEANT  (United States of America) proposed the follow-  ing amended motion:  The Credentials Committee approves provisionally the  credentials of the Syrian delegate and recommends to  the General Conference that he be permitted to exer-  cise the mandate conferred on him by his Govern-  ment.  This motion was adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 10.15 a.m,