309 PRO GRAMME made by France and Australia, the effect of which would be to reduce the budget estimate for item 3.16 and 3.17 to a total of $25,000; and the Secretariat’s proposal for a reduction of $3,000 on the two reso- lutions taken together, the estimate for which would thus remain at $32,050. [18]: Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) said that the proposals made by the French and Australian delegates deserved serious consideration. He asked the Director of the Department of Social Sciences to prepare a statement for discussion at the afternoon meeting. SEVENTH COMMISSION IV-7 [119] At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, the vote on items 3.16 and 3.17 was postponed until the next meeting. STUDIES OF TENSIONS IN SOCIAL CHANGE. Ttem 3.21. [120] Item 3.21, which had no budgetary impli- cations, was approved. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. MEETING Friday, 29 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean PraGET (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (I)]. Social Sciences (continuation). Item 3.17. (Proposals for the creation of inter- national research and training centres.) [1] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the saving of $10,000 requested by the Commission could be effected as followed:
(1) The Secretariat might be made responsible for carrying out the work it was proposed to entrust to consultants, and a meeting scheduled to take place early in 1952 to examine the preliminary reports on the ways and means of creating research centres would be cancelled (saving of $3,000).
(2) Instead, the meeting of executive secretaries of existing international associations would assist the Secretariat. Fewer experts would attend and re- presentatives of national research councils and national research centres would not be invited (saving of $4,000).
(3) The conference of 25 persons scheduled for
1952 would be called at the end of the year rather than near the beginning. That would mean that the international research council which would be the outcome of such a meeting would be established late in the year, and the temporary post would not be required until later (saving of $3,000). [2] After stressing the limitation in the scale of the programme and the loss of speed which the economies would occasion, Mrs. Myrdal pointed out that she had only complied with the request that a work plan should be established along the lines of the French suggestion made during the previous meeting. That plan did not constitute a Secretariat proposal for such a considerable cut. [3] Miss MARTIKAINEN (World Health Organi- zation) said that her Organization took a lively interest in the social science programme of Unesco and, in particular, in the proposal to create social science institutes and to establish an order of priority for research in the social sciences. The Director-General of the World Health Organi- zation considered the creation of an international computation centre useful; the creation of an - international institute for the study of the brain was not an urgent matter but, in his opinion, high priority should be given to studies for the application of what was already known about human behaviour. In the latter field, practice was lagging far behind theory and every effort should be made to narrow the gap. [4] Mr. MARROU (France) observed that the French delegation would obviously prefer the estimate to be approved, but the Commission was obliged to discharge the unpleasant duty of making cuts in the budget estimates and, consequently, of agreeing to sacrifice some material activities.   ROGRAMMEIV-7 P Having already been obliged not to extend Unesco’s activities, it had to find out what items could be deleted without paralysing those which were already in progress. [6] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) called for great circumspection in the creation of new international organizations in the field of the social sciences. He felt that the Unesco programme had suffered in the past from attempts to act too quickly. He read a resolution adopted by the International Sociological Association in support of his view. * [6] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that Unesco’s responsibility was con- fined to planning such a centre. The International Sociological Association would co-operate in that planning. [7] The Franco-Australian proposal to reduce the total costs of items 3.16 and 3.17 to $25,000 was adopted by 23 votes to 2. STUDIES OF TENSIONS IN SOCIAL CHANGE. Item 3.22. (Critical inventory of the methods and techniques employed for facilitating the social inte- gration of groups which do not participate fully in the life of the national community.) [8] The Yugoslav delegation had proposed an amendment to the resolution, consisting of the addition of the following words: This inventory should also show whether, and to what extent, discrimination between such groups exists in the laws or practice of certain countries, and how far such groups are allowed to develop freely, both economically and culturally, account being taken of their particular racial and cultural characteristics. [9] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) could not express any opinion, as the amend- ment had not been submitted to the Board. [10] The Yugoslav amendment was adopted by
8 votes to 3, with 10 abstentions. [11] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the motion effected a change of emphasis but would not involve additional work for the Secretariat. The Secretariat had noted the Budget Committee's suggestion that National Commissions should participate in the work. If their co-operation were effective, a saving of $5,000 might be possible on item 3.22. [12] The item was adopted, with a reduction of $5,000.
1 See page 780 for the Resolution on the Establishment of an International Centre for the Social Sciences. COMMISSION 310 Item 3.23. (Study of the social and cultural aspects of migration, so as to secure that both emigration and immigration contribute not only to the improve- ment of economic conditions in the countries con- cerned, but to social progress and to the cultural enrichment of those affected, and also to mutual understanding between peoples.) [13] The Budget Committee had considered it preferable to entrust such surveys to members of the Secretariat rather than to experts, and felt that the International Labour Organization should participate more fully in the work. [14] The Italian delegation had submitted an amendment (document 6C/DR/67) to the item, reading as follows: The Director-General is authorized: to continue study of the social and cultural aspects of migration, in order to co-operate with Member States, the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies in the drawing up of plans of emigration or immigration, with a view to promoting migration and ensuring that it shall contribute. [15] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board), speaking as a delegate of Italy, and recalling that he had always been concerned with migration problems, strongly recommended the approval of the amendment in view of the vital importance of migration for a great many countries. [16] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) opposed the Italian amendment on the ground that the action of promoting migration was a matter for the United Nations and the International Labour Organization. The Unesco pro- gramme on migration had been designed to supple- ment the ILO programme. [17] Mrs. JOUHAUX (International Labour Or- ganization) recalled that ILO had already done a considerable amount of research on the contribution of immigrants to international understanding. For that contributionto be really fruitful, or indeed possible, economic and social conditions had to be favourable, with immigrants enjoying the same social rights as the nationals of the country, and with no opposition to their employment. ILO welcomed Unesco’s collaboration, which was in- dispensable in attempting to solve such a vast problem. [18] Mr. BERNAL JIMÉNEZ (Colombia) remarked on a point in the translation of the original French version into Spanish. In the Spanish translation the word “emigración” was used to express “migration” in the original. It was better to use the word “migración” as being more general; “emigración” referred solely to the active aspect of the process.     = o s N A —
311 PROGRAMME [19] The Colombian representative had not been convinced by the remarks of the Italian represen- tative, interesting as they were. [20] He therefore proposed the rejection of the sug- gested Italian amendment and the maintenance of the original draft, which stressed the importance of migration in the social progress of the countries which received immigrants and in the fostering of mutual understanding among peoples. Apart from the improved economic conditions of those involved, the shifting of populations was a very important factor in the promotion of culture. [21] The considerable cultural advantages gained through migratory movements could be noted in the history of Latin America. An outstanding example was Argentina, which from the time of Alberdi and Sarmiento had pursued a systematic policy of con- trolled immigration based on human as well as eco- nomic factors, thus laying the foundations of the splendid sociological progress realized in that country. [22] Mr. Bernal Jiménez wished his remarks to go on record, and declared that he could not understand the aim of the Italian delegation’s proposal. [23] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) pointed out that it was not a question of substituting other wording, but simply of inserting a proposal to encourage migration. He would not, however, press for the amendment. [24] Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) thanked the Italian representative for his explanation. [25] Baron van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) observed that the reception and social welfare of immigrants were almost entirely the concern of ILO alone. Unesco should therefore concentrate on the problem of displaced and refugee intellectuals, from the point of view of opportunities for the mulual enrichment of cultures. He therefore requested the Department of Social Sciences to devote particular attention to the cultural and intellectual contribution made by emigrants to their new home country.
1261 Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) pointed out the necessity for defining accurately a field of study, as many studies of migration were in progress in the various Specialized Agencies. He suggested that a change of emphasis in the work plan might satisfy both the Belgian and his own delegation. [27]! Miss MONSCHEIN (Austria) supported the Belgian proposal, with the change of emphasis pro- posed by the delegation of the United States of America. [28] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that it would be difficult to effect a change of emphasis in the work plan, as COMMISSION IV-7 both it and the draft programme had been drawn up in consultation with the United Nations and the International Labour Organization, which had left certain parts of the total action to Unesco. The draft programme and the work plan as it stood had also been approved by the United Nations Administrative Committee on Co-ordination. [29] Mrs. Myrdal assured the delegates of Belgium, the United States of America and Austria that, in studying the positive contribution which could be made by migrants, the individual contribution of intellectuals would automatically be taken into account. . Unesco was studying migration in terms of mass movements rather than the migration of individuals. If the Commission felt that the emphasis should be changed, it should adopt a specific resolution to that effect. [30] The CHAIRMAN asked if there were any pro- posals for reduction in the appropriation. [31] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences), referring to the Budget Committee's suggestion that the Secretariat, instead of the two specialists, might carry out the survey, thought that it would be difficult to envisage a solution of that kind. The sudies were to be made in receiving countries (e.g. Latin America) and members of the Secretariat could hardly be sent. If the Commission felt that a reduction of the financial provision was necessary, it might decide to send one expert to one country, thus effecting an economy of $5,000. That would, however, lead to a reduction of activity. [32] Mr. STONE (Australia) wondered whether it might not be possible for National Commissions to co-operate at a higher level. Certain immigration countries had demographic experts available, and an economy might be realized if they could be used. [33] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that Unesco’s studies on the assimilation of migrants were already under way. Experts had worked under contract in various countries and the results were being synthesized. The Secretariat had deemed it worthwhile to send the two experts to Latin American countries because otherwise those countries would not be covered. The $5,000 covered both travel and fees. [34] Item 3.23 was adopted. [35] The reduction of $5,000 was approved. Item 8.24. (Methods of harmonizing the introduction of modern technology in countries in process of industrialization, with respect for their cultural values, so as to ensure the social progress of their peoples.) [36] Mr. STONE (Australia) considered that item   IV-7 PROGRAMME
3.24 was in fact a specialized aspect of item 3.17 as approved at the previous meeting. He therefore suggested that the two might be brought together, always bearing in mind that item 3.24 involved technical aid to individual areas and an enquiry into the relationship of technique to cultural values. He thought that to approve the two resolutions separ- ately would be to sanction not only a waste of money but, more important still, a waste of expert staff which was in all too short supply. [37] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) pointed out that, although the topics were related, item 3.24 covered work already started. If an international social science institute were to be established in 1952, it might take over all or part of the activities under that heading, but it would be advisable to leave, for future consideration, the question whether the activities should be carried out by Unesco itself or by an institute, and to provide immediately for the continuation of the activities in
1952. [38] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) suggested that, as one of the conferences planned was regional, the countries of the region concerned should be requested to bear a higher proportion of the cost. [39] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that the conference would be attended by experts from Europe and the Amer- ican continent, who would be paid by Unesco, as well as by specially invited experts from the region. It was also open to observers and, for those, the govern- ments concerned could be asked to make an increased contribution. The overhead expenses of holding the conference would be borne by the government of the country in which it was held. [40] [41] Item 3.24 was adopted. The estimate of $31,650 was approved. Item 3.25. (Study, in agreement and collaboration with a Member State which has newly gained its inde- pendence, of the methods employed to reduce internal social tensions.) [42] The Budget Committee had pointed out that no definite request from a Member State for a study of social tensions had yet been received by Unesco. Selected inter-governmental organizations had not yet been approached with the object of concluding contracts. The Budget Committee therefore felt that the $16,000 for fees might be carried forward to 1953. [43] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that, although no formal request had been received, three governments had COMMISSION 312 expressed a desire to receive assistance under that heading. One of those, the Indian Government, had enquired, during the meeting of Representatives of National Commissions, whether Unesco would be prepared to continue its assistance during 1952. No answer could be given then because the Secretariat had to remain free to assess the urgency of various requests. [44] Mr. KIRPAL (India) gave an outline of the work done in his country with the assistance of Unesco. The six research teams had been increased to 14 and a co-ordination committee composed of members of the National Commission and represen- tatives of Unesco and of the Indian Government was supervising the work. The Government was con- tributing a sum sufficient to assure success and Unesco’s funds had been devoted entirelyto financing the research teams. He urged Unesco to continue its invaluable assistance during 1952, as he felt that the results obtained in India would be of interest to other countries. [45] Mr. MAEDA (Japan) said that a sum was set aside in the Unesco budget for 1951 to finance studies of social tensions in Japan. Accordingly, Japan had set up a research council to select teams, which were awaiting the arrival of the Unesco expert. Mr. Maeda had been surprised to find that the expert had not yet been appointed. He urged that an expert should be appointed as soon as possible and that provision should be made in the 1952 budget for carrying the work over into 1952, should that prove to be necessary. [46] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) appreci- ated the value of the work, but considered that it could be done more economically by recruiting a permanent member of the staff. Mr. ANDRIC (Yugoslavia) had reservations to[47] make on the subject of item 3.25. It was an ex- tremely difficult question: in view of the social conditions existing in some countries, internal tensions might be dangerous, and any interference by Unesco might be detrimental to its prestige and to peoples’ faith in the Organization. He would therefore abstain when the item was put to the vote. [48] Нет 3.25 was adopted by 29 votes to 0, with
2 abstentions. [49] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) referred to his previous statement and suggested a reduction of $5,000 in the figure of $16,000. [50] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) pointed out that it would be difficult to make the proposed reduction because the $16,000
313 PROGRAMME included not only fees for the expert but also fees for local research teams. She asked the Commission to bear in mind the important training aspects of the work of an expert with the local teams. [51] The reduction of $5,000 proposed by the United Kingdom delegation was put to the vote and rejected by 11 votes to 0, with 4 abstentions. The estimate of $16,000 was therefore approved. Item 3.26. (Studies and enquiries, either to maintain peace in areas where conflicts are liable to arise, or, after the cessation of hostilities, to restore the normal life of national communities in areas subject to such conflicts.) [62] The item involved no special costs. [63] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) considered that, although there were no specific financial implications, item 3.26 was very important because it made provision for a potential demand upon Unesco’s resources, which might arise any- where and at any time. Under that resolution, Unesco would be able to contribute in a detached and expert manner to studies on an “action front”, as distinct from the long-term action which all agreed was indispensable for the maintenance of peace. Resolution 3.26 showed the world that Unesco was ready to act not only on a long-term basis but also when and where social tensions had constituted or were about to constitute a threat to peace. [54] Mr. Stoddard suggested that, before the end of the General Conference in progress, events might have occurred which would call for action under that resolution. Unesco’s action might consist in encouraging the return to Korea of teachers who had been obliged to leave by the outbreak of hosti- lities, and in sending other teachers, with the equipment required to restore to the people of Korea the facilities which they had lost. Unesco would work to reduce social tensions arising from the war by teaching about the United Nations, Human Rights, and international understanding, in addition to providing the indispensable fundamental edu- cation. He considered that, in addition to pro- viding unique scope for practical work for the relief of social tensions, Korea would provide an opportun- ity for the scientific study of social tensions on the scene of the disturbances. By taking direct action for the relief of the people, and by carrying out scientific studies on the scene of the conflict, Unesco would be demonstrating before the world its readiness to help in times of emergency as yet unforeseen. [55] ‚Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) drew aftention to the exceptional importance of the re- COMMISSION IV-7 solution, which gave Unesco an opportunity to intervene where major tensions were found and to prevent them from increasing. He hoped that attention would be drawn to the resolution in the next issue of the Social Science Bulletin, explaining how it opened the door to action which would safeguard international security. [56] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), like the delegate of the United States of America, believed that the social scientist could maintain his objecti- vity, his scientific approach and integrity even in the study of the most dangerous situations. He entirely approved the suggestion that Unesco should be ready to mobilize social scientists in the cause of peace. [57] Mr. MARROU(France) seconded the remarks of the three previous speakers and presented the following draft resolution (document 6C/DR/35), which would be numbered item 3.27: The Director-General is instructed to embark upon an investigation into tensions arising from the divergence between the chief economic systems of the present-day world and into the possible need for new forms of inter- national law adapted to such tensions. [58] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) thought it symbolic that the Commission should be about to vote on a proposal designed to safeguard peace, at the very moment when news of a proposed cease-fire in Korea had been received. [59] Item 3.26 was adopted. [60] The debate was opened on the French pro- posal for the adoption of a new item 3.27. [61] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) pointed out that neither the Executive Board northe Budget Committee had seen the amendment. He requested the French delegation to agree to post- poning the discussion until the Secretariat had had time to study the amendment and submit it to the competent bodies of the Conference. [62] ment. Mr. MARROU (France) withdrew his amend- Item 3.31. (Studies on new forms of inter-govern- mental co-operation with a view to improving the structure and working of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies.) [63] Item 3.31, on which there were no comments, was adopted.    IV-7 PROGRAMME Item 3.32. (Legal and sociological studies of prob- lems of internal organization, encountered by States which have recently obtained independence, in regard to their participation in the system of international co-operation of the United Nations and the Special- ized Agencies.) [64] The Budget Committee had felt bound to inform the Conference that the item dealt with a problem of interest to all the Specialized Agencies, with which close collaboration seemed necessary. [65] In an amendment (document 6C/DR/71), the Italian delegation had proposed the substitution of the word “social” for “sociological”. [66] The United States delegation also had pro- posed an amendment (document 6C/DR/21), whereby the first line would be changed to read: “To encourage and facilitate legal, sociological and administrative studies . . .” [67] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) moved the adoption of both amendments, the first of which was merely a drafting change. [68] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) entirely approved the amendment put forward by the United States delegation. The re- placement of “sociological” by “social” would not improve the text, because “social” would include also the legal and the administrative studies. She was, however, ready to defer to the opinion of the Commission. [69] Mr. STONE (Australia) felt that there were certain questions of such delicacy that Unesco should not intervene in them. That should be borne in mind in considering requests from Member States. [70] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that Mr. Stone's remark applied to the subsidiary Resolution 3.321. Item 3.32 was a general resolution intended to ensure continuity. There had been many contacts with Member States, and studies had been undertaken with 14 of them, only one of which had recently become independent. Twenty-five per cent of Unesco’s Member States had recently become independent, and the resolution was designed to enable them to benefit from the experience of others. [71] The Italian amendment was put to the vote and rejected by 18 votes to 8. The word “soci- ological” was therefore left unchanged. [72] The United States’ amendment was adopted. [73] The CHAIRMAN proposed to take a vote on the estimate of $21,800 for the item. [74] Mr. MARROU (France) had no objection to CTOEM MIT 878¢ 170 N the sum proposed but, as it was necessary to adopt a policy of strict economy, he proposed the deletion of the appropriation of $12,000 for item 3.321, unless funds could be transferred when the work under item 3.32 was completed. [75] The estimate of $21,800 for item 3.32 was approved. Item 3.321. (Assistance to a Member State which makes such a request, by the advice of experts, in order to aid it in solving such problems.) [76] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) said that if the United Nations were preparing to send out experts on public administration, the resolution could be deleted. He therefore seconded the French motion. [77] Mr. STONE (Australia) agreed. [78] The French proposal to delete the estimate of $12,000 was adopted by 29 votes to 1. [79] Ttem 3.321 was therefore not adopted. Item 3.41. (Member States are invited to contribute, jointly with the Director-General, to the development of sociological studies relating to conditions likely io promote a better applicationof the Universal Declara- tion of Human Rights, in particular, in relation to non-discrimination with regard to women.) [80] The United States delegation had proposed [document 6C/DR/21] that the item should be redrafted as followed: Member States are invited to contribute, jointly with the Director-General, to the development of studies relating to conditions likely to promote a better application of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. [81] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) proposed the deletion of the word “soci- ological”, but the retention of the phrase concerning non-discrimination with regard to women. [82] The Commission agreed, by 14 votes to 8, to delete the word “sociological”. [83] It further agreed, by 18 votes in favour, to keep the rest of the item as it stood. [84] Item 3.41 was thus adopted, with the deletion of the word “sociological”. [85] Mr. STONE (Australia) considered that the attention of the Secretariat should be drawn to the difference between the theory of equality—endowment with legal, political and social rights—and its prac-       ب س ح —
315 PROGRAMME tice. That difference was evident even in highly developed countries. In fact, the part- played by women in the life of the community was largely dictated by the economic and social structure of the community, and the part they played in the public affairs of the community might not correspond to their theoretical equality with men. The reason for that discrepancy in various countries called for Unesco’s attention. [86] It was agreed to note the point. Item 3.42. (The Director-General is authorized to carry out, in agreement and collaboration with the MemberStates concerned, a sociological study of the problems involved in the admission of women to the exercise of political rights, in order to arrive at measures most appropriate for facilitating the solu- tion of these problems.) [87] Mrs. SCHLUTER-HERMKES (German Federal Republic) stated that her Government was keenly : interested in the item under discussion. She noted that three countries were to be selected for the enquiry, all of which had granted political rights to women, but in which they exercised those rights in characteristically different ways, thus giving a basis for comparison. She asked whether Germany was to be one of those countries, and which were to be the other two or three countries selected for the enquiry. She hoped that part of the proposed enquiry would cover the special situation of women in Germany and the ways in which they made use of their political rights. [88] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that studies were to be made in three countries and in Germany. The Secre- tariat's intention, in making separate mention of Germany, had been to use the Unesco Institute for the Social Sciences in Germany for the implementa- tion of those studies. In other countries, existing inter-governmental organizations would be used. Mrs. Myrdal emphasized that the results should be co-ordinated and comparable. The subject selected for investigation was bound up with the Unesco pro- gramme (under Resolutions 1.242 and 1.2421) and with the work of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. There would thus be the closest collaboration between the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies on the subject of women's rights. [89] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) suggested that, if there were a relationship between the work contemplated and that of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, Unesco's part of the studies might be better done the following year, so that Unesco would have the benefit of the results obtained by the United Nations. COMMISSION IV-7 [90] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the United Nations took action for the improvement of the status of women but that it was for Unesco to carry out the relevant scientific sociological studies. The two roles were complementary; there was no danger of duplication. [91] Item 3.42 was adopted. [92] The appropriation of $14,150 for the re- solution was approved. [93] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) con- gratulated the Executive Board and Mrs. Myrdal on the draft programme prepared for the Department of Social Sciences, which had always proved a most difficult matter. Cultural Activities. [94] Before the Commission considered the first item, Mr. CAIN (France) wished to make a few comments on the Cultural Activities programme as a whole, and on the considerable progress it showed. For a long time, the Department of Cultural Acti- vities had been in an inferior position in the Secre- tariat and, although its administrative structure was at last satisfactory, its budget was still smaller than that of other sections of Unesco. It was the Com- mission’s duty to ensure that it had the minimum funds without which it could not operate success- fully. The French delegation therefore requested the Commission to be as generous towards cultural activities as it had been towards the other parts of the programme, especially as the budget estimates had already been reduced to a strict minimum, and many international organizations of artists, writers and scholars, in spite of their loyalty to Unesco, had often been disappointed. DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL CO-OPER- ATION. Item 4.11. (To assist, by subventions and services, those international organizations which, within the field of cultural activities, are engaged in the develop- ment of co-operation between specialists, documen- tation services and the diffusion and exchange of information, and to associate them with the work of Unesco.) [95] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) stated that the Executive Board had con- sidered the various United Kingdom proposals for the rearrangement of the Cultural Activities Pro- gramme, but had not felt that it could recommend them all for adoption, particularly those bearing on a new distribution of the various parts of that Pro- gramme.     IV-7 PROGRAMME [96] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) welcomed the more rapid development of the activities of non- governmental organizations having consultative relations with Unesco, and supported the French suggestion, as there was an increasing tendency for governments to refer those organizations to Unesco for the provision of funds. He gave notice of a proposal for an economy in a project emanating from the Norwegian National Commission. [97] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) endorsed the French delegation’s request to the Commission to be particu- larly generous in dealing with the section of the budget on which discussion had just begun, and especially with the particular item under consider- ation. [98] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that he was prepared, whenever possible, to vote for the items and their accompanying budget estimates. In the work plans for item 4.11, it was stated that organizations receiving subventions should, as far as possible, be in a position to carry out all the activities within their special purview with their own resources. Mr. de Berredo Carneiro had, however, been instructed to oppose the suggestion that the Department should hand over its responsibilities to the International Music Council and abolish a specialist’s post in Unesco’s Secretariat. The Inter- national Music Council was too young a body to be able to take over at once all the responsibilities of the Cultural Activities Department in the field of music. The programme specialist responsible for all matters affecting music was a Brazilian. That had obviously nothing to do with the question. The Brazilian delegation simply felt that, at the Inter- national Music Council's stage of development, Unesco should retain a specialist responsible for it in the Secretariat. [99] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) warmly endorsed the French delegation’s view on the matter, which was of fundamental importance. Uruguay was making real sacrifices in its effort to develop all cultural activities. [100] As president of the two great Associations dedicated to the furtherance of music, the theatre and the radio in Uruguay, Mr. Zabala Muniz said he could personally testify to the big contribution those cultural activities were making to peace and social understanding. [101] He added that the promotion of cultural activities was one of Unesco’s basic responsibilities, and its work in that field justified his country’s support of the Organization. [102] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) noted that the arts were not stressed in the plans for fundamental education; indeed, it would be difficult to stress so vague a matter as “cultural activities”, for culture COMMISSION could not be administered or bought and sold. There was a tendency to overlook the artist, who was a most important. constructive element in civiliza- tion. All great humanitarian causes had the support of artists; it was for Unesco to prove that it had such a cause and then artists would be more willing to co-operate than they were at the moment. Young creative people everywhere were increasingly adopting an attitude of passive, or even active, resistance to the contemporary civilization, which, they felt, was directed to exclusively material ends; their unwillingness to co-operate with Unesco could be attributed to that cause. Unesco would not be likely to secure the effective collaboration of artists and other constructive elements in the community by offering material advantages or by any “soup kitchen” approach. Any general plan should take account of the fact that the best way to help creative artists was to use the product of their thoughts. [103] Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) favoured the methods for which provision was made under the cultural activities section of the draft programme. He would therefore support item 4.11. [104] Mr. Campbell asked whether the proposed international survey by the International Union of Architects was not concerned in the main with regional problems. [105] Mr. Campbell further observedthat, although international organizations had held their annual meetings in the past without assistance from Unesco, Unesco funds were being used to finance them. He deplored the tendency to turn to Unesco for that kind of assistance. Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) supported both the French and the Brazilian proposals. Her delegation’s support of the latter proposal was, however, given on the under- standing that the statutes of the International Music Council were about to be modified. She entirely supported the Australian suggestion regarding the manner in which the collaboration of the artist should be encouraged. [107] She asked whether, in the event of there being insufficient funds available to finance the Cultural Activities programme on the scale indicated, the Secretariat would propose an overall cut or would prefer to delete or curtail parts of the pro- gramme. [106] Mr. ANDRIÉ (Yugoslavia) shared the view[108] which had prompted the French proposal, but reserved his right to take up certain details in the draft programme. [109] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) said that his delegation’s suggestions, embodied in document “DO
6C/DR/3, consisted of a number of amendments of        | |
317 PROGRAMME substance, which he would like to bring up as they arose during the discussions, and of proposals for the reformulation and rearrangement of the section, which he would like to see referred to the existing Drafting Committee or another, at the discretion of the Commission. [110] The document set forth two lines on which the Drafting Committee might work: (1) that general resolutions, such as 4.121 and 4.421, which were explicable only by a long work plan covering a number of disparate activities, should be replaced by specific resolutions having relation to the various projects in the draft programme; (2) that a list of publications should not be given in its existing form, but that publications should be related to the pro- gramme resolutions throughout the Cultural Acti- vities programme. [111] Hussein FAWZY Bey (Egypt) agreed with the Brazilian delegate that it was still too early for Unesco to delegate forthwith the major part of its activities in the field of music to the International Music Council. [112] He seconded the French delegation’s appeal on behalf of cultural activities, which, so to speak, represented Unesco’s heart and conscience. [113] Mr. PLAZA (Venezuela) agreed with the representatives of France, Brazil and other countries who had spoken. [114] Art education was compulsory in Venezuela and there were choral societies, ballets and theatre groups in schools and colleges. [115] Finally, Mr. Plaza called attention to the fact that the Symphony Orchestra of Venezuela was receiving a subsidy of one million bolivars and that its director, Maestro Sojo, had been most enterprising in his choice of concert programmes. One of them had consisted of works by the Brazilian composer Villalobos. The Symphony Orchestra had acquired great fame, as could be attested by the invitation it had received from the Peruvian Government to play at thefestival of Saint Mark. [116] Mr. Plaza wholeheartedly approved the statements of the French and Brazilian represen- tatives. [117] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) agreed with the United Kingdom sug- gestion concerning the procedure for considering the substantive amendments and for the proposed reformulation. She thought the proposal for re- formulation constructive, and heartily approved it. She asked whether the Secretariat would find dif- ficulty in rearranging the lay-out of the 1952 pro- gramme, or whether it would be necessary to wait a year. [118] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of COMMISSION TV-7 Cultural Activities) thanked delegates who had expressed their interest in the various activities of his Department. [119] While appreciating the interest shown in the very important work carried out by the non-govern- mental organizations, he felt obliged to point out that, if the decisions taken with regard to the budget were to be implemented, it would be difficult not to apply the general reduction of nine per cent, or a cut of $16,500, to the estimate of $184,000 for subventions. [120] The previous session of the Conference had emphasized the importance of architecture and the need to assist the International Union of Architects. In the draft programme, it was proposed to give that Union a small subvention to carry out a survey of outstanding university and school buildings in the different countries. [121] The International Music Council, set up by Unesco, had been officially in existence for
18 months. An amendment to its statutes was to be submitted, giving national centres the right to vote in the Council. A director was always glad to hear a proposal to maintain the number of his officials, but it was a question of general policy regarding staff and required careful study. In any case, there was no question of Unesco’s ceasing to supervise the activities of the International Music Council. [122] The United Kingdom delegation thought that the programme resolutions were too synthesized. Yet the Executive Board had previously expressed the opinion that there should be greater concentration in the resolutions. That was a question of principle upon which the Commission should take a decision. Similarly, it might certainly be a better arrangement for the different publications to appear opposite the activities to which they related, but the Director- General had felt that the existing arrangement, within each Department, would give people a clearer idea of the various publications. That was another matter calling for a decision by the Commission. [123] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) ex- plained that, in his earlier remarks, he had not been concerned with the maintenance or abolition of a post, but it seemed to him that Unesco was being in- consistent in stating, in the work plans for item 4.11, that the Secretariat would maintain the necessary staff to ensure contact and liaison with the organizations receiving subventions and to exercise general super- vision over their activities, and then proposing to abolish the post of the one specialist capable of super- vising the International Music Council's activities. [124] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) agreed with all the proposals under item 4.11; he hoped that $7,000 would be the maximum reduction in the estimate. THOMAS Activities) [125] Mr. Cultural (Director, Department of replied that a question of        PROGRAMME organization was involved: the Section responsible for liaison with international non-governmental organizations comprised two specialists and two assistants, including a music specialist. [126] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the question of a possible re-arrangement of the resolutions should be left to the Drafting Committee which the Commission had already appointed. With the Committee's proposals before it, the Commission would decide, when it came to consider a com- prehensive resolution, whether the programme C'OMMTSS FON 318 should be left as it was, or divided up into a number of more detailed resolutions. Similarly, it would decide whether to group publications together or to link them up with the corresponding pro- gramme activities. [127] A decision on item 4.11 might be taken at the next meeting. [128] The procedure proposed by the Chairman was adopted. The meeting rose at ? p.m. EIGHTH MEETING Saturday, 80 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Piaget (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation). Cultural Activities (continuation). DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL Со-ОРЕВ- ATION (continuation). Item 4.11 (continuation). [1] The CHAIRMANasked the Commission to vote upon draft Resolution 4.11, which had already been discussed at the previous meeting. [2] Mr. VITO (ltaly) pointed out that his delega- tion had always emphasized the importance of the cultural aspect of Unesco’s programme. Statements to that effect had been made at the Fifth Session and repeated at the opening of the Sixth Session of the General Conference. In particular, with regard to the item under discussion, the Italian delegation associated itself with the French delegate’s remarks at the previous meeting. [3] The CHAIRMAN observed that the discussion ‚on the substance of the matter was closed, and invited the Commission to vote on the resolution in question and on the expenditure relating to it. [4] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) said that his National Commission had expressed concern about the amount of the subvention to be allocated to the International Music Council. The sum of $28,000 appeared small, unless the Council possessed sub- stantial resources of its own to finance its programme. Mr. Missingham requested clarification of the point by the Secretariat. [6] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the International Music Council had at its disposal funds subscribed by its member Associations. They amounted to only a small sum, unfortunately, and the Council had to rely upon financial resources to complete its work. [6] The Commission approved the text of draft resolution 4.11. [7] The CHAIRMAN then asked the Commission to vote successively on the two proposals to reduce the appropriation relating to item 4.11. The delega- tion of Haiti had asked for a reduction of $7,000, whilst the Secretariat had suggested a reduction of $16,000. [8] Mr. CAIN (France) hoped that the reduction of appropriations for that item would be as small as possible, in view of the arguments put forward by various delegations and repeated by the Italian dele- gate. He therefore agreed with the proposal made by the delegation of Haiti. [9] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the budget ceiling had been exceeded after discussions on the Education, Natural Sciences and Social -Science programmes. The programme would have to be   | |