IV-6 PROGRAMME Agencies in November 1951: firstly, to formulate proposals on the possibility of the Centre; secondly, to discuss initial and continuing financing of the Centre; and thirdly, to discuss proposals on the method of establishing permanent relations between the Centre, Unesco and other Organizations, with a view to ensuring it con- tinuity, preserving its international character, and selecting the country for setting up its headquarters. [116] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) pointed out that a provision of the kind mentioned by the Italian delegate was contained in Annex I to the Report. He therefore had no objection to the Italian amendment, but wondered whether it was necessary. Е
1117] The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Italian delegate still maintained his proposal. [118] Mr. SEVERI (Italy) replied in the affir- mative. A meeting of representatives of the three States concerned, held in May 1951, had laid down the main lines of the project. The Conference planned for November would be unnecessary. The Italian delegation therefore proposed that a final decision should be taken, in accordance with the recommendation put forward by Italy, the Nether- lands and Switzerland in Annex II to the Working Party’s Report (document 6C/PRG/26). [119] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on that amendment, which had been accepted by the Chair- man of the Working Party. [120] Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought that $20,000 COM MTS STON 300 was. an inadequate sum for the launching of the Centre. He therefore proposed that the possibility of a $60,000 loan should be considered, in addition to the subvention of $20,000. He did not believe that Member States would contribute to the main- tenance of the Centre until it was in operation. [121] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) also urged that the National Commissions should be informed of the suggestion of a loan, which, since it had been pro- posed by the Executive Board, was surely legal. [122] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) stated that the Working Party had discussed the matter and had been told that, if a loan were obtained, it would have to be repaid by the end of
1953. The Working Party had felt it would be impossible for the loan to be paid back by that date and had therefore proposed a subvention. [123] The CHAIRMAN said that the financial ques- tion as a whole would be referred to the Budget Committee. [124] The Italian amendment was rejected by
14 votes to 9. [125] The text of the Working Party’s report on item 2.24 was adopted by 28 votes in favour. [126] Item 2.24 was adopted. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. SIXTH MEETING Friday, 29 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. S. M. Smarr (Pakistan), later: Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation). Natural Sciences (continuation). Arp ZONE PROGRAMME. Items 2.25 to 2.263. [1] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) presented the views of the Working Party on the Mr. Jean PraceT (Switzerland) Arid Zone programme contained in document 6C/ PRG/26, pp. 2 and 3. [2] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) made a brief general statement on the question. The Advisory Committee on Arid Zone Research was to meet twice a year (estimated cost, $11,000); the Secretariat was to collect and dissem- inate information on research being carried out, and on the organizations, scientists and engineers engaged in such research (estimated cost, $8,000). E E L S E P E E T S ب ل ا س ا س ا ج ح V E e e ‏ P R , ل ن ب ‎ M E A c e :
301 PROGRAMME The Advisory Committee was then to draw up specific research projects and bring them to the attention of Member States (estimated cost, $15,000), and to recommend the organization of annual inter- national symposia in a country interested in such research (estimated cost, $10,000). [3] Pointing out that the section of the programme covered by items 2.25 to 2.253 inclusive required a budget of $44,000, Mr. Auger said that the Secre- tariat was prepared to reduce that total by nine per cent, as requested by the Director-General, if the Commission thought it advisable. [4] Mr. HINDLE (United Kingdom) expressed full approval of the valuable work done by the Arid Zone Committee, but was of the opinion that it should take a full cut of nine per cent, such as had been applied to other parts of the programme. [5] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) thought that a sys- tematic cut of nine per cent in every part of the Programme would render the Commission’s work valueless, as it would no longer be constructive. The Lebanese delegate had already urged that a dis- tinction should be made between those activities which formed an integral part of the Programme and those which, while very important, were not so essential, [6] Mr. Florkin was anxious that the full appro- priations provided for that section of the Programme should be maintained. [7] Mr. SOPER (New Zealand) asked whether the reduction achieved by postponing the symposium until 1953 had been taken into account in the esti- mate. Further, after comparing items 2.252 and
2.253 he considered that item 2.252 was very important and should be given priority over 2.253. [8] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences), whilst admitting that the cancellation of the symposium would obviously be an economy, recalled that such activities were part of the essential work of the Arid Zone Committee. He did not see how that cancellation could assist the co-ordination of work which had been asked for by the New Zea- land delegate. [9] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) referred to the re- commendation which his delegation had made at the previous meeting and which he understood had been adopted, that where, in the Natural Sciences programme, there were divergencies of opinion, the distribution of the cut within the item should be a matter for discussion by the Natural Sciences Working Party. The Budget Committee's proposal to postpone the symposium until 1953 could also be discussed by the Working Party. COMMISSION IV-6 [10] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) supported the Australian delegate's observations. The Working Party might discuss matters of that kind and thus save the time of the Programme Com- mission. He asked whether the Australian delegate would be willing to agree that item 2.25 should be discussed as a whole. [11] The recommendations of the Working Party with regard to items 2.25, 2.251, and 2.253 were adopted. Item 2.252, as amended by the Working Party (document 6C/PRG/26, pp. 2 and 3) was adopted. [12] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) reminded the meeting that, under the terms of the resolution adopted on the previous day, the Working Party was to reconsider the budgetary allocations as a whole, for the entire Department of Natural Sciences, in order to arrive at a balanced distribution, while bearing in mind the necessity of an over-all cut of nine per cent. Item 2.254. (Studies to be carried out on questions submitted by Member States, without charge to Unesco.)
0 Ме: STAHL (Sweden) reminded delegates that, at the Florence Conference, the Swedish dele- gation had proposed that the Director-General should be instructed to set up a small committee of experts on meteorology to prepare a report relative to the establishment of an international meteorological research institute in Sweden under the auspices of Unesco. The Executive Board had not recommended the inclusion of the scheme in the 1951 programme, and the Swedish delegation had withdrawn its pro- posal. Since then the Swedish authorities had been discussing the possibility of establishing such an institute. A modest budget had been secured and limited operations would be begun in the autumn of 1951. A resolution had been adopted by the World Meteorological Organization, at its meetings in March and April, to the effect that the desirability of establishing an international meteorological institute should be examined by Unesco. Mr. Stihl hoped that the project would obtain Unesco’s support. DISSEMINATION OF SCIENCE. Item 2.31. [14] The Secretary read the observations of the Budget Committee on the item (document 6C/ Bud/1, pp. 13 and 14). [15] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences), commenting on the observations of the    IV-6 PROGRAMME Budget Committee, pointed out that, in addition to the exhibition which was to be organized, there were already two travelling exhibitions, organized in 1950 and 1951 respectively, which were then going round Latin America and the Far East, and which entailed upkeep and travelling expenses; the sum asked for, $17,000, would therefore not even be sufficient. If changes were to be made in the budgetary alloca- tions for item 2.3 (Dissemination of Science), Mr. Auger would be in favour of increasing the provision for exhibitions to $20,000. The Working Party might be instructed to consider that sug- gestion. [16] Mr. MOHR (Norway) asked for further details with regard to the Budget Committee’s observations. He also asked whether the matter covered by the item in question did not come within the province of the Department of Mass Communication. [17] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that his dele- gation took a keen interest in the travelling exhibi- tions, and was opposed to the idea of transferring the dissemination of scientific information to the Department of Mass Communication; it considered that that branch of activity should be left in the hands of scientists. [18] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) supported the Belgian delegate, and recalled the very successful scientific exhibition which had been organized at Beirut when the General Conference was held there. He urged that the budget allocation should be main- tained, and that the branch of activity in question should continue to be dealt with by the Department of Natural Sciences. [19] Mr. Piaget took the Chair. [20] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) said that his country took a keen interest in the subject of exhibitions. He noted that an exhibition on matters of health was to be arranged, and hoped that subsequent ones would be held dealing with others of Unesco’s principal objectives. He asked whether the World Health Organization would par- ticipate in the expenses of the health exhibition. [21] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that, though he could not announce a definite promise of a contribution from the World Health Organization for that particular item, he felt sure that, if Unesco drew up a programme bearing on a subject of interest to WHO, that Organization would not fail to collaborate, as it had done in the past, when it had actually provided financial assist- ance to Unesco. The sum mentioned in the Budget could then be increased. Mr. Auger concluded by repeating that the sum of $20,000 was indispensable COMMISSION 302 for the organization of the new exhibition and the travelling expenses both of that exhibition and of the two others which had preceded it. [22] Mr. MONTEL (France) suggested that a further paragraph should be added to item 2.31, emphasizing the value of the contribution that could be made to the dissemination of science by an im- provement in school curricula. [23] Mr. Montel proposed the following wording, pointing out that the addition would have no budgetary implication: The Director-General is authorized: To encourage the teaching of the sciences, and, for this purpose, to take the necessary steps to assist the improvement of curricula and of the experimental equipment used in the teaching of natural and applied science at all educational levels. * [24] Mr. Montel pointed out that the Organization had already moved in that direction, by publishing booklets describing the scientific equipment needed for science teaching. [25] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) supported the French delegation’s proposal, recalling the fact that the problem of the spread of science teaching, which had been included in Unesco’s programme from the beginning, had gradually been eliminated from it. [26] Mr. CALÒ (Italy) also supported the French motion. [27] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) thought that the question of science teaching belonged to the basic programme rather than to the annual programme, and recalled that Unesco had already taken various measures in that connexion. He did not see how the proposed clause could be added to item 2.31. [28] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that if, as had been suggested, the implementation of item 2.31 were to be entrusted to the Department of Mass Communication, the French amendment would be inappropriate, to which Mr. MONTEL (France) replied that, in view of the fact that item 2.31 dealt with methods of disseminating scientific informa- tion, the question of teaching could hardly be ignored. [29] The CHAIRMAN asked the Norwegian delegate whether he wished to make a formal proposal that the matter should be referred to the Department of Mass Communication. [30] Mr. MOHR (Norway) said that he had merely intended to make an observation, not a formal pro: posal. a — + , = = ج ا ب ‎ t t   extr
303 PROGRAMME [31] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences). suggested a simpler procedure than the adoption of the I'rench amendment; he thought it would be sufficient to amplify item 2.31 by inserting the words “and teaching” after “dissemination” (first line). [32] Mr. MONTEL (France) accepted that sug- gestion, and the Commission approved item 2.31, thus amended. [33] The sum requested ($45,834) was approved, with the cut of $10,000 suggested by the Secretariat. [34] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) reminded the meeting that the Working Party would still be asked to consider the distribution of the cuts that had been agreed upon. Item 2.82. [35] The CHAIRMAN explained that the item had already given rise to observations by the Executive Board, and to a draft resolution, submitted by the Lebanese delegation (document 6C/DR/8). [36] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon), submitting the proposal of the Lebanese delegation, explained that it was intented to replace Resolution 2.32 by two separate resolutions, the first of which dealt with the organization of discussions on topics chosen by Unesco and bearing on the relations of science and society, and the second with the publication of booklets of a nature to encourage young people in the Middle and Far Eastern countries to choose a scientific career. The sums required would be $9,700 and $10,000 respectively. As for the addi- tional draft Resolution 2.34, submitted by the Lebanese delegation, that delegation itself had modified it, after consultation with the Secretariat, owing to the difficulty of getting the project started in 1952 because of its large budgetary implications. The Lebanese delegation suggested that, instead, the explanatory statement following Resolution 2.32 in the Budget Estimates should be extended to include the suggestion of publishing Impact in English, Spanish, French and Arabic. [37] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Fxecutive Board) explained that the Executive Board had adopted that suggestion, while opposing the idea that the publication of Impact might be brought to an end. The Board had also asked the Lebanese delegation to withdrawits proposed amendment to item 2.32, and had suggested that its wishes should be met by allocating $2,000 for the translation into Arabic of certain publications, without inserting any extra resolution into the Programme. COMMISSION TV-6 [38] Item 2.32 was adopted, with the inclusion of Arabic in the explanatory statement. [39] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) questioned the suitability of Impact for some of the purposes dis- cussed in the Committee. The preliminary issues had been examined by the national co-ordinating body in Australia and it appeared doubtful whether the purpose for which the publication was intended was being fulfilled. The articles which appeared in it were too advanced for the general reader and too generalized for the specialized reader. It was fully realized that it was difficult to reach a happy medium but Mr. Cummins thought that some consideration might be given to the form which Impact should be given in the future, with a viewto improving its presentation; he considered that, as a publication, it served a very useful purpose. [40] The sum of $19,700 was adopted with a cut of 9 per cent. ACTION IN THE SERVICE OF Huan RIGHTS. Item 2.41. (Study of the international protection of the moral and material interests derived by authors of scientific productions.) [41] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that, as the item was new, he would welcome some more details in connexion with the Secretariat’s proposal. [42] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that the Director-General was prepared to make all arrangements to ensure that the resolution in question would have no budgetary implications, and to keep strictly to the authorization to arrange for a study of the problem—a preparatory task which could be carried out by the Legal Affairs Section of the Secretariat, with no extra cost. [43] Mr. MARROU (France) had intended to make a similar suggestion, with the object of cancelling the relevant budget estimate. The problem was one of great importance, but it could not be solved until the results of the Secretariat’s action in the matter of copyright were known. Mr. Marrou concluded by saying that there could be no objection to the postponement of the undertaking until 1953. [44] The resolution was adopted, the sum re- quested being cancelled. Draft resolution contained in document 6C/DR/66. [45] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal contained in document 6C/DR/66, submitted by the delegation of India, which was a draft resolution requesting the Executive Board to consider the in-    PROGRAMME clusion of a new item in the 1953 Programme (pre- paration of a handbook on the manufacture of simple scientific apparatus for the teaching of science). [46] Document 6C/DR/66, which had no budget- ary implication for 1952, was approved. [47] The CHAIRMAN said that the General Com- mittee had decided that representatives of the Budget Committee should join the Working Party which was dealing with the Fundamental Education project, so that there could be a joint study of that project. The Budget Committee would therefore have to designate six further countries to represent it on the Working Party, which would thus include all the members of the Committee, some of whom were also members of the Programme Commission. Social Sciences. DEVELOPMENT OF SCIENTIFIC CO-OPERATION. Нет. [48] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that it would be extremely difficult to reduce further the modest sums allocated under item 3.1. There might however, be a possi- bility that the subventions allocated for new organi- zations might be foregone. That would effect a reduction of $3,000. [49] In a reply to a question from the Yugoslav delegate, Mrs. Myrdal said that it was possible for the national branches to do part of the work, but that matter was outside the scope of the Secretariat. Mr. MARROU (France) feared that item 3.11 was too modest. It gave the impression that Unesco was afraid to go too fast. The French delegation hoped that, so far as was possible with the sums allocated for the project, Unesco would speed up the establishment of an International Council of the Social Sciences, thus giving a definite status to that branch of study. [50] {51] Mr. STONE (Australia) was not against the proposal, but asked for clarification. He wished to be sure that allocations made under those estimates were essential to the Unesco programme, and were not merely designed to give assistance to the organi- zations concerned. He also wished to know the exact form which effective participation in the work of Unesco by the International Psychological Associ- ation would be likely to take. [52] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) replying to the French delegate, said that the question of proceeding more rapidly COMMISSION 304 to the establishment of an International Council for Social Science Research would be dealt with under the United States amendment to Resolution 3.17. [53] In reply to the Australian delegate, Mrs. Myrdal said that very careful enquiries had been made into the possibility of integrating the international associ- ations with Unesco. Two of them intended to place on the agenda of their next year’s conferences items forming part of Unesco’s programme. [54] The International Psychological Association was still in process of formation and it was difficult, therefore, to give precise information concerning co-operation with that Association. [55] Item 3.11 was adopted, with a budgetary cut of 9 per cent. Item 3.12. (Clearing House Services.) [56] Mr. HINDLE (United Kingdom) considered that it should be possible to obtain the information required without the payment of fees. He proposed deletion of the proposed contracts, for which $4,000 had been allowed. [57] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that much information had been obtained from the National Social Science Councils and the National Research Centres, which had been obliged, in many cases, to undertake in- vestigations in response to enquiries from Unesco. Those investigations sometimes required a con- siderable amount of work and it had been found that the most efficient as well as the cheapest method was to be in a position to conclude modest contracts for the supply of such information. [68] Mr. HINDLE (United Kingdom), in view of the explanation given by the Director of the Depart- ment of Social Sciences, withdrew his proposal to cut the budget by $4,000. [69] Item 3.12 was adopted. Item 3.121. (International Social Science Bulletin.) [60] Mr. HINDLE (United Kingdom) thoughtthat, in view of the need for economy, it might be possible to disseminate the results of Unesco studies more effectively in existing journals. Was it necessary to publish separate pamphlets for each study? Could not the results be published, for instance, in the Bulletin? MYRDAL[61] Mrs. Department of Social Sciences) said that the United Kingdom dele- gate’s proposal was already being followed as far as possible. The pamphlets on race questions, however, were intended for the special use of secondary school- (Director,    — —
306 PROGRAMME teachers. Such information could not be included in the Bulletin, as it was not destined for the same group of readers. [62] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that there had been criticism of the Bulletin by the national co- ordinating body in Australia. Since the Bulletin covered a vast field, it was no doubt difficult to obtain contributors, as the latter probably preferred a more specialized journal. He suggested that, if the Bulletin could not be made more effective, the question of its discontinuance might be considered. [63] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) supported item 3.121 as proposed. The International Social Science Bulletin served a useful purpose and it had been improved. He thought that the whole publications policy of Unesco might well be the subject of specific and detailed study. [64] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium), remarking on the high cost of the publications programme, suggested that some of the studies should be published in the Bulletin, the method of separate pamphlets being reserved for studies intended for the special use of teachers in secondary schools. The series of tech- nical studies mentioned in Table X of the Annex to the Budget Estimates might be printed in the Bulletin a solution which would also serve as a reply to the doubts that had been expressed regarding the usefulness of that Bulletin. [65] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) assured delegates that every effort was being made to improve the Bulletin. The edi- torial policy was only beginning to show its first results. It was that, instead of carrying odd articles from individual authors, a special theme should be chosen for each issue. For instance, one issue con- tained the proceedings of international associations; the issue then going to press was concerned with international sociological associations. Another specialized issue consisted of a compilation or con- densation of earlier studies. Tt was intended to publish one issue on the social sciences in a specific region, for instance, a region which, on account of its language, did not receive sufficient publicity. The Bulletin was arousing more and more interest and it was hoped to increase its distribution. With regard, however, to publications listed in the work plan contemplated for the resolution under consider- ation, the Secretariat thought that it would be possible to delete the publication of one item, namely, the study on conference technique. That would represent a saving of $4,300. [66] Item 3.121 was adopted, with a budgetary reduction of $4,300. COMMISSION IV-6 Item 3.13. (Standardization of terminology.) [67] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that a draft amendment had been submitted by the United States delegation (document 6C/DR/21) and another by the Italian delegation (document 6C/DR/69). [68] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that, as the Board had had no opportu- nity of forming an opinion on the Italian amend- ment, which had only just been circulated, it would leave that matter to the Commission. As regarded the United States amendment, which would result in a cut of $3,400, the Executive Board had decided in favour of the resolution as submitted to the Conference, in view of the fact that the work had already been begun. [69] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that, if the item was adopted as formulated in the draft programme, it would need the budgetary provision which appeared there. Should the Commission consider that the work on terminology could be deferred until 1953, the budget could be reduced accordingly. [70] Mr. HINDLE (United Kingdom) thought that perhaps the work on the standardization of termino- logy might be referred to the appropriate non- governmental organizations. [71] Mr. STONE (Australia) thought thet the work in question was pre-eminently a matter for Unesco. It was felt, however, by the social science body of Australia that the programme was a little too opti- mistic with regard to the rapidity of achievement. He supported the suggestion of the Director of the Department of Social Sciences that that part of the programme should be deferred in order to effect an economy in the budget. [72] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) thought that a compromise might be reached. If the Italian amendment were adopted, work on the standardization of terminology might be started. She suggested that a saving of $2,400 might be effected by cutting out the expenses for the consultant and travel. [73] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) said he would accept Mrs Myrdal’s view, in order to ‘give the Secretariat greater scope for the study of the problems of scientific and technical terminology in the various languages. [74] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) said that, in proposing his amendment, he had had in mind a similar purpose to that of the Italian   PROGRAMME amendment. The compromise suggested by the Secretariat was satisfactory to him. [75] The compromise proposal suggested by the Director of the Department of Social Sciences was adopted and referred to the Drafting Committee. The budgetary item of $13,900 was approved, with a reduction of $2,400. Item 3.14. (Social science activities of Field Science Co-operation Offices in South East Asia.) [76] Mr. SOPER (New Zealand) asked for infor- mation with regard to the activities of the Field Science Co-operation Offices at New Delhi and Jakarta. [77] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that the setting up of the offices had been begun only in 1951, the first (that in Cairo) having come into being on 1 April; the field officer in charge had only just left, and the office would be opened in June. The office at New Delhi would be in operation only during the last six months of 1951. The offices at Montevideo and Jakarta would be opened about 1 April 1952. It could therefore be seen that little information could as yet be available with regard to the results of the offices’ work. [78] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) thought that the officials attached to the Field Science Co-operation Offices might usefully get in touch with social scientists in the areas concerned for the purpose of co-operating directly with them and channelling all assistance for the further train- ing of social scientists in the area. [79] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the United States delegate’s suggestions were already being carried out in part, but it was difficult for the field officers to devote themselves full time to work on such projects. There would be many calls upon their time, and they could not perform the work of experts in the field. It would hardly be possible for them to operate on a smaller budget. The only way in which economy might be effected was to postpone the setting up of the field offices. [80] Item 8.14 was adopted, together with the relevant expenditure, no cut in which was proposed. TEACHING AND RESEARCH. Item 3.15. (Development of the teaching of the social sciences.) [81] The CHAIRMAN said that two draft amend- COMMISSION 306 ments had been submitted to the Commission: one by Austria and Venezuela, referring to the work plan (document 6C/DR/63), and the other by Italy, referring to the resolution itself (document 6C/ DR/68). [82] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) stated that, as those amendments had not been submitted to the Board, the latter would leave them to the decision of the Conference. [83] Mr. THIRRING (Austria) spoke in support of the draft amendment to item 3.15 presented by the Austrian and Venezuelan delegates. He stressed the importance of education for peace. [84] The CHAIRMAN noted that the Commission was in favourof inserting in the work plan the words “of the moral and psychological aspects of education for peace”, as suggested by the Austrian and Vene- zuelan delegations. [85] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) considered that the Italian amend- ment was an improvement on the original draft. [86] The Italian amendment DR/68) was adopted. (document 6C/ [87] Mr. SOPER (New Zealand) was in general agreement with the recommendation, but asked whether it was necessary, at the stage reached to hold an international meeting of experts. It might be possible to go a long way in framing a programme without such a meeting. [88] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the enquiry had been proceeding rapidly and successfully, eight countries being studied. Other Specialized Agencies were also taking part in the work. She proposed, however, a reduction of $4,075, as much work would already have been achieved in 1951. [89] On a vote being taken, an appropriation of $16,100 was approved for item 3.15. Item 3.16. (Survey of ezisting research institutes in the field of the social sciences.) [90] would take the decision what were important problems of the present age”. Mr. STONE (Australia) asked what authority “the most [91] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that the term was derived from the discussion which had taken place in the Economic and Social Council. She thought that the
307 PROGRAMME meeting of experts would be able to decide on the questions to be examined. [92] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) asked whether the proposed survey might not be held under the auspices of the Liaison Committee of International Associations, thus somewhat reducing the allocation for the project. [93] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) thought that Mr. Stakman's sug- gestion would apply to item 3.17 as well as to item 3.16. [94] Mr. MARROU (France) would have liked to support the suggestion made by the United States delegate, but in view of the inevitability of making sacrifices he felt obliged to seek out the weak points in the programme. He was in favour of making one large sacrifice, rather than trimming away a great number of small expenses. For that reason, he regretfully suggested the cancellation of item 3.16, the budget estimate for which amounted to $20,050. The work envisaged therein could be transferred to the Liaison Committee, and a substantial saving would thus be effected. [95] Mr. STONE (Australia) supported the sug- gestions made by the United States and French dele- gates. It should be possible, by means of co- operation between the international associations and the National Commissions, to make a study at much less cost. In Australia a similar study had been made at no cost at all, and the Australian plan might serve as a model. That would effect a budgetary reduction of more than $5,000. [96] Item 3.16 was adopted, the budgetary figure being reserved for consideration under item 3.17. Item 3.17. (Creation of international research and training centres in the social sciences.) [97] The CHAIRMAN said that the documents to be taken into account in considering the above item were: proposed establishment of an International Social Science Centre (document 6C/PRG/24), the proposal submitted by the United States delegation (document 6C/DR/19), and the amendment pro- posed by the Italian delegation (6C/DR/70). [98] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that, as the Italian amendment had not been submitted to the Executive Board, the latter could only leave it to the decision of the Conference. He recommended the adoption of the United States proposal, which was an improvement on the wording of Resolution 3.17 and gave a clearer definition of COMMISSION IV-6 the ground to be covered by the Social Sciences Research Centre. [99] Mr. ANDRIÉ (Yugoslavia) said he would not vote for the resolution, as he did not think the establishment of an international Centre for social science research was the best way of solving the problems encountered in that field, where opinions were very divided. He did not see how the Centre could attract the support of all Member States, as they were still very far from arriving at any joint method of investigation and research. The Centre would not have the necessary authority. Mr. Andrié thought it would be better to draw up a list of prob- lems to be considered and to ask existing national institutions to undertake the study of those prob- lems; the results could then be examined at the international level, with a view to deciding whether the question was sufficiently advanced to justify the establishment of an international Centre. Mr. Andrié doubted, furthermore, whether it would be possible to secure, for such a Centre, staff with sufficient knowledge of all aspects of the problems to be dealt with. [100] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the idea of one com- prehensive institute of the social sciences had never been entertained by the Secretariat. She drew atten- tion to document 6C/PRG/24, which gave a brief account of the stage reached in the preparatory work accomplished by Unesco with a view to the estab- lishment of international social science research centres. Certain problems came under international research, as distinct from national research. Particu- larly the basic social studies needed for the develop- ment programmes of hitherto less developed countries warranted an international approach or an inter- national centre of research. Since the programme had been first mooted, support had been so great that the Secretariat felt that the situation warranted the steps proposed by the United States resolution. [101] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that he had been asked by the social scientists in his country to express scepticism concerning the project outlined in item 3.17 in its original form. He was sure their attitude would be different in view of the narrower definition proposed by the United States delegation. He asked whether it would represent any budgetary saving. [102] Mr. MARROU (France), after saying that the French delegation accepted the principle of setting up internationa] social science institutes, proposed under item 3.17, suggested a compromise by which the work provided for under item 3.16 would be entrusted to those institutes, and a total sum of   PROGRAMMEIV-6 $25,000 would be allocated to the two resolutions, which would amount to a saving of $10,050. [103] Mr. MOHR (Norway) said that, in social science circles in his country, it was felt that the collection of information with regard to the social sciences was a necessity. In the economic field, statistics were compiled from which economists drew their conclusions. Similar sources of informa- tion were needed by social scientists, and the methods of collecting and presenting such information in a scientific way should, in his opinion, be improved. [104] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) said that he was in the same position as the Australian dele- gate. The national co-operating body in the United Kingdom had been extremely doubtful about the original proposal, and wondered whether so much money should be spent at that stage, before require- ments had been fully ascertained. Mr. Rackham asked Mrs. Myrdal to give suggestions for budgetary figures under items 3.16 and 3.17 in the event of the United States amendment being adopted. [105] Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) said that he also had doubts similar to those expressed by the previous speakers. It was necessary to decide whether Unesco should co-ordinate the work of existing research centres or should set up new centres before ascertaining whether the existing centres were carrying out their work effectively. [106] Mr. Bernal Jiménez had heard it suggested that Unesco’s action in that respect had not resulted in co-ordination but had instead aroused a spirit of rivalry in the field of scientific research—surely a field in which co-operation, not rivalry, should prevail. [107] With regard to the amendment proposed by the Italian delegation, the Colombian delegate was of opinion that co-ordination of the work of existing centres should be supported rather than the estab- lishment of new centres. Otherwise, there would be a risk of overlapping and a profitless consumption of energies which might well be used for other purposes. [108] The CHAIRMAN read the new wording of item 3.17, proposed by the United States delegation and amended in the light of the Italian delegation’s proposal: To proceed as soon as practicable, in co-operation with the competent international organizations, to establish an International Social Science Research Council and an International Social Science Research Centre for the study of human implications of technical changes. [109] The Ttalian and United States delegates agreed to the merging of their proposals. COMMISSION 308 [110] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) asked for figures before voting on the text. [111] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that no international institute existed in the field of social sciences. If the work was to proceed efficiently, it would imply an increase of $2,400, but the Secretariat could make a reduction by cutting out the temporary post under item 3.17. A total reduction of about $3,000 would be possible under the two resolutions. [112] In reply to the United States delegate, Mrs. Myrdal said that the Liaison Committee would consist of the executive secretaries of the main associations in the field of the social sciences with which Unesco was in contact; it was also intended to invite one or more executive secretaries from new bodies. The International Social Science Research Council would have wider functions. National research councils and centres would also be included. The aim would be to secure better co-ordination through the international social science research councils than that effected through the Liaison Committee. [113] Mr. MARROU (France), referring to his proposal, said he was glad to note that the Budget Committee’s observations had followed similar lines. He proposed a total figure of $25,000 for the two resolutions, representing a saving of $10,050. His proposal did not entail the cancellation of any important project, as the saving would be made in respect of the joint Conference, which included a great number of experts. [114] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the reduction proposed by the United States delegation would result in a further saving. [115] Mr. STONE (Australia) supported the French delegate’s proposal. A survey should be undertaken of existing research institutes in the field of the social sciences. The French delegate was quite right in saying that work under the two headings should be merged, and it would thus be possible to make a considerable budgetary saving on one or: other of the items. [116] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the United States proposal involved more work, not less. It was true that a considerable saving could be effected if the Confer- ence were postponed until 1953, but a report on the establishment of the social science centre had to be prepared for the Economic and Social Council in the current year. [117] posals before the Commission: The CHAIRMAN said there were two pro: the joint proposal     — —— — — — ’ ; À p m e m e e t g e a r E E — — |
309 PRO GRAMME made by France and Australia, the effect of which would be to reduce the budget estimate for item 3.16 and 3.17 to a total of $25,000; and the Secretariat’s proposal for a reduction of $3,000 on the two reso- lutions taken together, the estimate for which would thus remain at $32,050. [18]: Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) said that the proposals made by the French and Australian delegates deserved serious consideration. He asked the Director of the Department of Social Sciences to prepare a statement for discussion at the afternoon meeting. SEVENTH COMMISSION IV-7 [119] At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, the vote on items 3.16 and 3.17 was postponed until the next meeting. STUDIES OF TENSIONS IN SOCIAL CHANGE. Ttem 3.21. [120] Item 3.21, which had no budgetary impli- cations, was approved. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. MEETING Friday, 29 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean PraGET (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (I)]. Social Sciences (continuation). Item 3.17. (Proposals for the creation of inter- national research and training centres.) [1] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the saving of $10,000 requested by the Commission could be effected as followed:
(1) The Secretariat might be made responsible for carrying out the work it was proposed to entrust to consultants, and a meeting scheduled to take place early in 1952 to examine the preliminary reports on the ways and means of creating research centres would be cancelled (saving of $3,000).
(2) Instead, the meeting of executive secretaries of existing international associations would assist the Secretariat. Fewer experts would attend and re- presentatives of national research councils and national research centres would not be invited (saving of $4,000).
(3) The conference of 25 persons scheduled for
1952 would be called at the end of the year rather than near the beginning. That would mean that the international research council which would be the outcome of such a meeting would be established late in the year, and the temporary post would not be required until later (saving of $3,000). [2] After stressing the limitation in the scale of the programme and the loss of speed which the economies would occasion, Mrs. Myrdal pointed out that she had only complied with the request that a work plan should be established along the lines of the French suggestion made during the previous meeting. That plan did not constitute a Secretariat proposal for such a considerable cut. [3] Miss MARTIKAINEN (World Health Organi- zation) said that her Organization took a lively interest in the social science programme of Unesco and, in particular, in the proposal to create social science institutes and to establish an order of priority for research in the social sciences. The Director-General of the World Health Organi- zation considered the creation of an international computation centre useful; the creation of an - international institute for the study of the brain was not an urgent matter but, in his opinion, high priority should be given to studies for the application of what was already known about human behaviour. In the latter field, practice was lagging far behind theory and every effort should be made to narrow the gap. [4] Mr. MARROU (France) observed that the French delegation would obviously prefer the estimate to be approved, but the Commission was obliged to discharge the unpleasant duty of making cuts in the budget estimates and, consequently, of agreeing to sacrifice some material activities.