389 PROGRAMME “invites the Director-General to bring about the greatest possible co-operation among the various divisions of Unesco, with a view to preparing a unified long-range programme in this field and mak- ing it still more effective.” [39] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL feared that it would be difficult, if not impossible, at that stage, to ask the Executive Board to prepare a unified programme on Human Rights. The programme was already drawn up. To implement it, it was only necessary to connect Unesco’s various activities. If the amend- ment were adopted, it would run counter to the principle of concentrating activities, and would involve impracticable alterations of structure. He therefore asked the Lebanese delegate not to press his amendment. [40] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) said that his delegation had taken considerable trouble with the wording of the resolution and would be loath to see it altered. He believed that the inten- tion of the Lebanese delegate would be better achieved by co-ordinating the work of the various divisions of Unesco than by instructing the Executive Board to produce a ready-made programme in that field. He would therefore support the Director-General’s attitude. [41] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) wished to point out that he had not intended in any way to suggest pre- paring an abstract, didactic and independent pro- COMMISSION TV-18 gramme on teaching about Human Rights, for such a study clearly depended on close co-operation be- tween Unesco’s various Departments. He had thought of a unified programme in which the dif- ferent activities would be co-ordinated, but with more precise reference to education and cultural activities. [42] Ttem 8.611 was adopted. Items 8.612 to 8.7. [43] Adopted without comment.
9. ACTIVITIES IN GERMANY AND JAPAN. [44] Items 9.1 to 9.222 were adopted without com- ment.
10. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF UNDER-DEVELOPED COUNTRIES. [45] Items 1.1 to 1.34 were adopted without com- ment. Part II. Model Declaration on the Protection of Cultural Property in the course of Armed Conflict. [46] [47] The report as a whole was adopted. Articles 1 to 12 were adopted without comment. The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.     CHAPTER Y JOINT MEETING OF THE PROGRAMME AND OFFICIAL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSIONS Thursday, 5 July 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Activities of Unesco in Germany and Japan. Activities in Germany. [1] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) reminded the meeting that the Director- General's Report gave a detailed account of the imple- mentation of the resolutions adopted in Florence in connexion with Unesco's activities: in Germany and Japan. The Committee set up in Germany in 1950 drew its membership from educational, cultural and scientific circles and had regularly collaborated with the Secretariat. Furthermore, voluntary contribu- tions had made it possible to set up three inter- national institutes concerned with pedagogy, the social sciences and youth activities respectively. [2] In Japan, the main emphasis had been on the framing of the special youth activities programme approved by the General Conference, which was just beginning to be carried into effect. [3] The draft resolutions before the Joint Commis- sion had been drawn up prior to Germany's admission to membership of Unesco, and should accordingly be modified to reflect that country's new status. [4] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) added that the two new Member States could clearly no longer invoke the circumstances mentioned in the Director-General's Report; however, it was only natural that the work previously carried out in Germany and Japan should be systematically directed along new lines instead of being brought to an abrupt end. [6] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Ser- vice) read a letter from the leader of the Japanese delegation referring to the youth work recently undertaken as a Unesco project and to the social tensions survey, both of which had provoked the keenest interest in the country. The Japanese Government was strongly of opinion that neither of the projects should be interrupted because of Mr. JEAN PIAGET (Switzerland) Japan's formal admission to Unesco. Although the Japanese Diet would take legislative action for the establishment of the National Commission during the autumn of the current year, it was feared that it would be some time before the Commission was fully able to take responsibility for carrying out the dif- ferent projects. The Japanese Government therefore hoped that the Unesco office in Tokyo could be kept in operation for the interim period. There was, moreover, a strong desire in Japan for the creation, in due course, of a liaison and information centre for Unesco. The Japanese Government therefore hoped that the General Conference would take the necessary measures to continue the work already promoted by Unesco in Japan. [6] Mr. ZBINDEN (Switzerland) mentioned the special interest being taken by his country in the work of the German Committee. The Swiss National Commission had, at an early stage, set up a Sub- Committee on Relations with Germany. In view of the German people's understandable mistrust of all propaganda, after its abuse under the Hitler régime, propoganda in support of Unesco had not yet vielded all the results desired. However, the Swiss National Commission had been glad to note the development in Germany of centres dealing with international youth activities, the social sciences and pedagogy. Those centres, by their results, would inspire con- fidence in the German Government. Switzerland had accordingly spent 40,000 Swiss francs, outside its regular budget, on the maintenance of such activities, for it was above all in the youth of Germany that a new international outlook had to be fostered. Mr. Zbinden sincerely hoped that the three institutes, to which Switzerland had been anxious to give active support, would be encouraged and assisted by Unesco. [7] Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) recalled that the resolutions regarding action in Germany had aroused considerable enthusiasm at Florence. Unesco might take legitimate pride in the work so
391 KOEN T far accomplished, and the German Committee for Unesco was to be congratulated on the co-operation achieved. The United States delegation wished to emphasize that it regarded the three institutes founded under the auspices of Unesco on German soil as belonging to the entire world. The governing boards were nominated as international entities by the Director-General, and it was clear that Unesco should continue its relationship with them. While direct action in Germany might be discontinued, it would be necessary to maintain a special interest in those institutions for at least one further year. The United States delegation had often emphasized the importance for Unesco of concentrating on com- paratively few outstanding projects; Mr. Zook be- lieved that the institutes in Germany would become one such project. They were of the greatest signifi- cance, not only for the future of Germany but also for that of the world as a whole. He therefore endorsed the suggestion that an adequate staff should be maintained at headquarters to assist them in the formative stage. [8] Mr. VITO (ltaly) expressed his special gratitude to Mr. Thompson, Head of the Unesco Office in Ger- many, who had been responsible for drawing up the special projects for that country. It was clearly necessary to go ahead with the implementation of special projects of such importance. The existing situation was fortunately not permanent and, as soon as conditions returned to normal, any discrimination between Member States in differing circumstances would be quite inconceivable. [9] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed with the previous speakers, but wished to enquire at what moment it would be correct to discuss finance in relation to Germany. [10] The CHAIRMAN explained that it would be proper for the joint meeting first to adopt the pro- gramme provided for under the resolution. There- after Sir John Maud would be at liberty to propose a figure which would be transmitted to the Budget Committee for approval; staff requirements resulting from. the adoption of a programme resolution were not the joint meeting’s responsibility. [11] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) recognized with delight the progress made during the year. He wished to make an exception to the general pro- cedure and to have a tribute to the outstanding work of Mr. Thompson, Head of the Unesco Office in Germany, incorporated in the record. He would wish to see the continuation of close collaboration between Unesco, the three institutions established in Germany, and the German people. In con- sequence, although direct action by Unesco in Ger- many should come to an end during 1951, he was most concerned that adequate provision should be COMMILSS1ON PRE OA У made for the staff which would ensure liaison be- tween Unesco Headquarters and the institutes. He therefore proposed that the meeting should discuss a figure of $30,000 for that work. He would put forward a resolution, which he hoped would become an operative part of the 1952 programme, and in which mention would be made of Unesco’s work in Berlin. [12] Mr. ERBE (German Federal Republic) thanked Unesco for its decision to set up in Germany the three centres or institutes whose programme had been out- lined. The general policy had been laid down at a recent meeting in Wiesbaden. The Government of the German Federal Republic could be expected to contribute 20 per cent of the funds required for the institutes. Mr. Erbe stressed the special importance of the Centre for International Youth Activities, which would undoubtedly have to grapple with the most complex and painful questions facing young people all over the world. [13] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) submitted a resolution expressing satisfaction at the foundation of three international institutes on German soil; deciding that direct activities by Unesco should be terminated in 1951; authorizing the Director-General to seek, outside the regular budget, financial resources to maintain the three international institutes, to co- operate with them in order to ensure the most fruitful activity possible, and to appoint sufficient staff in the Paris office of Unesco to maintain adequate liaison between that office and the institutes; and propos- ing the allocation of a sum of $30,000 for those purposes. [14] Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) seconded the re- solution. [15] Mr. de BLONAY(Head, External Relations Ser- vice), speaking on behalf of the Director-General, wished to give a few budgetary details. The total budget estimate for Unesco activities in Germany and Japan amounted to $124,000. During the discussions arising out of the need to bring the programme into line with the new budget ceiling, that appropriation had been drastically cut by $112,000, leaving a mere pittance of $12,000; any extra funds that might be required would therefore have to be taken from the budget of the External Relations Service. [16] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) enquired into the exact purpose of the $30,000 suggested by the United Kingdom delegate. Would part of that sum be used for the salaries of the Secretariat staff controlling Unesco's activities in Germany? [17] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) replied in the affirmative.    V SOINT [18] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Ser- vice) explained that there were two types of expen- diture—staff salaries and travel expenses. In that connexion, he felt obliged to point out that the person responsible for the co-ordination of the special projects and, in particular, for raising the necessary funds, had to be able to contact Member States and any organizations likely to offer grants. [19] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) observed that the two items of expenditure should be under separate headings; he accordingly requested the Secretariat to submit exact estimates for the travel required. [20] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt bound to re- mind the meeting that, in accordance with the deci- sions taken by the Programme Commission, it would be necessary, at the second reading, to make further budget cuts of three to four per cent, so as to make the overall reduction of 11.38 per cent necessary for bringing the programme into line with the new budget ceiling. The Conference had just decided that it would also be necessary to make an automatic reduction of one per cent in compliance with the Programme Commission’s unanimous decision on the special fundamental education project. Accordingly, no further funds were available for substantial bud- getary modifications. The funds for the special fundamental education project amounted to roughly
0.86 per cent of the total budget, between which figure and the one per cent automatic reduction there was a margin of $12,000. Thus, only $12,000 would be available to supplement the funds for the liaison services in Germany and Japan. It was a trifling sum, but could not be exceeded without upsetting all the budget estimates and impairing the work of the External Relations Service, whose budget had already been substantially reduced. The Joint Com- mission would have to decide on the lesser evil. Moreover, the maintenance of special liaison services with two new Member States was unwaranted. For
1952, it would therefore be quite sufficient to provide for an extremely small staff in Mr. Thompson's ser- vice. Any other action would give rise to insoluble budget difficulties. [21] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) under- stood that the original allocation for activities in Germany and Japan together had been $124,000, but that, $112,000 having been diverted to other pur- poses, only $12,000 remained. He believed that the problem should rather be tackled by considering first what the meeting wished to do in Germany and Japan and then to assess how little money would be required to do it. In that way it would be possible to ascertain by how much it was reasonable to reduce the original estimate. He repeated that his delegation considered $30,000 a minimum figure for staff and travel together. He wished, moreover, to make it
0001141171 5-51 PRG XR clear that his resolution was exceptional and referred to the year 1952 only. [22] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL noted that the United Kingdom delegate was proposing a sum of $30,000, to be spent on Germany alone. He had no wish to prejudge the decision to be taken by the Joint Commission about Japan, but felt obliged to point out that even that initial proposal raised an insoluble budgetary problem. Accordingly, the Director-General would have to turn to the External Relations Service. At a pinch, it would be possible to make a further cut in the budget of the External Relations Service and to release $7,000 by cancelling the publication of the Handbook of National Com- missions. The $12,000 would thus be increased to $19,000—which was still far short of the $30,000 proposed—and left no funds for liaison with Japan. [23] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) suggested that the meeting should adopt the Director-General’s proposal and that, in the budget of the External Relations Service, a further reduction of $1,000 should be made in the per diem allowances for the Secretaries of National Commissions visiting the Organization's Headquarters. That would bring the total funds available up to $20,000. [24] Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) wished to know how large a fund would be available for staff salaries over and above the figure mentioned by the Director-General. The meeting would be unable to come to a decision until it knew what staff would be available. [25] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL gave the Secre- tariat’s estimates, according to which the total figure would be $19,450. Salaries would be as followed: Head of Division, $7,450; Assistant, $3,770; Secretary, $2,610; total: $13,830. Travel expenses and per diem allowances would amount to $5,620. If the total of $19,450 were made a round $20,000, salaries would amount to $13,830 and travel expenses and per diem allow- ances be $6,170. [26] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) urged the meeting to take a stand regarding the scale of the liaison service it wished to maintain with the institutes on German soil. As those institutes were already in existence, it should first be decided how much of the original estimate of $124,000 could honestly be forgone during 1952 before any funds were transferred to the development of other parts of the programme. It was improper to assume that the whole $124,000 could be forgone, less some small figure for liaison. The retention of only $20,000 for the work in Germanyrepresented, in his view, too large a cut; if the allocation of $30,000 meant find-
393 TOREOMo e: 7 ing an additional $10,000 in other parts of the programme, he would be ready to make that sacrifice. [27] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had to point out that, at the moment, Unesco had only a skeleton liaison service. However, as the Departments of Education and Social Sciences had been allowed a certain increase in staff, their new members might help the External Relations Service to strengthen its liaison. He therefore hoped that the joint meeting would accept his proposal, which was supported by the Belgian delegation, as it did not unduly jeopardize the maintenance of essential liaison. [28] Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) sup- ported the resolution put forward by the United King- dom delegation. The sum of $30,000 was the minimum needed to ensure the establishment of the international institutes on a permanent basis. [291500 reply to Mr CHENG (China), thé DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that, if the meeting voted $20,000 for liaison with Germany, no funds would be available for similar work with Japan. [30] The United Kingdom resolution having been rejected, the Belgian proposal, for the allocation of $20,000, was approved. Activities in Japan. [31] Mr. MAEDA (Japan) agreed that the logical consequence of the vote on activities in Germany was the deletion from the budget of the special fund for work in Japan. Nevertheless, in view of the enthusiasm of the Japanese public for the work undertaken by Unesco he felt that it would be most unfortunateif that work were suddenly to he suspended. Japan was pre- pared to pay a full contribution for 1951, but the sud- den withdrawal of the Tokyo office would greatly disturb the Japanese people, who had become attached both to its staff and to the ideals it represen- ted. He would therefore appeal to the meeting to find some way of tiding over the interim period before the Japanese National Commission was able to assume full responsibility for the work ahead. [32] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) believed that most of the arguments for special tran- sitional arrangements with Germany could be applied equally to Japan. Unesco would probably be called upon to take part in a special programme in Korea and was already engaged in successful activity in the Philippines; it would therefore be both unfortunate and inefficient suddenly to with- draw interest from Japan, and thus to abandon an area in which support for Unesco was not yet wide- spread. He would therefore submit a resolution regarding transitional activities in Japan, to be phrased in terms parallel to the resolution on Germany already adopted by the Commission. [83] Mr. CHENG (China) and Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) associated themselves with the United States proposal. Mr. Massaquoi wished to make further cuts elsewhere within the budget in order to finance the programme for Japan. [34] The DIRECTOR-GENERALregretted his inabi- lity to accept the Liberian delegate’s proposal, but could support the proposals of the United States dele- gation, which implied a parallel with Unesco’s acti- vities in Germany financed from extra-budgetary resources. Any allocation from the already inadequate regular budget would be quite unwar- ranted. [35] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) wished any sum exceeding $20,000 which might be made available for activities in Germany and Japan to be devoted to Japan. [36] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) agreed to satisfy the United Kingdom and Canadian delegations by deleting the words “from private sources and Member States” from his resolution. He was, however, quite certain that an interim budget for 1951-52 was necessary and that most of the money would need to be found outside Japan. The United States delegation considered that a figure of some $20,000 would be reasonable. [37] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Ser- vice) said that sufficient funds should still be avail- able from the previous year to finance the social tensions survey during the first half of 1952. The total cost of maintaining the Tokyo Office for one year would be $15,000 or, for six months, $7,500. It was hoped that the Japanese National Commission would take over during the second half of 1952. [38] The proposal of the United States delegation was adopted. [39] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the budgetary question. [40] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt it impossible to deny Japan the minimum assistance just granted to Germany, especially as there could be no question of breaking off outstanding and fruitful activities. However, it was merely a matter of continuing a minimum liaison service for the first six months of
1952. The head of that liaison service, who might receive local assistance, would be paid a salary of $4,430, whilst general and travel expenses would amount to roughly $4,000. The total would thus be $8,430 or, say, a round $9,000. It was, of course, a mere pittance, but, if approved by the Conference, would involve fresh budgetary restrictions.   у Отт [41] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) believed that the Commission would be wrong to accept the Japanese offer so rapidly to take up the direct activities to be abandoned by Unesco. Nine thousand dollars was too little to spend for a nation of 80,000,000 people; the United States delegation considered $15,000 to be the minimum acceptable figure. [42] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) and Mr. CHENG (China) supported the United States proposal, although the Chinese delegate considered even $15,000 to be rather a small figure. [43] The proposal of the United States delegation to allocate a sum of $15,000 was adopted by 27 votes to 7, with 4 abstentions. Grouping of Member States by Regions. [44] Mr. LUCET (Chairman of the Joint Working Party of the Programme Commission and of the Official and External Relations Commission) pre- sented the first Report of the Working Party (docu- ment 6C/PRG/32). Six main regions had been defined on a geographical basis: Africa, Southern Asia and the South Pacific, Eastern Asia, Europe, the Western Hemisphere, and the Middle East. The list of Member States in each of those regions was given in Annex I of the document. Furthermore, the Joint Working Party, adopting the majority view, had agreed on a set of principles outlined in paragraphs
(1) to (6) of the Report, providing for account to be taken of such factors as common cultural tradi- tions, common language, and similarity of economic and social conditions, when drawing up the list of States to be invited to take part in any given action. The Report accordingly laid down a clear principle, while allowing for exceptions in specific instances. [45] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) mentioned that a Working Party set up by the Executive Board had presented to the Board a Report (document 26 EX/
44) on the various criteria which might be applied in delimiting the various regions of the world from the point of view of Unesco’s activities. That report also should be noted. [46] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) presented and commented briefly on the Report of the Working Party set up by the Ex- ecutive Board, the findings of which—notably para- graph (1)—were not exactly identical with those of the Working Party presided over by Mr. Lucet. [47] Mr. HAKIM ZIAI (Afghanistan) drew attention to the special position of his country, which, while classified in the so-called South Asia and South Pacific region, had to maintain cultural relations with its Middle Eastern neighbours. СТО МНО PRG-0XR [48] Mr. LUCET (Chairman of the Joint Working Party) replied that paragraph (2) of the Report allowed for that situation. [49] Mr. MORISSEAU LEROY (Haiti) thanked and congratulated the Joint Working Party. He felt bound to point out that, in accordance with the principles laid down in paragraph (3) of the Report, it was important to fix the terms under which cer- tain territories not belonging to the Western Hemi- sphere might be invited to take part in the work of the regional offices of that hemisphere. [60] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), while satisfied with document 6C/PRG/32, considered that some work would be necessary in order to harmonize para- graph (3) of that document with paragraph (3) of document 26 EX/44. Whereas document 6C/PRG/32 laid the stress on political and geographical con- siderations, the definition of a region given in docu- ment 26 EX/44 was, quite properly, more concerned with the implications in the fields of education, science and culture. The latter document was there- fore to be preferred. Mr. Massaquoi hoped that, both in executing the programme and in defining the term “region”, Unesco would make its position on race and colourentirely clear. [51] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) emphasized that there was no con- tradiction between the findings of the two Working Parties. The party set up by the Programme Com- mission and the Official and External Relations Com- mission had clearly stated in its Report that it might be necessary to take account of other than geogra- phical factors, such as community of cultural tradi- tion and language and similarity of economic and social conditions. The Joint Commission had to consider the list of Member States, grouped in six regions, to enable the Programme Commission to determine more exactly how its resolutions should be carried into effect. [52] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) thought paragraph (2) of the Report of the Joint Working Party of the Pro- gramme Commission and of the Official and External Relations Commission recapitulated all the points made in the Report of the Executive Board's Working Party (document 26 EX/44). Far from being contradictory, the two Reports were com- plementary and should be adopted simultaneously, since the one clarified and recapitulated the points of the other. The arguments put forward by the dele- gates of Haiti and Lebanon were quite justified but should be discussed at a regional conference Or congress of States. : [53] Mr. de Alba congratulated the Working Party upon its results, and felt that the geographical crt terion selected was simpler and clearer than any
395 JOINT TONMISSTON ‎عملاا К V other criterion based on cultural, linguistic or reli- gious considerations, and should therefore be re- tained for the time being. [64] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized that the practical problem had been solved by neither report. It was necessary to draw up a list of coun- tries that would be affected by any programme re- solution to be applied to a given region. Until the Secretariat had a specific list adopetd by the Con- ference, its hands would be tiéd. [55] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) pointed out that paragraph (3) (iii) of the Report prepared by the Executive Board’s Working Party (document 26 EX/
44) stipulated that any “grouping of States for specific activities should take into account such factors as . . . “(iii) similarity of social and economic conditions, with their implications in the fields of education, science and culture.” [66] He called for the addition of the following phrase to that paragraph: “and facility of com- municating thought”. [67] That amendment was adopled. [68] Mr. ZURAYK (Syria) supported the state- ments made by the delegate of Mexico. [69] The Reports of both Working Parties were adopted, subject to the Lebanese amendment. [60] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the question of the body (Programme Commission, Ex- ecutive Board or Working Party) that would be com- petent to decide which Member States should be included in any region affected by a programme resolution. [61] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) thought it was the proper function of the Joint Working Party to classify countries by regions, in accordance with the provi- sions of the programme. Accordingly he felt that the Joint Working Party should continue its task. [62] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) considered the Ex- ecutive Board to be the only competent authority, since it was a question of implementing the pro- gramme, in the course of which many difficulties might arise. [63] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) and Mr. MASON (New Zealand) supported the Lebanese delegate’s proposal. Mr. Cummins believed that the Executive Board should consider the problem with all the docu- ments before it, while Mr. Mason remarked that a working party set up by the meeting would have insufficient time to deal with the matter. [64] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL conceded that there were arguments in favour of selecting the Ex- ecutive Board; but when would it be able to solve the problems involved in particular cases during the year? At any rate, the Board could not assume any political responsibility, which rested exclusively with the Conference. The decision should therefore be given by the Conference. [65] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported that pro- posal, and accordingly suggested that the Joint Com- mission should adopt the classification given in the annex to the First Report of the Joint Working Party (document 6C/PRG/32). Once that classification had been accepted by the Executive Board, and adopted in plenary meeting, the Conference would have dis- charged its proper political responsibilities and the Executive Board would be free, when carrying out the programme, to make any necessary alterations. [66] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) wished it to be emphasized that it was only during the year, and in specific instances, that the Executive Board could suggest changes. [67] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) withdrew his proposal. [68] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Greek proposal requesting the Executive Board to proceed forthwith to a consideration of the grouping of Member States in six regions, submitted by the Working Party. [69] That proposal was rejected by 17 votes to 14. [70] The Joint Commission therefore decided that the Executive Board would be responsible for deter- mining, in the course of the year, which States should be invited to take part in regional activities. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.