GENERAL COMMITTEE EIGHTH MEETING Wednesday, 4 July 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. HowLAND SARGEANT (United States of America) Programme of Work of the Commissions and Committee and Dates for the Presentation of Reports. [1] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) indicated the programme of work for Commissions and Com- mittees from 5 to 9 July. [2] There would be the following meetings: Thursday, 5 July: Morning: Joint meeting of the Programme Commission and the Official and Ex- ternal Relations Commission to discuss relations with Germany and Japan; Afternoon: Programme Commission and Administrative Commission. Friday, 6 July: Morning : Procedure Committee, and possibly a meeting of the Official and External Relations Commission; Afternoon: Administrative Commission. Saturday, 7 July: Morning: Procedure Committee, if necessary. [8] The reports of the Administrative Commission and the Official and External Relations Commission should be ready for distribution on Monday morning,
9 July, and could be examined by the latter Com- mission in the morning, and by the former in the afternoon of that day. [4] Furthermore, the Budget Committee was to meet on Thursday, 5 July, in the morning. [5] [6] It was also agreed to hold a meeting of the Ex- ecutive Board at 9 a.m. on Thursday, 5 July, and of the General Committee at 9.30 a.m. on Friday,
6 July. The above arrangements were approved. [7] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) stated that his Committee had some pro- posals to make concerning the constitution and functions of the Budget Committee at the next session of the General Conference, and asked what was the latest date for submission of a report on that subject to the Procedure Committee. [8] After a short discussion, it was agreed that a joint meeting of the Procedure and Budget Com- mittees should be held for that purpose on the morning of Monday, 9 July. [9] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) stated that his Commission was dis- cussing the project for a world network of regional fundamental education centres at that morning's meeting, and economic and social rights in the afternoon. The joint meeting with the Official and External Relations Commission might be held at
9.30 a.m. on Thursday, 5 July, and the second reading of the programme whenever the working party was ready. Mr. Piaget himself regretted that he had to leave on the following Saturday, but he hoped the Commission would by then have completed its work. [10] At Mr. Piaget’s request, the DIRECTOR- GENERAL put forward some proposals which might be endorsed by the General Committee and sub- mitted to the Programme Commission for its dis- cussion that morning on the financing of the special project for fundamental education. He assumed that the Chairman of the Programme Commission would wish the occasion to be somewhat formal, in view of the presence of the Directors of FAO and WHO, and that he would begin by inviting Mr. Dodd and Dr. Chisholm to speak. [11] The working party on the special project had been mainly concerned with the question of finding an initial $105,000, and it would be for the Pro- gramme Commission to decide whether that sum could be taken from the normal budget. That Commission had, however, not yet entirely attained the first cut of nine per cent proposed in the pro- gramme appropriations, and had still to make up the gap, as well as making a further 2.38 per cent cut at the second reading of the programme. If the $105,000. were to be found for the special project, it would involve a further cut of 1.6 or 1.7 per cent in the programme. The Director-General thought it would be very difficult to obtain agreement from the Commission on a total cut of some four or five per cent, but he hoped such agreement could be obtained more easily if the cut at the second reading were restricted to the 11.38 per cent originally suggested, together with a decision to cut all chapters by a flat rate of 0.85 per cent, leaving it to the Secretariat to make detailed adjustments. [12] The Director-General remarked that a solution would be found if the joint meeting of the Pro- gramme Commission and the Official and External Relations Commission agreed to the cut of $124,000 for services in Germany and Japan, and if the Budget Committee accepted the Secretariat’s proposal for a | |
259 GENERAL cut of $30,000 in the central administrative services, consequent on the other cuts proposed in the budget. That would leave only $75,000 to be found, which would in fact amount to 0.86 per cent of the budget, thereby facilitating the task of the Commission." [13] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) agreed that that was a very reasonable, and indeed, the only possible, solution. He thought that, if the proposal were put forward to the Pro- gramme Commission as a recommendation of the General Committee, his task would be greatly eased; he strongly supported it. [14] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) also agreed to the proposal, but thought it might appear that
0.86 per cent would not cover all the needs. His delegation would require a very convincing reason for eliminating $124,000 for the services in Germany and Japan. They wished to be assured that those services would be continued, and continued well, and Mr. Hardman feared that so large a cut might ruin them entirely. He therefore supported the proposal for an all-over cut of 0.86 per cent, provided that figure was considered as 0.86 per cent “plus”. [16] Mr. JOXE (France) also accepted the Director- General's proposal, which would avoid the necessity of re-opening discussion on the proposal, but he wished it to be made clear that the procedure adopted should not constitute a precedent for the future. He was opposed in principle to the transfer of such large amounts. [16] The CHAIRMAN summed up the recommen- dation to be made to the Programme Commission, namely the proposal made by the Director-General, subject to the reservations entered by the United Kingdom and French delegates. [17] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed to these reservations, but thought that a figure of 0.86 per cent “plus” was rather vague, and that the Com- mittee should fix a ceiling of one per cent. [18] Agreed. [19] The Director-General further suggested to the Programme Commission that, in view of the difficulties which had arisen during the previous day’s discussions on economic and social rights, and of the need to reach a decision of the General Con- ference which he could present to the Economic and Social Council at its meeting on 30 July, it might be useful to appoint a working party of the Pro- gramme Commission to discuss the substance of the draft Convention on economic, cultural and social GEO M MITT EE 18 rights and to prepare a report which might be transmitted to the Economic and Social Council as a Conference decision. [20] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) entirely agreed with the proposal, and suggested that a working party of 12 members might be appointed for the purpose. [21] [22] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) proposed that, in order to speed up the second reading of the programme, only those points which had previously given rise to discussion should be taken again, interventions being limited to concrete points. That was good parliamentary procedure, which might be applied to all the Commissions and Committees. Agreed. [23] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that, in the absence of Mr. Piaget, the General Committee could not lay down fixed rules in the matter, but that any delegate could make a proposal to that effect in any individual Commission or Com- mittee where the progress of the work seemed to call for it. [24] Agreed. Acceptation by Japan and Cambodia of Unesco's Constitution. [25] The CHAIRMAN read two communications from the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, to the effect that Japan and Cambodia had accepted Unesco’s Constitution and deposited the instruments of acceptance on 2 and
3 July respectively; Japan and Cambodia were there- fore entitled to full voting rights in all the organs of the General Conference. Subventions to Non-Governmental Organi- zations. [26] The CHAIRMANstated that certain delegations had requested that item 10.7 of the revised agenda, relating to subventions to international non-govern- mental organizations, which had been referred to the Programme Commission, should also be referred to the Official and External Relations Commission. [27] Agreed. The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m.