127 PLENARY MEETINGS 11-9 NINTH PLENARY MEETING Friday, 22 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. President: Mr. HowLann SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation). Speeches by the delegates of Egypt, Argentina, Burma, Ecuador, the Philip- pines, Colombia, Greece and Dominican Republic . . . . . 127 [1] The PRESIDENT — Before we resume the discussion of the Director-General’s report on the activities of the Organization, I wish to present to the General Conference the Executive Board’s recom- mendation that the following item be added to the Agenda of the General Conference: Amendment of the Directives concerning relations with international non-governmental organizations. The General Com- mittee has examined and approved this recommenda- tion which must also be approved by a two-thirds majority of the General Conference before it can be placed on the Agenda. As I hear no objection, I take it that the item is approved. It will then be added to the agenda. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation). [2] The PRESIDENT — We shall now resume the discussion of the Director-General’s Report. Our first speaker this morning is the honourable Head of the Egyptian delegation, Mr. Taha Hussein Pasha. [3] Mr. Taha HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) — [Transla- tion from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, I should like to add the humble tribute of the Egyptian delegation to the splendid words of praise just addressed to the Director-General of Unesco and to the Executive Board. To begin with, I thank them for having immediately created a feeling of cordiality, setting us at our ease: to them we owe the friendly atmosphere surrounding us since our arrival in the intellectual capital of the world. Secondly, I must express my admiration of Mr. Torres Bodet: he seems to have made a point of overtaxing his eulogists, so far do his actions outstrip all praise. I am at a loss to decide what is most to be admired in him. Perhaps his unflagging energy, his ceaseless travel, that gift of being everywhere and nowhere, which the Roman historian commended in a hero of antiquity and which reminds me of our Arab poet’s saying: “He seems to yearn to span the whole world”. Not only does our Director-General never spare himself, not only do his travels carry him to the very ends of the earth; when his body is at rest, his spirit never ceases its vigil. We have but to read the outstanding report he has just presented to us to sense that here we have a man incapable of a moment’s idle- ness. He has my sincerest admiration. This I express with perhaps less eloquence than previous speakers but I speak to him from a full heart and hope that my message strikes a direct chord in his. [4] I have read his report and wondered how it was possible for the human mind to encompass so many subjects, to study so many problems, to strike out on so many new lines—and this with the scant means we allow him. . . . T think it is because he relies mainly on his infinite hope, on his boundless courage, on his faith in the destiny of Unesco and of mankind. I honour this undaunted faith that baulks at no obstacle because it is borne by sincerity. [6] His plans for the establishment of fundamental education centres are, to say the least, the fruit of a mind that believes in man, in his greatness as in his distress—a distress which grieves him, loth as he is to see only part of mankind reap the blessings of knowledge, while the other, alas! the greater part, is afflicted by want, [6] I assure the Director-General and the Executive Board that the Egyptian delegation shares their belief in man and their desire and resolve to use every endea- vour to bring about the progress of all peoples, to stamp out ignorance and to put an end to that unfair division of peoples into those who “know” and those who “know not”. I can assure Unesco that Egypt will give it staunch supportin fulfilling its high mis- sion of setting up a network of fundamental education centres. [7] I think the Director-General will agree with me that, whilst Egypt itself may not be in need of such centres, it is nevertheless best fitted to help Africa derive profit from such a scheme. Geographically, Egypt is undoubtedly African; but as the Khedive      IT-9 PLENARY Ismail said, it became European with the opening of the Canal. Henceforth, it takes its place among the leaders of thougt and its historic mission is to serve as a cross-roads between East and West. Its mission, whichit realizes and has long been discharging, thus inevitably coincides with Unesco’s ideals today. And so my country must be regarded as the natural home for a fundamental education centre, not only for Africa and all countries of that continent but also for the Arab world. Accordingly, I would ask the Director-General to reflect that Egypt is the most suitable country for establishing such a centre, the country best able to provide all the requisite facilities. I therefore invite him to visit us in the near future, to go into this question and to discuss it with my countrymen, for I feel sure that the establishment of this centre will involve no great expense for Unesco. Indeed, I must assure Mr. Torres Bodet that the Egyptian Government will not grudge him any material assistance he may ask. [8] At Beirut, and again at Florence, the Director- General described Unesco as the conscience of the United Nations. I enthusiastically subscribe to this view; but I should like Unesco to be the good conscience of the United Nations. I should like our meeting to be for us all an opportunity of questioning whether, in truth, the United Nations can have a clear conscience, undisturbed. Are the United Nations always aware of the suffering peoples in need of sympathetic care, who need to be vouchsafed not only their rights, but something more than their rights, some generous token of human fellowship? Are we sure, fellow-delegates, that in that part of the world whichis the realm of democracy, the home of those who defend freedom, because they still believe in freedom as essential for the survival of the world —are we sure that even here all men are truly free? Can we claim that in that part of the world which supports the United Nations, and takes part in Unesco's meetings, there are no downtrodden coun- tries or peoples? That the most democratic areas of the world never suffer from an uneasy conscience because even in those countries there are individuals and groups who do not enjoy the freedom we demand for all the world? I will not dwell further on this point but I feel sure that you all understand me and are aware that the so-called democracies, the so- called democratic Great Powers do not always have a clear conscience and that freedom is not a boon universally enjoyed. There are still peoples and indi- viduals, who do not enjoy all their rights; and, since Unesco is so active in propagating the Universal Declaration, I should like the Organization to regard this Declaration of Human Rights as implying a Declaration of the Duties of Man, forI feel that, while mankind is often eager to grasp its rights, it is often loth to recognize that these rights carry with them duties. [9] May the rulers of the world vouchsafe their weaker fellows some of this cherished freedom, some MEETINGS of that culture so universally prized and vaunted. We speak much of Freedom, the Rights of Man and Culture, but I should like us to take greater heed of what we say and above all to temper our action with thought and our thought with action, as Bergson taught us, and to realize that in the demo- cratic countries some people do not enjoy these rights and are denied their share of this culture. [10] I wholeheartedly endorse the Director-General’s remarks in his report with regard to Unesco’s past and intended action to encourage the non-governmental organizations concerned with science, education and culture. I believe, indeed I am convinced, that this is one of Unesco’s cardinal duties, nay, the true justification forits existence. It is Unesco’s duty to foster all that serves the cause of science, education and culture; it must see to it that contacts are maintained between similar organizations so that, joining forces, they may bring about true progress. Were Unesco to do nothing else, that in itself would be a praiseworthy task, redounding to the advantage of mankind. Indeed, Unesco should be not merely the conscience of the United Nations; it must also be the mind of Member States; and to be a wise counsellor it must assist these non-governmental organizations, which have set so fine an example of disinterested work. Accordingly, surveys must be carried out to keep Member States informed of developments in different countries and in learned societies, for I have no doubt that such information will be of great assistance to all. [11] But the future should not absorb all Unesco's thoughts. Mayit turn towards the past and recall that before the last war there was the Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, which had succeeded in carrying out excellent surveys on such subjects as higher and secondary education throughout the world. I would urge Unesco to continue this tradi- tion and to inform all Member States of the manifold aspects of humanactivity. What invaluable services it would thus render us! [12] Members may fall short in their duty towards Unesco, but does Unesco assist Member States as far as it should? Some, which yet lack certain necessary media of information, need to know whatis taking place in other parts of the world. It is Unesco's duty to keep them informed: and so I would urge the Director-General to continue his encouragement of the non-governmental organizations to enable them to carry out fruitful work, for of all humanactivities theirs are most truly disinterested. [13] Before concluding, I should like once again to assure you, Mr. Director-General, that you can rely to the full on the support of my country, which will not grudge you its assistance and will always stand by you in carrying out the splendid projects presented to us in yourreport. I know that Unesco may count on us for all necessary help, for, as I was saying a moment ago, Egypt is perfectly in accord with Unesco's programme. This is clear to any observant e e ти == = = > ا ‎ A H T T e n , ا ا ل ‎ >     н е н и й в e n ا ي ح ‎ — | ] T y ° ° ° _ °
199 7 PLENARY visitor to Egypt. Mr. Torres Bodet came to visit us and the other day told us of his impressions. [14] At present, Egypt is doing its utmost to stamp out illiteracy and ignorance within her borders. Last October we opened enough schools to receive
100,000 pupils, and next October we shall have as many more schools to provide instruction for another
110,000 pupils. I am well aware that my country needs time to eradicate all illiteracy, but it has made a beginning and, I can assure you, will not stop half- way. Furthermore, Egypt takes thought not for her children alone. Egyptian teachers are scattered throughout the Arab world, from Libya to Iraq and from Saudi Arabia to the shores of the Persian Gulf. Nor has Egypt stopped there: she has invited all countries of Europe and America to assist her in her great undertaking. So it is that each of the Egyptian Universities may be regarded as a miniature Unesco: there we come across Frenchmen and Englishmen, Italians, Germans and Americans, in short, the representatives of the most widely varying cultures. Egypt would thus provide a most admirable home for Unesco’s valuable experiments, especially as such work has the backing of the whole nation: in its endeavours, Egypt is encouraged by its King, its Parliament and the people themselves, who are co- operating whole-heartedly in the establishment of schools and education centres. All this I tell you, not only to show that Egypt is not remaining idle, but to remind you that this country’s dearest wishis to collaborate with Unesco, at home and in any part of the world. It was also my desire to clarify these points, so as to leave the Director-General in no doubt of the Egyptian Government's loyal friendship, and to let him know that he can count on its moral and material support. 5 [15] My time is limited and I shall not lay myself open to our President’s reproaches. In speaking today my intention has been to show that the Ex- ecutive Board and Director-General of Unesco have faithful friends in the Egyptian Government and people. [16] The PRESIDENT — I know that you my fellow-delegates are inspired, as I have been, by the moving remarks of the Head of the Egyptian delegation, and in particular by the pledge that he gives to each one of us of the willingness of his country and his governement to co-operate in Unesco’s work. [17] T am now going to ask the delegate of Argen- tina, Mr. Ramos, to take the rostrum. I should explain that Dr. Madero, the Head of the Argentine delegation, is here with us today, but under his doctor’s orders he is not permitted to take the rostrum himself and consequently Mr. Ramos, a member of the delegation, will in fact deliver the address. We are indebted to His Excellency for being here with us and we are sorry that he cannot deliver his address in person. MEETINGS 11-9 [18] Mr. RAMOS (Argentina) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Argen- tine Republic, through its delegation, declares its complete solidarity with Unesco. Nothing could be more necessary nor more noble than the work of this institution. There is no darker world than the world of ignorance; there is no greater terrestial abomi- nation than brute instinct undisciplined by education and noble aspirations. The Argentine delegation therefore approves and applauds the deep faith and the powerful appeal on behalf of human progress contained in the Director-General’s report. His voice seems to be Argentina’s own voice proclaiming its unshakable principles of peace and justice despite the gloomy prospects of a disordered world. We have carefully listened to the previous speakers, and never have we had more eloquent proof of the solidarity of men face to face with their destiny. [19] On such a solemn occasion we have no inten- tion of discussing educational theories, nor of examining procedures in a partisan spirit. Nor shall we endeavour to analyse past difficulties or future possibilities. We shall simply proclaim our intention of co-operating with Unesco like crusaders ever conscious of their cause. We fully agree with the President of this Assembly when he says that Unesco must never be the instrument of any country, for Unesco belongs to the whole of mankind, not only in actual fact, but also from the moral point of view. The Argentine delegation would go even further and say that it belongs to God, in that it is capable of enlightening the minds and hearts of men. But the President’s speech is also noteworthy in that it recognizes the original contributions which Argen- tina and the other Ibero-American countries are making to science, art and education. He says that every national culture must be respected, which is equivalent to reaffirming the value of creative indi- vidualities and to encouraging each nation to con- tribute to the triumph of civilization. A regimented world, a uniform world, a world reduced to a single rhythm and a single mental impulse, would certainly be a monotonous world lacking in the joy and exhilaration which characterizes a multi-coloured and polyphonic world. We mustalso refer to other fine observations on the problems of community life organized on cultural bases. The Peruvian dele- gate reminded us that Unesco's fundamental aim is to prevent man from being a wolf among wolves, as was maintained by Hobbes. The Venezuelan delegate recalled the part played by culture in the ennoblement of man. The represen- tative of the United Kingdom told us that the present period of divergencies and of adjustments in the process of moulding human character; and he also said that spiritual values must not be sold at any price. The Argentine people fully shares these sen- timents. But due tribute has not been paid to the
11-9 PLENARY fact that the Argentine Republic has been able to transcend the culture of its colonizers and become a nation which is socially just, economically free, and politically independant. We retain our filial affection for the language of Cervantes, but we are now singing in the open pampas the strophes of our national poem, Martin Fierro. [20] The Cuban delegate made another important observation: “The people prefer deeds to words”. Our country, perhaps more than any other, is more profuse in deeds than in words and achieves more than it actually promises. When the Director- General refers in his report to the direct re- ponsibilities of countries for cultural progress, our country can modestly claim to have almost completely eradicated illiteracy throughout its territory. In its cities, plains and mountain regions there are more than 18,000 schools for primary, secondary, special, technical, agricultural and industrial education and for teachers’ training. Six universities instruct in all branches of learning. In 1948, the first National ‘Workers’ University was established at Buenos Aires; and the Institutes for apprenticeship and vocational guidance have begun the specialized training of the working masses. Ladies and gentlemen, all this has been done although there are only 17 million inhabit- ants. [21] Before concluding, I would like to comment on that part of the Director-General’s report in which he says that the Organization is making all efforts to disseminate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and facilitate its application. The Argentine Republic is in complete sympathy with these efforts and the principles underlying them and has intro- duced into its National Constitution provisions relating to the rights of the workers and of the aged. It has therefore not delayed in complying with Unesco’s wishes. With respect to the theory and practice of Justice, it has established its own doctrine of “Justicialismo”, which aims at solving the harsh problems of life by endeavouring to strike a balance between the insatiable demands of the minority and the tragic needs of the masses who live in want and destitution. Ladies and gentlemen, there are fewer rich people, but, after all, in a society where social peace is ensured by cultural virtues there are fewer poor people! [22] Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, the world is living in a state of great anxiety. Even the stoutest hearts have their moments of despair and sometimes succumb to it, for there are still two barbarous facts which darken the horizons of the masses throughout the world: hunger and ignorance. The great triumphs of philosophy, science, art and religion will be jeopardized if we are unable to ensure a better life for those who are living in ignorance and despair. The battle is beginning, and Unesco is but an outpost on the battlefield. Argen- tina asks for arms in order to join the crusade for MEETINGS 130 the happiness of mankind. Never before has it been so eager to serve. [23] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Head of the delegation of the Argentine, for his remarks and for reminding us that we are indeed engaged in a crusade, one of the noblest crusades that man could undertake in this world. I now call upon the Head of the delegation of Burma. [24] Mr. HTIN AUNG (Burma) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the delegation of the Union of Burma wishes to associate itself with the tributes already paid by other delegations to the work of Unesco and its Director-General, as summarized in the report now being discussed by the Conference. [25] At the General Conference held last year in Florence, the Burmese delegation regretted that Unesco was neglecting South East Asia. This year, however, we are happy to note that both in the report itself and in the Director-General’s speech, introducing the report, and also in the programme for next year, greater emphasis bas been given to South East Asia. But all the same, much still remains to be done, and we should like to say how disappointed Burma was, when the Director-General was not able to accept our country’s invitation to visit us after he had visited Ceylon, India and Pakistan. Burma, after all, is only three hours’ journey by air from India. And we hope that in the near future, the Director-General will still find time to visit Burma and other countries of South East Asia. This region of South East Asia, although lying be- tween the great civilizations of India and China, and although it is the meeting-place of manycivilizations, has an individuality and civilization of its own. The Burmese civilization, or the civilization of South East Asia, is not merely a copy of reproduction of Indian and Chinese civilizations, and we have a tradition of scholarship and learning going back some 2,000 years. [26] In spite of the many difficulties our country has had to face in the last three years, we are happy to report to the General Conference that we have been able to live up to the high ideals of science and culture as set by Unesco. Three years ago, in
1948, we emerged as the first Asian country to regain its independence after a period of colonial rule. But the odds seem to be very heavy against us. For three terrible years, from 1942 to 1945, we were the battle-ground of two opposing and mighty armies: the British (the Allies) and the Japanese Army. And we suffered damage and destruction beyond the experience or even beyond the imagination of any other Asian country during the war. [27] As the result of this destruction and damage, our towns and cities were reduced to rubble and our economy was shattered. Our schools were either destroyed or left without equipment, and as far as the      — m r e . ,
131 PLENARY University of Rangoon is concerned—the University of which I have the honour to be the Head since
1946—there was not a single desk remaining in the classrooms. We had no equipment, classroom equipment, let alone scientific equipment. Not only were some of our buildings destroyed but the university library, by common consent the finest research library in the East, was destroyed during the war. After the hard-won independence, we went through a period of civil strife, from 1948 to 1950, and to many people it seemed that perpetual dark- ness had descended upon the cause of learning and scholarship in Burma. In those dark days of 1948 and 1949, we appealed to various countries of the world, and to Unesco, for material help in rebuilding our schools, our university library, and in getting our classrooms equipped again. [18] Now Mr. President, in our Burmese language, there is a pair of conflicting proverbs. According to one proverb, the gods help only those who help themselves. But according to the other, the gods help only those who do not need their help. As far as we are concerned, we have been able to reconstruct our educational system and I must say this, neither the gods nor Unesco gave us much material assistance. All the same, we have rebuilt all our schools and the University of Rangoon has been re- equipped so that we have again reached the pre-war standards of training and instruction. We are proud of this achievement, especially because of the enormous increase in enrolment—more than 100 per cent. Before the war, the University of Rangoon had only about 2,000 students. Now we have more than 5,000. Not only have we rebuilt our University Library but we have founded a new col- lege in the ancient and romantic city of Mandalay, and this university college in two or three years will grow into a separate university, the new University of Mandalay. [29] As for the Government of the Union of Burma, in spite of the difficulties which it has had to face in the past three years, it has not at all neglected education. Even before the coming of the Europeans to Burma, our country had a very high percentage of literacy and at the present day, in spite of the troubles besetting us, the percentage of literacy in Burma is the highest in any Asian country. But Burma has never been willing to rest on her laurels, and the Government has a very full programme of funda- mental education before it. [30] The Unesco Educational Mission on Funda- mental Education, which has been working in Burma for the last six months. has submitted its report and its advice on this programme of fundamental edu- cation. In addition, with effect from 1 April of this year, thatis, the beginning of our new academic year, the Government has introduced free education in the country. From the lower classes of the primary schools to post-graduate university classes, education is entirely free. And this is in addition to a general MEETINGS 11-9 increase in the number and value of scholarship for students of high merit. Therefore, the Government of my country has taken a very bold step forward in the cause of perpetual and universal peace, because my country shares with Unesco the belief that strife and struggle in this world are due to ignorance and misunderstanding, and that this monster, ignorance, can be felled only by the magic spear of knowledge and better understanding. [31] The PRESIDENT — May I say, in commenting on the stimulating remarks of Dr. Aung, the Head of the Burmese delegation, that his description of the complete rebuilding of all of Burmese schools, much of which Burma had to do unaided, reminds me of the saying that we have developed over the past few years: “The difficult we do today, the impossible may take us a little longer”. I will now call upon the delegate of Ecuador, Mr. Cháves. [32] Mr. Fernando CHÁVES (Ecuador) — [Trans- lation from the Spanish] Mr. President, Mr. Director- General, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the various delegations are commenting on the Director- General's report on Unesco’s activities, the Ecua- dorean delegation considers it a duty to present Ecuador's opinion on this report. I have all the more pleasure in doing this as it gives me the opportunity of paying tribute to the splendid way in which the Director-General expressed himself. His report is characterized by precision, judicious idealism and manlysincerity. Later, the Ecuadorean delegation will make the observations which it deems fit, when we are dealing with concrete problems and when the programme and the budget ceiling have been approved. It will therefore not dwell upon the significance of Unesco and the great importance of its work; you are all more familiar with them than myself; nor shall I make any comments on the many matters dealt with in the report. Unesco is an organi- zation, an achievement of the mind of man, which explains and justifies itself. The very nature of this first world cultural institution, this universal clearing house of moral values, shows that it is entitled to live and to develop to its utmost. [33] How can we stint our applause or refuse our support to an organization which, in the few years of its existence and at no greater cost than that involved in the production of a few jet-propelled aeroplanes, has not only been able to draw up a concrete pro- gramme with such important items as the establish- ment of a network of fundamental education centres, technical assistance for countries in need of scientific and industrial development, promotion of the sciences and the arts, and the building up of a spirit of international peace and understanding by ex- changes of information and persons between the various countries, but has also achieved considerable results in all these fields? [34] As representative of a small and peaceful A A
11-9 PLENA NY country, which has received effective aid from Unesco, I feel bound to express the deep gratitude of my people and Government, but I wish to emphasize that this gratitude is not limited to mere thanks for a gift. On the spiritual plane, we are modestly fulfilling the duties and exercising the rights which are now regarded as common to all men: to contribute to the cultural life of the com- munity and participate in its benefits. [35] I would like to stress three valuable aspects of the Director-General’s report. It is a magnificent act of faith in the destiny of the organization of which he is Director; and, at the present time when doubt and discouragement are rife, it may be asserted that faith is the only means of promoting large-scale constructive activities. If this faith become conta- gious, its value will be increased a hundredfold. Throughout the Director-General's report we are ever conscious of his desire to keep Unesco free from all political or other influences which might transform it into an instrument of propaganda for a particular group or country. This desire is shared by the Ecua- dorean delegation, and we are glad to see that it has been faithfully respected up to the present. [36] The frankness with which the Director-General spoke of Unesco’s activities, that aim at strengthening the peoples’ desire for peace, must also be empha- sized, for, at the present time, when the world is living in uncertainty and fear, there is a marked tendency to relegate to the background all cultural contributions to the cause of peace. If we examine this attitude more closely, we see that it is not even justified in theory, for, if men, who are normally of a peaceable disposition, become agressive, it is mainly because of their mental outlook. If efforts are made in favour of universal peace and understanding they must obviously be directed towards the promotion of culture. On the other hand, culture has always been exposed to peril; it is a flower that is always in danger of withering; nevertheless, it is the most troubled periods of history that have produced the finest fruits of culture. Likewise, our age which has provided itself with an admirable instrument for the dissemination of culture, cannot allow its desire to extend those benefits to all parts of the earth to be damped by the apprehension that such culture is in danger. On the contrary, this apprehension should be an additional reason for adopting the oppo- site attitude, namely to intensify cultural activities throughout the world and more particularly in those regions in which, for one reason or another, such activities have been retarded. There is no better proof of the vitality of a culture than its extension and this extension is the best way of preserving it. [37] There is a word which has become very current today, but which I feel should be more judiciously used. I refer to the word “defence”. It has been applied to the field of culture, and I feel we should object to this use of the term. Culture is not an ownerless good, nor something lifeless; it is a con- MEETINGS 132 tinually increasing set of values, a living treasure. For that reason, it is not enough to defend it. We have other obligations towards it. If we merely wished to defend it, it would disintegrate in our hands. Culture must be organized, disseminated and, by a number of graftings, coaxed to bear fruit. This is the only way of protecting and prolonging it, for pure defence has an almost exclusively negative sense. On the cultural plane, it is the organizer and creator who plays the active and perhaps the most valuable role in the maintenance of culture; he also assures its defence. And this is precisely what Unesco is doing for the first time, systematically and on the international plane. It is establishing organizations and satisfying the desires, wants and hopes of the peoples on an ever-increasing scale. That is why nations with important cultural problems are giving Unesco their full support. [38] At the present time, when fear prevents the clear analysis of important problems, it is sometimes said that money devoted to Unesco’s activities could be more profitably invested. We must dissipate this suspicion by firmly declaring that investments in the cultural field are, in the long run, the only invest- ments which really pay large and almost permanent dividends. Military investments and military expen- diture are never questioned, When thousands of aeroplanes are manufactured according to a particular model which later proves to be inadequate or useless, efforts are made to produce a new model involving further huge investments in new factories and new works. When a commercial or industrial enterprise fails to produce the desired results, the enterprise is declared bankrupt and a new field for investment is immediately sought. In the case of such a large- scale cultural organization as Unesco it would be precipitate to expect its spiritual activities to produce immediate and tangible results; they are long in coming and are not readily perceived by the untrained eye. [39] All that remains of the empires of previous centuries are the fruits of culture; universities, lan- guages, cathedrals, etc. The bonds formed by lan- guage and culture in general and the attachment of new nations to their mother countries are proof that cultural investments pay dividends and continue to pay them for centuries. [40] Raw materials no longer flow, as in the past, in one direction only, and, in the cultural field, the needs of the new nations have increased because millions of new beings are claiming the right to contribute to and participate in human culture. The prolongation of what might be called Western civi- lization necessitates still further financial investment. Only united efforts will lead to the cultural solidarity of the peoples. That is why we warmly support Unesco’s project for the establisment of a network of fundamental education centres, where the benefits of universal culture wil be given to men who live in different geographical regions and inherit different E E E E E E , E E E . E E E , C a d a c e e h u s e c i d e e e e c c E E G E E E E E E L E E E m I ‏ ي ج ح و ى nee enli gig: Mai niq sup [44 ind ever sing con nati Gen the trac peri [45 sion con We no gre:
133 PLENARY historical traditions. These centres, which will adapt themselves to the characteristics of their respective regions, will create a universal spirit in the most varied zones and will be a permanent symbol of international co-operation. [41] The work of these centres throughout the world will achieve what is now only a dream for many countries: the raising of the school-leaving age and the institution of compulsory education. Even when these principles have been legally recognized, there have been obstacles to their practical realization; these obstacles are nearly always of an economic nature, but are also frequently of a social nature. The activities in favour of youth should therefore be intensified as well as extended. [42] Small countries, since they cannot afford to be sceptical, are anxious that economic paradoxes shall not be repeated on the cultural plane; that is why they unreservedly support Unesco’s work. If Euro- peans are beginning to dispense with cocoa, coffee, sugar and tropical fruits, which are extremely costly, we, the producers, must diminish our cultivation of these goods, although it would be normal for us to increase our production and reduce our prices in order to meet the increasing needs of these countries. On the cultural plane the situation is the opposite, but just as harmful and paradoxical, and, if such a worthy international institution as Unesco does not undertake to solve the problem it will become even more serious. [43] In quite a number of countries intellectuals are condemned to inaction for lack of a field in which to exercise their capacities; whereas in our countries the dissemination of culture, the exploitation of the soil, the organization and industrialization of pro- duction and the regulating of economy have urgent need of the greatest number of. qualified and enlightened persons capable of carrying out such a gigantic task, so vital to the future of every country. Many of our nations require new blood, new tech- niques, new culture, new ambitions, which must be supplied by countries where they over-abound. [44] The magnitude of the task of education, industrialization and construction incumbent on every nation bent on progress is such that not a single government could ever carry out this task completely. The proportions of this task on the inter- national plane may discourage even the stoutest heart. That is why we warmly applaud the Director- General's report on the past and future activities of the Organization, for it does not contain the slightest trace of discouragement; on the contrary, it is permeated with a firm and reasoned hope. [45] Many countries are still awaiting modern mis- sionaries. Our peoples hope that Unesco will continue its fruitful work untiringly and tenaciously. We who occasionally participate in this work can do no better than repeat the words of Sarmiento, the great national educator born in Argentina: “In the IT-9MEETINGS educational field we must never cease our endeavours, even though we sometimes make mistakes.” [46] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Ecuador, Dr. Châves, for his remarks to us and for the very specific way in which he has presented the views of his delegation. I now call upon, Mr. Sebas- tián, Head of the delegation of the Philippines. [47] Mr. Proceso SEBASTIAN (Philippines) Mr. President, fellow-delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasant task, as Head of the Philippine dele- gation to pay tribute to the Director-General, the Chairman and members of the Executive Board, and the Secretariat, for the splendid work accomplished by Unesco last year. Those of us of the Philippine delegation who have contributed in our modest way to make Unesco reach its goal of lasting peace, or at least come as near to it as possible, were happy to learn from the lips of our Director-General in his address the other day that, although last year was a difficult year, it was fruitful in achievements. We are particularly happy to note from his report that over the past year, the Member States have shown greater interest in carrying out the programme of Unesco in their respective territories, that co-operation between Unesco and experts of different countries was given a greater impetus; that there has been a steady increase in requests from States for admission to the Organization—this testifies, as the Director- General himself puts it so aptly, to the permanent value of the ideals and methods of international co-operation—that there has been active partici- pation in the Technical Assistance Programme for economic development, and that the Regional Centre for Fundamental Education was established at Patz- cuaro, Mexico. We also note with gratification that the programme presented to us for our next year's activities is more specific and better integrated, better designed to attain more concrete results, and that the number of projects for the coming year is smaller, thus enabling us to assess them with a greater degree of objectivity and validity. Needless to say, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot speak of the achievements of Unesco without giving full credit to the man who has made these achievements not only a possibility, but a glorious reality. I refer to our Director- General, Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet. [48] The Philippines, pinning its hope on Unesco, as the most effective instrument of the United Nations, which could save mankind from another world conflict, has been closely watching and follow- ing the work and progress of this Organization. We believed five years ago, and we still believe now, that Unesco, by harnessing the resources of education, science, and culture, can eventually secure better understanding among peoples. We have therefore sent delegation after delegation to attend the General Conferences, not only because of a desire to participate    II-9 PLENARY actively in the formulation of plans but also to draw inspiration from the leaders of thought fromdifferent countries who gather at Unesco once a year for an exchange of views regarding Unesco’s programme of activities. [49] Mr. President, I turn now to the report of the Director-General, and I shall be as brief as possible, in view of the directive from the Chair. I propose to make only four practical observations, leaving the rest to be taken up in the meetings of the Commis- sions and Committees. The Philippines delegation offers these observations in the hope that whatever we say here shall not be considered as a criticism of the methods adopted heretofore, but as mere sugges- tions for further constructive planning and imple- mentation. [60] 1. Fundamental Education. All of us agree that it is imperative that illiteracy in the world should be wiped out. It is heartening to read about the Fundamental Education Project in Mexico, and to learn that WHO, FAO and ILO will send their own experts to work with Unesco specialists. We believe in fundamental education. My delegation believes, however, that a literacy campaign alone is not enough. Unless literacy is related to better methods of farming, to improving the sanitation of the home and community,to citizenship and to other phases of living, so that the new literate will see the practical value of his being able to read and write—which is possible only if in the process of becoming literate he becomesbetter able to solve his own problems—I repeat, unless this is done, literacy, like book-learning in the classroom, would amount to very little. In other words, we feel that our literacy campaign should be conducted on a more practical and func- tional basis. [51] For your information, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to describe briefly what we are trying to do in the Philippinesto relate literacy with problems of everyday life in the farm, in the house, and in industry. We have organized community projects in rural and urban areas, the purpose of which is to improve the living standards of the people—eco- nomic, social, civic and recreational. Here is a com- munity, for example, whose main resource is the land and whose main crop is rice. Through the barrio (village) teachers, the farmers and their wives are organized into groups to study how to improve the per hectare yield of the farm, to devise schemes to utilize the land after the harvest and before the planting season, to discover and plan activities to occupy the people during the slack season, and to develop programmesof civic, religious, and social significance to all the peoples ofthe villages. In the planning and execution of the projects, printed matter comes in the form of bulletins furnished by the Bureaux of Public Schools, Plant Industry, Health, Animal Industry and other Government bureaux. These bulletins are placed in the library of the school for adults to see and read. Those who MEETINGS 134 cannot read them are assisted by other adults or by their own children who are attending school. But they are not taught to read by the a-b-c method, until the need for this method isfelt. Theilliterate adults look at the pictures and diagrams in the pamphlets. They are led to feel that if they could read the material they would be able to understand better how the thing they are interested in could be done; for example, how to install a simple drainage system under the kitchen or to make a compost pit. The point is reached when the adults express the desire to learn to read, and it is then that literacy teaching begins. But even then, the reading matter is centred around the subject of interest to the learner, be it irrigation, poultry, or making slippers out of leaves. The teacher uses the material to interest the learner in the work he wants to do so that he may do it better. Thus, he learns to read with a purpose, and the purpose gives direction to his efforts, so that reading to him is as much a tool as his bolo or his axe. [52] TI have oversimplified the process in order to show what we meaninthe Philippines by functional literacy. We are just beginning, I must confess, and our teachersin the provinces are doing what they can to develop techniques of teaching adults that combine reading and practical work, so that the adult learners acquire motives for learning to read, because they see the immediate value to themselves of devoting time and effort to it. [53] 2. Technical Assistance. It is most gratifying to note that Unesco has, to date, technical assistance projects in 22 countries and in one region, after scarcely one year's operation of the extended Pro- gramme of Technical Assistance (page 107 of the Report). While we subscribe to the ideal of technical assistance, my delegation would like to be enlightened on certain points. We should like to know what principles guided the Technical Assistance Service, whichhas been set up to run the Technical Assistance Programme, in determining what projects should be approved,in allocating the amounts of money needed for specialists, fellowships, and materials. We should like to know if the countries that are receiving assistance have received sufficient guidance in planning their own projects in relation to other projects in existence, to the Government's pro- gramme, if there is one, and to the educational programme. We do not want to be understood as criticizing the method followed by the Technical Assistance Service in determining the allocations of amounts for technical assistance, but we wish to go on record as holding the view that, unless the various projects are planned very carefully in the light of existing needs and resources, their execution may lead to the defeat of the very objectives for which the Technical Assistance Programme has been conceived. [64] Again, the purpose of technical assistance being “to help under-developed countries to help    J — O E S , C E E T E R , E E E , — . . m e e g a — " — ] — . — ; o
4 ; T —   í j i — ; — — o , E E siè ge 135 PLENARY themselves”, the Philippines delegation believes it would be most desirable to include in the expert mis- sions a number of local experts who should be full members of such missions, and not mere advisers or consultants to the foreign experts. Under the present scheme there seems to be, pardon the word, too much of the “colonial” approach and the assumption of the white man’s burden in the sending of foreign experts to these countries. It would be better, in our opinion, if the foreign and local experts worked together on an equal footing, if only to give the local men the feeling that they can do the job that is assigned to foreign experts. The term “expert” is relative, and the under-developed countries have experts of their own, who may not be a match for the foreign experts in some lines, but who certainly know the local problems and conditions more intimately and could assume responsibility for the projects after their foreign colleagues have left. It may be alleged that the work may be done as fast and as well. Even so. we believe that the results would be more beneficial and lasting if experts from under-developed countries participated more in every phase of the programme on a truly equal footing with the outside specialists. [55] 3. Work of Member States. The Director- General called our attention, at the National Com- mission meeting last year in Florence, to the wide gap between intention and planning in Paris and the realities and problems existing in the Member States, and urged the National Commissions to exert greater effort to help carry out the programme of the Organization. He made the same plea in his address to this Conference the other day. As I have already said, it would seem from the reports from Member States that there has been considerable improvement in this respect. We believe, however, that much more can and should be done by the Member States. We believe that Unesco cannot succeed without the full support of Member States. We do not refer to financial support alone, but also to support in carrying out Unesco’s programme locally. [66] On the other hand, we feel that something should also be done in the Secretariat itself to help Member States in their effort to carry out the pro- gramme of the Organization. My delegation, there- fore, suggests that Unesco’s publications be made more pertinent in their subject matter and more understandable in their language. It has been observed that many of our publications are still theoretical and abstract. Some, if not most of them, are hardly read. This is true in my country, and I am told that it is also true in many other countries. Cannot something be done to use a simpler language, provide illustrations and problems that are related to the conditions obtaining in the Member States, and in other ways to present them in such a way that they challenge teachers and other educators whose job it is to make proper use of the publications to improve their own work? Would it not be a good idea to make a study of the content, language and presen- MEETINGS 11-9 tation of the numerous publications of Unesco with a view to improving their quality and relevance to problems in the field? If circumstances and our finances allow, our delegation further suggests that the writers of these publications be sent on field work to familiarize themselves better with the prob- lems and conditions of the countries in which their publications are intended to be used. My last point
18: [67] 4. International Understanding. Mutual under- standing among peoples is the basis of peace. From Unesco's studies on the subject of barriers to inter- national understanding, we gather, first, that these barriers are the result of misdirected education and training, and second, that it is only through proper education and training that such barriers may be removed. We all know that among children, irres- pective of nationality, race, language, social and economic level, there are no barriers. They feel completely at home with one another. As they grow older, however, they acquire attitudes and habits of thinking which gradually work to isolate them from their fellow human beings even in the same commu- nity. Their school books tend to reinforce the prejudices that are formed at home, ans so, through the joint conspiracy of the school and the home, the children and youth are indoctrinated into beliefs and customs which eventually draw them inside an iron curtain that separates them from other children and youth. It is interesting to note in passing that the higher the educational level, the thicker and more impenetrable the curtain that separates them, and the more horrible the wars caused by misunder- standing among them. [58] Unesco’s efforts to remove the causes of tensions—through seminars, revision of textbooks, missions, exchange of teachers and students and other means—should go a long way towards international understanding. We of the Philippines delegation, however, believe that these efforts would not bring the desired results unless and until the high reso- lutions that are embodied in the Declaration of Human Rights are translated into concrete behaviour and action. We therefore suggest that simultaneously with the implementation for the programme of funda- mental education in under-developed countries, Unescoalso consider the advisability of promoting a programme in better developed countries designed to re-educate, or re-orientate, I might say, the masses of the people in those countries, as well as leaders (why don’t we frankly admit it?) in the direction of greater tolerance and respect for the dignity of man, outside as well as within their own national and racial boundaries. We believe that education alone is not enough, any more than literacy alone will suf- fice to secure a real and permanent peace and inter- national understanding. [59] Ladies and gentlemen, the world craves for collective security. Mankind wants peace. But without a re-orientation of the already educated
11-9 PLENARY peoples in better developed areas, coupled with the functional literacy campaign for the unfortunate illiterates in undeveloped countries, collective secur- ity—peace—would only be a hope and not a relality. [60] The PRESIDENT — I thank the honourable Head of the delegation of the Philippines for his inspiring remarks to us this morning. I now call on Dr. Bernal Jiménez, Head of the delegation of Colombia. [61] Mr. Bernal JIMENEZ (Colombia) —[ Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, I do not wish to trespass upon the indulgence of delegates, who are doubtless feeling tired at this hour of our morning meeting, and therefore, I will keep myself within the time-limit prescribed by the President. Those privileged in November 1945 to be instrumental in sowing the seeds of what was to become Unesco must have followed with confident rejoicing its subsequent progress and development. At beginning there were but 44 delegates representing their respective countries. Today 64 countries sup- port the great achievements of the Organization, shedding their beneficent light over three-quarters of the globe. Those of us who were not in London and who have only recently come into contact with Unesco are nevertheless in a position to recognize one unquestionable fact; here is something not sub- ject to premature decay, but something that lives and breathes, an organism functioning in one of the most troubled and tortured periods of our history. [62] Two other equally certain facts will help to explain this phenomenon. First, Unesco answers a very urgent need to defend humanity against the threat of a new human holocaust, to raise defensive dams of enlightenment against the disastrous over- flow of totalitarian ambition. Secondly, never before in any organization has there been such a perfect co- ordination of aims and of the means to carry out those aims. The founders of Unesco would never have succeeded in creating this dynamic and energetic Organization had they not at the same time found a man of sufficient intelligence and capacity to take over its effective administration. That man, who like the forests of this temperate zone each year astound us by bursting forth into new and splendid blossom, is our illustrious Director-General, Mr. Tor- res Bodet, whose powerful, creative imagination and inexhaustible will to serve are so closely indentified with the existence of Unesco that the man and the Organization have merged into one mighty conso- lidated force representing the universal reality which is Unesco. If in years gone by Unesco’s activities have merited the applause of the Member States, the
1951 report of the Director-General shows the even greater lengths to which a powerful and constructive effort can carry us. [63] The Florence Conference marked out for us a prudent and suitable course to guide us towards attain- MEETINGS 136 ment of the Organization's specific ends. When, at an early plenary meeting in Florence, I ventured to remark on the dangers of spreading ourselves over too many fields at once, which would inevitably diminish our strength to act effectively in any one field of endeavour, I did not know that some days later we should have the pleasure of unanimously acclaiming the fine proposal of the United States delegate to “concentrate” Unesco’s programme. This proposal, the wisdom of which I stress again in homage to the delegation which presented it, was accepted by the Conference and loyally interpreted by the Director-General and the Secretariat so as to guide the Executive Board in drafting the 1952 Programme. [64] In the last analysis, the General Conference will have to decide just how far we can go in con- centrating the Programme in future. The Colombian delegation maintains that this sound policy should continue to be the guiding factor in the drafting of all future programmes. It would be best worth while to concentrate on a few important activities like fundamental education, technical assistance to under- developed countries, orientation of education towards international understanding, free interchange of persons and, of course, the campaign for world peace which is the culmination of all our activities and the “raison d’être” of the Organization. [65] A few days ago I pointed out to the Executive Board that, if Unesco had no other objective than that of carrying out the Fundamental Education Pro- gramme and providing technical assistance for under- developed countries, its existence would be more than justified. I have just listened with great pleasure to the statement of the eminent Secretary-General of the United Nations Organization, Mr. Trygve Lie, who gave first place to these two aims by offering his frank and open support, on behalf of the United Nations, to the development of a world network of fundamental education centres. The new proposal by the United States delegate for speeding up the development of that project, the Executive Board's approval of appropriation for this purpose and the opening of the first of those centres at Patzcuaro augur well for the success of this splendid under- taking. [66] The futureis likewise hopeful for the Technical Assistance Programme, some 30 countries having already begun to derive benefit therefrom. Many countries looking ahead have begun experiments which will have far-reaching sociological and edu- cational effects, but their technical and economic resources are limited, and they are anxious to receive the technical assistance which Unesco can provide. Among such countries I wish to call attention to Colombia as being the first American Republic to lower its customs barriers to allow free inflow of scientific and cultural aids and materials sent by Unesco (thus anticipating the future international agreement). It is also one of the first to inaugurate      O N   — _ — . .
137 PLENARY with surprising success a series of radio programmes designed to help stamp out illiteracy. Such efforts demand all Unesco’s technical as well as financial co-operation. [67] Many other sides of Unesco’s activities have been referred to in this report, which contains a compact assembly of projects extending far into the future. [68] Five years time is not long to set up an insti- tution dedicated to the accomplishment of such an exalted mission in a world of turmoil. Yet these five years have been most fruitful, and Unesco has successfully charted the roads along which to direct this great mission. [69] We cannot overlook the difficulties confronting the administrators of the Organization in their arduous task of establishing peace, harmony and mutual understanding among peoples of such varying ideological, geographical, ethnical and cultural backgrounds in a world fraught with conflict and strife. The noble character of Unesco’s work and its universal significance lie in uniting many elements in the integration of an ideal of œcumenical scope; creating agreement, not necessarily by bringing together opposites, as was Pythagoras’ view, but by establishing a balance between complementary and integrating elements which, if isolated, would be monstrous anomalies. This task requires the un- selfish co-operation of many enlightened minds and many wills guided by the spirit of an undimmed ideal. [70] During this first stage of its progress, Unesco has been finding ways and means to realize its aims. Up to now it has been a centre of cultural dis- semination and has given a powerful stimulus to scientific research. It is both possible and normal that in the course of growth Unesco should come up against problems unsolved by previous efforts. It is both natural and possible that, in furthering a more profound study of the causes of war and unrest in recent times, it may encounter psychological and moral factors which cannot be dealt with in a simple informative study whose purpose is to call attention to factors influencing the conduct of individuals and of political entities. Perhaps, then, it may be asked whether it is enough to inform men of their ele- mentary rights and make available to them the alpha- bet and the benefits of technology. Or whether they should also be made conscious of the dignity of man and taught that the lives of human beings must be respected and that they must look upon one another not as natural enemies te be destroyed but as brothers belonging to one great family bound together by a common origin and a common destiny. [71] Perhaps, then, we should also try to ascertain whether, in addition to economic factors and stimuli of purely biological origin, the threat to peace does not lie in the over-emphasis laid on material factors which excite the greedy ambitions and individual egotism of nations. Thus we perceive the real signi- MEETINGS 11-9 ficance of that fine idea expressed in the Constitution - and which sums up so admirably Unesco’s ultimate goal: “Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. [72] The PRESIDENT— I thank Dr. Bernal Jiménez, Head of the delegation of Colombia, for his eloquent remarks to us this morning. We have time for two more speakers. I shall therefore call upon Pro- fessor Alex. Photiades, Head of the Greek delegation, and subsequently the Head ‘of the delegation of the Dominican Republic. [73] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) — [Translation from the French] The first gesture of the Greek dele- gation on arriving in the home port of Unesco is to greet France and to thank the Government of the French Republic for the welcome it has extended to us in this 2,000-year-old city at the very moment when so glorious an anniversary is being celebrated. The medal struck on this occasion reminds us of our ancient ties; but many and strong are the bonds created by our cultures, our Mediter- ranean civilization and our universalist ideals. Can we not trace the idea of universalism back to the Amphictyons and the later Agape, before it was put into practice by Unesco in our work with its funda- mentally moral inspiration? Yes, our work, is essentially a matter of practical ethics, since we are seeking Peace through Education, Science and Culture. [74] TI used universalism in the sense that we Medi- terraneans give to this word, and, in so saying, I am impelled to turn to the Director-General to thank him, on behalf of my country, for having continued to steer this vessel, Unesco, with no less tenacity than courage. Tenacity indead, for our course lies through fog, and courage, since our vessel is heading through “fearsome reefs”. Yet our Director-General has held it to its course, simply because the helm of this vessel, Unesco, is of olive wood, as our poet Hesiod would have said. [76] The old-timers of Unesco, those who have laboured to fashion this vessel, are compelled to give a free and frank account of certain facts—an especially easy task for the Greek delegate, for he comes from a country where freedom is safeguarded by Aristotle’s logic and ethics. But our ancient writers and the Fathers of the Church, spanning 11 centuries of leadership in civilization, teach us that we cannot “administer”—I use the word deliberately—science, education or culture without paying the tribute that hungry Moloch has already exacted and may yet exact from rigid totalitarianism. Democratic coun- tries are aware that culture is not administered in the full sense of the word; only administrators of no culture presume to disagree. Thus there is no con- tradiction between our traditions and freedom of conscience, so that, as he quits the service of the
11-9 PLENARY ‘Executive Board, the delegate of the Greek Govern- ment to the General Conference is not gainsaying what he has freely expressed, since the foundation of this Organization, in the Executive Board which is the trustee of us all, serving as a link between the governments we represent and the international Secretariat. [76] In our early days, gentlemen, we often confused ends with means and dissipated our efforts, for an ill- assorted body of ideas in the immediate postwar period forced us to resort to endless compromises. Praiseworthy, but over-varied aims could not find expression in our conferences. Our era is not con- ducive to understanding. The tasks confronting the Board and the Director-General were as difficult as they were thankless, as exacting as they were involved. At times we sought a scapegoat and laid blame on the Executive Board or the Director-General, forgetting that we ourselves, the delegates to con- ferences, should bear the blame. For what organ is responsible for the ultimate programme, delays and errors, if not the General Conference? We ourselves, we members of governmental delegations, should have the courage to acknowledge that, if Unesco has not yet given all that was expected of it, the reason must be sought in the first sessions of the Conference, when the team-spirit left much to be desired, though firmly implanted in the other two organs of Unesco. I feel that this team-spirit, a prerequisite to all under- standing and, hence, to peace, is pervading the present session. Let us strengthen it by the exercise of common sense and by taking heed of the times in which we live. This progress I have mentioned is the tangible outcome of ever closer co-operation. [77] As experience has been gained, compression has been the overriding consideration and, instead of groping in the dark and wasting time over discussions of minor points, delegates have learnt to concentrate on essentials. Let us then keep to the essentials and leave matters of practical execution to the other two organs, the Executive Board and the Secretariat, who have all the necessary experience, without imposing rigid rules upon them. The present pro- gramme is simple, compressed and clear-cut; its main outline, hich was traced in Florence, and owes much to the wisdom of Mr. Howland Sargeant, President of our present session, has now taken definite shape. In my opinion, we are now, at last, entering upon the period of true understanding. But there is one question for which I have made various pleas at previous sessions.” And I ask once again: Have we won over the younger generation? Have our National Commissions explored all possibilities for drawing young people into our fold? Handicapped by the war, bewildered and exposed to disastrous influences, these young people have heard of the Rights of Man, but how many are aware of the “Duties of Man”? This, in fact, means that over these six years, young people have still been ill- informed about Unesco; thus the future of Unesco is MEETINGS 138 not yet assured, depending as it does on the support of the rising generation. [78] Our crew, as it grows older each year, should bear in mind the image conjured up by the blind man and the paralytic, helping each other—a classic example of co-operation between opposites, implying that the vision of young people should be directed towards the highest ideals of our civilization and that we in turn should be encouraged by the voice of this younger generation. One section of youth does understand us; I refer not alone to the children of my country, whose kinsmen are suffering far from their homes. It would ill become us were I to cast strictures on absent delegations. I shall speak only of those young people who have seen Unesco at close quarters and I am glad that, in November 1950, the Director-General brought together some of its most authoritative spokesmen. Gentlemen, help him in these fine endeavours, for these right-thinking young people who understand us can teach their brothers yet ignorant of our action. Young people have bonds that we at our age have perhaps forgotten and are doubtless not the bonds we knew when we were young. Let us encourage the young to teach the young. But who will help young people to grow up with sound ideas if not teachers and universities? I hold that the universities and many students have grasped the problem, as testified by the spoken and written messages received in Glasgow when that city celebrated the fifth centenary of the foundation of its university. This ceremony took place in the presence of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, from whose speech at the Constituent Con- ference of Unesco we took the Preamble to our Constitution, and, notably, the passage reading: “that since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. But have we erected the defences of peace in the minds of the young? The spokesmen of 24 of the leading universities of the United States of America, of all universities of the Commonwealth and of France, of the universities of Europe, Asia and Africa—more than 200 in all—said that these uni- versities should act directly and swiftly. You would have been heartened by this spontaneous utterance of the thoughts of so many scholars, many of whom hold the Nobel Peace Prize, and of institutions dispensing education, science and culture. This great celebration in Glasgow, whither we flew to witness the growing fellowship between Universities, points our way and marks out new means. These institu- tions are being mobilized, a process in which we are already playing our part, and the Nice Conference which you organized has yielded most valuable results. Ponder the deep significance of this resurgence if you wish the fragile trees of peace that you have planted in other fields to receive the nourishment they need for survival—young blood fated not be shed on battlefields but to nourish these tender shoots that they may reach up to the light.
139 PLENARY [79] The PRESIDENT — I thank the honourable Head of the Greek delegation, Professor Photiades, and I now call upon the final speaker at this morning’s plenary meeting, Dr. Calderón, Head of the delegation of the Dominican Republic. [80] Mr. Telesforo R. CALDERÓN (Dominican Republic) — [Translation from the Spanish] — Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, fellow-delegates, the delegation of the Dominican Republic shares whole-heartedly the enthusiasm of the Conference for the splendid address delivered by our eminent Director-General, in which he informsus of the work accomplished by Unesco since last year’s conference in Florence. [81] My country is attending this meeting, as it has attended all previous meetings, with the firm con- viction that the Organization will bring all its efforts to bear in fortifying in the conscience of mankind the importance of universal peace and harmony founded on justice. My country is ready again with loyal enthusiasm to lend its entire support towards the enhancement of Unesco’s prestige and strongly desires that our deliberations shall be generous and fruitful. This is the only attitude in keeping with my country’s loyalty to providence for making it the centre from which Christian civilization spread throughout the New World. It is also the attitude which conforms to the educational policy being developed by the Dominican government with results it can be justly proud of. [82] I do not have to enumerate all that the Domi- nican government has done in matters of direct interest to Unesco. I shall point out only the most important accomplishments of the last 12 months. The scope of the campaign launched in 1941 against illiteracy has been greatly extended through substan- tially increased appropriations. We have set up free night schools for adults and rural normal schools to provide adequate training for rural teachers. We have introduced into our educational curriculum at primary, secondary and university school levels the MEETINGS 11-9 study of the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Unesco Constitution. In this month of June a new education law has been passed, the first article of which reads as follows: The instruction given by the Dominican school will be based on the principles of Christian civilization and Hispanic tradition which has been fundamental in the development of our historical background, and in the democratic spirit of our institutions stress will be laid on awakening the sentiment of inter-American co- operation and international understanding and solidarity in the minds of the students. [83] In view of what I have read I can state in advance the directives which will guide the Dominican delegation at this Conference. The Dominican delegation is generally in favour of the Draft Programme for 1952 presented by the Executive Board. [84] The Dominican delegation is also in favour of Unesco’s receiving the financial resources necessary to carry out that Programme. [85] Mr. President and fellow-delegates, let us give Unesco that dynamic stability so persuasively demanded by Count Jacini at the opening meeting. Let us work for it all together, first in this Con- ference and then in our respective governments, when we return with the inspiring vision of Unesco’s banner of hope flying beneath a Paris sky amidst our national colours in the light of 2,000 years of struggle for liberty and culture. [86] The PRESIDENT — I thank the honourable delegate of the Dominican Republic, Dr. Calderón. We have now completed the discussions for this morning. Tomorrow morning we shall hear any additional speakers on the Director-General’s Report, after which the Director-General will have an opportunity to make his reply. I declare the meeting adjourned. The meeting rose at 1.11 p.m.