663 BUDGET -FUNDAMENTAL opportunity of serving Unesco and humanity as a whole. [46] Mr. ASSUNGAO DE ARAUJO (Brazil) re- minded the meeting that at one of the earlier plenary meetings of the current General Conference, his delegation had asked for Brazil to be included in the list of countries where it was proposed to found a centre. That request was therefore prior to the one made by the Egyptian delegate. [47] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) thanked all delegates who had supported the spirit of his resolution, and said that he was quite prepared to accept drafting changes. [48] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) welcomed the offers made by the delegates of the Philippines and Brazil. He mentioned the fact that the Egyptian   EDUCATION COMMITTEE УШа-3 offer had been made in the plenary Conference at the same time as the Brazilian offer. He was glad to find so many nations competing to help Unesco, and Egypt would be overjoyed to see centres established in all of them. He had proposed the establishment of a centre in Egypt, because his country had links with both East and West and, although far from rich, was prepared to offer
40,000 Egyptian pounds towards a project which would benefit not only Egypt, but the world as a whole. Г [49] THE CHAIRMAN announced that, at the next meeting, the final text of the report, to be prepared by the Chairman himself and the Rapporteur, with the assistance of the Secretariat, would be presented for approval. The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m. THIRD MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. ANTONIO CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) Examination of the Report of the Working Party on the Special Project for the Establish- ment of a World Network of Regional Funda- mental Education Centres. [1] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the meeting should discuss paragraph by paragraph the report of the Working Party on the special project for the establishment of a world network of regional edu- cation centres. PREAMBLE. [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) read the Preamble to the report, as follows: The Working Party, believing Fundamental Education to be at the heart of the work of Unesco, and convinced that the general plan outlined in document 6C/PRG/3 constitutes a first attempt on a world-wide basis to combat through education the problems of ignorance, poverty and disease. Recommends . . . [3] Mr. SENGHOR (France) pointed out that the special fundamental education project described in document 6C/PRG/3 was not the first attempt on a world-wide basis to combat through education the problems of ignorance, poverty and disease, as stated in the third paragraph of the report. Actually, it was perhaps the. first systematic and consistent effort. The French delegate therefore suggested adding the word “systematic” before “attempt on a world-wide basis”. [4] The CHAIRMAN considered such an addition undesirable for psychological reasons. The first three paragraphs of the report prepared the reader for what was to follow; the addition of the word “sys- tematic” would tend to weaken that preliminary statement. [6] Mr. SENGHOR (France) accepted the Chair- man’s opinion and withdrew his amendment. Point 1. [6] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) read point 1 of the Report as follows: “Recommends that this project be adopted as a whole.” He      УШа-3 BUDGET FUNDAMENTAL proposed the addition to point 1 of the following: “with such modifications as are indicated below.” [7] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) had no objection to the wording of point 1 as amended. He could not, however, support point 1 if that meant recommending the whole of the working paper. (document
6C/PRG/3) subject to those modifications. There were points of detail which would have to be modified either during the course of the year or even of the following two years. [8] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) could not support point 1 and recalled the two points discussed at the previous meeting, first the limitation on the number of centres, and secondly establishment of centres in certain regions only. He suggested prefacing point 1 with the following phrase: Recommends that the principle outlined in the general plan in document 6C/PGR/3 for the establishment of Fundamental Education Centres should be adopted. [9] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) supported the view expressed by the delegate of Pakistan. He accordingly suggested the following amendments to the report:
(1) Point 1 would be worded: “Recommends that this plan be put into effect with such modifications as are indicated below”;
(2) Point 6 would specify that the implementation of the project would not imply any limitation in the number of centres or the regions in which they were to be set up and that different arrangements could be considered in succeeding years, with due regard to the available resources. [10] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) thought that the plan would require modification in the future. For instance, the 12-year programme might be speeded up. There was also the need for flexibility with regard to the number of centres. He proposed the following wording: that the general principles outlined in the plan, subject to such modifications of detail as might become neces- sary; be adopted. [11] Mr. BENÍTEZ (United States of America) supported the Indian delegate’s proposal. It was necessary first to indicate general support of the financial project and then to go on to that that financial method was part of the objective andthatit was hoped that the plan would be broadened and modified. [12] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) thought there was substantial agreement on the substance of the problem. It was necessary to say that the Working Party proposed to do something more than just make a modest proposal for 1952.
664EDUCATION COMMITTEE The plan as a whole had to be mentioned, and also the fact that modifications might be made as it was being carried out. The Indian delegate proposed approval in principle, whereas the United States delegate approved the proposed financial arrange- ments. They were two different things. Mr. Elvin suggested some such wording as: “Recommends that the plan be put into effect forth- with with such modifications as are indicated” or “which may be made necessary later in the light of experience in the carrying out of the project.” [13] The question raised by the Pakistan delegate with regard to the number of centres would come under point 6 of the report. [14] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) supported the proposal made by the Brazilian delegate with regard to point6, with a slight modification, the substitution for “in succeeding years” of the words “in the years follow- ing 1952”. [15] Ona vote being taken, point 1 was approved as follows: “Recommends that the plan be put into effect forthwith with such modifications as are indicated below.” Point 2. [16] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) read point 2 as follows: Recommends that everything possible be done by Unesco, in association with the United Nations and interested Specialized Agencies, to carry the whole plan into effect as the first stage in a continuing campaign. [17] Mr. Elvin observed that it might be necessary to modify the phrase “carry the whole plan into effect” in order to make the point consistent withthe new wording of point 1. [18] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) suggested substituting the words “to promote” for the words “carry into effect”: [19] Mr. SENGHOR(France) approved point 2 and also the suggestion of the Pakistan delegate. [20] Mr. Senghor was in favour of the principle of increasing the number of centres after the completion of the 12-year plan. But he was anxious that any new centres set up should come within the regional system, as that would not be inconsistent with the extension of the plan. In his opinion, regional action was essential to Unesco's work, and to that of the United Nations. [21] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) did not consider the proposal to raise the budget ceiling acceptable. He thought that, if an additional sum of $105,000 had to be provided for fundamental у — — — . — — s e s A — C T I , J R f — ] — ; D _ — Ñ ; — ; _ — — — . — , — " — _ — .
665 BUDGET: FUNDAMENTAL education from the total budget of $8,700,000, that would mean that the other programme activities would have to be reduced by 1.2 to 1.3 per cent. Psychologically, it would therefore be better to call for a fresh effort to the purpose under consideration. [22] Mr. SENGHOR (France) again stated the French delegation's opinion that the reasons under- lying his proposal were valid. While still regarding Unesco's fundamental education programme as a vital part of the general programme, it had felt obliged to express some reservations regarding the method of financing it. It asked that the comments it had made on that subject should be noted. [23] The CHAIRMAN was of opinion that the point was of the greatest importance, but it should be discussed under point 6 of the report. [24] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) agreed. [25] Point 2 was adopted. Point 3. [26] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) read point 3 as follows: Realizing that the full resources needed to put the plan into immediate effect cannot yet be assured, belièves that à start should be made in 1952 on the basis laid down by the plan, with funds assured as a matter of first priority (in the manner set out in the Annex to this Report) from the normal Budget for 1952 and with allo- cations expected to be received in 1952 by Unesco from the Special Account for the United Nations expanded programme of Technical Assistance, in accordance with Resolution 222 (IX) of the Economic and Social Council. [27] Mr. Elvin explained that the Technical As- sistance Service had assured him that the last phrase of point 3 was sound from the technical point of view. [28] Soliman HOZAYEN Bey (Egypt) suggested substituting the word “recommends” for the word “believes”. He also proposed the insertion, after the words “Technical Assistance”, of the words “by agreement with the host Government and on the basis laid down in Resolution; etc.”. [20] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) seconded the Egyptian delegate’s proposals, [30] Mr. SENGHOR (France) recalled that the French delegation had already commented on the annex to the Working Party’s report, dealing with the financing of the centres. It raised no objection to the sum of $129,370 already shown in Unesco’s budget, but for two reasons refused to consider the provision of an additional sum of $105,000 fromthe same budget. EDU NTI Vllla-3COMMITTEE [31] Firstly, there was a question of method. The Programme Commission had begun its work on the understanding that $8,700,000 would be the ceiling for the 1952 budget, from which a sum of $129,370 was set aside for fundamental education centres. If that appropriation were to be increased, the Com- mission would be obliged to review all the other chapters of the budget. [32] Secondly, as regarded the substance of the proposal, if an additional $105,000 were allocated to fundamental education, the Organization would be forced to reduce certain other programme activities that the French delegation also considered essential. [33] The French delegate therefore thought that the sum of $105,000 should be raised as an additional contribution from Unesco’s Member States. [34] The CHAIRMAN thought that the idea of increasing the ceiling of the 1952 budget would have to be dropped. It appeared from conversations he had had with the Chairman of the Budget Committee that Member States would never agree to such an increase, and that it would be easier to raise the additional sums requested by modifying or deleting certain other activities. Accordingly, the Committee had not approved the French delegation’s suggestion. [35] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) proposed that points
3 and 4 should be transposed. The first step was to set up the centres, the second was to raise the funds. [36] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) could not support that proposal, which was not in accordance with the logical sequence of the argument. [37] The CHAIRMAN said that one centre had already been established in Mexico. The first necessity was that that centre should be maintained. The second centre would be set up afterwards. [38] Point 3 was adopted, with the substitution, after the word “assured”, of the word “recommends” for the word “believes”. [39] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) proposed a slight modification of the note contained in the annex to the report. Where the words “already allocated” were used, he proposed the substitution of the words “already budgeted”; for the words “to be allocated” he proposed the substitution of the words “to be found within the budget”. POINT 4. [40] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) read point 4 as follows: Recommends that these resources be applied in 1952       УШа-3 ВОВСЕ О КАМ МАЙ, towards: (a) the maintenance of the Latin-American Centre; (b) the establishment of a second centre; (c) the establishment of the Central Co-ordinating Organization; (d) surveys and negotiations leading to the development of other centres under the plan. [41] Point 4 was adopted. Point 5. [42] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) read point 5 as follows: The Working Party further recommends: That the Director-General be instructed to seek addi- tional funds from all possible sources to supplement this minimum financial provision. [43] In reply to a question by Mr. Berredo Carneiro (Brazil), Mr. Elvin went on to explain that reference was being made to funds from other sources to bring the total of the financial provision given in the annex to the report up to the level mentioned in the budgetary annexes to the original plan (document
6C/PRG/3). [44] Point 5 was adopted. Point 6. [45] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) read point 6, with the amendment which had been proposed by the Pakistan delegate, as follows: That in the years succeding 1952 the programme should be developed with flexibility, allowing for the possibility of establishing centres in as many areas (regions, groups of countries, or individual countries) as resources permit, where the problems are most acute and where col- laboration is offered by the countries concerned. [46] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) hoped that document 6C/PRG/3 would be revised to include the findings of the Committee and that a recommen- dation to that effect would be embodied in the Com- mittee’s report. [47] In particular, it would be necessary to specify that the implementation of the plan would not entail any limitation of the number of centres and that the programme should be developed with the utmost flexibility as regarded the distribution of centres among the different regions, countries and groups of countries, with due regard to the available financial resources. [48] The Brazilian delegate considered the foregoing to be a matter of basic importance which should be embodied in a specific statement in a document intended for communication to Member States. [49] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) supported the Brazil- ian delegate’s proposal. EDUCATION COMMITTEE 666 [50] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that document 6C/PRG/3 would be revised in the light of experience when the plan was in course of operation. He thought it would be difficult to undertake its revision in the time at the disposal of the Conference. [51] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that he did not propose to undertake the revision of document 6C/PRG/3 at that stage, but that it could be done during the year by the Secretariat and the Executive Board in the light of the Committee's recommendations. [52] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) proposed the substitution of the words “regular establishment of centres” for the words “possibility of establishing centres”. [53] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) suggested prefacing point 6 as follows: Realizing that the number of centres as envisaged in document 6C/PRG/3 is wholly inadequate to meet the need, the Working Party recommends that . . . [54] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) considered that the wording of point 6 covered that point. It was quite clear that there would be as many centres as the resources available would permit. [55] As he was obliged to go to another committee meeting, Mr. Ward asked that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, his vote should be recorded in favour of the report. [56] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked whether it could not be explicitly stated that, after discussion, it was decided that not only six but many other centres were to be set up. [57] The CHAIRMAN thought that there was general agreement on the substance of the question. The problem was to work out howthe plan for the constitution of six centres could be carried out in
12 years with the resources at Unesco’s command. In approaching philanthropic institutions for funds, it would be necessary to submit a plan. He asked the Working Party not to oppose the basic project (document 6C/PRG/3), but to accept it with all the modifications that would be made in it during the coming years. [58] In the opinion of Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) it would be a psychological errorto distribute a document describing a plan limited to 12 years and six regions. The world was, he thought, entitled to expect action on a wider scale. Consequently, if it were decided to amend document 6C/PRG/3 after the Conference, it should be specified that the plan provided for the greatest possible number of centres and would be extended over as long a period as [ [ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | I      = + BUDGET -FUNDAMENTAL necessary, and that the estimates prepared for the first
12 year were an initial working instrument designed to lay the foundation for the proposed action. [69] Mr. LAYA (Philippines) supported the Pakistan delegate’s observations. It should be emphasized in the report that the plan was a flexible one, to be modified in the light of the experience of the various centres. [60] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) said that the plan as it stood gave the impression that six centres were envisaged, with an overall budget of $20,000,000. It had to be made clear that that was a minimum. It was proposed to establish six centres in the course of 12 years, but it should be made possible to speed up the project. [61] Mr. SENGHOR (France) thought there was confusion, rather than disagreement, between the idea of a plan and the scope of the action envisaged by the Committee. [62] Mr. Senghor did not think it possible to make definite recommendations without a precise plan, the necessity of which should be admitted a priori. [63] The plan under discussion provided for the establishment of six centres over a period of 12 years, with a total budget of $20,000,000. That was only an initial step towards more comprehensive action which would be undertaken in the light of the first experiments. [64] To his mind, therefore, it would be enough to modify the conclusions of document 6C/PRG/3, specifyingthat the first project would be followed by à second and a third, which might be drawn up on different bases. [65] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) said that the network of regional centres as envisaged in document
6C/PRG/3 was principally for the training of regional specialists. If any country desired to set up a national centre, that should not militate against the forma- tion of a regional centre for the training of specialists. He asked whether, if document 6C/PRG/3 were adopted, it precluded a country’s applying to Unesco for co-operation in the creation of a national centre. [66] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said there was nothing to prevent any Member State from putting in a request to Unesco or to the Technical Assistance Board for any educational scheme clearly related to the raising of economic standards oflife and in accordance with the rules ofthat scheme. [67] Mr. Elvin also wished to clear up some slight confusion on two points: (1) as to the time plan In document 6C/PRG/3: all the centres were to be set up by the end of three years and in full operationWithin 12 years; he thought it hardly possible toproceed faster; (2) on page 7 of document EDUCATION COMMITTEE УШа-3
6C/PRG/3, five theatres of action were contemplated; the plan was not, therefore, so rigid as had been supposed. But in approaching Member States or philanthropic bodies, the Director-General had to have a precise scheme to submit. [68] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) pro- posed adding under point 6 the following: “and that document 6C/PRG/3 will be revised in the light of amendments suggested by the Working Party”. [69] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) said that, as document 6C/PRG/3 would be sent to Member States and philanthropic societies, he was anxious that there should be no confusion in the text. There were two fundamental points to be considered, the first being that the number of centres might be many more than the six contemplated in the documents. The second point concerned the period within which those centres were to be established. He proposed the following addition at the beginning of point 6 or at the end of point 5: “that the number of centres to be established and the period within which they may be established should be revised in the light of the responses received”. [70] Mr. JAUME (France) thought there was some confusion between two separate tasks devolving upon Unesco:
(1) The implementation of the plan as adopted, which was a technical task to be carried out by the Secretariat in collaboration with Member States. That task necessitated a clear-cut plan. If document
6C/PRG/3 were completely recast, it might tend to lose its clarity and precision. The French delegate considered it sufficient to make minor changes in the document to introduce certain general ideas raised during the Committee's discussions.
(2) A world-wide appeal to be launched in sup- port of the project. That was a matter of information and propaganda, for which the Secretariat could prepare a non-technical paper designed to strike the imagination of the general public and arouse its interest. It would be easy to include in such a docu- ment the suggestion made by the delegates of Brazil and Pakistan and to make it clear that the 12-year plan was merely the starting point for action on a larger scale. [71] Mr. BENÍTEZ (United States of America) thought that some confusion had arisen between the immediate, the intermediate and the ultimate aims ofthe plan. It was obvious that the achievement of the ultimate aim called for expenditure greatly in excess of $20,000,000, as well as for many more than six centres. So tremendous a project had to be taken stage by stage, and the first stage was to raise $105,000 still needed as a minimum financial pro- vision for 1952. The second or intermediate task was to see how the project could be fully launched. The    УШа-3 BUDGET-FUNDAMENTAL Secretariat had understood and accepted the tentative character of the programme, and the resolution as submitted allowed of all necessary modifications. When the Secretariat forwarded the document to Member States or philanthropic bodies, a statement explaining that the plan envisaged a wider scope might be attached. [72] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Chairman of the Committe) said that the budgetary part of the docu- ment had already been approved. Suggestions had been made that $105,000 might be found by raising the ceiling of Unesco’s budget, but that had been discussed in the Budget Committee and had been considered quite impossible. He supported the United States delegate’s remark concerning the flexibility of the report. That point was made quite clearly in the preamble. He agreed that document 6C/PRG/3 would have to be revised, and asked the Brazilian delegate to submit an amendment embodying his wishes. [73] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) considered that the Indian delegate’s proposal met all require- ments, and he supported it with the slight modi- fication which he had himself suggested earlier, viz.: “in the years succeeding 1952”. [74] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) sup- ported the Indian delegate’s proposal. He asked that the preamble to document 6C/PRG/3 should be altered so as to take account of all the opinions expressed during the Committee’s discussions. [76] The CHAIRMAN read the Indian delegate’s proposed text, to be inserted at the beginning of point 6: “The number of centres to be established and the period within which they may be established should be revised in the light of the responses received.” [76] Point 6 was adopted. Last THREE PARAGRAPHS. [77] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) read the last three paragraphs of the report: [78] It was not within the competence of the Working Party to consider the location of the centre which will be established under the plan, but it heard with pleasure the very generous offer of the Government of Egypt to assume the full responsibilities of a host country, should it be decided to establish a regional Fundamental Edu- cation Centre in Egypt. [79] The Working Party was also informed by the delegates of Brazil and the Philippines that their Governments were most anxious that centres should be established in their countries and that they would co- operate to the fullest extent with the Organization to this end. EDUCATION COMMITTEE 668 [80] It was decided that these offers should be brought to the notice of the General Conference as a most encouraging indication of the ready response and active collaboration which the Organization can expect from MemberStates in carrying out this plan. [81] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) stated that Brazil could count on the fullest support from Egypt for the establishment of a centre in that country. Latin America was a very good field for such experiments. He also supported the offer from the Philippines. He proposed the insertion of the word “immediately” between the words “assume” and “the full responsibilities . . .” [82] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that the Brazilian delegation whole-heartedly sup- ported the request made by the Egyptian Govern- ment for the establishment of a fundamental edu- cation centre on its territory, and that it would use every endeavour during the Conference’s discussions lo see that Egypt’s wishes were immediately met. [83] Mr. Carneiro explained that Brazil did not wish to set itself up as a rival to Egypt in that respect, since he thought that Egypt should have priority. [84] However, the Brazilian delegation hoped that the principle of setting up a centre in Brazil would be accepted at the earliest possible time. [85] Mr. Carneiro accordingly. asked that the words “at the earliest possible time” should be added after “that centres should be established” in the penulti- mate paragraph of the report. [86] Mr. LAYA (Philippines) supported the offer of Brazil. He hoped that, when a centre was estab- lished in the Far East, his own country might be chosen. [87] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) also supported the proposal to establish a centre in Brazil. That country was in a unique position with regard to racial status; there was full equality for all races. The fact that a centre had already been established in Mexico, which was a Latin American country, should not weigh against the proposal to set up another centre in Brazil. [88] The last three paragraphs of the report were adopted. Declarations by Representatives of the World Health Organization and the Ford Foundation. [89] Miss HOWELL (World Health Organization), speaking on behalf of the Director-General of the World Health Organization, who would address the meeting of the Programme Commission on the same subject, said that her Organization considered that the Fundamental Education programme was one of the most important contributions Unesco had to make.    N y | | J | [| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
669   + | BIDEN DA MENTAL She hoped that the programme would meet with full support. Co-operation with Unesco had already given very promising results and she hoped it would con- tinue to bearfruit in the future. [90] The CHAIRMAN requested Miss Howell to report to her Organization the interest which dele- gates of every country had taken in the Director- General's report regarding fundamental education, which was about to go before the Programme Com- mission and would later be submitted to the General Conference in plenary meeting. [91] The Chairman then called upon the represen- tative of the Ford Foundation, saying that, when the financial implications of the fundamental education project were considered, the possibility of obtaining co-operation from the philanthropic foundations naturally came to mind. He felt that there was no work of greater importance than fundamental edu- cation to foundations which had the welfare of the community at large at heart. He was sure that, when the time came, the invitation of Unesco to participate in the work of fundamental education would be sympathetically considered by those foundations. [92] Mr. SALOMON (Ford Foundation) said that he was favourably impressed, not only by the project, but also by the interest it had aroused among the various Member States. There was a great difference between a programme as it appeared on paper and its practical implementation. It seemed to be very generally realized that what was wanted was practical results. He wished to say very briefly that, if the interest displayed in the meeting represented the opinion of all the Member States, the necessary moral and financial support for the project would appear to be forthcoming within the limits of Unesco's budget. Without making any commitment, for he was not authorized to make one on behalf of the Ford Foundation, Mr. Salomon thought interest would be aroused in the Foundation if there was ample evidence of widespread interest throughout Unesco and of the the Organization's moral and financial support within the limit of its means. [93] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was delighted to greet Mr. Salomon as the bearer of a great hope, the hope of soon finding in the great philanthropic foundations support for the imple- mentation of the plan whose preparation was nearing completion. [94] After recalling the work of Ford and his astounding achievements, the Brazilian delegate stated that Unesco was striving to deserve the col- laboration of such organizations as the Ford Foundation, by entrusting the work to first-class men and by so preparing its projects as to enable them to be carried out with the utmost efficiency. He added that the association of Unesco’s ideals with EP CATT ION COMMITTEE Vllla-3 the extraordinary material resources of the Ford Foundation could not fail to lead to outstanding results. [95] Mr. BENÍTEZ (United States of America), speaking on behalf of the United States delegation, assured the representative of the Ford Foundation of the extraordinary support which had been given to the project by all delegations. He had been particu- larly touched to see how the members of the Working Party had been willing to afford the highest priority to the project and had been striving, despite very severe financial limitations, to open the door to a project which it was hoped would have enormous repercussions on education throughout the world. Delegates had felt that a beginning should be made despite all difficulties. It would be most distressing to the United States delegation if Unesco could not give first priority to hopes and aspirations that so well fitted in with the basic ideals of civilized countries. For his part, he would be happy if the initial sacrifice to be made by the Members of Unesco were to be regarded and appreciated by the different foundations, and by the Ford Foundation in particu- lar, as a token of hope that they could take into consideration above all the requirements of those who had the greatest need. In that spirit the United States delegation looked with great sympathy and enthusiasm on the project, and welcomed the opi- nions expressed by the representative of the Ford Foundation. [96] On behalf of his Government, Mr. JAUME (France) joined the delegates of Brazil and the United States of America in their welcome and expressions of gratitude to Mr. Salomon. [97] He recalled the hope he had already expressed of seeing Member States solemnly pledge themselves to carry out the proposals for the fundamental edu- cation centres. In that connexion, he had asked Member Sates for an act of faith in the success of the project, which at the same time would be an act of loyalty to Unesco. Member States had enthusiastically responded to that appeal, either by definite offers for the establishment of centres on their territory, or by proposing further contributions in addition to the sacrifices they had already agreed to for that cause. The delegate of France was convinced that Member States would spare no efforts to ensure the success of the project they were planning to carry out. [98] Mr. Jaume reminded the meeting how the representative of the Ford Foundation had himself stated that he was greatly impressed by the moral unity apparent at the Conference. He was persuaded that that unity would prompt the Ford Foundation to give its backing to Unesco’s work. [99] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) also greeted the representative of the Ford Foundation, whose pre- sence,in his opinion, was not only an encouragement,      УШа-3 BUDGCET-FUNVAMENTAT but also a token of the moral solidarity Unesco was striving to establish in the world. [100] Mr. El Diwany recalled that Ford had been not only a remarkable man but also a great citizen of the world, and he was convinced that the Ford Foundation would readily assist in carrying out a task regarded as necessary for developing the spirit of co-operation in the world. [101] Mr. El Diwany added that Egypt had already,
670EDUCATION TCOMMIETTER with the assistance of the Ford Foundation, been able to send several of its nationals to the United States of America, and that it would be extremely glad to co- operate with the Ford Foundation, through Unesco, if the plans for the establishment of a fundamental education centre on its territory took. definite shape. The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.