599 at BUDGET and Management) explained that, in the selection of candidates for vacancies, competence took prece- dence over nationality. It was, however, his policy to seek staff in countries that were under-represented or not represented in the Secretariat. [50] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) whole-heartedly endorsed the remarks made by Miss Laise, the United States delegate. The recruitment of Unesco staff might be based, firstly, on the recommendations of Member States and, secondly, on those of National Commissions; the Secretariat seemed to prefer the latter method. Where competence was equal, pref- erence should be given to the candidate whose appointment would ensure the fairest geographical distribution. [51] In reply to Mr. KIRPAL(India), Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) affirmed that there was close liaison between his Bureau and the Department responsible for the Technical Assistance programme in the selection of the experts whose work would come under that programme. [52] Miss LAISE (United States of America) was doubtful whether there was any justification for the retention of temporary posts in the Bureau of Per- sonnel during 1952, seeing that the transfer to local salary scales should be concluded by the end of the year. As a trustee of the Joint Staff Pension Scheme, she was worried to learn that Unesco apparently intended to fulfil its responsibilities through the ser- vices of temporary officers. [63] Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) admitted that the transition to local salary scales would probably be finished before the end of 1952. A reclassification had already been made, but a review of each post would be necessary. That might be achieved by the end of the current year. COMMITTEE VIII-16 [64] When the relevant section of the Budget had been written, the date of Unesco’s adherence to the Pension Scheme had not been known. In fact the Organization had joined the scheme the previous April and the work might therefore be completed earlier than indicated. It was considered that the officer responsible for Unesco’s part in the Pension Scheme might also handle the Staff Medical Benefits Scheme; be would therefore not be classified as a whole-time officer under that heading. [55] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wished to know whether the Organization and Policy Division served all Departments, and not only the Bureau of Per- sonnel; in the former event, judicious savings could be effected, especially as regarded travel, publica- tions, and the purchase of material. Mr. Guignolet recalled that in 1949 and 1950 electric IBM type- writers, each worth $400, had been purchased but had not always been rationally used; typewriters worth only $160 could have done the same work less expensively. Mr. Guignolet sought an assurance that the Division's responsibilities were to the Organi- zation as a whole, so that savings could be made in the future. [66] Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) agreed that the functions of the Organizations and Methods Officer were most important. He was, of course, available to any unit of the Organization which might wish to consult him. Results, however, could be obtained only by the closest co-operation between heads of Depart- ments and that officer. [57] After further discussion, it was agreed that the Committee should meet again at 3 p.m. and that the CHAIRMAN should endeavour to have the sub- mission of the Committee's Report to the General Conference postponed until Monday, 25 June. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
7111-7 BUDGET COMM IT TRE SEVENTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 19 June 1951, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Miss CaroLaise (United States of America) Programme of Work. [1] The CHAIRMAN said that, having finished consideration of the actual Budget Estimates, the Committee had various general items to discuss: (a) publications. policy; (b) the various tables annexed to the Budget Estimates; (c) the further information supplied by the Secretariat in response to requests from the Committee, and (d) other questions, ‘such as the budget for Fundamental Education Centres and Regional Offices, and the administration of the Technical Assistance Budget. The substance of the latter question was not within the competence of the Committee, but it was impor- tant to note that Technical Assistance funds existed in relation to certain of Unesco’s programme projects. PUBLICATIONS POLICY. [2] The CHAIRMAN indicated that the relevant documents included: document 6C/PRG/16—Report by the Director-General on the Organization’s activities and general policy in the field of publi- cations; document 6C/PRG/16 Add. 1General policy of Unesco in the field of publications (Report by the Executive Board); document 6C/PRG/16 Add. IIGeneral policy of the Organization as regards publications; and document 5C/5 (II), Tables IV, VI and X annexedto the Budget Estimates. [3] The Chairman felt it would be useful for the Committee to know the total cost of publications, including fees to authors, as well as the more general amounts for printing, etc. The Committee's task was to indicate how the recommendations contained in the report of the Executive Board could best be implemented, and whether in so doing it would be possible to reduce the tempo of work, or otherwise effect economies. She noted that the amount pro- posed for fees in connexion with publications was only $108,852, so that it appeared that the main burden of authorship fell on the Secretariat. [4] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) felt that the Committee could see, from the various speeches, the anxiety awakened by the current budget figures for publi- cation costs. One of the appropriations alone exceeded $500,000, and the representative of Cuba, recalling the statements of the United States dele- gation, wondered whether, in the interests of economy, it would not be in order to study the activities of the different services more closely. In his opinion, the publications question needed to be thoroughly looked into. [6] To that end he recommended that the Secre- tariat should assemble all data necessary to determine the possibility of carrying out the work of publication in all its aspects, more economically, by the creation of a Unesco printing department having its own staff and plant. [6] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) thought it would be advisable to make a detailed study of the proposal, with the aid of Secretariat staff specializing in budgetary matters and in organization and methods. The first step towards the expansion of the existing internal printing service would doubtless be the creation of a laboratory for photographic reduction processing. If that experiment proved successful, Unesco might consider printing certain documents which were at the moment entrusted to outside firms. The question of an independent printing-press raised many complex problems. A firmof printers could not usually afford to work for one publishing house only, nor was it always able to meet all the publishers’ orders, which might be too large, too urgent or require the use of different technical methods. [7] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) called attention to the fiscal advantages which a Unesco printing department would have over a private printing office, and which would naturally affect costs. Exemption from taxes and fees should be a very important factor. Mr. EL DIWANY(Egypt) thought the proposal worthy of study. Such a printing-press might deal with orders for Member States; that might give a satisfactory answer to Mr. Delavenay’s concern over the fluctuating volume of work. [8] [9] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) also thought the Cubandelegate’s suggestion interesting, but pointed out that a printing-press could not always work at full capacity and that it was sometimes unable to cope with a large amount of urgent work. The question should be carefully studied in consultation with a printer. Some government departments did their own regular printing but often called upon outside firms for other work. In fact, it was essen: ° ° A c o TnH T N . T S T N S S S N , A n . о :
1       BUN GET tial to start a printing-press with a capacity that was neither too large nor too small. [10] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) emphasized that the proposal was one to be studied by experts. He thought it too early to begin a discussion of the substance of the matter as the representative of France had done. Everyone agreed that it was necessary to review the question of costs, and the solution might lie in the establishment of a Unesco printing department. The question, in any case, deserved consideration, and any comment would be premature until the experts, with all the data before them, had decided whether or not the proposal was good. [11] Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought that the Cuban delegate’s suggestions deserved careful examination, in consultation with specialists. If Unesco were to possess a printing department, however, it would need a complete plant, because of the very high quality of work necessary in some publications. Heavy expenditure might be involved in satisfying that condition. Besides, the possession of a printing- press might encourage Unesco to increase the number of its publications in order to keep up the level of activity in the service. That might be a further source of expenditure, In Mr. Raadi’s opinion, publications were not an end in themselves; they formed part of the activities of the various Depart- ments in Unesco. It might be wise to reduce the number of publications allowed to the various Departments, which would be more likely to result in economies. [12] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) saw a numberof assump- tions in the arguments of the representatives of Iran and France and did not wish to enter into the field of supposition. The matter should be thoroughly studied and, once the results were known, it would be possible to discuss whether the suggestions could be carried out. [13] The CHAIRMAN felt that the suggestion of the Cuban delegate should be noted in the Committee's report and recommended for further study. In her own view, the Committee should ensure that the excellent criteria contained in the report of the Executive Board, with regard to the planning of publications before actual production and distribu- tion, were adopted for future use. A suggestion might be made to the Programme Commission that any resolution involving a publication should be adopted only in the light of the criteria proposed by the Executive Board. Such action might lead to an overall reduction in publication costs in 1952, although the main object was to improve the quality of publications. [14] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) presumed س0 7111-7 that the Chairman meant there should be a central overriding authority on publications within the Secre- tariat, and he would agree with that view. His delegation had noted the preponderance of small publications and pamphlets, and felt that such a central authority would be able to co-ordinate and amalgamate those with existing bulletins, thereby effecting economies. It was really a question of a central publications committee to determine the method of publishing material supplied by the programme Departments. [15] Mr. GUIGNOLET(France) thoroughly approved of Mr. Thompson's idea. The amalgamation of some small publications with the Courier, for instance, would give that paper added interest and increaseits sales. Apart from that, as it was proposed to print a largerissue of the Courier, it would be advisable to examine ways of ensuring its success, and in that respect Mr. Thompson's suggestion deserved to be borne in mind. [16] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) said that, as would be seen from its report, the Executive Board was also concerned at the number and length of publications. A Publi- cations Committee did, in fact, exist within the Secretariat; but consideration should be given to the manner in which reports on publications would be submitted in the future if the recommendations contained in the Executive Board’s report were adopted. [17] The CHAIRMAN agreed with the proposal of the United Kingdom delegate, which had been sup- ported by the delegate of France. With regard to the point raised by Sir Ronald Adam, she said that the Budget Committee had been requested to include a recommendation on that specific point in its report. She would propose a slight adjustment in the method of presenting the Budget Estimates in future years. Instead of having publications costs distributed throughout the various programme departments, they should be amalgamated into one appropriation in Part IV of the Budget. [18] The Chairman further noted that almost all the publications listed in Table X were issued only in the working languages of the Organization. Since much of Unesco’s programme was carried on in countries where the working languages were not spoken, she felt that the Publications Working Capi- tal Fund, from which funds could be drawn for the printing of successful publications in additional languages, should be put to greater use. She realized that funds taken from that source should be used for publications for which a sale of 25 per cent was guaran- teed, but the fact that only $7,000 out of a possible total of $25,000 had so far been used raised doubts as to the success—i.e. the value and quality—of Unesco publications to date. If no greater use could    VIII-17 воет be made of the Fund, the desirability of its mainte- nance would have to be discussed. [19] The Chairman asked Mr. Delavenay to com- ment on the various remarks and suggestions made. [20] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) out- lined the character of the Publications Committee which already existed within the Secretariat. It was composed of himself and Mr. Delavenay, who, with the assistance of Mr. Hodson, studied all proposals for publications, calling in Department Directors and their assistants whenever necessary. The list of publications contained in Table X was established after thorough consultation within the Secretariat and with the Executive Board. He pointed out that the Chairman’s assumption that adoption of the planning criteria recommended in the Executive Beard’s report would result in economies in 1952 was not necessarily correct; it was, in fact, unlikely to do so, in view of the careful survey already carried out. [21] Mr. Taylor felt that the remarks of the United Kingdom delegate with regard to the amalgamation of small publications and pamphlets with regular bulletins were of value, and promised that they would be taken into consideration by the Publications Com- mittee. [22] Mr. Taylor assured the Committee that the criteria proposed by the Executive Board would become operative in the normal course of publications planning, at all levels of discussion, for future years. [23] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service), referring’ to the Chairman's proposal for a central fund for publications, pointed out that that was a matter for consideration by the budget and organizational authorities. His Service would have no objection to administering such a central fund. It should, however, be made clear that it would have no effect on the basis upon which the estimates were now made, and there would be the same discrepancies between the costs calculated at the time the estimates were made, and the costs a year or eighteen months later, when the actual printing took place. [24] Mr. Delavenay pointed out that the small run of some editions was deliberate. In order to keep the programme costs of the various Departments as low as possible, the first edition was almost always small. If the publication proved a success, further editions would be ordered, with the assistance of the Publications Fund. [25] Mr. Delavenay agreed that the Publications Working Capital Fund had been used sparingly in
1950, but use of the Fund would increase with the tempo of work. Time was required to establish sales channels and to build up the sales business of the Organization. It could already be seen that progress was being made—the Fund had been used for several reprints in 1951 to the extent of $18,200 and that would continue increasingly. COMMITTEE [26] With regard to publication in languages other than the main working languages of the Organization, far more extensive use would be made of Spanish in 1951 and 1952; the Secretariat had already indicated the probable necessity for extra staff in the Spanish Translation Service. In addition, develop- ments were taking place in the matter of publi- cation in Arabic. As for other languages, the Secre- tariat felt that the real problem was to stimulate National Commissions to arrange for translation and publication in national languages at their own cost, or at the cost of a local publisher, with Unesco contributing some measure of assistance from the Publications Working Capital Fund by the purchase of a limited number of copies. [27] Mr. Delavenay emphasized that the develop- ment of the sales promotion programme would lead to the production of larger first editions, which would be cheaper than the current small editions. [28] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) felt that the proposal to centralize all publication funds in one appropria- tion raised the whole question of the form of presentation of the Budget: should it be arranged, as at the moment, by projects, or by objects of expen- diture. The General Conference of Unesco, and the General Assembly of the United Nations had pronounced in favour of the existing system, whereas the Chairman’s proposal would require presentation by objects of expenditure. Mr. Hodson thought that the Committee’s aim could be attained by recom- mending that all resolutions involving publications should be subject to the planning criteria outlined in the report of the Executive Board. [29] Mr. MOORE (Australia) felt that all members were agreed upon the necessity for the observance of planning criteria before actual publication, but the Deputy Director-General had indicated that the adoption of those criteria would represent merely formal approval of current policy. The task of the Budget Committee wasto formulate new proposals for improving the quality, and if possible, reducing the cost of Unesco publications. He felt that the entire problem should be linked to the total amount available for publications, since the possible pro- gramme of work was unlimited, and that the General Conference should guide the Secretariat in estab- lishing priorities within the budget ceiling. [30] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) agreed with that view. While he understood Mr. Hodson’s point with regard to the form of presentation of the budget, he could not agree with his solution. Under the existing system, the programme Departments had their own publication funds. In attempting to reduce expenditure to a bare minimum, they tended to produce the numerous small pamphlets to which he had referred. He felt that a central fund for
603 BUDGET publications would really be a wiser solution. The Publications Committee could then decide on the best use of those funds, making a fair distribution between programme Departments, and deciding where small pamphlets could be incorporated in existing bulletins. [81] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) em- phasized that the majority of Member States had insisted upon presentation of the budget by projects. It had also been said that Member States were unwilling to spend further sums on publications. He felt that the real point was that Member States were unwilling to increase their contributions to Unesco as a whole. Furthermore, it was unwise to start by fixing a ceiling for publications expenditure; publications were printed only as part of a particular programme project, so that their size and number depended upon the size of the programme. [32] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) agreed that the production of publications was dependent upon the provisions of programme resolutions. He only suggested, as a means to greater efficiency, that they should be budgeted as a separate item. [33] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) supported centralization, since by definition it was more economical. But the question of how the fund was to operate, and whether there was to be a ceiling figure were matters which did not fall within the purview of the Committee, which had merely to recommend the most economical solution. He agreed with the Deputy Director-General that it would prejudice the carrying-out of the programme to go further than that. [34] The CHAIRMAN agreed. It was true that, if the funds for publications were withdrawn from the Departments and placed in a central pool, they could then be used only for publications and would no longer be available within the departmental budgets for transfer to another item in the pro- gramme in case of necessity. That would result in less flexibility in the budgets of the programme Departments. She felt that the matter required further thought and discussion, and suggested that the Committee should merely indicate in its initial report that, if it were agreed to centralize funds for publications, general savings would result, but that that course would require special examination by the Programme Commission, in view of its effect on the budgets of the various Departments. [35] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director - General) pointed out that the discussion had started on the question of the limitations of the existing publications programme. It had then turned to the suggestion of “freezing” parts of the budget by objects of expen- diture. That was a serious matter, since the Budget COMMITTEE 7111-7 Estimates had been drawn up well in advance of the period covered, and past experience showed that a certain amount of flexibility was essential. The proposal presumed a knowledge of future conditions, which did not exist. [36] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, as a matter of fact, the budget contained some items calculated by object of expenditure, e.g. the Common Service Costs. The proposal in question was merely to add publications to that category. It was not proposed to alter the form of other parts of the budget. Nor was the intention completely to freeze certain funds and abolish flexibility. She presumed that transfers would still be possible between the appropriation for publications and other parts of the budget. [37] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) agreed with the Chairman that the centralization of publications policy might interfere with flexibility in carrying out the publications programme. At the same time, a policy of concentration in the case of certain small publications in favour of the larger ones (for example, the Courier) did indeed seem advisable, and might lead to appreciable savings in paper, distribution costs, etc. [88] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) considered the proposal made by the representative of the United Kingdom highly interesting. If he had not misunderstood, it called for the setting up of a kind of clearing house, which would have under its control not only the funds to be used for publishing but also the choice of the material to be printed. In that way, it would be possible to go thoroughly into the problem and see in detail just what expenditure was necessary, and what unnecessary. [39] The CHAIRMANclarified the point at issue. The proposal was to centralize the control of publi- cations funds, and not publications activities. [40] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that, in any case, the comments of the Deputy Director-General should be taken into consideration, and that, he, personally, regarded centralization as a first step towards a solution of the problem and certainly not as an attempt to do away with the existing system. The representative of Cuba could not endorse any measure designed to diminish the authority and prerogatives of the Director-General. What was needed was a first step in the direction of economy without destroying the programme or jeopardizing its application. [41] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) felt that a statement regarding the existing procedure for centralized control of publications would be useful. Most delegates knew that the Organization had a system        VIH-17 BUDGET whereby six-monthly work plans were prepared by Departments for review by the Director-General. Those work plans included details of proposed publi- cations. After review by the Director-General, the items relating to publications were studied in detail and for application of the necessary criteria by the Documents and Publications Service in consultation with the Department concerned. Any problems or difficulties were then referred to the Publications Committee. [42] Mr. Hodson then drewattention to item 1.24 in document 6C/PRG/16 Addendum I (Report by the Executive Board). That particular criterion stated: To decide whether a publication is one of the most effective means of attaining the end in view, and whether its particular effect could not more easily be achieved by other methods, such as radio, press, film, exhibitions, microfilms, or duplicated documents. [43] The Director-General should have authority to apply that criterion. If the funds for publications were centralized, any transfer required in the appli- cation of that criterion would have to be authorized by the Executive Board. Since the Board met only two or three times a years, the process would be extremely slow. [44] The CHAIRMAN still did not feel that the centralization of funds would change the existing position materially, except insofar as programme Departments would be unable to use publications funds for other purposes without the Executive Board’s approval. [45] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that the conclusion emerging from the discussion was that it would be extremely difficult to alter the existing system without paralysing its operation, unless the matter were examined from an entirely different angle. For that reason, the representative of Cuba had proposed a complete re-examination of the question, based on the establishment of a printing department in Unesco. [46] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) pointed out that the Committee was not seeking to revise the entire budgetary system of the Organization. It was merely noting one case where a total appropriation for the item appeared more desirable than separate provision in the budget of each programme Depart- ment. Anotheritem which might possibly fall within that category was travel, butthat point was not being considered at the moment. He agreed with the Chairman’s summing up of the effect which the action contemplated would have, but did not feel it was undesirable to limit the freedom of programme Departments in that respect. The authority of the Executive Board should be required if sums voted COMMITTEE 604 by the General Conference for publications were to be used for other purposes. [47] The CHAIRMAN summed up the choice before the Committee: (i) to take an immediate vote on whether or not to include in the report a recommen- dation to the effect that centralization of publi- cations funds would lead to eventual economy and facilitate the implementation of the Executive Board's report; or (ii) to defer further discussion and appoint a small committee to study the details of the question and report back to a later meeting of the Budget Committee. [48] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) added that, in the latter case, delegates would also be able to consult with their delegations. [49] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) said that it was not so much the freedom of Department Directors which would be limited, as that of the Director-General himself in the implementation of the programme according to the principles he thought best. Department Directors had no right to dispose of available funds before approval of their work plans by the Director-General. [50] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) did not feel that great limitations would be imposed upon the Director-General by the proposed action, since a certain flexibility would remain. In any case, the alternative fields for the use of publications funds were limited to those mentioned in item 1.24 of the Executive Board’s report. Whether or not the Com- mittee decided to make a firm recommendation on the question, he felt it should note that savings could be effected by the suppression, or integration in regular bulletins, of some of the smaller publications. [51] The CHAIRMAN agreed with that view. She emphasized that there was no question of a lack of confidence in the Director-General, but that, on the contrary, it was desirable for him to have some guidance on the way in which Member States felt a particular programme should be implemented. She felt. however, that the points raised by the Deputy Director-General should be given careful consider- ation, and discussed fully at a later meeting. [62] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that, in Table X [document 6C/5 (II), page 310] the estimated run of the Guide or Handbook for the General Conference was 3,500 copies. Information recently supplied by the Secretariat showed that the issue would consist of only 1,900 copies. Mr. Gui: gnolet therefore asked whether there was not good reason to alter the corresponding budget estimate and make any other necessary corrections of the same kind in Table X. NS     pal ari Bu aft
5 in ext the ma Sui Un] pag [55 wh} org} (Co be [56 was [57] for Cha resp take
605 BUDGET [53] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that that particular estimate was being revised. The error had arisen through a change in the estimates of the Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services after the Budget Estimates had gone to print. [64] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) pointed out that the reduction in the financial provision would be slight, since the expensive part of any publication was its composition, the size of the run, within such narrow limits, making relatively little financial difference. Summary by Objects of Expenditure and Major Units of Organization (Table IV) [document 6C/5 (II), pages 292 and 293]. [55] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wished to know why contracts with international non-governmental organizations appeared in section 7 of Chapter VI (Common Services), when they might more logically be shown in Chapter IV (Grants and Subventions). [66] The alteration suggested by Mr. GUIGNOLET was approved. [67] Mr. MOORE (Australia) queried the amounts for Representation Allowances and Hospitality under Chapters I and II of the Table, $22,650 and $27,350 respectively. He asked whether the Secretariat had taken full account of the remarks made on the point by the United Nations Expert Committee on Salary, Allowance and Leave Systems. [58] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) confirmed that the Secretariat had complied with the recommendations of the report mentioned. They required that, with the exception of the representation allowances paid to the Director-General, the Deputy Director-General and Directors of Departments, all hospitality payments should be administered on a voucher system. That was done in Unesco. Comparison of 1950 Actual Obligations, 1951 Estimated Obligations, and 1952 Estimates by Lines of the 1952 Appropriation Table (Table V) (pages 294 et seq.). [69] No comment. Comparison of 1950 Actual Obligations, 1951 Estimated Obligations, and 1951 Estimates by Object of Expenditure (Table VI) (pages 298-300). [60] The CHAIRMAN underlined the large increase in Travel on Official Business. It amounted to
100 per cent which, even though it included the travel of the Secretariat to Montevideo, was, she felt, high, especially since the travel of delegates to con- ferences and meetings did not come under that heading. COMMITTEE 7111-7 [61] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked, in regard to Chapter II (Table VI)—Travel (page 298), whether the estimated increase for 1952 was due to the fact that the Heads of Departments were allowing for the travel of extra officials to Montevideo, as they had done in the case of the Florence Conference. [62] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that, if the provision for travel of the Secretariat to Monte- video —$414,000—was deleted, the remaining total of $428,000 did not show a very large increase over
1951. A slightly higher provision for 1952 was, in any case, necessitated by the world-wide increase in travel rates. [63] Mr. MOORE (Australia) once more drew attention to the increase of 21 per cent for subven- tions. He was obliged to point out that his delegation was very much in favour of stabilizing that item once and forall. [64] The CHAIRMAN said that view would be noted in the Committee's report. Most delegates would, she thought, agree with Mr. Moore in the matter. An increase in subventions should occur only when a new grant was proposed. Comparison of Number of Established Posts for
1950, 1951 and 1952 by Major Units of Organi- zation (Table VII) (page 301). No comment.[65] List of Proposed Conferences and Meetings for 1952 (Table VIII) (pages 302 et seq.). [66] Mr. MOORE (Australia) noted the large number of meetings, 42 out of a total of 71, sche- duled to last five days or less. In view of the high overhead costs of such meetings, he felt that, if the required results could be obtained by a two or three-day meeting, they could equally well be obtained by correspondence, [67] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) would have liked to know the approximate dates of meetings (that was to say, the approximate month) at least of those arranged long in advance. He hoped that those particulars would figure in future lists of proposed conferences and meetings. [68] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Com- mittee’s report should contain a remark to the effect that the number of meetings in 1952 appeared excessive, and that efforts should be made to keep them at a strict minimum. [69] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) felt the Committee should note also that the field work done   VIII-18 BUDGET by travelling consultants and members of the Secre- tariat in gathering material for reports often resembled the type of work done by expert com- mittees. Accordingly, the provisions for fees, for the travel of the Secretariat, and for meetings, should not all increase at the same time. [70] The CHAIRMAN thought that the Budget Committee might suggest that the rising costs of the three items required close examination of work plans by the Programme Commission, in order to see whether better co-ordination of activities was possible. [71] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the travel of a consultant on a fee basis did not neces- sarily duplicate the functions of an expert committee, but more usually contributed to the work of that committee. The field consultant was often engaged to prepare specialized documents for the consider- ation of the expert committee. [72] The CHAIRMAN thought that observation was fair, but pointed out that the Budget Com- mittee was still concerned at the increasingly large programme being undertaken by the Secretariat and was obliged to maintain its decision to note that fact in its reports. List of Proposed Subventions for 1952 (Table IX) (pages 307-309). [78] No further comment. COMMITTEE 606 Standard Budget Summary for the United Nations and Specialized Agencies—Unesco (Table XI) (pages 317 et seq.). [74] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that, in the Consultative Committee on Administrative Questions, considerable discussion had taken place on the form of presentation of the budgets of Specialized Agencies to the United Nations. Some modifications of the existing form had been proposed and those would appear in the following year's presentation. [75] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked, in regard to Annex 1 of Table XI (page 321), whether the number of posts shown referred to international or local staff. [76] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that only inter- national staff were shown in that table, and he recalled that information on the establishment figures for local staff had already been supplied by the Secretariat in a separate document. [77] As consideration of all the information contained in the Budget Estimates had been completed, the CHAIRMAN presented the sup- plementary information prepared by the Secretariat in response to requests from the Committee. [78] There information. was no further discussion on that The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m. EIGHTEENTH MEETING Thursday, 21 June 1951, at 8 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Approval of Preliminary Report of the Budget Committee on the Budget Estimates for the Financial Year 1952, as presented in Document
6C/5 (II) (document 6C/BUD/1). [1] The Committee considered its Preliminary Re- port to the General Conference, prepared by the Rapporteur, Mr. Guignolet, with the assistance of the Drafting Committee. [2] It was agreed that the French version of the Report should be the official text. [3] The Committee examined the Report paragraph by paragraph, and adopted a certain number of amendments. [4] With the above-méntioned amendments, Report was approved. [5] On behalf of the Committee, the CHAIRMAN thanked the Rapporteur and the Drafting Committee. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.