4 S I , J O I N I T . |S R . T S i E S , S e t | | | | | | | | ( CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION FIRST MEETING Friday, 22 June 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WaILLET (Belgium) Opening of the Session. [1] The CHAIRMANstressed that the Commission had a particularly full agenda, and called upon dele- gates to proceed immediately to the election of its Officers. Election of the Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteur. [2] The CHAIRMAN reminded members that the Nominations Committee had suggested Israel and Peru for the offices of Vice-Chairmen, and Sweden for the office of Rapporteur. [3] The Chairman asked the Commission to decide on those proposals. [4] Mohamed Sadek GOHAR Pasha (Egypt) felt that, in view of the unsettled situation in the Middle East, it would be wise to avoid any action which might lead to bad feeling. He would, therefore, oppose the election of Israel as Vice-Chairman of the Commission. a That view was supported by Mr. AL YASSIN raq). [6] The CHAIRMAN called on the Commission to vote. The delegate of Israel was elected Vice-Chair- man of the Commission by 23 votes to 3; the dele- gate of Peru was unanimously elected Vice-Chair- man, and the delegate of Sweden was unanimously elected Rapporteur. Adoption of the Agenda. [7] The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the agenda had been slightly modified, at the request of the General Committee of the General Conference and owing to the absence of any outside auditor. He suggested that the Commission should deal with the first items ofits agenda in the following order: 9.4.2,
9.4.3, 9.4.2.1, 9.4.6, 9.4.4, 9.4.5, 9.4.7, 9.4.1; he further suggested the addition, after item 9.4.2.1, of an additional item: Methods of financing the budget for 1952. [8] The agenda suggested by the Chairman was adopted. Scale of Contributions of Member States in
1952—Item 9.4.2 of the Agenda (document
6C/ADM/3). [9] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller), present- ing document 6C/ADM/3, pointed out that the Unesco scale of contributions had been related to that in force in the United Nations, since uniformity was desirable and, furthermore, since the United Nations possessed the necessary machinery for cal- culating such a scale. The Director-General felt that the time had not yet come to fix a final scale, partly because membership of the Organization might still increase, and partly because the next session of the United Nations Assembly might change the current system. The Administrative Commission was, there- fore, requested to adopt a formula upon which the scale of contributions for 1952 would be based. The Director-General’s proposal remained basically the same as in previous years, taking into account the assessments of new Member States. Those States which had just been admitted would naturally pay a percentage of their assessment for 1951. In for- mulating its proposals, the Commission would have to consider various points, including the following:
(1) The amount to be contributed by the United States of America, since that country was at the moment paying a percentage above the ceiling of one-third fixed by the General Conference at its Fifth Session.
2) The continuation or otherwise of the special    VII-1 rates in force for certain countries, namely Austria and Hungary.
(3) Limitation of the per capita contribution of any country.
(4) The position of Member States which were not Members of the United Nations.
(5) Special requests for reduction of contri- butions. [10] The Director-General's suggestions on those questions would be found in the document already mentioned, the annexes to which contained supple- mentary information. [11] Mr. PRESTON (United States of America) moved adoption of the resolution on page 5 of docu- ment 6C/ADM/3, with the insertion of the amount of 33.33 per cent in paragraph 3. He recalled that, at its Fifth Session, the General Conference had adopted a resolution stating that, as a matter of principle, no one Member State should, in normal times, contribute more than one-third of Unesco's total budget, and further that, as world conditions permitted, or as new MemberStates were admitted, the General Conference should take steps to reduce the United States” contribution. His delegation felt that that statement was a manifestation of Unesco's determination to be a completely universal organi- zation, and that no international organization should be financed to too large a degree by any one Member State. His delegation appreciated the fact that its percentage of contribution had been gradually reduced towards the level of 33 per cent. [12] The financial benefit which all Member States ought to have reaped from the admission of new Members last year, had been withheld in order to permit the American contribution to be reduced to
35 per cent. His delegation appreciated that action. As, however, the additional five new Member States would together be paying a contribution of 5.37 per cent in 1952, M. Preston thought it was an opportune moment to make the final reduction of 1.66 per cent to bring the United States” contribution to the ceiling level of 33.33 per cent. That would still leave a margin for other countries to benefit financially from the admission of new Member States. [13] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) regretted that the proposed resolution made no mention of the United Nations resolution with regard to a per capita limi- tation of contributions, which was important to his own and other delegations whose per capita contri- bution was high. Annex I to document 6C/ADM/3 indicated the per capita contribution of all Member States, and showed, in particular, those countries whose per capita payment was higher than that of the Member State paying the highest contribution, namely the United States of America. Mr. Hockin did not question the decision, on a matter of prin- ciple, that no country should pay more than one- third of the total budget, but appealed to the sense ITR A TI VEا‏ COMMISSION of justice of the Commission. Canada had a lower standard of living than its close neighbour, the United States of America, and yet its per capita (per thou- sand) contribution to Unesco was U.S. $22.63, as compared with $19.23 in the United States. The United Nations had considered the problem and, as far back as 1948, had accepted the principle of limit- ed contributions on a per capita basis. Because of the anomaly to which Mr. Hockin had drawn atten- tion the Governments of the Member States cone cerned were often embarrassed in their national Parliaments, and it was time Unesco also took steps to remedy the situation. That was especially true since the United States had benefited from reductions made possible in previous years by the admission of new Members. The financial benefit occasioned in the current year by the admission of five new Members should be used to make a general reduction of all assessments. [14] Mr. THEDIN (Sweden) associated himself fully with the Canadian representative's remarks. The per thousand per capita contribution of his country, $24.76, was even higher than that of Canada. [15] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) agreed with the principle that no one country should contribute more than 33.33 per cent of the total budget. He felt bound, however, to support the Canadian delegate’s view, that contributions should be limited on a per capita basis. The per capita (per thousand) payment of his country was $24.55. [16] Mr. MOORE (Australia) said that, although his country was amongst those making a high per capita contribution ($22.57), he could not agree with the views expressed. His delegation felt that the world situation was not yet sufficiently normal to justity either a reduction of the United States’ contribution or the introduction of a per capita limitation to contributions. [17] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) said that he had lis- tened with close attention to the arguments put forward by certain delegates to prove that their coun- tries’ contributions to Unesco were too high. He emphasised that, but for the substantial contribution made by the United States of America, it would have been impossible for the Organization to develop normally in its first few years. However, the French delegation continued to hold that, once the world financial situation had returned to normal, it would be advisable to review the scale of contributions of Member States, and particularly that of the United States of America. But that could only be done by bearing in mind two considerations: justice, and the need for ensuring Unesco’s financial equilibrium. The proposal that had been made to the Commission was designed to establish a more balanced scale, with due regard to national incomes. A system of
446       S T . P E S U N . Y P U T S E R E . V E E E E T E E C E E — , У У ‘и ”
447 ADMINISTRATIVE Commission VII-1 per capita contributions did not necessarily produce fair results. It was better to take as a basis the percentage of each taxpayer's personal income paid in respect of the Unesco budget. The French de- legation had requested its experts to calculate those percentages, and the following results had been obtained: Canada, $2.901 per $1,000 of personal income; France, $3.544 per $1,000; Sweden, $4.254 per $1,000; New Zealand, $3.317 per $1,000; United States of America, $1.323 per $1,000. Without wishing to reject the views of the United States de- legation, it was to be noted that that country, whose contribution to Unesco was he highest, was also the country whose inhabitants had, individually, to bear the least burden in respect of Unesco's budget. [18] Since Unesco's budget had to be kept stable, Mr. Seydoux thought it necessary to investigate the financial repercussions of the requests just made to the Commission. Furthermore, an attempt should be made to see that the contributions of new Mem- ber States compensated for the possible reductions, bearing in mind the new expenses mentioned by the Director-General and the large amount of contri- butions in arrears. [19] Mr. PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela) expressed his agreement with the views of the French delegate and accordingly considered it advisable first to study the budgetary implications of the reductions requested. [20] The representative of Venezuela thought it would be extremely difficult for the Government of Venezuela to accept the increased contribution of
0.34 per cent for his country given in the compara- tive table (document 6C/ADM/3, Annex III), and recalled that, in the previous year, the contribution had been increased to a degree that the Government of Venezuela deemed excessive. For those reasons he respectfully asked the Commission to consider the general implications of the reductions requested, as suggested by the representative of France, so that each delegation could vote with a full knowledge of the facts. [21] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom) said that his delegation found the terms of the proposed reso- lution generally acceptable, but that the points raised by other delegations deserved consideration. In view of the complexity of the problem and the need to consider each case in its merits, he moved the establishment of a working party to make a detailed study of the points raised and report to the Com- mission. [22] The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate Was supported by the delegates of India, Australia and France, and adopted by the Commission. [23] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that only two aspects of the question of the scale of contributions had been considered, and suggested that the work- В ing party should consider the question as a whole. For the membership of the working party, he pro- posed the representatives of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, France, Canada, Australia, Venezuela and Egypt. [24] Mr. VEDOVATO (Italy) said that the wor- king party should also examine the position of States not Members of the United Nations, and asked that the views of those States should be taken into account. [25] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the reprensenta- tive of Italy should be included among the mem- bers of the working party. [26] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) was inclined to think that the composition of the working party might influence the decisions it would take on the prob- lems before it. Alongside the advocates of reduced contributions and those of the status quo, there should be delegates of States with an entirely neutral attitude on the question. In that way the member- ship of the working party would be more balanced, and countries desiring a reduction in their contri- butions would not be in a majority. [27] -Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) suggested that at least two of the Latin American countries should be represented, and for that purpose requested that the working party should include the delegate of Cuba in addition to the delegate of Venezuela. [28] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) sympathized with the views expressed by the delegates of France and Mexico, but felt that the membership of the working party should be kept small if it were to be at all effective. He wassure that all members of the work- ing party would give a balanced judgment, taking into account the interests of the Organization as well as those of their own delegations. He proposed adoption of the list of member suggested by the Chairman. [29] The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to vote on the establishment of a working party con- sisting of the delegates of the countries he had pre- viously mentioned. [30] Mr. SEYDOUX (France), on a point of pro- cedure, suggested that the Commission should first vote on the Mexican delegate's proposal that, in effect, a working party of nine members should be set up, since it was the suggestion furthest from the Chairman’s original proposal. [31] The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Seydoux's suggestion and put the Mexican delegate's proposal to the vote. [32] That proposal was approved unanimously.       = = A S E E D i s - T E E E E     VII-1 [33] At the Chairman’s suggestion, the Commis- sion also decided to appoint Mr. Hockin (Canada) Chairman of the working party, and requested the working party to meet at 2.30 p.m. so that it could present its report to the Commission at 4.30 p.m. [34] Mr. OU TSUIN-CHEN (China) asked whether Member States who were not members of the work- ing party would have the right to attend in order to present their special cases. [35] The CHAIRMAN thought that, if all members of the Commission were authorized to take part in the proceedings of the working party, it would lose the advantages to be derived from discussions by a small group. However, members of the Commis- sion were certainly entitled to attend the working party as observers. [36] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) emphasized that all delegations had the right to present their case before any body of the General Conference. If a country which was not a member of the working party had a special case to present, it should have the right to do so. [37] The CHAIRMAN preferred that the working party should be a small one. He asked delegates to express their views before the full Commission, either before or after the meeting of the working party, so as to avoid enlarging its membership. [38] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) agreed with the Chairman’s proposal. The working party could always decide to hear a special case if it felt that it had an important bearing on the decision to be taken. Currency of Contributions of Member States in 1952Item 9.4.3 of the Agenda (document
6C/ADM/4). [39] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained that the Secretariat’s document (6C/ADM/4) was divided into two parts, concerning (1) the currency of contributions for Member States in 1952, and (2) the currency of contributions for the new Members admitted during the current session of the General Conference. The financial regulations of the Organi- zation required a decision by the General Conference on those two points. [40] With regard to the first point, the Organi- zation had conducted a review of its “hard currency” requirements with a view to keeping them at a minimum. As indicated in the document before the Commission, it was believed possible to limit Unesco’s “hard currency” requirements in 1951 and
1952 to 34 per cent of the Budget. [41] Mr. Harper-Smith then read resolution 17.1 of the Fifth Session of the General Conference, indi-   ADMINISTRATIVE 00 71 том cating the currencies in which the respective Mem- ber States would be required to pay their contri- butions for 1951. [42] As no delegation expressed the desire to modify the list, it was unanimously agreed to main- tain the same currencies of contribution for 1952. [43] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that the Director-General had recently received a letter from the Argentine Government, requesting permis- sion to pay its contributions for 1949, 1950 and 1951 in French francs, instead of U.S. dollars. He pointed out that that was a matter for decision by the General Conference. [44] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) thought that, as it involved no serious difficulties with regard to the drawing up of the budget, the proposal of the Argen- tine representative should be accepted. [45] [46] At the Chairman’s suggestion, the Argentine proposal was accepled. Mr. BRULL (Cuba) seconded that proposal. [47] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) asked whether the Commission had any proposals to make on the question of the currency in which the new Members (Cambodia, the German Federal Republic, Japan, Laos and Viet Nam) should pay their contri: butions for the rest of 1951, and for 1952. [48] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom) moved that the choice of currency indicated in document
6C/ADM/4 should be brought to the notice of the new Members and that their choice in the matter should be accepted. [49] The proposal of the United Kingdom dele gation was seconded by the delegate of Mexico, and unanimously adopted. [50] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom) then referred to paragraph (v) of the resolution on page 3 of document 6C/ADM/4, and asked whether or not the Commission was being requested to adopt the clause in question. [61] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained that, as the Commission had proposed the mainte- nance of the currencies of contribution in force in 1951, the Organization would receive a sufficient percentage of “hard” currency—over and above its basic requirements of 34 per cent—to enable it to convert “soft-currency” deposits in the Working Capital Fund. Adoption of clause (v) of the reso- lution was, therefore, unnecessary. It was a decision of the Fifth Session of the General Conference that the Fund should be maintained in dollars. | | |
449 [62] In view of Mr. Harper-Smith’s observation, Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom) proposed that the clause should be deleted from the resolution. Consideration of the Request from the Govern- ment of Iraq for a Reduction of its Contribu- bution—Item 9.4.2.1 of the Agenda. [63] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) read a letter which had been received by the Director- General from the Government of Iraq, requesting that consideration of the reduction of its contribu- tion to Unesco should be placed on the Agenda of the General Conference. [64] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) proposed that the Iraqi Government's request should be referred to the working party. [55] That procedure was adopted. Methods of Financing the Budget for 1952— Supplementary Item of the Agenda. [56] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that the Secretariat required the opinion of the General Conference in the matter. Certain sources of income existed outside the regular Budget: SECOND АМ ООВ АЛСУ К COMMISSION VII-2
(1) The contributions of new Member States for
1951, which would result in an addition of $280,000 for the year.
(2) The miscellaneous income of the Organi- zation. It had not previously been the policy to estimate that income before the end of the financial year, but the Director-General now proposed to do so—in pursuance of the United Nations policy—and to use the money to help finance the budget for the following year.
(3) The cash surplus which it was thought would result from liquidation, within the statutory two- year period, of all 1949 obligations. That was ex- pected to total $60,000. [67] The total cash surplus available at the end of 1951 would, therefore, be $440,000. [68] In reply to Mr. SEYDOUX (France), Mr. HAR- PER-SMITH said that arrears of contribution for 1950 amounted to $964,152, [59] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) felt it would be more useful to continue the discussion of the matter after the working party had reported and a decision had been taken on the scale of contri- butions for 1952. He proposed the adjournment of the meeting to enable the working party to meet. [60] Agreed. The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m. MEETING Friday, 22 June 1951, at }.30 p.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) Scale of Contributions of Member States in
1952—Item 9.4.2 of the Agenda (continuation) (document 6C/ADM/3). Submission of the Working Party's Report. [1] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada), Chairman of the Working Party, said that the Working Party had been requested to report on the following five points: [2] (1) The amountof contribution of the United States of America in 1952. The Working Party had been able to give only à short time to that matter and had not succeeded in reaching complete agreement; it therefore requested the full Commission to discuss the question. [3] (2) Special reductions granted in the past to certain Member States. On that point too the Working Party had reached no conclusion, [4] (3) The question of per capita limitations. The Working Party had agreed to accept, as the objective of the Organization, the principle of the per capita ceiling proposed by the Canadian dele- gation. The Secretariat had accordingly proposed an amendment to paragraph 1 of the resolution on page 5 of document 6C/ADM/3; that amendment would be read at a later stage. [6] (4) Assessments on certain Member States of Unesco not Members of the United Nations, and requests for special reductions.