AD: MEN IES ВТА Е COMMISSION EIGHTH MEETING Tuesday, 3 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) . [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Director- General had been informed by the Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom that the Japanese Government had just signed Unesco’s Constitution and deposited the instrument of acceptance. The ‚Chairman welcomed Japan’s entry into the Organization and informed the representative of that State that he would in future be attending meetings as a delegate, with all the rights accompanying that status. Discussion of the Report of the Working Com- mittee on the Salary and Allowance System for Unesco Staff (document 6C/ADM/21). [2] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commission, at its current meeting, should discuss only the first part of the document, which related to documents
6C/ADM/10 (I) and 6C/ADM/10 (I) Addenda 1 and
2, since it seemed advisable to take a decision on the first part before embarking on the second, especially as the Working Committee was still waiting for some additional information from the Secretariat in connexion with the second part. [3] The Chairman drew attention to the fact that sections A, B and C in document 6C/ADM/21 pro- posed alternative solutions for the same problem; the Working Committee had not been able to reach unanimous agreement on a single solution. [4] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom), Chair- man of the Working Committee, regretted that it had been unable to present a unanimous report. That was not due to any lack of effort, for members had devoted very careful attention to the matter, frequently consulting with the Secretariat and with the Staff Association. It had, however, gradually become clear that the gap between the two groups within the Committee could not be bridged, and it had therefore been obliged to present a divided report, setting forth the position of each group. [5] The Committee had, however, reached unani- mity on certain points : firstly, on the need for some kind of local salary and allowance system; secondly, on the ancillary proposals contained in section D on page 4 of document 6C/ADM/21. [6] In conclusion, Sir Ben Thomas drew attention to the proposal of the delegations of Canada, Den- mark, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, contained in section A of the report, which represented a departure from the Director-General’s proposals in document 6C/ADM/10 (I). As stated in section B, the delegations of Mexico and Venezuela supported the Director-General’s proposals, while the position taken by the French delegation was described in section C. [7] Mr. PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela) regretted that he and the delegate of Mexico had been unable to support the four members of the Committee who had proposed solution A. He thought that staff engaged before the Florence Conference, who consisted of most of the old servants of Unesco, could claim respect for acquired rights. Conditions of em- ployment from 1946 to 1950 had been duly approved by the General Conference; it therefore seemed difficult to ask the Director-General to tell those members of the staff that the General Conference had decided to reverse its judgment, especially at a time when the cost of living in Paris was continuing to rise. To those who asserted that an employer had a right to change his conditions of employment when he considered it necessary, Mr. Parra Pérez would reply that Unesco was not an ordinary employer: it needed outstanding people and should, furthermore, maintain a reputation for looking after the interests of its staff. It might have been wiser to have introduced a local salary scale from the beginning, but Unesco could not be blamed for having at that time followed the example of all the other international organizations. [8] Mr. Parra Pérez feared that the adoption of proposal A might have regrettable effects on the morale of the staff, and that it might cause some of the best of them to leave the Organization. The bitterness of those who stayed would inevitably detract from the spirit of co-operation which should exist in the Secretariat. [9] With regard to the financial aspect of the problem, Mr. Parra Pérez pointed out that only be- tween $35,000 and $40,000 would be saved by adopting proposal A instead of that of the Director- General. He did not think that a saving of 0.5 per cent of the total budget figure justified the moral risk which the adoption of solution A would involve. [10] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) explained the proposal set forth in section A of document
6C/ADM/21, drawing attention to one or two points of fact. It was a fact that it had been unanimously    ADMINISTRATIVE agreed in Florence that there should be a local salary scale and that the latter should be related to the best prevailing local rates in Paris. It had thus been commonly accepted that the work done by the grades concerned was comparable with work done by people of the same grade employed elsewhere in Paris. It was also a fact that it had been agreed in Florence that the grades concerned had been overpaid in the past and that in the transition period, before they were transferred to a local salary scale, they should suffer some reduction in salary. The Secretariat had provided the Conference in Florence with figures showing that staff members in locally recruited grades would suffer a reduction of 20 per cent to
30 per cent, and those figures had been accepted. [11] Certain events which had taken place since the Florence session had led the Director-General to propose the replacement of the transitional measures accepted in Florence by others which would mean no reduction at all. In the first place, the United Nations, in a similar situation, had taken certain decisions which the Director-General had interpreted to mean that there should be no reduction of existing pay. In the second place, the cost of living had risen. [12] The point upon which the delegations of Canada, Denmark, the United Kingdom and the United States of America took their stand was that they did not agree with the principle, laid down by the Director-General and supported by the delegations of Mexico and Venezuela, that in no circumstances should the rates of pay of Unesco staff members be reduced, no matter what those rates had been in the past. As it had been admitted in Florence that a certain category of staff had been overpaid in the past, the Director-General’s proposal was, in the opinion of those four delegations, unreasonable, and not only unreasonable, but a wrong interpretation of the United Nations principle, which was primarily directed to the situation existing in New York. Further, the Director-General’s proposal broke faith with the delegations in Florence who had unani- mously adopted a solution and had been able to go home and tell their Governments that Unesco had faced a difficult situation and had chosen the hard way out, but the right way. It was now proposed to go back on that decision on the ground that it was a sound principle in salary administration to maintain acquired rights. That principle might be adopted in certain governmental circles, but the special conditions in Unesco differed from those in which the principle generally operated; govern- mental salaries were paid within the framework of a stable system, where there were only minor fluctua- tions, but in Unesco the Conference was faced with a situation which had been growing up over the years and had resulted in certain grades being over- paid in relation to the work which they did and in relation to work being done by similar grades in other organizations in Paris. COMMISSION [13] The four delegations mentioned, therefore, considered that the decisions taken in Florence were correct in principle; but only in principle, because they recognized that the cost of living had risen, causing inconvenience and hardship to the staff, and they did not wish to maintain harsh and unsympa- thetic transitional measures. They had therefore proposed a compromise which was generous and sympathetic to the staff; instead of a cut of 20 per cent to 30 per cent, they had suggested a maximum cut of 12 per cent. For most people that cut would be much less than 12 per cent; it appeared that the maximum cut would be 11.2 per cent in basic salary, to which dependant’s allowance would be added. [14] Finally, Mr. Thompson pointed out that, even if the suggested compromise were adopted, the rates of pay of staff members who had been employed in Unesco before the Florence Session of the Conference would still be 25 per cent or 30 per cent higher than local rates. They would therefore be earning 25 per cent or 30 per cent more than those who had been recruited since Florence. It was on account of that situation that the four delegations had agreed to limit the reduction to 12 per cent. [15] Mr. PANGILINAN (Philippines) stated that his delegation associated itself with the delegations of Mexico and Venezuela in supporting the proposals of the Director-General contained on pages 13, 14 and
15 of document 6C/ADM/10 (I). The decision taken in Florence was undoubtedly correct in principle, but it was evident that it tended to affect the morale of the personnel concerned, and it was essential for the success of Unesco that the Secretariat should be a strong and united force. [16] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) said that his dele- gation supported the proposal made by the United Kingdom and the three other delegations, because it considered that the Florence decision to introduce à local salary scale was right and just. His delegation realized that other factors had arisen since the Florence Session, but full account was taken of them in the proposal of the four delegations. The Nether- lands delegation admired the staff’s hard work and devotion to duty and thought that they should be treated with the utmost fairness, but it felt that the compromise suggested was fair, and even generous, and therefore heartily supported it. [17] Mr. ICAZA (Mexico) defended the proposal made on behalf of Mexico and Venezuela by the Venezuelan representative, drawing delegates’ atten- tion to the consequences that might arise if the Commission decided against the proposal contained in the Director-General’s report. ] Mr. Icaza said that all delegates were under an obligation to provide the Director-General with staff sufficiently well qualified to assist him in carry ing out the Programme; if they did not do so, they [18]    ADMINIS TRA TIVE could not expect satisfactory results. Moreover, the staff possessed acquired rights, and it would not be just to try to detract from them, for reasons of economy, by taking certain steps whose results would be bound ultimately to be uneconomic. [19] It should not be forgotten that it was the work of the officials of Unesco that had made the Organi- zation what it was. The Director-General’s proposal contained in document 6C/ADM/10 (I) should be adopted. [20] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) said that, as the United Kingdom delegate had pointed out, there was no doubt that salaries paid before the Fifth Session had been too high and that at that session the Confer- ence had agreed that there should be some reduction. The new local salary rates were still very generous: for example, on page 4 of document 6C/ADM/10 (I), it was shown that a Grade II secretary could earn as much as 820,000 francs a year, whereas a “Direc- teur” of a French organization, with whom Mr. Mason had talked, had been extremely glad to accept the directorship at 1,000,000 francs a year. Eight hundred and twenty thousand francs was therefore equivalent to the salary of a “Sous-Direc- teur” in the French administration. Yet, before the Florence Session, salaries had been higher still. A reduction had therefore been proposed, and some people had advanced the argument that acquired rights should be maintained. The answer was simple: an employer was entitled to change his salaries when and how he liked. [21] With regard to the argument that a reduction in salary affected the morale of the staff, he pointed out that the Organization belonged to the various Member States and that some consideration was due to the millions of taxpayers in those States who paid for it. If it were decided to maintain the fantastic salaries which were paid before the Florence Session, it would have a disastrous effect on the morale of the taxpayers in the Member States, so far as con- cerned their support for Unesco. The New Zealand delegation therefore considered that the proposals in section A of document 6C/ADM/21 adequately met the existing situation. [22] Mr. KIRPAL (India) recalled that, when the problem had been discussed in Florence, his dele- gation had expressed no strong views, which per- haps gave it some detachment at the present time. It agreed that the decision taken in Florence was right in principle and should be applied in normal circumstances, but the times were not normal. The cost of living had risen, as already stated, and to that should be added a number of other factors: (a) generally speaking, the staff recruited before
17 June 1950 included the most experienced, mature and efficient persons; (b) any discontent or loss of morale among those persons would undermine the efficiency of the Organization as a whole; COMMISSION VII-8 (e) the Director-General was the best judge of the repercussions of any salary decisions taken by the Conference on the Secretariat, and the Indian dele- gation would therefore support him, at least for a certain period of time; (d) the economy resulting under the proposals contained in section A of docu- ment 6C/ADM/21 was not large enough to make it worth while endangering the efficiency of the Organization; (e) the position of the United Nations was by no means clear orfinal and was open to different interpretations. [23] The Indian delegation therefore proposed that the Director-General’s proposals contained in docu- ment 6C/ADM/10 (I) should be accepted until the end of 1952 and that the matter should be reviewed again at the following session of the General Conference. [24] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said he wished to speak because the matter was of capital importance. Although the decisions taken at the Florence Confer- ence might have been justified at that time, they had ceased to be justified because of later developments, the first of which was the decision of the United Nations with regard to staff, and the second, the abnormal rise in the cost of living that had recently taken place. Both those developments were enough to invalidate the criterion previously adopted and the agreements reached at Florence. [25] He would remind the meeting that experience showed that, on both the moral and the material plane, capitis diminutio always produced disastrous results; and he would point out to the Commission the anomaly of asking the staff to put forth greater efforts—as the decisions reached for 1952 implied— and at the same time holding out to them, as a reward, a reduction in salary. ; [26] The representative of Cuba concluded by saying that he supported the Director-General’s proposal. [27] Replying to the various arguments put forward in support of solution A, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the Executive Board, in response to an appeal from the Staff Association, had supported the proposal that the problem should be reconsidered at the current Session of the General Conference. At the time when the Florence Session of the Confer- ence had adopted a resolution on the subject, he had stated that he would accept that decision because it had sprung from a desire, not only to effect savings, but also to ensure co-ordination with the United Nations. He had added that, if the United Nations decided to adopt measures involving a change in the salaries of locally recruited staff, the General Confer- ence would have to alter the very basis of its argu- ment; it thus followed that the Conference might have to reconsider the problem. [28] The Director-General emphasized that the obvious aim of the system adopted by the United    VII-8 Nations was not to change the salaries of staff in the lower grades; that was made particularly clear in paragraph 32 of document 6C/ADM/10 (1) (pages 10-
11), whichthe Director-General proceeded to read. [29] The Director-General pointed out that Unesco was not an ordinary employer; it was not only an organization, but a vocation and a mission on behalf of humanity. He thought it would be difficult to ask the majority of the staff in the Secretariat, who had organized their life according to the conditions offered them by Unesco, suddenly to change their way of living, just at a time when they were showing their greatest efficiency and devotion to duty. He asked the Commission to consider what the psycho- logical effect would be of decisions resulting in an increase of work forthe staff and, at the same time, a reduction of their salaries. The effect would beall the more disastrous in view of the fact that, in the interests of greater co-ordination with the United Nations, a reclassification of the international staff was being contemplated which, in a large number of cases, would result in an increase of salary. If it took such decisions, the General Conference would widen the gulf already existing between the higher and lower grades. Such a situation would be very serious in the case of a national administration; the human, moral and psychological problem was equally serious for an international administration, and the Director-General was convinced that, if care were not taken, the smooth running of the Organization would be gravely jeopardized. Although a mistake might have been made at the outset, that was no reason why the existing administration should be penalized, six years later, by having to face instability and demoralization within the Secretariat. [30] Replying to the delegate of NEW ZEALAND, the Director-General emphasized that, if the saving proposed were likely to have any real advantage for the men and women in Member States, he would not hesitate to recommend it; but that was not so. There would, in either case, be no increase, but a reduction in the budget; and the difference between proposal A and his own proposal was only $35,000. [31] The Director-General appealed to delegates to show that spirit of co-operation which was often mentioned in the different Commissions, and to enable him to maintain good morale within the Organization. [32] Mr. THEDIN (Sweden) (Rapporteur), speaking on behalf of the Swedish delegation, announced that his delegation had tried to work out a compromise be- tween the proposals contained in section A and those contained in section B of document 6C/ADM/21. His proposal wasas follows: The General Conference resolves: That in respect to transition provisions for staff in the General Service category engaged before the Florence Conference the following principle shall be implemented by the Director-General. ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION 478 The take-home pay received by such staff as of
31 December 1950 shall be reduced by 5 per cent effective of 1 January 1952. Each staff member shall be placed in the appropriate grade and step of the local salary scale [document 6C/ADM/10 (I), paragraph (15)] and shall be paid in addition to the base salary a special pensionable allowance which will bring the take-home pay to a figure 5 per cent less than that of the take-home pay received on 31 December 1950. Incremental progress- ion should be maintained without regard to the special pensionable allowance. In the event of the local scale being increased on the basis of best prevailing rates, as applied to staff engaged after the Florence Conference, to an extent that would provide a higher take-home pay than the above procedure for staff engaged before the Florence Conference, the affected staff should be transferred to the revised local scale. [34] The Rapporteur added that, if the resolution were approved in principle, details could be added, if necessary, by the Working Committee. The Swedish delegation agreed with the French de- legation’s view that the salary system should be approved by as large a majority of delegations as possible, and that the solution of the problem should be sought at a meeting of the full Administrative Commission. [35] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) observed that the Director-General had aptly said that an error had been committed in the initial stages of the Organization's existence in fixing the salaries too high, and that staff members had adopted a standard of living which those salaries led them to hope that they could maintain; that was why the Florence Conference had arranged for some compensation. But there was no need to go to unreasonable lengths in paying com- pensation. The Director-General had also said that he would not obtain such efficient work from the staff if their salaries were reduced, and had spoken of Unesco as a mission and a vocation. Mr. Mason sympathized with the Director-General’s problems, but pointed out that he was an experienced adminis- trator, surrounded by assistants who were also experienced administrators, and Mr. Mason was sure that he could solve any difficulties which arose, as he had solved many others in the past. [36] With regard to the question of budgetary economies mentioned by the Director-General, Mr. Mason pointed out that it was not a question of reducing taxation in Member States, but of influencing taxpayers’ willingness to pay taxes by convincing them that Unesco did not waste money. He felt very strongly that if those large salaries were maintained, it would be difficult to convince people in the various countries that Unesco was not wasting their money. [37] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said he had been wondering, since the Florence Conference, whether “some delegations had not an exaggerated
479 idea of the size of the salaries paid to locally recruited staff. He personally had not found that there was a very considerable difference between those salaries and salaries paid to the same categories of staff by diplomatic missions in Paris. The existing scale did not seem to him too high for the services rendered to the Organization by a picked staff, who did not enjoy any security. He thought it would be most unfortunate if that category of staff had their salaries reduced, while those in the higher grades, who were less immediately affected by changes in the cost of living, obtained an increase in salary. [38] Supporting the Director-General’s proposals, Mr. de Berredo Carneiro pointed out that delegations should have no cause to worry about the effect on taxes in their countries of a difference of $35,000 more or less in what would, in any event, be a reduction in the budget. [39] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the Swedish delegate’s proposal, by introducing a uni- form reduction of five per cent, would be detrimental to the lowest categories of locally recruited staff. [40] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) pointed out that every argument advanced in the Commission in favour of the Director-General’s proposals had been an argument in favour of abolishing a local salary scale. He therefore requested the Director-General to say frankly whether he was in favour of abolishing such a scale. [41] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said his hope was that the General Conference could solve the problem as skilfully as the United Nations had done, i.e. by introducing a local salary scale which would leave intact the net pay of staff already recruited. [42] Mr. BITAR (Lebanon) noted that the Com- mission’s general tendency was to seek a compromise solution. He suggested that the Working Committee should be asked to produce a clear proposal, recon- ciling the different opinions expressed. [43] The CHAIRMAN was not in favour of such a solution, which would be contrary to the French delegation’s proposal in section C of the report, calling for a decision by the Commission itself. [44] Miss LAISE (United States of America) stressed the necessity of co-ordinatingall decisions with those of the United Nations. Having been present when the problem had been discussed in the United Nations, she could state that the purpose of the Syrian amendment had been to preserve the net remuneration of staff as far as possible, up to a maximum which would not be considered excessive by Member States and would not imperil the reputa- tion of international organizations. ADM TNISTRATIVE COMMISSION VII-8 [45] Miss Laise pointed out that new staff were being engaged all the time at the best prevailing local rates and that, if pre-Florence rates were allowed to continue for a certain category of staff, it would be harmful to the morale of people working side by side and earning very different salaries. The solution arrived at by the Conference at its Fifth Session had been felt by all delegations to be the most painless one. [46] The majority of the staff affected by the local salary scale were nationals of France and the United - Kingdom, and she therefore urged that the opinions expressed by the delegations of those countries should be given very serious consideration. [47] In conclusion, Miss Laise seconded the Lebanese proposal that the matter should be referred back to the Working Committee, in the hope that the latter would be able to reach a compromise solution acceptable to all delegations. [48] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) opposed the Lebanese delegate’s proposal. In his view, the Commission should take a decision one way or the other, either by reducing the salaries or by accepting the arguments put forward in the Director-General’s report. [49] Mr. Illueca agreed with the Chairman of the Commission that there would be no point in referring the matter back to the Working Committee for further study, and asked that a vote should be taken on the Director-General’s proposal. [50] Mr. Illueca added that it was essential to maintain the high morale of the Unesco staff and that, if delegates wished to bring about a spirit of peace and morality in the world, they should begin by setting an example themselves. Unesco was not a private undertaking, but an institution that was, above all, moral and social in character. [61] It was lamentable that, in such a discussion, it was not ideals and principles that counted, but merely financial arguments which, at times, reached a sordid level. What had to be done was to devise activities and provide the necessary resources for them—not, in practice, to do the contrary. [52] The CHAIRMAN considered that the Com- mission should decide on the principle of the matter before referring it back to the Committee. [53] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) thought that it would be desirable for the Committee to re-examine the problem in detail before a final decision was taken on such a difficult question. [54] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) agreed with the Chairman that a decision should be reached, and proposed that the Commission should take a vote on the three sets of proposals before it: (1) those of the Director-General, set out in document
6C/ADM/10 (I); (2) those of ‘his own and three    VII-8 other delegations in section A of document
6C/ADM/21; and (3) the Swedish proposal. If the Swedish proposal were adopted, he would suggest that it should be referred to the Working Committee to work out its implications. [55] As the problem was one of concern to all Member States, and particularly to those paying a large contribution, Mr. SEYDOUX (France) thought that any decision taken should be approved by a very large majority. He noticed that some delegations seemed to be in favour simply of adopting the Director-General’s report, while others advocated a compromise solution between the Working Com- mittee’s proposal A and the proposal appearing in the Director-General’s report. If the first solution was to be considered, he asked that the Commission should vote on it forthwith. If, on the other hand, the second course seemed preferable, he stressed the necessity of giving the Working Committee some directives to guide it in its search for a compromise solution. [56] The CHAIRMAN recalled that two compromise solutions had already been suggested: the Committee's proposal A, and the suggestion of the delegate of Sweden. He proposed that the Commission should take a decision on the principle involved in the various proposals before it. [57] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom), speaking as Chairman of the Working Committee, strongly opposed referring the matter back to the Committee until the full Commission had decided whether it was prepared to accept a compromise solution involving a reduction of take-home pay. It was on that very issue that the Committee had been divided, and to refer it back without a decision would be wasting everyone's time. [58] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) asked the Commission to decide on the principle of a compromise solution, enabling the Director-General’s proposal and that of the delegations of Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Denmark to be recon- ciled. The compromise, to be evolved by the Working Committee, should be based on certain principles laid down by the Administrative Com- mission. [69] The principle of a compromise solution was approved with only one dissentient vote. [60] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) wished it to be recorded that he had voted against the French delegation’s proposal because, as he had explained, he was in favour of approving the Director-General’s proposal, on the ground that to take any other course would amount to a waste of valuable time. A DM TIN IS TRA TIIY E C:0MM-128-S:10N [61] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) would have liked first to ask the French delegate to develop his proposal in more concrete terms, since in the speaker's view it was too abstract. [62] Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) would have made a similar request, but had had no time to do so. [63] The normal procedure would have been to take the vote after, and not before, the French represen- tative hadclarified his proposal. [64] Mr. Trejos Dittel added that there had been too muchdigression, and that he particularly wished to register his disagreement with the procedure followed. [65] Mr. PRUDENCIO (Bolivia) thought it necessary to clear up a misunderstanding; the French de- legation’s proposal came between the two courses that had previously been the subject of discussion— one involving the reduction of the salaries, and the other involving the maintenance of those already established. [66] What should have been voted upon was whether or not the Director-General’s plan should be preserved, the matter being referred to the Working Committee in the event of there being a majority in favour of the reduction of salaries. The vote taken on the French representative’s proposal left the position obscure. [67] Mr. Prudencio asked that a vote should be taken, in the first place, on the Director-General's proposal. [68] At the Chairman’s request, Mr. SEYDOUX (France) read out the following directives which he suggested should be given to the Working Committee to assist it in reaching a compromise solution: [69] The French delegation, bearing in mind both the staff’s situation and the need to reach a decision acceptable to the great majority of States, including those paying large contributions, proposes that the Commis- sion should agree on the following principles, which will be studied in detail by the Working Committee:
(1) The decisions taken at Florence, relating to the maintenance up to 31 December 1951 of the take-home pay for staff in the lower grades category, shall remain in force up to the date specified.
(2) As from 1 January 1952, the United Nations formula shall be applied (i.e. extension of the new local scale by three steps above the highest step).
(3) Cost of living adjustments payable on 1 July 1951 to staff engaged after the Florence Conference shall be payable also to staff engaged before Florence. Later adjustments shall not be paid.
(4) In no case shall the new basic salary, plus cost- of-living adjustment, exceed the take-home pay received by staff in the General Service category on 31 Decem- ber 1950.
(5) In no case shall the new basic salary, plus cost-of-living adjustment, involve a reduction in take- home pay of more than five per cent; should any staff member have to face such a reduction, an appropriate allowance shall be paid.
481 ADMINISTRATIVE [70] Mr. Seydoux pointed out that if it was impossible to obtain a large majority in favour of the above directives, a vote would have to be taken on each of the resolutions proposed. [71] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Com- mission should ask the Working Committee simply to work out a new compromise solution involving a reduction of net remuneration, without adding other explanations. [72] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) thought it essential to give the Committee some directives to guide it in working out the compromise. [73] The CHAIRMAN observed that the Commis- sion could later discuss the new text worked out by the Committee. [74] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL feared that a vote on the directives proposed by the French delegation might lead to some confusion. He suggested that the Commission should first decide whether or not it desired a greater reduction than he had himself proposed; only if the answer was in the affirmative would new directives have to be given. [75] The CHAIRMAN agreed with the Director- General. E [76] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) thought it was essential to take a vote, as the Director-General had proposed. [77] As there were really only two concrete pro- posals—since the French delegate's proposal was vague—he asked that the Commission should vote on the proposal formulated by the Director-General in his report. [78] Mr. PRUDENCIO (Bolivia) agreed with the delegate of Cuba and asked that, in order to clarify the question, a vote should be taken onits substance. [79] The proposal of the representative of France— a country of clarity and reason—had for once created confusion, which it was necessary to dispel. A vote should accordingly be taken, in the first place, on COMMISSION VII-8 whether or no the reduction in salaries was to be accepted. [80] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the following resolution: “The Commission resolves to request the Working Committee to present it with a proposal involving a reduction of salaries greater than that proposed in the Director-General’s report.” [81] At the request of Mr. MASON (New Zealand), it was agreed to take the vote by roll-call. [82] In reply to a question from the delegate of AUSTRALIA, the CHAIRMAN explained that to vote “in favour” would signify approval of the principle of a reduction in net remuneration for staff engaged before the Florence Conference; to vote “against” would mean approval of the transitional measures which the Director-General proposed to apply to the staff concerned. [83] The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour: Australia, Canada, Denmark, Israel, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Union of South Africa, United King- dom, United States of America. Voted against: Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Egypt, Greece, Haiti, Japan, Liberia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Uruguay, Vene- zuela. Abstained: Belgium, Burma, India, Italy, Lebanon. Absent: Afghanistan, Argentina, Ceylon, Czecho- slovakia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Hashemite Jordan, Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Korea, Luxembourg, Monaco, Pakistan, Poland, Salvador, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Yugoslavia. China, France, [84] The proposal was rejected by 16 votes to 12, with 7 abstentions. [85] The Director-General’s
6C/ADM/10 (I) and Addenda] approved. report [document was consequently The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.