CHAPTER SUMMARY RECORDS OF THE MEETINGS УТ OF THE OFFICIAL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS COMMISSION FIRST MEETING Thursday, 28 June 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr, F. G. Mameui (Italy) Opening of the Session and Election of the Vice- Chairmen and Rapporteur. [1] The CHAIRMAN, opening the session of the Commission, asked the members to appoint the Vice- Chairmen and the Rapporteur. [2] The Commission elected Mr. W. W. Mason (New Zealand) and Mr. H. Zeiss! (Austria), Vice- Chairmen; and Mr. Sardjito (Indonesia), Rappor- teur. Adoption of the Agenda (document 6C/1 rev.). [3] The CHAIRMAN announced the order in which he proposed that the Commission should discuss the various items on the agenda. He added that the General Conference had decided, at the suggestion of the Executive Board, to refer a further question to the Commission: Application of the Directives con- cerning relations with international non-govern- mental organizations. [Document 6C/OXR/16]. [4] The agenda, with that addition, was adopted. Consideration of Recommendations Submitted to the General Conference by the Represen- tatives of National Commissions at their Third Meeting (Item 10.4.1 of the Agenda) (document
6C/OXR/2, rev. 1). [6] The CHAIRMAN called on the Rapporteur of the Meeting of Representatives of National Com- missions to present his report. [6] Mr. KIRPAL (India) introduced the draft re- solutions and report prepared by the Third Meeting of Representatives of National Commissions. After explaining that the document was divided into two parts, the first composed of five resolutions on general subjects, in the form of draft resolutions, and the second of 10 special recommendations (of which seven were on programme subjects), together with an annex containing detailed suggestions, he said that, during the seven meetings which had been held, problems had been discussed both earnestly and constructively. The Secretariat had been enabled to understand the difficulties of the National Commissions, and the latter had learnt much of the problems besetting the permanent staff of Unesco. The representatives of 41 National Commissions had made valuable personal contacts, and he was con- vinced that the work done would prove valuable to Unesco during the coming year. He therefore moved the adoption of the report. [7] Mr. MONTEL (France) said that, as Chairman of the meeting of representatives of 41 National Commissions, he had been pleased to note their ardent desire to collaborate with Unesco in the interests of justice, knowledge and peace. Thanks to the admirable preparatory work done by Mr. Dard, the meetings had gone smoothly, and almost all the recommendations had been adopted unani- mously. The general impression left by the meeting was that the National Commissions were like a large family in the service of Unesco and its ideals. [8] In reply to a question from Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia), Mr. KIRPAL (India) said that recommen- dation V, paragraph 1 (that there should be a meeting of representatives of National Commissions both before and after the next session of the General Conference) was designed to enable representatives to discuss the programme adopted by the General Conference. It was considered likely that such an arrangement would be useful. In any case, the arrangement was purely experimental. [9] There being no further comments on the report as a whole, the CHAIRMAN proposed that the Com- mission should discuss it section by section. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
397 ОБРА БА I. General Recommendations. RECOMMENDATION I. [10] Mr. STONE (Australia) called attention to the fact that there were two aspects to the recommen- dation. Not only was it desirable for action to be taken within Member States to strengthen National Commissions, in accordance with the resolutions of the Fifth Session: there was also the Secretariat’s task of fostering National Commissions by the dele- gation of responsibility and by providing further stimulus towards co-operative action. The Austra- lian delegation felt that the Secretariat should give high priority to the National Commissions in allotting responsibility for the execution of any part of the programme. That type of devolution was the only answer to the problem presented by the fact that Unesco’s work was expanding, while there was little chance that the budget would increase pro- portionately. The Secretariat would have to rely to an ever greater extent on the National Commissions and so inspire them that they would become the ex- ecutive instrument for carrying out substantial parts of the programme. [11] Recommendation I was adopted. RECOMMENDATION TI. [12] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) emphasized that the Secretariat had an obligation to make use of the National Commissions in the selection of experts and other advisers to carry forward the Programme. Energetic National Commissions were often em- barrassed if experts were appointed from their countries without reference to them. That point appeared at last to be better understood than it had been in the past, but it would be as well for the Commission to restate it. [13] Recommendation II was adopted. RECOMMENDATION III. [14] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) drew the Commission's attention to the importance of the first paragraph of recommen- dation III, relating to the need for co-ordination, within each country, of the work of the National Commission and that of the national branches of International non-governmental organizations. The meeting of non-governmental organizations held prior to the session of the Conference had issued a re- commendation on the subject, couched in the most formal terms. [15] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought that resolution timely and calculated to ensure a co- ordination which was sometimes lacking. In his ETERNAL RETATTONS VI-1 opinion, it was not enough merely to issue a re- commendation on the subject to Member States; the Secretariat should also draw the attention of inter- national non-governmental organizations to the point. [16] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) wished the Commission to take note that, during the meeting of representatives of National Commissions, special emphasis had been laid on the inclusion of youth and labour organizations; those organizations had a very wide influence and could be of great help to Unesco. [17] The Reverend P. EASTMAN (Commission of the Churches on International Affairs) hoped that the Secretariat would bring that section of the report directly to the notice of non-governmental organi- zations. The secretaries of national branches of international non-governmental organizations (mostly nationals of their country of residence) expected National Commissions to consult them rather than to wait for them to offer co-operation. If the re- solution was to be effective, it was most important that the point should be understood by National Commissions. [18] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that there was very considerable unevenness between branches of international non-governmental organizations, both within Member States and within the organizations themselves. [19] National Commissions might be greatly em- barrassed if the request were to be understood to mean that National Commissions were bound to seek the association of a local branch of some non- governmental organization. It would be useful if non-governmental organizations were to make an objective assessment of the value of their affiliated bodies in order to provide some guidance for the Secretariat. [20] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the Australian view. He considered that it was undesirable to crystallize the form of co-operation within Member States during the early years of Unesco’s existence. He had, of course, no intention of diminishing the emphasis on the importance of the work carried out by non-governmental organi- zations. He would, therefore, propose to insert after the word “associate” the words ‘“‘as far as possible”, in order to show how tentative the arrangement was bound to be. [21] Mr. CATES (United States of America) did not think that the recommendation implied any obligatory association, as feared by the Australian delegate. It was most important to encourage National Commissions to collaborate with non-    VI-1 CEEI END governmental organizations and he would, therefore, oppose any weakening of the resolution. [22] After some further discussion, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that, in his view, the request had been worded more strongly than was intended. As it stood, it would morally compel National Commissions to associate all competent national associations in their work; such an arrange- ment might well prove not only unwieldy but also embarrassing. [23] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) agreed with the remarks made by the United Kingdom and Australian re- presentatives, who had pointed out that National Commissions might find difficulty in implementing that paragraph of the recommendation. [24] Mr. van DALSEN (Union of South Africa) said that the General Conference would be open to serious criticism from National Commissions if it were to make impossible requests. It should show itself to be aware of the difficulties facing National Commissions, especially in large countries. If National Commissions were expected to associate with their work all local affiliated bodies of interna- tional non-governmental organizations, as well as all competent natiónal organizations, their task would become impossible. He also proposed that the word “requests” should be replaced by the word “invites”. [25] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) proposed the follow- ing wording for the beginning of the first paragraph of recommendation III: “Requests Member States, taking into account the special conditions in each State, to associate . .—” [26] Mr. DARD (Head of the Division for Relations with Governments and National Commissions) was afraid that there was some misunderstanding, due no doubt to the fact that the versions of the text were not identical in the three working languages. It was intended to request National Commissions not to accept in their membership representatives of the national branches of non-governmental organi- zations, but simply to work in collaboration with them. [27] On the proposal of Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), it was agreed to suspend discussion of the first paragraph of recommendation III, pending its examination by a drafting Committee. [28] Subject to that reservation, recommendation III was adopted. RECOMMENDATION IV. [29] Recommendation IV without comment. was adopted EXTERNAL RELATIONS RECOMMENDATION V. [30] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked, with regard to the first paragraph, whetherthe Secretariat was in a position to prepare documents for a meeting of representatives of National Commissions directly after the General Conference. If the meeting were to take place at any considerable interval after a session of the General Conference, National Com- missions would object on the score of cost. For the same reason, it was doubtful whether regional con- ferences between sessions would be popular. [31] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) pointed out that, at the conclusion of a session of the General Confer- ence, delegates would have available all reports by committees and commissions; those reports would contain every resolution submitted to the plenary meetings of the Conference. [82] In reply to Mr. Sommerfelt’s question, Mr. DARD said that the Secretariat had indicated, at the meeting of National Commissions, that if re- presentatives of those Commissions met directly after the session of the General Conference it would be difficult to have all the necessary documents ready for their consideration; the meeting could, therefore, only be exploratory. It was for that reason that the Belgian delegation, which had originally proposed that the meeting of represen- tatives of National Commissions should be held only after the session of the Conference, had altered its proposal, and asked that meetings should be held both before and after the session of the Conference. [33] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) observed that the holding of Conferences at two-year intervals had the disadvantage of making contact between the representatives of the various Member States less frequent; he thought, therefore, that regional con- ferences of National Commissions, provided they were not too costly, would provide a means of lessening that disadvantage. [34] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) pointed out that there were several regions; he thought, therefore, that the fourth paragraph of recommendation V should be amended to read: “convene regional conferences”, instead of “one regional conference . . .” Mr. de BLONAY replied that the meeting of representatives of National Commissions had not failed to notice that point, but added that there were serious technical and financial objections to con- vening several regional conferences. [35] [36] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) thought that the Director-General should nevertheless be authorized to convene several regional conferences, provided the - required financial resources were available. He — — ® ° ( z m m m B e T E с е O ¿ E E N е н у е н y у е , т е т и с н е н е ا ح ا ‎     OEA AND therefore proposed the following wording for the beginning of the fourth paragraph of recommen- dation V: “convene one or more regional confer- ences. [37] Mr. QUDRAT-F-KHUDA (Pakistan) said that it was not known whether National Commissions would wish to fall in line with the arrangements foi the General Conference or whether they would prefer to have annual meetings. He therefore wished to amend the last paragraph of recommendation V to enable National Commissions to express their views on the point. [38] Mr. de BLONAY explained that, if it were agreed to hold sessions of the General Conference only every two years, the representatives of National Commissions would meet at the same intervals. The Secretariat’s proposal was to hold regional con- ferences in the alternate years. [39] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) said ‘that the General Conference had already approved the principle of biennial sessions and had referred to the Director-General the study of the implications of that decision. He wished, therefore, to amend the recommendation to read: consider the budgetary and other implications of a Regional Conference of Representatives of National Com- missions between the Seventh and Eighth Sessions of the General Conference, if the Conference is to meet only every two years, and to report to the Seventh Session. When the representatives of National Commissions met prior to the Seventh Session, they would have before them information on which to make a more satisfactory recommendation than that which they were able to submit at the moment. [40] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) thought that, since the question was settled, the phrase “if the Confer- ence is to meet only every two years”, at the end of the fourth paragraph of recommendation V, was unnecessary. [41] Mr. de BLONAY replied that it was still only a question of probability, since sessions of the General Conference could not be made biennial until the following year, after the necessary amendments had been made to the Constitution. [42] In reply to a question. from Mr. TOSCANO (ltaly), Mr. de BLONAY said that the Director- General could not convene a regional conference of the National Commissions unless he were authorized to do so by a resolution of the preceding session of the General Conference. A resolution such as that proposed by Australia would allow the Director- General, during the current year, to make a study of
1 ERENASE RELATIONS VI-1 the expenditure involved in the organization of a regional conference in the following year, so that the General Conference could take a decision on the matter at its next session. [43] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) was prepared, in those circumstances, to agree to the Australian proposal, but he maintained his point that the Director-General should be authorized, if the budget allowed, to convene one or more regional conferences. [44] Mr. MONTEL (France) proposed the follow- ing wording for the paragraph under discussion: (Recommends that the Director-General) study the possibility of convening one or more regional con- ferences of National Commissions. . > the rest to remain unchanged. [45] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) asked for an ex- planation regarding the date when the regional con- ference or conferences under discussion could be convened. [46] Mr. de BLONAYsaid that, evenif the principle | of biennial sessions of the Conference were approved, the necessary amendments to the Constitution could not be made until the following year. The Seventh Session of the Conference would therefore be held in
1952, on which occasion there would also be a meeting of representatives of National Commissions. A regional conference might be held between the Seventh and Eighth Sessions of the General Confer- ence, i.e., between 1952 and 1954, so that the relevant funds would be included in the budget for
1953, to be presented to the Conference in 1952. [47] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) was satisfied with the explanation given; in those conditions he would support the amendment suggested by the French delegation. [48] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) accepted the French delegation’s proposal, but asked that the following phrase should be added at the end of the fourth paragraph of recommendation V: “and to report at the Seventh Session of the General Confer- ence’: [49] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the amended wording of the fourth paragraph of recommendation V, which read as follows: (Recommends that the Director-General) study the possibility of convening one or more regional conferences of National Commissions between the Seventh and Eighth Sessions of the General Conference, if the Con- ference is to meet only every two years, and report at the Seventh Session of the General Conference.    VI-1 OE EN CIAL ANY [60] The above text was adopted by 23 votes to 0, with no abstentions. [51] The whole of resolution У, as amended, was adopted. II. Special Recommendations. EDUCATION. RECOMMENDATION I. [52] Adopted without comment. [63] On the proposal of Mr. CATES (United States of America), it was agreed to transmit the resolution to the Programme Commission as a means of show- ing the interest of the National Commissions in that part of the programme. RECOMMENDATION II. [64] Mr. MONTEL (France) wanted the wording of resolution II amended. [65] After a discussion between the representatives of Cuba, Greece, France, the United States of America and Australia, the CHAIRMAN proposed that resolution IT should be adopted in principle and referred to a drafting committee to be set up by the Commission at the end of the meeting. [66] Agreed. NATURAL SCIENCES. [67] Mr. CARRERE SAPRIZA (Uruguay) thought that, in view of the importance of the subject with which it dealt, more emphasis should be: given to that resolution. He quoted, as an example, the cam- paign against diseases such as cancer, where numer- ous lives depended on the general public’s being familiar with methods of combating them. [58] Mr. Sapriza therefore asked, in conclusion, that the resolution should request National Com- missions to “consider as an urgent necessity” the establishment of science clubs to encourage the spread of scientific knowledge. [69] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with the delegate of Uruguay that it was most important to place the spreading of scientific knowledge at the head of the resolution, and that any recommendation on the means to be employed should be left rather vague. [60] Mr. QUDRAT-E-KHUDA (Pakistan) associated himself with the Uruguayan resolution but con- sidered that further emphasis should be given to the EXTERNAL RELATIONS 400 use of literature as a means of propagating scientific knowledge. He therefore proposed to insert the words: “To encourage publication in local languages of popular books and pamphlets on science, and? [61] At the suggestion of Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), it was agreed that the drafting Com- mittee should re-word the resolution in such a way as to stress the need for National Commissions to encourage the spread of scientific knowledge by all appropriate means. SOCIAL SCIENCES. [62] Mr. HABIB (India) appealed to the Com- mission to believe that the problems connected with the mingling and association of races were not insuperable. They could not be solved by study alone; members of the Commission should try to infuse some feeling into the lives of those with whom they would co-operate in forwarding the work of Unesco in that field. [63] The recommendation was adopted. Mass COMMUNICATION. [64] Recommendations I, II and III under the above heading were adopted without discussion. [66] At the request of Mr. de BLONAY, supported by Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia), the Commission decided to refer recommendation III to the Pro- gramme Commission, through the General Com- mittee of the Conference. Report on the Third Meeting of Representatives of National Commissions. Annex I. [66] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) said that everyone hoped that the National Commissions would become the life-blood of Unesco. The second part of the document just approved gave some very general indications of the manner in which the National Commissions might assist the different Departments of the Organization. If the General Conference was to assist the National Commissions to obtain the additional support they would need, it should adopt a more positive attitude towards them and express its views regarding the volume of assistance that should be accorded to them. He, therefore, pro- posed to add a final recommendation, requesting the Director-General to take particular note of the recommendations concerning National Commissions, and to ensure that National Commissions were con- sulted on all possible occasions and given every opportunity of assisting in the carrying out of the general programme. F I F T I R , _ — د د ح ‎ — — и е S T — N l — с о т с е н ل ح ‎ S T I I [ I L A N T T . ( O W W W ( S T N G O N J U T E , { F N L W I [ F E I A O N E I , [ F R S Y D , F E , ج ج ح ‎
40 [6 Mi ad! co wa [6] pu [6] ag] cin [7   Co tat [1 res In Ses su Sta anc on sul Cor pro out [2] Ser Ge Co tar the mis the no
401 О ОА А Е [67] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) and Mr. CATES (United States of America) associated themselves with Mr. Cummins’ remarks. Mr. Cates added that anything the Conference could do to re- cognize the importance of the National Commissions was in the best interests of Unesco. [68] Mr. BARALT (Cuba) supported the proposal put forward by the Australian representative. [69] At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, it was agreed that the Australian proposal should be circulated, for discussion at the Commission’s next meeting. [70] Mr. de the Commission'sBLONAY drew SECOND X/T/ERN'AL REL ATT PONS VI-2 attention to the final recommendations of the Meeting of Representatives of National Commissions (document 6C/OXR/2 rev. 1 pp. 4 and 5). Those recommendations had not been submitted for approval, but the Commission would wish to take them into account, especially in connexion with the work of the Regional Office in Havana, which would moreover come up for discussion at a later meeting of the Commission. [71]° On the CHAIRMAN's theproposal, Com- mission set up a drafting Committee, consisting of the representatives of France, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Uruguay. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. MEETING Thursday, 28 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. EF. G. Mamerr (Italy) Consideration of Recommendations Submitted to the General Conference by the Represen- tatives of National Commissions at their Third Meeting. (Item 10.4.1 of the Agenda.) [1] The SECRETARY resolution, as follows: read the Australian draft In view of the recommendations adopted at this Sixth Session of the General Conference to strengthen and support the work of National Commissions in Member States, the General Conference requests the Director- General to take particular note of these recommendations and to ensure that National Commissions are consulted onall possible occasions, including the selection or con- sultation of experts, and that, where possible, National Commissions are given the responsibility, which should progressively increase, of assisting directly in carrying out appropriate parts of Unesco's general programme. [2] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) assured the meeting that the Director- General would continue to consult the National Commissions on all possible occasions. The Secre- tariat had taken the necessary measures to promote the closest possible co-operation with those Com- missions, which had, that year, been entrusted with the execution of a number of projects. There was no denying, however, that, in view of the disparity between the National Commissions, they could not be made wholly responsible for the execution of projects; and the Director-General had, in some cases, to resort either to direct action by the Secre- tariat, or to the aid of non-governmental Organi- zations. [3] With regard to the methods employed for the selection of experts, Mr. de Blonay drew the Com- mission’s attention to item 11 in the Statement of Methods adopted by the Florence Conference (Records of the General Conference, Fifth Session, Resolutions, page 73), which he proceeded to read out. He said that the Secretariat had tried to adhere closely to that procedure, and would continue to do so. [4] The Australian resolution was adopted, and referred to the Drafting Committee to be put in final form. [6] Mr. CATES (United States of America) noted that in some countries National Commissions were not yet formed and in others they were not so active as might be desired. He therefore proposed that the resolutions should include a clause which would promote the creation of National Commissions where they did not yet exist and provide for the stimulation