709 PROCEDURE Committee should vote forthwith on paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution without Sir John Maud's later amendment. Those who were against any change in the structure of the Executive Board might well benefit from an enquiry, since there were clearly many delegations which, though decided upon the question of biennial sessions, had an open mind with regard to the constitutional issue. [64] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) pointed out that the distinction between the Board’s powers and func- tions, on the one hand, and its structure, on the SEVENTH COMMITTEE X-7 other, was fundamental. The United Kingdom draft resolution affected both the functions and structure of the Board; the Swiss resolution debarred only structural changes, while doubtless permitting a change in powers. The Belgian delegation there- fore favoured the Swiss and the French proposals. [66] On the proposal of Mr. SEYDOUX (France), the discussion was adjourned to the meeting to be held that afternoon. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. TEvrik SAGLAM (Turkey) Report by the Director-General on the Change in Periodicity of Sessions of the General Con- ference (continuation) (document 6C/PRO/7 and Addenda). [1] The CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to take a decision on the draft resolution (document
6C/DR/40) submitted by the Swiss delegation at the previous meeting and amended by the French dele- gation with the Lebanese delegation's suggestions in mind. [2] The suggested text read as follows: The General Conference Resolves,if the principle of biennial sessions is adopted, to maintain the existing structure and manner of election of the Executive Board and the functions of the Board as defined in Article V, paragraph 11, of the Constitution. [3] Mr. MAMELI (Italy) raised a point of order: his impression was that, at the morning meeting, it had been decided to deal separately with the question of biennial sessions and that of the Board’s Structure. [4] The CHAIRMAN replied that the proposed re- solutions was in full conformity with decisions taken at the previous meeting. [5] The resolution was adopted by 23 votes to 16, with 2 abstentions. [6] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the revised second paragraph of the draft resolution submitted by the United Kingdom delegation (document 6C/ DR/56), reading as follows: The Commission recommends that the General Con- ference, if the principle of biennial sessions is accepted and the Constitution is amended accordingly, invite the Director-General and the Executive Board to examine, in consultation with Member States the question whether any other changes in- the Constitution or procedure of the Organization should be made and to report on this matter to a later session of the General Conference. [7] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) ‘said that he had felt obliged to vote against the Swiss re- solution but, since it had been carried by a sub- stantial majority, he was perfectly willing to agree with the definite view expressed by the Conference that the existing structure and functions of the Ex- ecutive Board should remain unchanged. The United Kingdom resolution before the meeting was, however, perfectly consistent with the decision just taken. He did not see what possible objection there could be to the suggestion that the Director- General, in consultation with the Executive Board, Member States and National Commissions, should carry out an enquiry to ascertain whether, in the event of the principle of biennial sessions of the General Conference being adopted, it would be advisable to make certain changes in the Constitution and procedures of the Organization. It was quite wrong to assume that the aim of the United King- dom resolution was to secure a change in the Board's   X-7 PROCEDURE structure in one year’s time: its aim, as plainly stated, was merely to ask the Director-General to conduct an enquiry into the implications of a change to biennial, instead of annual, sessions of the General Conference. [8] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) had voted against a change in the structure and functions of the Executive Board, but he saw no reason to oppose a proposal that the implications of the system of biennial sessions of the Conference should be further discussed. He therefore supported the United Kingdom resolution. [9] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) stated that his delegation had studied closely the effects on the structure of the Executive Board of a change to biennial sessions of the Conference and, as requested, had submitted its views. As a result, of the dis- cussion however, those views had undergone some change. While agreeing that the qualitative structure of the Board should remain unchanged, the Liberian delegation felt that its quantitative structure required further consideration. When the Constitution had been drafted and the membership of the Board fixed at 18, Unesco had only 35 Member States; that number had risen to 64 so that it was obviously undemocratic to have an Executive Board composed of only 18 members. The Liberian dele- gation therefore supported the United Kingdom proposal that the matter should be left open and an enquiry held. [10] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) said he would have to vote against the second part of the United King- dom draft resolution. If it received a majority vote, the French delegation would be obliged to vote against biennial sessions. [11] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) could not see that the second part presented any difficulty; the Conference was free to suggest, at any time, an examination of the structure and functions of one or other of its organs. He was sure that there would be no disadvantage in a comprehensive discussion, and that the idea of making a fundamental change in the structure of the Executive Board would certainly be rejected. In that conviction he favoured the suggested enquiry. [12] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) could not help being somewhat disquieted by the second part of the United Kingdom resolution, which seemed to cast doubt upon the manner in which the Organi- zation’s work had been conducted up to that time. However logical the proposed enquiry might be, its place was not in a resolution of that kind; it should be referred for thorough investigation to the Admi- nistrative Commission. COMMITTEE [13] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that, in his dele- gation’s view, a change to biennial session of the Conference was a revolutionary measure, which would have repercussions on all sections and organs of Unesco and necessitate certain changes in structure and functions. That was not in any way a reflection on the Organization as it stood, but it was impossible to guess accurately in advance what problems would arise as a result of the adoption of a system of biennial sessions. The Australian dele- gation therefore supported the views put forward by the delegates of the United Kingdom and Brazil. [14] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) thought the resolution showed a praiseworthy care and that it did not in the least prejudge the decision to be taken on the . Board’s structure. He would therefore vote in favour of it. [15] Mr. SIWASARTYANON (Thailand) considered the enquiry proposed by the United Kingdom dele- gation to be perfectly in accord with the democratic spirit, and he therefore seconded it. [16] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) did not believe that the United Kingdom's suggestion was in the least contrary to the democratic spirit. It was self- evident that, if the biennial system were adopted, a whole series of problems would arise with regard to the role and structure of the Executive Board. The suggestion for an enquiry was therefore quite reasonable; but there was still some ambiguity attaching to it, which was not calculated to allay the fears of those who where afraid there might be a reversion to the idea of the Board’s becoming “State-controlled”. For that reason, Mr. Piaget hesitated to vote in favour of the resolution. The ambiguity would be removed if the United Kingdom resolution clearly admitted that any changes made should not bear on Article V, paragraph 11, of the Constitution. Could not that point be made clear in the United Kingdom resolution? [17] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) thought there was a contradiction between the resolution already adopted, under which no structural change would be contemplated, and the proposal under consider- ation, which did contemplate the possibility of changes. Moreover, it was difficult to entrust an enquiry of that sort to the Executive Board itself. [18] Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) wished to explain the Colombian delegation’s point of view on the United Kingdom draft resolution. To his mind, if it was a question of a general invitation, there was no need for the provision in question, since any State could propose a similar measure, in accordance with the rules already in force. If, on    PROCEDURE the other hand, it was a question of a special invita- tion, for a specific purpose, for an enquiry along predetermined lines, the Colombian delegation could not accept it, for it considered that there was no need to alter the composition and functions of the Executive Board. [19] The Colombian representative said he had often felt that a change in the Board might perhaps lead Unesco to commit one of the mistakes of the League of Nations, where the free operation of democratic opinion had often been prevented by the intervention of the Council in the work of the Assembly. It would be lamentable if something similar occurred in a cultural organization like Unesco, with whose character it was quite out of keeping. [20] Mr. Bernal Jiménez concluded by repeating that, if the invitation was general, it was unneces- sary, and that, if it was for a special purpose, it might lead to the very result which the majority of the Committee feared and which had aroused their opposition. [21] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) was convinced that the United Kingdom's proposal was not designed to change the nature of the Executive Board's terms of reference; in spirit it was certainly in keeping with the reasons which had prompted the United States delegation to propose biennial sessions. It was simply a question of examining the consequences of adopting that principle. [22] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), replying to the Swiss delegate, pointed out that the purpose of the United Kingdom resolution was to invite the Director-General and the Executive Board, in the event of the Conference's deciding to adopt the prin- ciple of biennial sessions, to consult with Member States and National Commissions in order to as- certain whether there was anything in the Constitu- tion or procedures of the Organization which they thought should be changed in the interests of the Organization itself. Sir John stressed the fact that the United Kingdom resolution did not mention the structure of the Executive Board; the enquiry would not necessarily lead to the conclusion that the structure of the Board should be changed, but the important point mentioned by the Liberian delegate would come under review, together with all the other implications of a change in the frequency of the Conference’s sessions. Personally, he hoped that it would not be decided to increase the membership of the Board, but that was a matter which should be discussed. He pointed out that, however strongly some delegates felt that the structure of the Board should remain unchanged, they would not be guilty of any inconsistency in voting for the United King- dom proposal. _— COMMTITRE X-7 [23] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that it was essential for the vote on the question of biennial sessions to be taken by a strong majority; but that would be difficult to achieve if the prob- lem were badly stated. If the Conference adopted the principle of biennial sessions, the existing structure of the Executive Board would remain un- changed; but its powers would have to be defined should a two-year programme come into force. The extended period for the programme would neces- sarily involve changes, although it was impossible to know in advance whether they would include a change in the provisions of the Constitution regard- ing the Board’s composition and the preparation of the programme. As matters stood—and it would be the same in 1952—the Conference had no chance, as yet, of forming an opinion on the working of the biennial system. Only in 1954 could any investiga- tion on that point yield useful results. At the moment, no examination of it could be other than academic. [24] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) said that, in the light of the Director-General’s explanations, he himself could vote in favour of the United Kingdom draft resolution only if a proviso were added to it relating to the resolution already passed and stating that the biennial system would not affect the existing struc- ture of the Organization. On that basis, agreement could be reached with the United Kingdom dele- gation. [25] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) proposed that the Committee should refer to the Administrative Com- mission the study of the problem raised by the principle of biennial sessions, and of the changes it might entail, so that the Commission could submit a report to the General Conference. [26] Mr. CATES (United States of America) strongly supported the United Kingdom proposal. Problems other than that of the structure of the Executive Board would be involved in adopting the principle of biennial sessions, and he urged delegates to keep the two concepts separate. Referring to the United States proposal in document 6C/DR/43, he pointed out that his delegation had proposed that: “Each State should be represented on the Board by a person selected in consultation with its National Commission or co-operating body.” That proposal would meet the point made by the delegate of Liberia and should be given further consideration. [27] Secondly, the United States delegation had proposed that: “The members of the Executive Board shall exercise the powers delegated to them by the General Conference on behalf of the Confer- ence as a whole”, which did not suggest that there should be any change in its functions. Thus, the
8 т Е X-7 PROCEDURE United States delegation had no wish to weaken Unesco or the Executive Board, but only to make the Executive Board stronger and more effective. Mr. Cates hoped delegates would bear those points in mind when voting on the United Kingdom pro- posal. [28] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) agreed with the Director-General that it was essential to have a two- thirds majority on a fundamental question. To his mind, there was no question of opposing the in- evitable results of adopting the biennial principle; but changes in the basic provisions of the Constitu- tion should be avoided. He considered that the United Kingdom proposal should be amended, because a number of delegates were likely to be troubled by its vagueness. [29] He therefore suggested adding a few words in clarification, so that the resolution would read as follows: Invites the Director-General and the Executive Board to examine, in consultation with Member States, the ques- tion whether any other changes in the Constitution, apart from the provisions of Articles V, paragraph 11 . . . leaving the rest unchanged. [30] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) and Mr. LHE- RISSON (Haiti) seconded the amendment. [31] Mr. CHAVES (Ecuador) pointed out that agreement had been reached on the maintenance of the structure and functions of the Executive Board, and it would therefore be advantageous if the French delegation could explain the scope of the amendment it proposed to the United Kingdom draft resolution. [32] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) entirely agreed with the Director-General that, before the Sixth Session closed, the Conference should give full instructions to the Secretariat regarding the work for 1952 and the preparations for the next session; in particular, it would have to decide whether a programme and budget were to be pre- pared covering two years. The United Kingdom delegation also agreed with the Director-General that the Organization would have acquired only a limited experience of the consequences of the biennial system by the time the Conference met in
1952, and it was for that reason that his delegation’s resolution had deliberately avoided mentioning the session to which the Director-General should submit his report on the results of the enquiry. It might be that consideration of the most important prob- lems involved in adopting the biennial system would have to be deferred until the session after that to be held in 1952. Delegates could therefore safely vote COMMITTEE 712 for the United Kingdom proposal, while fully safe- guarding the points made by the Director-General. [33] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL repeated that, by the 1952 session, no experience would have been gained of the consequences of adopting the biennial system. It was therefore desirable to specify clearly that the Committee was, that day, taking a decision on the question of biennial sessions, without Chang- ing the structure of the Executive Board, and was instructing the Executive Board and the Director- General to study the working of the system and to lay the results before” the Eighth Session of the General Conference in 1954. [34] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) said that he would prefer notto insert a date in the resolution, because the Director-General and the Executive Board, or Member States themselves, might wish to make some report at the next session; he pointed out, however, that the resolution did not imply that the Director-General was obliged to report to the Conference earlier than 1954. [35] The United Kingdom delegation appreciated the French delegation’s reasons for putting forward its amendment; the French delegation was utterly opposed to change and feared that any enquiry, if not restricted so as to exclude the question of the Board's structure, might be the first step towards a change in that structure. It was regrettable that the French delegation should be so afraid of examining a problem to which it attached so much importance and should wish to exclude from an enquiry a matter upon which many Member States had been divided. Sir John therefore hoped that very few delegations would vote in favour of the French amendment and that an overwhelming majority would vote against it. [36] Mr. STONE (Australia) agreed with the United Kingdom delegate that it would be a contradiction to exclude part of the field of enquiry. [37] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) felt sure that the United Kingdom delegate had let his words outrun his thoughts. France was deeply attached to liberal and democratic principles and did not need lessons from anyone on that subject. As the discussion proceeded, the impression had gained ground that there was in fact an intention to make very serious alterations to the Constitution. At first it had been claimed that there was no connexion whatever between the biennial system and possible changes in the structure of the Executive Board, and that consideration might later be given to the setting up of that “Governing Body” to which France, for democratic reasons, was most strongly opposed. Then, however, it became clear that there was a possibility of Unesco’s powers being put directly into the hands of Member States. Mr. Seydoux < a i м ы й ad e e e e m n X M A O m o   D i a o < a = = e a he a e pr ج ا ر س اقر в о т ‏ >
5 e u À PROCEDURE insisted on the amendment he had proposed, or any other suggestion guarariteeing that the fundamental provisions of the Constitution relating to the Ex- ecutive Board would not be called in question. [38] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) said he had been somewhat perplexed up till then, but at last the scheme was clear to him; the United States delegate had assured the Committee that his draft resolution did not propose any change in the Constitution so far as concerned the existing nature of the Executive Board’s membership; but at the moment he was saying that he saw no disadvantage in its members being representatives of governments. Mgr. Maroun did not think it was consonant with the spirit of democracy that 18 members, representing 18 govern- ments, should speak in the name of 64 governments. Unless the French amendment were accepted, there might no longer be an Executive Board, but a Governing Body of 64 States. In that case, there would be no alternative but to revert to the Egyptian proposal that there should be an annual conference of 64 representatives of governments. [39] Mr. SELFE (Union of South Africa) pointed out that the basic question was whether to re-open the question of the structure of the Executive Board if the Director-General, the Executive Board, Member States and National Commissions considered it necessary to do so, or to close the matter finally, as proposed by the French delegation. [40] Mr. SEBASTIÁN (Philippines) had been absent when the Swiss resolution had been put to the vote, but, had he been present, he would have voted against it, not because it had no merit, but because he did not think that the Conference should close the door to future consideration of the question of a possible re-organization of Unesco and a change in the structure of the Executive Board. Para- graph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution left the door open to that possibility, and Mr. Sebastián therefore supported it. He reminded the meeting that the Conference would always have power to reject any recommendations made by the Director- General or the Executive Board, if it deemed fit. [41] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) moved that a vote should be taken on the French amendment and the United Kingdom resolution. [42] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the meeting that the resolution should make it clear that the report on the study made by the Director- General and the Executive Board would be the fruit of experience gained from the 1952 session onwards. For voting purposes, it was essential to make that point clear.   COMMITTEE [43] Mr. STONE (Australia) seconded the motion of the delegate of Pakistan, and requested that ‘the vote should be taken by roll-call. [44] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) remarked that the Director-General’s statement showed that it would be desirable for the United Kingdom delegate to clarify his position. [45] The United Kingdom proposal, he added, concluded by inviting the Director-General and the Executive Board “to report . . . to a later session of the General Conference” on the question of possible changes in the Constitution, but without specifying a date, so that it was left to the discretion of the Director-General and the Executive Board to de- termine when the report was to be submitted. He asked that his observation should be formally recorded. [46] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) raised a point of order: before a vote was taken on the United Kingdom draft resolution, the French proposal should be dealt with, unless the Panamanian delegate’s request was accepted. [47] The CHAIRMAN put the French amendment to the vote by roll-call. [48] It was rejected by 24 votes to 20, with 2 ab- stentions. [49] Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Bolivia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, Hashemite Jordan, Iran, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Panama, Switzerland, Syria, Uruguay, Venezuela. Voted against: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Israel, Italy, Liberia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America. Abstained: Burma, Yugoslavia. Absent: Ceylon, Czechoslovakia, Guatemala, Hon- duras, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, Korea, Peru, Salva- dor, Saudi Arabia. [50] The revised second paragraph of the United Kingdom draft resolution, put to the vote by roll- call, was adopted by 24 votes to 20, with 2 absten- tions. [61] Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Bel- gium, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Greece, India, Israel, Italy, Liberia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America. Voted against: Afghanistan, Austria, Bolivia,      X-7 PROCEDURE Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Haiti, Hashemite Jordan, Iran, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mexico, Panama, Switzerland, Syria, Uruguay, Venezuela. Abstained: Monaco, Yugoslavia. Absent: Ceylon, Czechoslovakia, Guatemala, Hon- duras, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, Korea, Peru, Salvador, Saudi Arabia. [52] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt that he should again make it clear that there was no question of submitting the report at the next session of the Conference, since the Constitution could not be amended before 1952. The report could not there- fore be usefully considered until the 1954 Confer- ence. [53] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) had under- stood that the current session of the Conference could adopt the principle of biennial sessions and make the necessary amendment in the Constitution, pro- vided that the decision was taken by a two-thirds majority. He agreed, however, that the Sixth Session could not amend the Constitution in respect of the Executive Board’s structure, because the pro- posal had not been submitted six months in advance of the session. As he understood the position, such a decision could be taken only by the next session. [54] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said it was for that reason that he wished to avoid any ambiguity on the point, and he requested the Legal Adviser to explain the position in detail. [55] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that it was impossible to adopt an amendment to the Constitu- tion unless it had been submitted to Member States six months in advance. The Director-General had been instructed, at the previous session, to forward to Member States, in due time, the draft amendments required for putting the biennial system into opera- tion. In the course of his consultations with them, various Member States had informed the Director- General that, in their opinion, it was unadvisable to propose an amendment at the current session, as the Florence Conference had not made provision for the adoption of a programme covering the financial years 1952 and 1953. The Executive Board agreed with that view and had requested the Director- General to postpone until later the formulation of the draft amendments and their communication to Member States. Accordingly, ‎طع 5 report pointed out that, even if the Conference con- sidered the principle of the biennial system at its current session, it would have definitely to postpone until the following session the adoption of the amend- ments to the Constitution and to the various rules of procedure.   COMMITTEE 714 [56] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) apologized for the misunderstanding. Article XIII of the Con- stitution made it clear that the Sixth Session of the Conference could only adopt the principle of biennial sessions, but could not amend the Constitution, as proposals for specific amendments had not been submitted six months in advance of the session. If the principle of biennial sessions was adopted, the United Kingdom resolution would call for a report on the implications of the change at the 1954 session of the Conference. [57] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to make it clear that the Committee was, at the moment, only adopting principles; it would have to examine later the various technical problems raised by the adoption of the biennial system, but the General Conference could vote finally on the necessary con- stitutional amendments only after they had been communicated to Member States within the period required under Article XIII. [58] Mr. STONE (Australia) considered that, as the votes taken had been so divided, it would be wrong to introduce a radical change inthe function- ing of the General Conference without further care- ful consideration. He therefore moved that the question of biennial sessions of the General Confer- ence should be postponed until the Seventh Session of the Conference. [59] Mr. CATES (United States of America) re- gretted the Australian delegate's motion. The question of biennial sessions of the Conference had been largely confused by the matter of the Board's structure, but now that it had been made clear that the two issues were separate, he hoped that dele- gations would feel that they could vote at once in favour of the principle of biennial sessions. [60] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) supported the United States proposal unreservedly. He asked that a vote should be taken on that principle, to which he hoped that a large majority of the delegates could subscribe. [61] Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) recalled that the decision on the principle of biennial sessions had . been postponed until the question of the Board's structure had been discussed: as a decision had been reached on the latter point, he moved that the Com- mittee should vote on the main question of biennial sessions. [62] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) thought the situation was very confused; the Swiss resolution, which the Committee had adopted first, preserved the Board's status intact. The United Kingdom proposal, on the other hand, had left the way open for an     Y‏ + من ملم it و ص S n       -
715 IEE unlimited enquiry into all the changes which might be made to the Constitution of Unesco. There had been a majority of only four in its favour. In accordance with democratic tradition, the French delegation had accepted that decision, but felt bound to state that the text gave not the smallest essential guarantee that was needed with regard to the funda- mental provisions of the Constitution, especially in the matter of the status of the Executive Board. There had never been any question of closing the door to all improvements in the Constitution, but the basic principles that 40 nations had adopted in London could not be called in question. In the circumstances, it would be unfortunate to vote on the biennial system when the United Kingdom pro- posal gave a blank cheque for making every kind of alteration to the Constitution. The French dele- gation, fully aware of the need for a very large majority vote on the fundamental question of biennial sessions, asked that the vote on the question of prin- ciple should be deferred. [63] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) said that, as a result of the discussions at the current and the preceding meetings, it had become clear that a substantial majority was in favour of retaining the Executive Board's existing structure and functions. It had further been decided to ask the Director- General to conduct an enquiry into the implications of a decision to change to a system of biennial conferences. There seemed no reason why a decision should not immediately follow on the principle of biennial sessions, which would have the advantage of allowing the Director-General to work on a two- year programme without interruption and without having to make annual reports; moreover, National Commissions and Member States would have two years to develop momentum and carry out the de- cisions of the General Conference in their own countries. Sir John therefore felt strongly that the principle of biennial sessions should be adopted, without prejudice to later discussions on its im- plications and any changes which it might entail. He moved the adoption of paragraph (1) of the United Kingdom draft resolution (document 6C/ DR/49) on the question of biennial sessions. [64] The United Kingdom motion was seconded by Mr. CATES (United States of America). [65] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that biennial sessions of the Conference would be of COMMITTEE Xy marked advantage for the carrying out of the basic programme and for the work of the Secretariat; he had described those advantages in his report. On the other hand, he quite understood the anxiety that had been expressed over the changes in the Board's structure which the adoption of the principle might involve; but a formal assurance had been given that no such change would be decided upon at the current session. The danger, therefore, was an un- certain and very distant one, whereas the advantages were immediate and sure. | [66] The CHAIRMAN said that, in view of the decision taken, he would have to put to the vote the draft resolution on biennial sessions. [67] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) asked that the vote should be taken by roll-call. [68] Mr. request. SASSEN (Netherlands) seconded his [69] The draft resolution was put to the vote by roll-call and adopted by 38 votes to 5, with 1 ab- stention. [70] Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Greece, Haiti, India, Iran, Israel, Italy, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia. Voted against: Austria, Egypt, France, Hashemite Jordan, Lebanon. Abstained: Colombia. Absent: Ceylon, Czechoslovakia, Guatemala, Hon- duras, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, Korea, Peru, Salvador, Saudi Arabia. [71] The Committee then decided to set up a work- ing party to examine the consequences of the re- solution. [72] The working party was to consist of represen- tatives of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, France, Switzerland, Cuba, India and Egypt. The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.