253 GENERAL [15] The CHAIRMAN announced that the World Jewish Congress, in accordance with the correct procedure, had submitted a statement to the Director- General on programme resolutions relating to Human Rights. He proposed that the statement, bearing the reference number 6C/11, should be referred to the Programme Commission, which could, if it considered it necessary, allow a represen- tative of the Congress to present its views. [16] The proposal was adopted. [17] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) recalled that the Procedure Committee, meeting the previous day, had appointed a working party to study the effects of the adoption of the principle of biennial sessions. He thought that the Administrative Com- mission should be asked to consider the financial and budgetary aspects of the question, so that a single report could be submitted to the General Conference. [18] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was in favour of carrying Sir John Maud's suggestion further by re- questing the Budget Committee to study the prob- lem of the form and presentation of the budget and asking the Administrative Commission also to present its views on that subject. A single report could then be submitted to the General Conference, COMMITTEE 111-6 thus avoiding any regrettable differences of opinion. [19] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) seconded the Director-General’s suggestions. [20] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) asked whether the procedure suggested by the Director- General would mean that the problems involved would be considered successively by the working party, the Procedure Committee, the Budget Com- mittee and the Administrative Commission. He hoped that the working party’s terms of reference would be clearly defined. [21] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the working party should submit certain definite questions to the Budget Committee and the Adminis- trative Commission; it would then submit its report to them, in order that a final report might be pre- pared for presentation to the General Conference. If still closer co-ordination seemed desirable, a joint Committee could be convened when the final, single report was prepared. [22] On the CHAIRMAN's proposal, the Director- General's suggestions were adopted. The meeting rose at 10.20 a.m. SIXTH MEETING Friday, 29 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Sir SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) Work of the Commissions. [1] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) thought that one or two additional meetings the following week should suffice to complete the work of his Commission. [2] Mr. MAMELI (Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission) reported on the work done in the first and second meetings of the Commission, and hoped that the Director-General would be present when the question of decentraliza- tion came up for discussion. [3] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL signified that he would be present. Distribution to Commissions of the Draft Resolutions and Amendments presented by Delegations. [4] The SECRETARY announced that, in addition to the 38 draft resolutions already passed on to Commissions and Committees, there were a further
21 outstanding, which all concerned the Programme Commission, but which had no budgetary implica- tions. e m e a d o t n S m n m a a Е Е
111-6 GENERAL [5] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) said the Committee had started to examine the proposal submitted by the Cuban delegation in document 6C/DR/1, which had been referred to it by the Administrative Commission. The Cuban delegate had asked for it to be referred to the Pro- gramme Commission in connexion with the chapter on Mass Communication. [6] Mr. MANACH, speaking as delegate of Cuba, thought that the proposal need not take up much time. [7] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) thereupon agreed to submit it. [8] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) had raised a number of questions calling for rather urgent consideration by the Board, it was agreed, at the suggestion of the DIRECTOR- GENERAL, to hold the Board's next meeting at 9 a.m. on Saturday, 30 June. Date for the Election of Six Members of the Executive Board. [9] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had received re- quests from certain delegations to advance the proposed meeting of the Nominations Committee from 7 July to the afternoon of Wednesday, 4 July. That would involve dropping a meeting of the Pro- cedure Committee. [10] The proposal was adopted. Linguistic and Cultural Claims of the Kurd Populations of Turkey and Iran: Letter from Emir Dr. Kammuran Aali Bedir-Khan. [11] The SECRETARY pointed out that the Emir had written, not as the representative of a group, but in his personal capacity. In view of the previous letter and a recent telegram received from certain political parties in Morocco, he suggested that the Committee should merely take note of the letter, acknowledging it but taking no action. [12] Agreed. of theChina's Procedure Committee to the General Con- Right to Vote: Report ference: Date of a Short Plenary Meeting for the Presentation of the Report. [13] It was agreed to hold a short plenary meeting at 3.30 p.m. on Saturday, 30 June. COMM IT TT EE Report of the Administrative Commission. [14] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that it would be necessary to adopt the Administrative Commission’s report, which had not been formally adopted during the vote on the budget ceiling. [15] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) had also noted that the Brazilian motion, unlike that of the United Kingdom, had not taken the precaution of inserting a provision adopting the Administrative Commission’s report. He suggested, however, that, in order to avoid a leng discussion and confusion in the plenary meeting, the Administrative Com- mission might first wish to reconsider the relevant part of its report. [16] In reply to Mr. van der STRATEN- WAILLET (Chairman of the Administrative Com- mission), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL urged him to have the report ready for the meeting on Saturday,
30 June. In the first place, as long as the report was not adopted, it would leave uncertainty about the vote on the ceiling; and, in the second, the Chinese delegation was anxious to vote and had a right to press for a decision on the matter in the plenary meeting. [17] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) was anxious to know precisely what the Administrative Commission was being asked to do. It could not go back on what had happily been an almost unanimous vote by the General Conference on the budget ceiling. [18]! Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) thought that it was merely necessary to clarify the passage concerned with the surpluses from the 1951 budget and their application to the 1952 budget. That had been impossible until the ceiling had been fixed, but should no longer present any special difficulty. He wondered, however, whether the question of the $32,000 from the China Reconstruction Fund should be discussed in the Commission or the plenary meeting. The Chinese delegate had asked that the matter should be brought up again. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL with[19] agreed Mr. Seydoux that the vote of the General Conference ٠‎ could not be questioned; nevertheless, the Adminis- trative Commission could not refuse to hear China, even though the Chinese delegation had not the right to vote. [20] The CHAIRMAN recalled that, although the Brazilian motion had made no mention of the use of the surpluses, the matter had been understood throughout the discussions on the motion. It should Z U N E A M U E N E E E E S E E N B E A R E . A N a A В Н Е Д Е Я E       _ — — — Ñ — — — ] ] — — / A E t y . . . r y E E A S ‏ س س ي ن ص و ا ر ¡ I E E E c e ‏” ب ِ ه ب ج ا E E C E O L e ‏
255 CENER AT therefore suffice to say that it was understood that the resolution implied authorization to transfer the surpluses. [21] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed with the Chairman, but thought that the Adminis- trative Commission should nevertheless prepare for consideration by the plenary meeting a recommen- dation on the financing of the 1952 Budget by means of funds other than contributions from Member States. The Commission should be free to produce its report as it thought best, consistent with the - General Conference resolution on the budget ceiling. [22] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL disagreed with Sir John Maud. The plenary meeting was the supreme organ of the General Conference, and had not been unaware, in voting, of the decision to in- clude the $32,000 from the China Reconstruction Fund in the 1952 Budget. If it were then assumed that that had not been understood, it would imply that other countries could also raise questions con- cerning unused surpluses. China certainly had the right to make known its views, but the Chairman of the Administrative Commission had no right to go back on a definite decision of the General Conference. [23] The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee could trust the Chairman of that Commission to devise a SEVENTH COMMITTEE 111-7 way of reconciling the decision of the Conference with the rights of the Commission. [24] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) said that he had never intended to go back on a decision of the plenary meeting. He agreed that he should have mentioned the matter at the time the vote was taken. He thought, however, that since China had no right to vote in the Commission, it would be a waste of time to hear that country’s delegation in the Com- mission, and that it would be better to allow the Chinese delegate to speak just before the final vote was taken in the plenary meeting. [26] Agreed. [26] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) recalled that the General Conference had been informed that China would make a token payment of $14,000 for
1951. A letter had since been received from the Organization’s bankers in London, saying that the cheque in question had not been met. The matter had been referred to the head of the Chinese dele- gation, who was communicating with his Govern- ment in the matter. [27] It was agreed to take note of the matter. The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m. MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. D. R. HaromaN (United Kingdom) [1] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the Budget Committee should include in its agenda con- sideration of the reductions decided upon by the Programme Commission. The Budget Committee might also study the corresponding staff reductions. The Programme Commission would thus have pre- cise data before it when it reviewed the programme for the second time. [2] The Director-General announced that he had received a letter from the Korean Minister of Educa- tion requesting Unesco to launch forthwith a pro- gramme of reconstruction in the fields of education, science and culture. As it was essential to co-operate closely with the United Nations in that domain, he proposed to send a cable immediately to the acting Agent General of the United Nations Korea Re- construction Agency at Pusan, informing him of the communication received from the Government of Korea. He also proposed to make a statement to the Programme Commission, taking account of recent press information on the situation in Korea. [3] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) entirely approved the Director-General’s comments on the letter from the Korean Minister of Education. He wondered, however, whether Unesco’s intervention in that field might not be somewhat premature, and thought that Unesco should be sure of the approval of the United Nations ] i i