XI-2 opposed might nevertheless vote provisionally, in accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure. [13] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) supported the Chairman’s suggestion, provided that it was clearly stated that the decision was taken in virtue of Rule 24. [14] The proposal was unanimously adopted. [15] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) gave a brief resumé of the Committee's report. It would first give a list of those States whose credentials were in conformity with Rule 22 and who could therefore be admitted to the Conference with full voting rights. That would be followed by a list of States whose credentials were not entirely in order because they did not fulfil the requirements of Rule 22; those States would be admitted to take their seats and to vote provisionally, pending the receipt of their full credentials. SECOND CREDENTIALS   COMMITTEE 746 [16] With regard to China, the report would state that objection had been raised to the credentials of the Chinese delegate, but that Rule 24 of the Con- ference’s Rules of Procedure had been invoked. Rule 24 provided that any delegate to whose admission objection had been raised might provi- sionally be admitted, with the same rights as other representatives, until the Credentials Committee had presented its final report. [17] The SECRETARY read out the list of delega- tions coming under each of the following headings:
(1) Credentials in conformity with Rule 22.
(2) Credentials not in conformity with Rule 22.
(3) Credentials of observers. [18] The list was approved by the Committee. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. MEETING Wednesday, 20 June 1951 at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. JuLIuS STONE (Australia) Examination of Credentials (continuation). [1] The SECRETARY announced that, since the last meeting of the Committee, the Director-General had received regular credentials for the delegations of Austria, Canada, Mexico, Peru and the Union of South Africa, issued either by the Head of the State or by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of those countries. [2] Consequently, the Committee recommended that those delegations should be admitted to the Conference with full voting rights. Representation of China. [3] The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee had two separate questions to examine concerning China: (a) which authority in China was eligible for re- presentation at the Conference as a Member of Unesco; (b) what action should be taken on the request of the Chinese Government for China to be admitted, with voting rights, despite her arrears in payment of contributions. [4] At the Chairman’s suggestion, the Committee decided to discuss those questions separately, one after the other. [5] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) pointed out that the Chinese authorities in Formosa had themselves admitted in their letter (document
6C/9, page 2) that they represented a population of only 7,600,000 persons out of the 470,000,000 in- habitants of China. To allow the Chinese people, who had been closely associated with the work of Unesco ever since the Preparatory Conference, to be represented by the authorities located in Formosa, would therefore be ignoring the facts of the situation. [6] Unesco was not obliged to adhere blindly to the policy and decisions of the United Nations. The fact that Communist China had intervened in Northern Korea was not sufficient reason for Unesco to sever all links with the Chinese people, as was bound to be the result of any decision that China should be represented at Unesco by the Formosa authorities. [7] In conclusion, the representative of India sub- mitted to the Committee a formal proposal to refuse recognition of the Chinese authorities in Formosa as representatives of the Chinese State.   [12] Secr the that оС теас] [13] of tt [14] thou, tion bind; mig}
747 [В Ме. seconded that proposal. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) [9] Mr. CATES (United States of America) first observed that, in effect, the question of Chinese representation appeared to be settled by Article II, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, which stated that “Membership of the United Nations Organization shall carry with it the right to membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization”. [10] The United Nations, after establishing a special committee to study the question, and deciding in the meantime to admit the representatives of the Nationalist Chinese Government, had asked the Spe- cialized Agencies to follow suit, for the sake of maintaining unity within the family of the United Nations. After lengthy discussion, the various Spe- cialized Agencies had complied with that request. In order to avoid similar discussions in Unesco, the United States representative put forward a draft resolution whereby the Committee, after noting the resolution of the United Nations calling upon the Specialized Agencies to followits lead in the matter, would recommend the General Conference to adhere to the policy of the United Nations on the question of Chinese representation; to take no other ‚final decision on the subjectuntil the competent organ of the United Nations had announced its decision; and, meanwhile, to accept, as representative of the Chi- nese State, the same Government whose delegates were at the moment accredited to the United Nations. [11] The CHAIRMAN felt bound to call the atten- tion of the United States representative to the fact that Article TI of the Constitution, which he had quoted, referred to the right of States to be re- presented at Unesco, but not to the right of Govern- ments. He pointed out, moreover, that the United Nations had merely recommended, but not “requested” the Specialized Agencies to adopt the same policy on the matter of Chinese representation. He therefore asked the United States representative if he could amend his draft resolution on that point. [12] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in forwarding the resolution of the General Assembly, had stated that the ad hoc Committee which had the question of Chinese representation before it, had not yet reached any fina] decision. [13] Mr. LUCET (France) supported the proposal of the United States representative. [14] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) thought it was clear that the United Nations resolu- tion was simply a recommendation and in no way binding on Unesco. He asked that the proposals might be voted upon in the order of presentation, G/RE DENT TALS COMMITTEE XI-2 i.e., that the Committee should vote first on his proposal, which would run as follows: [15] “The Committee considers that the Formosa Government is not authorized to represent the Chinese State at the General Conference”. [16] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) seconded that proposal. [17] Mr. MORGENSTIERNE (Norway) thought it might be better, before calling for a vote of the Com- mittee on the substance of the problem, to ask it to vote on a proposal to defer the discussion of the whole problem of Chinese representation. [18] Mr. CATES (United States of America), in the light of the Chairman’s remarks, suggested amending his resolution to read as follows: Considering:
(1) The United Nations resolution establishing an ad hoc Committee to examine the question of Chinese representation and allowing the representatives of the Nationalist Chinese Government, in the meantime, to continue to sit as delegates.
(2) The fact that the United Nations has recom- mended that the attitude adopted by the General Assem- bly be taken into consideration by the Specialized Agencies. The Committee recommends the General Conference (a) To follow the recommendation of the United Nations regarding the question of Chinese representa- tion. (b) To refrain from taking any final decision on the subject of Chinese representation until the United Nations have reached a decision on the subject. (¢) To take into consideration the attitude of the General Assembly of the United Nations and to admit to this Conference the representatives of the same Chinese Government as is accredited to the United Nations. [19] Adoption of that resolution would enable Unesco to avoid political discussion, whilst at the same time taking a stand in line with that of the United Nations. [20] The CHAIRMAN said that copies of the pro- posal just read by the United States representative would be distributed to all Members of the Com- mittee in a few moments. He asked the represen- tative of India whether he would be prepared to regard that proposal as an amendment of his own, pointing out that its net result was to defer discussion of the question. [21] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) replied that he could not accept the proposal of the United States representative as an amendment to his own, since in fact it was completely contradictory. [22] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) would express no opinion on the proposal of the United    XI CREDENTIALS States representative until he had examined the written text. He regretted that the Committee had to discuss matters which lay outside Unesco’s com- petence. [23] His Majesty's Government had always main- tained that the Central Government of the Chinese People’s Republic was in fact the rightful Govern- ment of the Chinese State. Unfortunately, that Government had launched continuous attacks on the United Nations troops ever since the United Nations had been forced to condemn that Government for its act of agression in Korea. Under those conditions, and until the Central Government of the Chinese People’s Republic regained a saner conception of its obligations,it would, he thought, be more expedient to defer decision on the problem of Chinese repre- sentation. In postponing action, Unesco should not model its attitude on the stand taken by the United Nations, but should reserve the right at a later date to take its own decision on the subject. [24] Mr. MILLS (Australia) thought that, until the question had been settled by the United Nations, Unesco should maintain the status quo. The Aus- tralian delegation would therefore support the United States draft resolution. [25] Mr. CATES (United States of America) pro- posed to make the following amendmentsto his draft proposal, in order to meet the objections of the United Kingdom representative:
(1) Delete paragraph (a).
(2) Insert at the beginning of paragraph (b): “Postpone a final decision ‚” and delete the words: “until the United Nations have reached a decision on the subject”;
(3) In paragraph (c), state simply that the Com- mittee recommends “that Chinese representation be ensured in the same way as at preceding sessions of the General Conference of Unesco”. [26] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the second part of the first clause of the preamble in the United States resolution might be replaced by a new clause, as follows: Considering that, pending a final decision on the matter, the Chinese Nationalist Government is continuing to be represented at the United Nations. . . . [27] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) asked whether the representative of the United States would accept, as a compromise, the following wording of the resolution: Recommends the General Conference: (a) To defer decision on a change of Chinese represen- tation at Unesco, (b) To continue, at this Conference, to admit the same representatives of China as at former Conferences. COMMITTEE 748 [28] Mr. CATES (United States of America) would accept the text proposed by the United Kingdom delegate for paragraph (a); but preferred to retain his own text for paragraph (b). [29] After discussion between the CHAIRMAN and the representatives of INDIA, the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA and the UNITED KINGDOM, the Chairman proposed the following text, which com- bined certain features of the proposals of the United States and the United Kingdom. Considering:
(1) The resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations establishing a special committee to study the question of Chinese representation.
(2) The fact that, pending a final decision by the General Assembly, the representatives of the Government of Nationalist China are continuing to sit on the various organs of the United Nations.
(3) The United Nations recommendation to the effect that the stand adopted by its General Assembly should be taken into consideration by the Specialized Agencies. The General Conference decides: (a) To defer decision on the representation of China at the General Conference of Unesco. (b) To accept, for the present session of the Con- ference, the credentials issued by the same Chinese Government as was represented at previous sessions of the General Conference. [30] Mr. GIL (Uruguay) said that, so far, he had purposely refrained from participating in a political discussion, especially as his own country was not directly affected. His delegation would support the United States proposal, firstly because it was in accordance with the attitude adopted on the subject by the United Nations; and secondly because he thought it preferable to admit representatives of the Formosa Government, which desired to continue its participation in Unesco’s work, rather than repre- sentatives of another Government which showed no interest at all. [31] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) said that his delegation would abstain from voting, since Yugo- slavia could not support a proposal allowing the Nationalist Chinese Government to be represented at the Conference. [32] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) explained that, although his Government still regarded the Central Government of the Chinese People’s Republic as representing the Chinese State, he was nevertheless prepared to support the United States resolution, since the persistently uncompromising attitude of the Central Government of the Chinese People’s Republic made it necessary to postpone final decision. [33] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the amended text of the United States resolution.   Es par tha bey [36 Cre dec bal: thai Con the [37 to t [38
749 GR EDEN TAL [84] The draft resolution, in its amended form, was adopted by six votes to one (India), with one abstention (Yugoslavia). [35] The CHAIRMAN then called upon the Com- mittee to decide on the request of the Minister of Education of the Republic of China (document 6C/9) asking the Conference, in application of Article TV, paragraph 8c, of the Constitution, to authorize China to participate in the voting, despite her arrears in the paymentof her contributions, in view of the fact that her failure to pay was due to circumstances beyond her control. [36] Mr. LUCET (France) dit not think that the Credentials Committee was empowered to take a decision on such a question, which might upset the balance of the Organization’s budget; he thought that the question should be referred to the General Conference, which would doubtless wish to consult the General Committee on the subject. [37] The CHAIRMAN thought that the question had certainly already been referred by the Conference to the Committee. [38] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) added that the COMMITTEE Xi-2 decision would have to be made by the Conference, on the basis of the report drawn up by the General Committee. [39] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) supported the proposal of the French representative. [40] Sir John Maud suggested that the Chairman of the Credentials Committee should advise the General Committee itself to submit to the General Conference a recommendation regarding China's request to be granted full voting rights. [41] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) sup- ported the United Kingdom proposal. [42] The CHAIRMAN noted the Committee’s una- nimous support for the United Kingdom proposal. [43] Before declaring the meeting closed, the Chairman thanked all members for the reasonable attitude they had taken up. [44] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) thought it was thanks to the tact and skill of the Chairman that the Committee had been able to fulfil its delicate task. The meeting rose at 1 p.m.