7111-9 в Поет СОМ МЕ NINTH MEETING [13 Friday, 15 June 1951, at 10 a.m. a Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) sho req [14 dou pro wo Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- figure given in the “Budget Estimates”. He asked the 0 tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II) ]. reason for that discrepancy. 0 Cultural Activities (continuation) (Part III.4). [9] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural e Activities) gave the exact details of the estimates for DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL Co-OPERA- the wole of Chapter 111.4. of the Budget: TION (continuation) (1I1.4.C). $ [16 Pro цве! wol Meeting of Advisory Committee on Monu- Round-Table Discussions (page 161). mente. + “ar a > - esol Mission of experts . - ‎م „10,000 [1] The CHAIRMAN requested the names of the International Convention of the establish- two non-governmental organizations with which ment of an international Fund for the    its 1 contracts were to be signed, and the proportion of preservation of museums, monuments [17 the total estimate to be allotted to each of them. and other cultural ‎ةقففاف 4000 фсе] Travel costs for all those activities . . ٠‎ 3,000 Pro [2] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said his Government Sundries (renting of vehicles, etc.) . - ٠‎ 140 cha felt that the holding of one discussion meeting in — and
1952 would be sufficient, and suggested postpone- Total 17,340 [18 that acti serv bein ment of the second until 1953. [10] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) felt that [3] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural the sum of $10,000 appeared excessive for a small Activities) explained that the budget was made up of mission of three persons for a period of three months. the following items: $4,500 for the Permanent Com- mittee of the “Rencontres de Gendve”, and $5,500 [11] That view was supported by Mr. WYNES for the European Society for Culture. (Australia) and Miss LAISE (United States of Amer- [4] Mr. Thomas added that two different meetings ica), who suggested further that, whereas Unesco were involved, and that the Conference would have should stimulate such activities, the actual cost to decide whether both should be kept on the pro- should be borne by the interested Member States. gramme. [12] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) pointed out that it was difficult to give definite figures until the site of the mission had been decided. The estimates given, which were based  [19] Offi Gen alre the [5] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee e should defer further discussion of the item until it   | | | | | | | | | | | ВЕ | Kin | | | | | | | | | | | US had received the definite resolutions from the Pro- 1111 [20] ‎ل gramme Commission. on the cost of the mission sent to Cuzco, were only to i approximate. As regarded fees, $2,500 were ear ‎ا
0 [6] Agreed. marked for the head of the mission, whilst the other Sped E two members were to receive $1,500, i.e., a total of p
0 International Congress of the Arts (page 161). $5,500 in all. Travelling costs for three people, from | [21] № their homes to the site of the mission, had been | Offi [7] There was no comment on that item. estimated at $1,900; insurance and costs of printing Pro the report, at $1,600; and finally miscellaneous 0 PRESERVATION OF THE CULTURAL HERITAGE or MANKIND expenses (communications, equipment, etc.) at shou $1,000, or a total of $10,000 in all. The principle (I11.4.D). \ followed in estimating the costs of all missions Was [22] Preservation of Monuments and Convention on Pro- the same: Unesco paid the fees of the experts, their Cult tection of Monuments (pages 164 and 165). travelling expenses to the site of the mission, and od the cost of books, maps, etc., whilst the beneficiary Thon [8] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed to a dis- country was responsible for the maintenance costs of | Dire crepancy between the total estimate for the chapter, the mission, the travel of members of the mission the | as given in the “Draft Programme for 1952” and the within the country, and secretarial expenses. who
557 BUDGET [13] It was for the Programme Commission to decide on the project itself. Mr. Thomas said that, in response to a request from Peru, a mission would shortly be sent there; Unesco had also received other requests. [14] In conclusion, Mr. Thomas, did not share the doubts expressed regarding the effectiveness of the project; but added that a decision on the question would be made elsewhere. [15] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) felt that the question was whether or not Unesco was receiving the maximumvalue for its money; he maintained his original criticism. [16] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that it was the Programme Commission’s business to discuss the usefulness of the missions; the Budget Committee would, however, note the remarks of the United Kingdom, Australian and United States delegates in its report, [17] Mr. RAADI (Iran) noticed that provision had been made for a Legal Officer for 1952, instead of a Programme Specialist. He asked the reason for that change The delegates of the UNITED KINGDOM and AUSTRALIA asked the same question. [18] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that she would go further and suggest that all legal activities should be centralized in the responsible service, the estimates for individual Departments being correspondingly reduced. [19] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the Director- General agreed emphatically with that view, and had already arranged for the transfer of the function to the Legal Service, the post in the Cultural Activi- ties Department being allocated to a Programme Specialist. [20] Miss LAISE (United States of America) did not understand how a post for a Legal Specialist could suddenly become a post for a Programme Specialist. Such action required justification. [21] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that a Grade 12 Programme Specialist was required for the project, and suggested that the Director of the Department should be asked for a detailed explanation. [22] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) explained that the Department had decided that a specialist on the preservation of monuments was needed and had applied to the Director-General for such a specialist to carry out the project. It had been hoped to find a specialist who had also had legal training, but experience had COMMITTEE VHI-9 shown the difficulty of finding persons combining the two qualifications. Since the Director-General thought it would be impraticable to attach a legal specialist for each section of the programme, he had decided to place them all under the supervision of the Legal Adviser. [23] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) thought that the protection of monuments was a complicated question, both from the legal and from the military point of view. [24] First, it had to be decided whether the monument in question belonged to the State, the Municipality or the Commune, as might be the case in Cuba, for example. It was therefore essential to have a legal officer but, in view of the military considerations involved in the protection of monu- ments, advice and information from a military technician were also needed. [25] The representative of Cuba thought that the problem had been too superficially treated in the draft resolution concerning the protection of monu- ments. The practical means of guaranteeing such protection had not been sufficiently clearly outlined. [26] The CHAIRMAN said that the question should more properly be raised in the Programme Com- mission. [27] Agreed. PROTECTION or WRITERS AND Artists (II1.4.E). Copyright (page 168). [28] Mr. WYNES (Australia) asked why it was not proposed to hold the inter-governmental Conference in Paris. His Government strongly recommended the reversal of that decision in order to effect substantial economies. Further, he challenged, as unnecessary, the appropriation for Fees in connexion’ with that Conference. [29] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) agreed. [30] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) reminded the meeting that the International Union for the Protec- tion of Literary and Artistic Works, Berne, had long studied those problems, and issued a publication: Copyright; he asked whether the Secretariat had called upon the Union to co-operate. [31] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), in reply to the Australian and Cuban delegates, said that the Expert Committee, meeting in Washington in October and Novem- ber 1950, had recognized the advantage of holding the inter-governmental conference in a Member State, on a joint invitation issued by that State and Unesco. Although he was bound to observe a certain dis-     VIII-9 BUDGET cretion until a decision had been reached by the General Conference, Mr. Thomas said that a Member State was prepared to issue a formal invitation, and that all the parties concerned appeared to be prepared to accept that proposal. [32] As regarded cost, an estimate had been drawn up by the Bureau of Conference Planning for a Conference in two languages, which would last one month and would require additional staff (inter- preters, translators, minute-writers, etc.). Mr. Tho- mas assured the Committee that Unesco would work in close co-operation with the Berne Union, with which a working agreement had already been concluded, and approved by the Executive Board. All precautions had been taken to ensure that the Unesco Convention would not overlap the Berne Convention. [33] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether, after such minute preparation, the Conference really needed to last so long; Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) assured him that the technical problem involved had been thoroughly investigated, as Unesco had already been engaged on the work for two years, and had received a large number of replies from Member States. The period of 30 days was, no doubt, arbitrary, but it was based on the experience of a Conference which had been held in 1948 for the revision of the Berne Conven- tion, and which had taken four weeks to complete its work. [34] The CHAIRMAN wanted to know what would be the difference in cost between a Conference held in Paris and one held elsewhere. [35] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the difference would not be very great. The Conference would doubtless be held in Geneva, since Switzerland had played a predominating role in work on copyright. There was also a psychological factor in favour of Switzerland; since certain countries who were signatories of the Berne Convention might be uneasy lest the Unesco Convention might contradict it, the fact that the invitation was issued jointly by Unesco and Switzer- land would provide the most striking proof that the two Convention were intended to be complementary, and not contradictory. In conclusion, Mr. Thomas said that the travelling costs of members of the Secretariat would be fairly low; he was prepared to have estimates drawn up for presentation to the Com- mittee. [36] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) appre- ciated that it was sometimes necessary to seek the assistance of outside bodies, when the Secretariat was either overworked or did not possess experts com- petent in certain fields; he asked whether it was one of those reasons that had necessitated the provision COMMITTEE 558 for a contract with the International Literary and Artistic Association. [37] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), reminded the meeting that the International Literary and Artistic Association, which had been in existence for 80 years, had initiated all the work carried out on copyright, including the Berne Convention. It also had the advantage of including among its members, authors, publishers and lawyers. At Unesco’s request, the Association had set up a Committee to study certain technical problems and had published the results of the work in Copyright. It was therefore proposed to con- tinue collaboration in the current year, under a contract for the study of technical problems. It was one of Unesco's fundamental tasks to standardize copyright regulations throughout the world. [38] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) asked whether it had been definitely decided that the Inter-governmental Con- ference of Experts should last 30 days, or whether that was an approximate figure. [39] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), replied that the duration of the Conference had been estimated as accurately as pos- sible, in order to allow for the Convention to be drawn up, adopted and signed by the delegates to the Conference, who would be empowered to do so. [40] In accordance with the wishes of the Con- ference, the Committee of Copyright Specialists, attached to the various delegations, would begin work on 18 June 1951. The Committee would be instructed to draw up a report, based on the Programme, the Report of the Director-General and the recommendations of the Conference, for submis- sion to the Programme Commission. [41] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that it was precisely because he knew that the Committee of Copyright Specialists was to meet during the following week that he was asking on what basis it had been calculated that the inter-governmental conference would last 30 days; he, for his part, had not come across any mention of that in any of the printed documents. Mr. Brull thought that the Committee of Copyright Specialists should be left to decide that point. [42] The CHAIRMAN noted that the reasons for holding the conference appeared valid, and that the decreased cost of holding it in Paris rather than Geneva was negligible. The Committee could note in its report that certain delegates queried the estimate of 30 days for the duration of the COD ference.
559 Diss [43] the Teac [44] Popt [45] the e [46] Cultı purc. of 5( The into . Tran [47] Cultu estim to re in fa ment upat The also $ [48] whetl betwe that subsi view | trans] for th [49] Cultus on th up the sion, betwe the de submi makin Unesc zation prove cussed There Spanis ficient moreo , . — — — — — … m . . . . . … . m . m . . … … . . . "
50 Онт DISSEMINATION OF CULTURE (III.4.F). [43] The CHAIRMAN noted the large increase in the section over 1951. Teaching of Philosophy (page 172). [44] No comments. Popularization of the Arts (page 173). [45] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked for details of the estimate of $15,000 for “Other contractual items”. [46] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that that sum was to cover purchases for, and organization of 15 exhibitions of 50 reproductions, at $1,000 for each exhibition. The costs of framing and packing had to be taken into account. Translation of Great Works (page 173). [47] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), pointing out that the budget estimates contained an error, asked the Committee to refer to the text of the Draft Programme. It was in fact a question not of contracts with non-govern- mental organizations but of a joint Commission set up atBeirut by Unesco and the Lebanese Government. The contribution of the Lebanese Government was also $10,000. [48] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) wondered whether there was absolutely no risk of duplication between the activity of Unesco in that field, and that of many national Governments which were subsidizing translations. He also asked whether, in view of the long time it took to produce a first-class translation, it was sure that the total funds requested for the item would be used in 1952. [49] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) admitted that the system adopted, on the instructions of the Conference, for drawing up the programmeof translations was open to discus- sion. The method of contracts and agreements between Unesco and the governments concerned had the defect of being slow; an amendment was to be submitted to the current Conference with a view to making the system more flexible, and enabling Unesco to co-operate with non-governmental organi- zations and publishing firms. That procedure might Prove to be more efficient, but it had first to be dis- cussed by the Executive Board and the Conference. There were many plans for translations into Arabic, Spanish, Persian and Italian, plans which were suf- ficiently extensive to justify the estimates and which, moreover, had been worked out very carefully. COMMITTEE УШ-9 [60] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Com- mittee could not discuss the merits of the proposed ‘programme, but Sir Frank Harby’s remarks would be noted in the report. Museum Seminar (page 173). [61] Mr. WYNES (Australia) sought the assurance of the Secretariat that it was wise to hold the seminar in a hard-currency area. [62] Mr. KRSTIC (Yugoslavia), associating himself with that request, felt that it would be just as effective, and more economical, to organize the seminar in Europe. [63] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the United States of America had been proposed because of the important educational role played by the museums in that country. A certain town and institution had been selected for the site of the seminar because of the excellent results obtained there; a seminar held there would gain enormously in instructive value. It was for similar reasons that a seminar of librarians had been held the year before in Sweden—a country which was very advanced in that sphere. [64] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), supported by Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt), asked whether the estimate of $8,000 for the Museum Seminar was intended to cover living allowances as well as travel- ling expenses; it was not very clear from the text. [55] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that there was no separate object of expenditure for per diem payments. If Unesco made direct per diem payments to a specialist or consultants, they were charged under “Travel of Delegates”, and if a contract were made with an hotel for board and lodging, it was charged to “Miscellaneous Costs”. [56] The CHAIRMAN appreciated that certain museum activities were more developed in the United States, but felt that the American experts might be brought to Europe, instead of transporting all the other seminar participants to the United States. In any case, he requested the Secretariat to prepare alternative estimates showing the total cost of the seminar if it were to be organized in Europe. [57] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) was, of course, prepared to draw up the estimates asked for, but reminded the meeting that Unesco was supposed to extend its activities over the world and not to hold all its seminars in Paris. He stressed the value of such seminars, and thought that Paris was not the best place for a demonstration of the educational role of museums.    VIII-9 BUDGET [58] The Committee decided to include in its report the suggestions which had been put forward on the subject of organizing the seminar somewhere in Europe. Public Library Project in India (page 174). [59] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) did not understand why the library project in question had been included in the section of the programme dealing with the dis- semination of culture; he thought it would be more in place in the section on adult education. [60] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the Director-General had tried to bring together all the various parts of the programme, so as to show that libraries, museums, art and literature all contributed towards the edu- cational aims of Unesco. [61] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that his reply indicated a most desirable trend, but she sought assurance that the Public Library project in India was being fully co-ordinated with Unesco’s Fundamental Education project for that area. [62] Mr. THOMAS, (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the whole of the project was regarded as a contribution to the fundamental education campaign, since all the material was designed for that purpose. The project was to be carried out with the help of the Indian Government authorities, who were in charge of the campaign. Public Library Project in Latin America (page 174). [63] The Committee noted that it was proposed to undertake only preparatory work on the project in 1952. Library Seminar in Africa (page 175). [64] The Committee noted that there too, it was proposed to undertake only preparatory work in 1952. [65] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sought further information about the exact objects of the seminar, [66] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the Report of the Trusteeship Council stressed the importance of pro- moting the expansion of libraries in Africa. [67] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked whether Furopean languages or the vernacular tongues had been chosen for the libraries; Mr. THOMAS (Di- rector, Department of Cultural Activities) reminded him that the project concerned seminars for special- COMMITTEE 560 ized librarians of a specified region; there was no question of actually setting up libraries. [68] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether a public library movement already existed in Africa, and whether the seminar was considered the best possible way to stimulate further action. [69] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) said that, in the two British areas of West Africa which he had visited, three libraries had been started, and that the expansion of the service was considered a matter of primary im- portance. Many difficulties—especially that of lan- guage—would have to be overcome; the areas con- cerned were greatly in need of advice, and he considered that such advice could better be given by an international than by a national organization. [70] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that Sir Ronald's remarks confirmed the opinion of the Secretariat. Though the campaign was headed by the British territories, there was also an important movement in that direc- tion in the Belgian Congo and the French colonies. Mr. Thomas was convinced that the problem should be dealt with internationally. [71] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked whether it was a question of education for the natives, for the colonials or for both. [72] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) replied that the Public Library project in Africa was designed to assist the indi- genous population. [73] Miss LAISE (United States of America) questioned the desirability of a non-member of the Secretariat being sent to make the necessary pre- parations in Africa. She also wondered whether the project had been properly related to Unesco's other programmesin África and to the Technical Assistance activities in that continent. In view of the limited funds available for all Unesco projects, care should be taken to ensure the greatest possible impact in any one region. [74] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) remarked that the work was an integral part of Unesco's fundamental education pro- gramme as well as of the programme of the Depart- ment of Education; it might well prove to be the starting point for a technical assistance project. It was for that reason that the Secretariat proposed at the end of 1952 to send one of its members or à special adviser to a country where a fundamental education project was being carried out, in order to establish contacts and to co-ordinate the work of the seminar with the fundamental education pro- | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |    BUDGET561 gramme. It would be easier to draw up precise budget estimates when the Conference decisions on the 1953 and 1954 programmes had been taken. National Bibliographical and Documentation Centre (p. 175). [75] Mr. DÜRING (Sweden) queried the necessity for contracts with national bibliographical working groups. He felt that if such groups had a particular interest in the project they would be willing to assist without special payment. [76] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) felt that the project was much the same as that being under- taken by the Technical Assistance programme in Mexico. He did not consider that a second such project was necessary in the same part of the world. [77] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) returned to the query raised by the Swedish delegate concerning the sum of $5,000 for fees of national working parties, which he thought needed to be re-examined. Although he thought Mr. Thomas would reply in the negative, he wanted to know whether there was any connexion between the project and the pilot project on public libraries in Latin America—if so, funds could be saved by combining those meetings. He also wanted to know whether it was possible to estimate Unesco’s financial commitments over a five-year period. Finally Mr. Guignolet wondered whether it was really necessary to convene such meetings at a cost of $5,000 and to pay an expert $1,500 for drawing up a report on the development of biblio- graphical services. [78] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) wondered whether the Secretariat yet knewthe name of the Member State which was to apply to Unesco for aid in organizing a bibliographical and documentation centre in its country. [79] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), in reply to the delegates of France and Sweden, said that the establishment of national bibliographical working groups had- aroused enthusiasm in many countries, and that there were, at the moment, 45 such groups operating at their own expense. Some of them, however, had embarked on work of international interest which would be of value to several countries; in such cases, it had been thought expedient for Unesco to provide aid, by offering the groups small contracts for organizing meetings or bringing out publications. In reply to the question raised by the United Kingdom delegate, Mr. Thomas said that there was no resemblance be- tween the project under discussion and the Mexican Technical Assistance Project: the latter was exclu- sively scientific, while the project the Committee Was discussing was linked with all Unesco’s work. COMMITTEE VIII-9 Replying to the French delegate, Mr. Thomas pointed out that the project was in no way connected with the Public Library Project in Latin America. As regarded commitments for five years, Mr. Thomas pointed out that, whereas both Unesco’s programme and Unesco’s budget were annual provision had to be made for the development of the project over a longer period; after that the project would have to become self-supporting, Unesco no longer being even morally responsible for it. Finally, as regarded the Inter- national Committee of Bibliography and Documenta- tion which had been set up that year and had met for the first time in London in April, its importance as a co-ordinating agent for all bibliographical work was such that it had been decided to turn it into a permanent body. It would thus be able to co- ordinate and organize work which might, subse- quently, be delegated to non-governmental organi- zations; but that stage had not yet been reached. The services of a highly qualified expert working full-time on drawing up the trend report on biblio- graphical development would be required. In conclu- sion, Mr. Thomas replied to the Cuban delegate, that it was proposed to establish the bibliographical centre in Uruguay, as there it would be helped by the presence of the Science Co-operation Office; there were, however, other countries interested in the project, and no obligations had yet been incurred. [80] The CHAIRMAN remarked that it was diffi- cult for the Committee to judge the reasonableness of the estimates if the location of the project was not known. He agreed with Mr. Diiring’s remarks about contracts with national bibliographical working groups, and expressed doubt about the need for the meeting of the International Committee of Biblio- graphy and Documentation. There were 15 perma- nent members in the division of the Secretariat concerned and they should not require the services of ‘ an advisory Committee. [81] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said she was interested in relating the techniques used in the different projects. She felt that the work plan was extremely hypothetical in the particular case in question, and suggested that the Programme Com- mission should be asked to approve merely the general principle of the project, and that only pre- paratory work should be carried out in 1952. The experience so gained could then be used to determine whether it would be worthwhile to allocate large sums to the project in 1953. [82] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that he had never questioned the need to extend the plan over several years; what he wanted, if possible, was an estimate of the costs for five years. [83] As the bibliographical centre was not linked with the Latin American project, the estimate of $5,000 constituted a subvention towards the function-    VIII-9 BUDGET ing of the centre. Mr. Guignolet thought that the work which was to be delegated to an expert for a fee of $1,500 could be done within the Secretariat. [84] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) pointed out that the proposed bibliographical and documentation centre was not in fact a new scheme. It was a logical development of previous work (the Unesco—Libraryof Congress sur- vey, followed by the establishment of a bibliogra- phical committee). Systematic plans had been drawn up and communicated to all the Member States. That marked the beginning of a systematic and logical programme on a subject which was of vital importance to all Unesco's work, and important also from the point of view of the Technical Assistance Programme. [85] In reply to Mr. GUIGNOLET, Mr. Thomas thought that a rough estimate of $60,000 might be given forthefive-year period, though that sum could not be taken in any way as final. He went on to say that the head of the Science Co-operation Office in Montevideo had forwarded a request from Uruguay that the bibliographical centre mentioned in the recommendations of the Conference might be established there. [86] The International Committee, the establish- ment of which had also been recommended by the Conference, would be of great value, not only to Unesco, but to all the other Specialized Agencies. Withregard to staff, while 15 Unesco officials were working onlibraries, only two would be in charge of bibliography and documentation; it had therefore been proposed that the work of drawing up the report (which would take a long time) should be delegated to a full-time expert. Finally, the meeting, for which a sum of $5,000 had been allocated, would be kept on the programme, even if the Latin American pilot- project were abandoned. Although they were men- tioned in the same resolution, they were in fact two separate and distinct projects. [87] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that, when asking the name of the Member State which had applied for aid in the matter under discussion, he had not intended to embarrass the Secretariat; he had not supposed the matter was confidential. The reason for his question had been that there was a Centre of Bibliography and Documentation in Havana, and he did not know whether the application for aid had come from that Centre or not. [88] The CHAIRMAN said that the comments offered during the discussion would be noted in the report of the Committee. Documentation Systems (page 175). [89] Mr. DURING (Sweden) pointed out that two contracts were proposed under that heading. The COMMITTEE 562 first appeared highly desirable, but the necessity for the second was questionable. He did not feel that a further survey of the techniques of documentary reproduction was required at the moment. [90] Mr. WYNES (Australia) felt that the expenses for the project were too high and that one item—that mentioned by Mr. Diiring—should be dropped in
1952. [91] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) doubted whether the time was ripe to undertake either of the proposals, but felt that that was a matter for decision by the Programme Commission. [92] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) pointed out that two distinct projects were involved: there was, firstly, the ques tion of concluding a contract with the International Federation for Documentation, for the publication of a complete revised edition of the Universal Decimal System for Classification, at a cost of $10,000; and secondly, a contract for the survey and promotion of techniques for documentary reproduction, to cost $5,000. [93] The CHAIRMAN said the Committee would have to await the decision of the Programme Commis- sion in the matter. International Centre for Exchange and Distribution of Publications (page 176). [94] The CHAIRMAN noted that the estimate for the transportation of goods—$4,000—was ratherhigh. [95] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that all Clearing House work was done by the Secretariat; but there was also the work of distributing books to ill-equipped coun- tries, as well as transport problems to solve. Ex- changes could be expanded if Unesco were in a position to bear transport costs in cases where the countries concerned were unable to do so. Appli- cation had been made for a sum of $4,000 for that purpose. [96] Mr. KRSTIÉ (Yugoslavia) asked why, if exchanges were to be operated by post, a sum of $1,000 had been allocated for travel. Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) replied that that was the only sum earmarked to cover the travelling expenses of the Secretariat for all the activities mentioned in the group of resolutions under discussion. Members of the Secretariat had to make those journeys in order to stimulate and co-ordinate the work of the centres, and to attend meetings of the International Federation for Docu- mentation, the International Federation of Library
563 BUDGET Associations, and the International Organization for Standardization. Convention on Exchange of Publications (page 176). [97] No comments. Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (page 176). [98] M. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) referred delegates to document 6C/PRG/12—Annual Report from the President of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. He added that the Secretariat was preparing a new docu- ment outlining revised budgetary estimates for the project. [99] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) drew attention to the fact that the detailed budget was given in an annex to the document (pages 17 and 18). That budget had been cut, not by the Executive Board, but after re- examination by the International Commission set up to produce a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. [100] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that, although the estimates for the project had been reduced at the second meeting of the Commission, on the recom- mendation of the Executive Board, the Secretariat COMMITTEE VIII-10 costs still seemed to him to be excessive. They could doubtless be reduced after decision had been taken by the Administrative Commission on the subject of local salary scales for Unesco. [101] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) pointed out that it was the duty of the Budget Committee to consider whether the estimates submitted were reasonable. In particular, the Executive Board had emphasized that the salaries of staff employed on the project should not exceed those of corresponding members of the Unesco Secre- tariat. [102] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said that his Govern- ment felt the project should be financed from funds outside the normal Budget of the Organization. [103] After further discussion, it was agreed to consider the item more fully at the afternoon meeting, when the Secretariat would have distributed the additional papers. [104] The CHAIRMAN then proposed the establish- ment of a Drafting Committee, comprising the following members: the Chairman, the Vice-Chair- man, the Rapporteur and the delegates of the United Kingdom, Iran, Cuba and Sweden. [105] Agreed. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. TENTH MEETING Friday, 15 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Miss Caron Laise (United States of America) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II) ]. Cultural Activities (continuation) (Part III.4). DISSEMINATION OF CULTURE (continuation) (IIT.4.F). Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (con- tinuation) (page 176). [1] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) presented the budget given in Annex II to the Report from the President of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (document 6C/PRG/12, Annex II), together with a paper giving the same budget adjusted to meet the proposed new salaries and allowances system of Unesco, which would result in an increase of $713 in the budget. [2] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Execu- tive Board) said that the Board’s aim had been to ensure that salaries should not be greater than those that would have been paid inside Unesco, but not necessarily to ensure that they were the same as those of other organizations.