415 OMT CE AL NEY the Conference should instruct the Director-General to take the action recommended in the resolution which the Executive Board had adopted at its Twenty-sixth Session (document 6C/OXR/10—Ad- dendum). [42] The proposal was seconded by the delegations EXTERNAL } RELATIONS VI-5 of Belgium, Italy, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. [43] It was adopted by 20 votes in favour and
1 abstention (Indonesia). The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 11 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameri (Italy) Consideration of the Recommendations of the Executive Board regarding Requests for Admission to Consultative Status Received from International Non-Governmental Organi- zations (Item 10.7.1 of the Agenda) (document
6C/OXR/11 and Addenda I-II). [1] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) read out the Executive Board’s recom- mendation contained in AddendumTI to document
6X/OXR/11. He explained that the principle was to accord consultative status only to the central federation of affiliated bodies and not to the com- ponent organizations. The result of granting con- sultative status to the Union of International Engi- neering Organizations would therefore be to withdraw that status from the World Power Conference, the International Conference on Large Electric Systems and the International Society of Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering which at the moment enjoyed it. With regard to the International Federa- tion of Free Journalists of Central and Fastern Europe and of the Baltic and Balkan Countries, the Executive Board had recommended registration for informal relations. [2] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) proposed that the Executive Board’s recommendations regarding requests for admission to consultative status received from different international non-governmental organi- zations should be considered one by one. [3] The proposed procedure was adopted. [4] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) announced his intention of commenting in due course on the case of the International Federation of Free Jour- nalists of Central and Eastern Europe of the Baltic and Balkan Countries, which the Executive Board had recommended for registration among the organi- zations with which Unesco had informal relations. Childhood International Catholic Office. [5] Approved. Consultative Council of Jewish Organizations. [6] Mr. CATES (United States of America) wished his Government’s support for the Council to be noted. It had done useful work both in the pursuit of Human Rights and in connexion with the Economic and Social Council. [7] Mr. SALEH (Iraq) protested against the admis- sion of that body. [8] Approved. International Association of Art Critics. [9] Approved. International Council on Archives. [10] Approved. International Federation of Workers’ Travel Asso- ciations. [11] Approved. International Music Council. [12] Mr. CATES (United States of America) wished to place on record his Government’s objection to the granting of consultative status to the Council, on the  RPHEaaAos—rp]PP.ت‏ ت ؤ ا ' _ ك ج ت ج ت ئ ك ك ت ت ت ت ن ن ت س ي ل ت ح : ْ ” ْ ْ T T T            VI-5 OFFICIAL SAND grounds that its internal structure was undemocratic and that the officials were self-perpetuating. It was desirable either to postpone the grant of consultative status or to recommend that the granting of con- sultative status should be conditional upon a change in the constitution. The body had been in existence for over a year and was receiving rapidly increasing subsidies; it was certainlytime it assumed a satisfactory permanent form. [13] International Union of Socialist Youth. [14] Mr. van DALSEN (Union of South Africa) objected to the grant of consultative status, on the ground of the Union’s political objects. [15] The representatives of Belgium and France having, however, expressed the desire that the Union should be admitted, it was agreed by 27 votes to 2, with 1 abstention, to admit the Union to consultative status. Approved. Pacific Science Association. [16] Union of International Engineering Organizations. [17] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) remarked that there was a question of pro- cedure to settle: as a result of the creation of a federation, those of the constituent organizations which had hitherto had consultative status with Unesco lost that status as individual organizations. Finding itself in that position, the World Power Con- ference had requested that its individual consultative status should be maintained for a certain length of time. [18] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that the World Power Con- ference, which was a relatively old body, wished to keep its individual status until the new Federation had a properly organized secretariat. The secretarial work involved was temporarily carried out by Unesco staff and it would be a few years before the Federa- tion’s own secretariat could be established. The World Power Conference, which maintained excellent working relations with Unesco through its own secre- tariat, therefore requested permission to keep its individual consultative status during the transitional period. [19] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) proposed that the Commission should follow the course suggested by the Secretariat and accede to the wishes of the World Power Conference, provided that its individual con- sultative status was terminated within two or three years at the most. Approved. EXTERNAL RELIANT 8 [20] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) opposed the grant of consultative status. If the Union of International Engineering Organizations was not yet in a position to represent the constituent bodies, he proposed that tion of its admission to consultative status for
12 months; in that way, the constituent bodies which already possessed consultative status would retain it without any derogation from the principle set out in the Directives. | [21] Mr. CATES (United States of America) shared | that view. If the Union were to be admitted, the affiliate organizations would have to lose their status. | He would, however, be interested to learn what the | feelings of the three component bodies most closely affected might be. | [22] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) stated that the World Power Conference had communicated its views to the Secretariat: it J} the Commission should defer discussion on the ques- | | wishedto retain its individual status until such time | as the Secretariat of the Union of International En- | gineering Organizations was firmly established; that | would be only a question of time and money, as the Union was justified in hoping that, within a year | or two, it would obtain the necessary funds from the subscriptions of its constituent union. As the Union had been formed only the previous year, the sub- vention which it received from Unesco did not amount to more than $8,000 to $9,000, whereas | other, older Unions received subventions amounting to anything from twice to 10 times that sum. Mr. Auger pointed out that the World Power Con- ference, in closing its individual status, would lose none of its independence from the technical point of view; it would simlpy have to co-operate with Unesco through the new Union. [23] Mr. Auger suggested that the World Power Conference's wishes might be met by maintaining its status for a very short time, possibly one year, ai the end of which the matter could be reconsidered. [24] Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) was opposed to deferment of the admission of the Union of Inter- 3 national Engineering Organizations. He recommended | that consultative status should be granted to the Union and that the World Power Conference should be allowed to retainits individual status for a limited period. [25] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) reiterated that the ( whole purpose of forming the International Union | had been to reduce the number of organizations admitted to consultative status. If Unesco refused | to admit the Union until it had been properly organized, neither the work of the Union nor that ( of the component bodies would be adversely affected. | It was impossible to admit both the Union and its | affiliated organizations. | f   a " | e r e — |
417 [26] Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) suggested that the Union should be admitted, and that the withdrawal of the affiliated bodies should be discussed the fol- lowing year.
0-2 171 01 AND [27] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) called attention to Section IL.B.(2) (c) of the Directives. [28] Mr. CATES (United States of America) said that, in his view, it was necessary either to recognize the Union and to withdraw consultative status from the three component bodies entitled to that privilege, or to delay recognition of the Union. [29] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) believed that it would be better to obey the Directive than to create a precedent, even if it involved delaying the admis- sion of the Union for one year. He reminded the Commission of the valuable services rendered by the World Power Conference to Unesco in connexion with the theme “Energy in the service of man”. [30] In view of the fact that the new Union’s pro- gramme was still somewhat theoretical, Mr. EUSTA- THIADES (Greece) was in favour of deferring a decision on the application of the Union of Inter- national Engineering Organizations; the request might be granted the following year, when the Union had started to execute its programme. [31] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) observed that the Commission was in a dilemma: it had to decide whether to admit the Union to consultative status and withdraw that privilege from the World Power Conference, or to maintain the latter’s individual status, deferring consideration of the Union's request until the following year. [32] Personally, Mr. Verniers thought that the best solution would be to admit the Union to consultative status forthwith, since it had been set up at Unesco’s request and was installed in Unesco House. The withdrawal of individual consultative status from a member organization would probably hasten the establishment of the new Union’s own secretariat. [33] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) observed that similar cases had arisen in the past and that Unesco had always granted con- sultative status, from the first year, to new federa- tions. Such had been the case, for instance, with the Council for the Co-ordination of International Congresses of Medical Sciences, and the International Union for the Protection of Nature. [34] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) having suggested that assistance to the World Power Conference should be continued in some other form, Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) explained EXTERNAL RELATIONS VI-5 that there was no question of discontinuing Unesco’s financial assistance; the only difference would be that the World Power Conference would in future receive its subvention through the Union which, from
1952 onwards, would administer all subventions granted to its constituent members. Even if the Union did not have consultative status, it would still be able to distribute subventions, but it would then constitute an exception. [35] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) proposed that an exception should be made, even if it meant going against a recommendation of the previous session of the Conference. The Commission, as an organ of the Conference, could take that course. [36] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) was in favour of grant- ing consultative status to the Union of International Engineering Organizations, as suggested in the docu- ment presented by the Executive Board (6C/OXR/11, Annex I, Appendix 10), as, if the decision were put off, the constitution of the Union’s Secretariat would also be delayed. If, on the other hand, such status were granted, its organization would be aided and consolidated, and it would be able to receive the assistance to which the consultative bodies were entitled. [37] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences), replying to a question from Mr. CATES (United States of America), explained that to admit the Union would be effectively to recognize 11 new bodies, even if it meant the withdrawal of individual consultative status from three organizations. The total number of bodies grouped in the Union was 14. In any event, only one of the constituent bodies had asked to retain its status. [38] After further discussion, it was unanimously agreed to admit the Union of International Engineer- ing Organizations to consultative status and to with- draw that privilege from the World Power Con- ference. World Federation of Catholic Young Women and Girls. [39] Approved. World Friendship Federation. [40] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service), in reply to a question from Mr. CATES (United States of America), said that, although a fairly new organization, the Federation was extremely active and had greatly assisted Unesco’s work in con- nexion with the exchange of persons. [41] Approved.     VI-5 ОКР САНТА International Federation of Free Journalists of Central and Eastern Europe and of the Baltic and Balkan Countries. [42] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) regretted that the Yugoslav Government had been unable to send the Secretariat its comments in time for com- munication to other Member States; it had received the list of applicant organizations too late. However Mr. Celebonovié felt obliged to comment on the sug- gestion that the Federation should be placed on the register of organizations with which Unesco main- tained informal relations. The Federation included journalists who were political exiles from countries in Eastern Europe and, in practice, its political and ideological aims militated against the existence of certain States which were Members of Unesco and of the United Nations. It would therefore be extreme- ly dangerous to allow it to enter, in any capacity, into relations with Unesco. In principle, and general- ly speaking, Mr. Celebonovié was not in the least opposed to the admission of an organization com- posed of political exiles; he realized that such action would be desirable in certain cases and, without wish- ing to mention any names, said that if, for example, a union of cultural workers of Republican Spain were formed, he would not objectto its being allowed to collaborate with Unesco in purely cultural fields. But the International Federation of Free Journalists of Central and Eastern Europe and of the Baltic and Balkan Countries was carrying out a campaign, openly in the press and secretly by other means, against Member States, and against Yugoslavia in particular. Not only would Mr. Celebonovié vote against the recommendation that the Federation should be included in the register, but he would most strongly urge the Commission not to vote in favour of the Federation’s admission, which could only be harmful to international collaboration. The fact that the Executive Board proposed the establishment of in- formal relations only, in spite of the Federation’s re- quest to be admitted to consultative status, showed that the Board was aware of the difficulties he had mentioned. Mr. Celebonovié proposed that the Com- mission should go still further than the Board, and oppose the establishment of any relations whatsoever with the Federation. [43] In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN as to whether he wished to move formally that the Federation should not be registered among organi- zations with which Unesco had informal relations, Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) stated that he had expressed his opinion and merely requested that the matter should be put to the vote. [44] Mr. CATES (United States of America) wished, on behalf of his Government, to submit a resolution granting the International Federation of Free Jour- nalists consultative status, instead of merely includ- ВОВ НРА, 418RELATIONS ing it on the register of organizations with which informal relations were maintained. The Federation was devoted to supporting the principles of free speech, and was therefore certainly eligible for con- sultative status, being primarily concerned with matters falling within the competence of Unesco. [45] In reply to a question from Mr. de ALBA (Mexico), Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) explained that the Federation had applied to Unesco, giving information about its activities. Unesco had carried out some enquiries of its own regarding the Federation’s work but, pending a deci- sion by the General Conference, no definite steps to collaborate with the Federation had yet been taken. [46] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) thought it would be inconsistent with Unesco’s policy to refuse to col- laborate to the extent of merely exchanging informa- tion; the least it could do was to enter the Federation in the register of organizations with which it had informal relations. The United States delegation, however, had proposed the granting of consultative status to the Federation, one of whose main aims was to co-operate with the United Nations and Specialized Agencies. The Commission should therefore first decide on that point. [47] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) had listened with special attention to the arguments of the Yugo- slav delegate, who had contended that the Federation was purely political in origin. Mr. Cowell’s informa- tion was, however, that it was more than a political organization; it sought to be the mouthpiece of a huge body of opinion which was too rarely heard at Unesco. If it really spoke for people who had denied their official countries for political reasons, or be- cause they were refugees whose culture had been submerged, then Unesco would find it hard to refuse registration. The Federation would bring Unesco into touch with many intellectuals and would cer- tainly be useful to them. Nor need Unesco itself be over-alarmed at the obnoxious political pressure to which it might be subject as a result of admitting the Federation to registration. Mr. Cowell therefore proposed that registration should be granted and that the application for consultative status should be re- examined the following year. [48] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) seconded the re- marks of the delegate of Belgium. The Federation's statutes gave the impression that its work was inspired by Unesco’s principles and particularly by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. AS Unesco itself was a non-political organization, it was desirable, and even essential, to accept an organr zation which followed the ideals proclaimed by Unesco. Personally, he would be prepared to accept any organization of free journalists, whatever their country of origin.    OFFICIAL AND [49] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) said that the Com- mission was faced with two different and conflicting arguments. On the one hand, there was the proposal of the Yugoslav representative, and on the other that of the United States of America. In order to secure agreement, the Commission should opt for a solution midway between the two, i.e. the recommendation made by the Executive Board. [60] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) pointed out that he was not opposed to the political character of the organization, as shown by the fact that he had voted for the admission of the International Union of Socialist Youth. Furthermore, he fully agreed that it was Unesco’s duty to defend the freedom of the press, the desirability of which he had never intended to contest. He would not have objected to the admission of the journalists concerned, had they belonged to a large, general organization of jour- nalists; but they had formed a fighting group of their own against the policy of certain countries. Mr. Cele- bonovié expressed his strong conviction that, if such an association were allowed to enter into any relations whatsoever with Unesco, the latter would inevitably be harmed. [61] While recognizing that Unesco was bound to adopt a sympathetic attitude towards refugees, Mr. LUCET (France) thought the Organization should avoid offending certain States. Referring to the con- ditions for the admission of regional organizations to consultative status [Directives, Section II, A (2) (a) |, he expressed some doubt whether the Federation ful- filled all those conditions, and thought it would be wiser to adopt the solution recommended by the Ex- ecutive Board, which, while not accepting the Federation for consultative status, had not entirely rejected it. [52] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service), in reply to a question from Mr. CATES (United States of America), said that the Economic and Social Council had admitted the Federation to lts register. [53] On the proposal of Mr. de ALBA (Mexico), seconded by Mr. LUCET (France), it was agreed by
26 votes, to 2, with 3 abstentions, to add the Inter- national Federation of Free Journalists to theregister. World Association for Public Opinion Research. [54] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) explained that the Executive Board had sub- mitted the application to the Commission without offering an opinion, on the ground that it had in- sufficient information concerning the organization. EXTER NAD RELATIONS VI-5 [55] Mr. CATES (United States of America) pro- posed to postpone discussion of the application until further information was available as evidence of greater international participation in its governing body. [56] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) mentioned that her Department had had comparatively little contact with the organization, but that it was to hold a Conference, in London, in September, and that thereafter she hoped to have a clearer idea of the international nature of its work. [57] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) suggested that the Association should be included in the register for informal association. [58] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) replying to the Austra- lian delegate, said that postponement of a decision regarding the World Association for Public Opinion Research merely meant that Unesco needed additional information to enable it to take its decision with a full knowledge of the facts. [59] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) seconded ‘the Mexican delegation’s proposal. As it was laid down in the Directives that when a request for admission had been rejected, it could not be presented again until two years had elapsed, he would prefer the re- quest to be held over until the following year, pend- ing receipt of additional information. It had been said that the organization’s activities were not suf- ficiently international in character, and it might therefore take advantage of the delay to extend its work to other parts of the world. [60] Mr. CHANDIRAMANI(India) pointed outthat, if the Association were admitted to the register, its application for consultative status would, in effect, be rejected. Under Section II.B (2)(b) of the Direct- ives, it would therefore have to wait two years before applying again; if consideration were postponed, however, it would have to wait only one year. [61] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) withdrew his sug- gestion that the Association should be entered on the register. [62] It was unanimously agreed to postpone con- sideration of the application for one year. [63] On the proposal of Mr. CATES (United States of America), it was agreed to convey the Com- mission’s views to the Association at its forthcoming Conference. The meeting rose at 7 p.m.