261 GENERAL Austria's plea to the notice of the Committee, while observing that it seemed unsafe to create a precedent which might give rise to a number of similar claims. [11] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) con- sidered that such a dangerous precedent should certainly be avoided. [12] The CHAIRMAN noted that the Committee was unanimously in favour of upholding the decisions already taken on Member States’ con- tributions. Resolutions Presented by the Executive Board. [13] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) read out three draft resolutions presented by the Executive Board. [14] The first, regarding the development of a
20-year programme for achieving peace through the United Nations (document 6C/DR/82), was referred to the Official and External Relations Commission. [15] The second (document 6C/10), approved by the Executive Board on Mr. de Berredo Carneiro’s proposal and designed to associate Unesco with the celebration of the fifth centenary of the birth of Christopher Columbus and Isabella of Castile, was referred to the General Conference and the Pro- gramme Commission. N COMMITTEE 111-10 [16] The third draft resolution (document 6C/DR/
83) concerned Unesco’s contribution to the action of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies in Korea; it was referred to the Programme Com- mission. Publications Sent by Spain. [17] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) informed the Committee that the Spanish observers had sent a series of publications to the Secretariat for distribu- tion. He asked for instructions in the matter, as some of the publications did not deal directly with education, science and culture. [18] The CHAIRMAN considered that the Secre- tariat should on no account distribute documents, from no matter what source, which were not directly related to Unesco’s aims. [19] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) suggested that, in the circumstances, the Spanish observers should be asked to distribute the documents themselves. [20] That proposal was adopted. The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m. TENTH MEETING Saturday, 7 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Howrann SARGEANT (United States of America) Letter to the Director-General from the Czechoslovak Chargé d’Affaires in Paris. [1] The CHAIRMAN explained that he had called an extraordinary meeting of the General Committee to consider an urgent matter, calling for an im- mediate decision. [2] The Director-General had received a letter, dated 6 July 1951, from the Czechoslovak Chargé d’Affaires in Paris, writing on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Czechoslovakia. [3] The letter raised two problems, the first of which concerned the General Committee. In the first part of theletter, the reasons for Czechoslovakia's absence from the Sixth Session of the General Con- ference were given. It wasalleged, in the first place, that Unesco had ceased to be the Organization con- ceived by its founders as one which would contribute to world peace, ensuring respect for justice and human rights, and secondly, that Unesco no longer served its Member States impartially. [4] In the second part of the letter, the Czecho- slovak Chargé d’Affaires made certain accusations against a member of the Secretariat. The Director- General had placed that second matter before the Executive Board. [5] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) stated that, at a private meeting held that morning, the Board had appointed a working party to carry out an investigation and report back to it.
111-10 ОВ ВОНА [6] The CHAIRMAN stressed the need for a rapid reply, in order to avoid the publicity which Czecho- slovakia would probably give to the affair; such publicity was bound to be harmful to Unesco, at a time when public attention was focussed upon it during the last days of the Conference. The reply could be confined to a mere acknowledgement of receipt. The Chairman thought, however, that it would be better to reply at greater length, stating what steps had been taken by the Executive Board and expressing some surprise that Czechoslovakia, a Member State, should have decided not to attend the current Session and had not thoughtit necessary to communicate with Unesco through the normal channel of its delegation to the Conference. [7] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL read a draft reply to the Czechoslovak letter, drawn up by the Secretariat after consultation with the President of the Con- ference. [8] After a long discussion on the draft had taken place and several amendments had been proposed, the Director-General explained that the draft was the outcome of wishes expressed by the Executive Board, which had decided to set up a committee to hear the Czechoslovak Charge d’Affaires. The Director-General emphasized the fact that it was he who should be responsible for the reply. He had drafted the second part of it in accordance with advice given him by the Executive Board; it was on the reply to the question of general policy raised at the beginning of the letter from the Czechoslovak Chargé d’Affaires that he wanted the opinion of members of the General Committee. [9] Agreeing with what the Director-General had said, Mr. SIASSI (Iran) went even further and gave it as his view that the General Committee was com- petent only to deal with matters relating to the Sixth Session of the General Conference, and that the letter did not concern it, being a matter for the Director- General alone to decide. He thought that all mem- bers of the Committee agreed on the principle involved and that, as regarded drafting, they should COMMITTEE leave it to the Director-General’s discretion to reply to the letter addressed to him. [10] Mr. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Com- mittee) was also in favour of leaving it to the Director-General to draft a reply based on the views expressed during the discussion, The reply should be such as to neutralize the effects of the letter, not in the minds of government officials, whose position was clear, since 54 States were represented at the Conference, but in the general mind. [11] Mrs. PECSON (Chairman of the Committee on Reports of Member States) advocated a very brief reply, stating that the Executive Board had decided to conduct an enquiry, the results of which would be communicated in due course to the Czechoslovak Embassy. [12] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the General Committee should inform him of any definite points that ought to be included in his reply, in the same way that the Executive Board had helped him in replying to the accusations against a member of the Secretariat. [13] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) was of opinion that, as Czechoslovakia was certain to give publicity to its letter, the Executive Board and the General Conference were partially responsible for replying to it. He therefore seconded the Director- General's proposal that it should be left to him to write a reply, after consultation with the President of the Conference and the Chairman of the Executive Board. [14] The General Committee adopted the procedure suggested. [15] It was agreed that the next meeting should be held on Tuesday, 9 July. The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.