PROGRAMME organization was involved: the Section responsible for liaison with international non-governmental organizations comprised two specialists and two assistants, including a music specialist. [126] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the question of a possible re-arrangement of the resolutions should be left to the Drafting Committee which the Commission had already appointed. With the Committee's proposals before it, the Commission would decide, when it came to consider a com- prehensive resolution, whether the programme C'OMMTSS FON 318 should be left as it was, or divided up into a number of more detailed resolutions. Similarly, it would decide whether to group publications together or to link them up with the corresponding pro- gramme activities. [127] A decision on item 4.11 might be taken at the next meeting. [128] The procedure proposed by the Chairman was adopted. The meeting rose at ? p.m. EIGHTH MEETING Saturday, 80 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Piaget (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation). Cultural Activities (continuation). DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL Со-ОРЕВ- ATION (continuation). Item 4.11 (continuation). [1] The CHAIRMANasked the Commission to vote upon draft Resolution 4.11, which had already been discussed at the previous meeting. [2] Mr. VITO (ltaly) pointed out that his delega- tion had always emphasized the importance of the cultural aspect of Unesco’s programme. Statements to that effect had been made at the Fifth Session and repeated at the opening of the Sixth Session of the General Conference. In particular, with regard to the item under discussion, the Italian delegation associated itself with the French delegate’s remarks at the previous meeting. [3] The CHAIRMAN observed that the discussion ‚on the substance of the matter was closed, and invited the Commission to vote on the resolution in question and on the expenditure relating to it. [4] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) said that his National Commission had expressed concern about the amount of the subvention to be allocated to the International Music Council. The sum of $28,000 appeared small, unless the Council possessed sub- stantial resources of its own to finance its programme. Mr. Missingham requested clarification of the point by the Secretariat. [6] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the International Music Council had at its disposal funds subscribed by its member Associations. They amounted to only a small sum, unfortunately, and the Council had to rely upon financial resources to complete its work. [6] The Commission approved the text of draft resolution 4.11. [7] The CHAIRMAN then asked the Commission to vote successively on the two proposals to reduce the appropriation relating to item 4.11. The delega- tion of Haiti had asked for a reduction of $7,000, whilst the Secretariat had suggested a reduction of $16,000. [8] Mr. CAIN (France) hoped that the reduction of appropriations for that item would be as small as possible, in view of the arguments put forward by various delegations and repeated by the Italian dele- gate. He therefore agreed with the proposal made by the delegation of Haiti. [9] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the budget ceiling had been exceeded after discussions on the Education, Natural Sciences and Social -Science programmes. The programme would have to be   | |        PROGRAMME given a second reading to bring it within the limits laid down by the General Conference. If the pre- liminary reduction of nine per cent were not achieved at the first examination of the programme, he won- dered whether it would be possible to achieve the total reduction of 11.38 per cent. A cut of nine per cent in the appropriations for item 4.11 therefore seemed a necessary step, however regrettable it might be. The Commission was finding it very difficult to make the detailed reductions asked for, but, if it made an exception in favour of the international non- governmental organizations referred to in the resolu- tion in question, economies would have to be made in other parts of the Cultural Activities programme. Thus, on the second reading, the Commission might have to deal a blow at priority activities. While expressing sympathy with the proposal of the dele- gation of Haiti, the Director-General advocated adoption of the solution suggested by the Secretariat. [10] The Commission decided, by 19 votes to 4, to accept the reduction of $7,000 proposed by the dele- gation of Haiti. Draft amendments submitted by the Belgian Govern- ment (document 6C/DR/2). [11] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that the Board had approved the new Resolution 4.111, which involved no additional ex- penditure. [12]
4.111. The Commission approved the new Resolution Draft resolution submitted by the Cuban delegation (document 6C/DR/34). [13] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) expressed the Board’s approval of the draft resolution, which involved no new expenditure. [14] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Ex- ecutive Board had suggested that the draft resolution had better be embodied in the work plan, so as not to add to the text of the programme. [15] Mr. WANGÜERMERT (Cuba) said that his delegation agreed with the Director-General’s proposal. [16] The draft resolution súbmitted by the Cuban delegation was approved, subject to the proviso made by the Director-General. Item 4.12. [17] The draft resolution was approved without comment. COMMISSION IV-8 Report on the establishment of a Unesco publications subsidy fund (document 6C/PRG/9). [18] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) pointed out that the report had no bearing on any of the resolutions in the 1952 pro- gramme. It was concerned with consultations held by the Secretariat as a result of instructions given to the Director-General at the Fourth Session of the General Conference. The majority of replies from Member States were in the negathive, but it seemed possible to encourage the sale of the works in ques- tion by giving information about them to possible purchasers. The Secretariat also proposed to give information on methods of reducing the cost of reproduction and publication. [19] The Commission noted the Director-General's report. Item 4.121. [20] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) said that the previous year the Secretariat had entered into negotiations with pub- lishers in different countries on the subject of the International Review of the Arts and had seemed on the point of arriving at a favourable conclusion. It had even begun to collect copy for the review. Unhappily, during the previous December, one of the prospective publishers had said that he did not wish to undertake publication of the Review in the United States of America because of the change in the international situation. In the circumstances, the Secretariat, on the advice of the Executive Board, decided to give up the publication of the Review for the time being. Indeed, faced with considerable difficulties at the commercial end, the Secretariat had considered it wisest to ask for the cancellation of the appropriations for the project in 1952, total- ling $29,950 (fees, including recruitment of a Grade
12 specialist). Nevertheless, the Secretariat had not entirely abandoned the idea of publishing the Review, which was of undeniable interest. [21] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) supported the decision of the Director- General and the Executive Board to eliminate the publication in 1952. [22] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) re- affirmed the opinion of his delegation that publica- tions should be attached to the programme of the appropriate Department instead of being grouped under one heading. Furthermore, to facilitate study and evaluation by delegations, as well as by the Director-General, each proposed publication should be authorized by a resolution of the General Con- ference. [23] The United Kingdom delegation felt strongly   IV-8 PROGRAMME that the International Review of the Arts, was a publication of importance and value. Since certain reductions had to be made in the budget of the Cultural Activities Department, it was easy to achieve that end in one fell swoop by suppressing a publica- tion. The United Kingdom delegation, however, would urge the most careful consideration before taking such action in that case. No magazine on the arts with a world-wide circulation existed at the moment. Many national art magazines were pro- duced, but they failed to solve the problem of world-wide distribution and were usually obliged to cease publication through lack of support. Sir Philip felt it was precisely one of the tasks of Unesco to study the problem of the world-wide circulation of such magazines. As a member of the editorial board of the review under consideration, he felt it was wrong to abandon the project entirely because of a disappointment with regard to its publication in one country only. The editorial board might be slightly to blame in that respect for having estab- lished the Review on too high a plane, and the United Kingdom delegation would recommend that the Director-General should be authorized to con- tinue publication, making renewed efforts to find a publisher in the United States of America and, if necessary, re-organizing the editorial board. [24] Mr. CAIN (France) was prepared to accept the Secretariat's proposal, in spite of the force and value of the United Kingdom delegate’s arguments. Ile recognized that the preliminary investigations had produced no positive result and that it would be better not to consider publication of the Review in
1952. [25] Mr. MONTANER (Uruguay) favoured the United Kingdom delegation’s proposal because it dealt with an activity of Unesco’s which was not likely to interfere with private initiative. The ques- tion was of sufficient importance to merit a fresh examination in order that the work of publication already undertaken might be continued. [26] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) said that his National Commission had been most concerned at the non-appearance of the Review, but felt the pro- posal to eliminate it completely was unwise. A great deal of work, which it would be a pity to waste, had been done on the publication, which, as stated by the United Kingdom delegate, was unique in its world-wide appeal. He therefore proposed deferment of publication until the question of publishers had been investigated and cleared up. That would result in a saving in the 1952 estimates, without suppressing so valuable a publication entirely. [27] Mr. Missingham further suggested that, in consultation with the Secretariat, priorities could be COMMISSION 320 given to publications in the same way as to pro- gramme projects. [28] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) emphasized that the Secretariat did not in the least doubt the interest of the Inter- national Review of the Arts; he thanked Sir Philip Hendy for his valuable collaboration in the work of the editorial committee. He thought that the Commission might instruct the Director-General to continue to examine the possibility of publishing the Review under new conditions. Draft amendment submitted by the Belgian delegation (document 6C/DR/7). [29] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) reported that the Board had been in favour of the amendment, but had drawn attention to its budgetary implication ($1,800). [30] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) suggested that the Secretariat should undertake publication of the Supplement to the International Directory of Photographic Archives of Works of Art in 1953 only, in order to assemble more substantial material. [31] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) supported Mr. Tho- mas’s proposal. Draft resolution submitted by the French delegation (document 6C/DR/36). [32] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) reported that the Board had decided against the resolution because of its budgetary implications. [33] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) found it most difficult to estimate the expenditure the project might entail. It would certainly be heavy if it meant that Unesco itself had to undertake publication of the Index Generalis. With Minerva, that review provided a directory of uni- versities and other cultural institutions. There was at the moment a new review in the same field: The World of Learning, a British publication. In the circumstances, the Secretariat would have to con: sider the most suitable steps to take in the matter, and discover which review was the more deserving of Unesco’s support. [34] Mr. CAIN (France) pointed out that the Index Generalis was the only publication which supplied a complete list of universities and other cultural in- stitutions throughout the world; he was anxious that the Secretariat should respond favourably to his delegation’s suggestion. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed that the[35]     o m . ر  ح س ب   L e c c e
321 T PROGRAMME Drafting Committee should be instructed to mention in the work plan that the Secretariat would make a study of publications similar to the Index Generalis, without providing for supplementary expenditure for that purpose in the 1952 budget. [36] Mr. CAIN (France) agreed to the Director- General’s suggestion. [37] The Comission approved item 4.121, as amendèd. [38] The reduction in appropriations suggested by the Secretariat in connexion with the International Revue of the Arts, was approved. Draft resolution submitted by the United Kingdom delegation (document 6C/DR/3) [39] With regard to the part of the United King- dom delegation's draft resolution relating to the revision of the text of item 4.121 (document 6C/ DR/3, page 2, paragraphe 7), the DIRECTOR- GENERAL reported that the Secretariat was primarily determined to present as concentrated a programme as possible. The United Kingdom proposal entailed the drafting of a special resolution for each publica- tion, but he hoped that the existing text would be retained. He reminded the meeting that the Ex- ecutive Board had upheld the arguments for con- centration of Unesco’s programme. [40] Mr. CAIN (France) did not think it advisable to take a vote on each of the resolutions referred to in the British delegation’s proposal (document 6C/DR/
3). It seemed to him better, as Sir John Maud had suggested, to hold a discussion later upon the whole presentation of the Cultural Activities programme. [41] The CHAIRMAN noted that the British dele- gation agreed with Mr. Cain’s proposal, and sug- gested that discussion of the item should be post- poned to a later meeting. [42] Agreed. Item 4.13. [43] The SECRETARY said that the Budget Com- mittee, in its Report, had questioned the need for two contracts of $4,500 and $5,500 respectively. [44] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) said that the Secretariat would agree to the elimination of the appropriations for the con- tract with the “Société Européenne de culture”, thus reducing expenditure under the resolution to $5,200. He pointed out that the contract with the “Comité permanent des Rencontres internationales” of Geneva would ensure the attendance of eminent personages from distant countries. COMMISSION IV-8 [45] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) said that he had wished to speak during the discussion of item 4.121 and, although that item had been approved, he asked leave to make a practical suggestion about the Copy- right Bulletin; the Commission would decide whether or not recommend it to the Secretariat. [46] The Conference of Copyright experts had just approved a draft universal convention, on a report by Unesco’s Legal Adviser, which was to be published in English, French and Spanish. The delegation of Cuba therefore felt that the Copyright Bulletin itself, which was publishing much important matter on the question, in preparation for the conference at which the convention would be signed, should also appear in those three languages. In that way, the 20 Spanish- speaking republics of America would be put in pos- session of all the available material. The Bulletin, instead of appearing quarterly, could be published three times a year. [47] The procedure adopted by the experts should apply generally and the Bulletin should be published in the three languages, starting with the next number. [48] The CHAIRMAN took note of the statement by the Cuban delegation. Draft resolution submitted by the Lebanese delegation (document 6C/DR/9). [49] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon), commenting upon the draft presented by his delegation, explained that it aimed at giving greater liberty to the Secretariat; it was also intended to give the subjects to be chosen for round-table conferences a rather less philosophic character and make them more concrete and topical. The Lebanese delegation hoped that Unesco would itself be able to organize round-table conferences on those cultural problems which were of vital impor- tance to peace, and that it would give complete free- dom of expression to those who were invited to take part. With regard to the cultural relations between East and West, he pointed out that interest had been centred mainly on Indian philosophy, and he thought that the culture and influence of Islam upon civiliza- tion were equally deserving of study in the realm of relations between East and West. Lebanon, where the influences of Islam and Christianity were mingled, might be said to be particularly suitable for that purpose. On its shores, two cultures had been fused and still continued to develop in harmony. In conclusion, Mr. Ammoun suggested that the appro- priation of $10,700, covering item 4.13, should be retained, and that items 4.13 and 4.52 should be combined, as they related to the same kind of activity. It would thus be possible to effect a saving in the appropriations under item 4.52. Moreover, the round-table conferences might be organized on a question directly connected with the problem of: “The practical application of man’s right freely to a . =
4   TV-8 PROGRAM MK participate in the cultural life of the community”, which was the subject of Resolution 4.52 [50]! Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of Amer- ica) supported the Lebanese delegation's resolution, on the basis of the existing 1952 budgetary provision for item 4.13. Many speakers at the current session had emphasized the importance of associating artists, scholars and otherintellectuals directly with Unesco. The resolution under consideration amended the original work plan and provided an opportunity to establish such direct contacts freely and without governmental participation. [51] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) asked Mrs. Potter Russell whether she advocated that the appropriation of $10,700 should be retained for item 4.13, as the Lebanese delegate had suggested. [52] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) explained that, as long as no agreed topic was mentioned in the text of the resolution, her delegation would support the Lebanese suggestion that the topic for the proposed conference should be taken from item 4.52 in the draft programme. It might then be possible to effect an economy of $7,000 by eliminating the provision for a meeting under the latter item. [53] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) explained that the Secretariat's plan was to have the round-table meetings organized by institutions already fully experienced in such matters, He understood that the Lebanese delegation wished to make the Secretariat responsible for organizing the talks. In that case, larger appropriations would be needed and that was doubtless why the Lebanese delegation had suggested, in document 6C/DR/9, that the appropriations should be increased to $25,000. With regard to combining Resolutions
4.13 and 4.52, Mr. Thomas pointed out that Resolu- tion 4.52 allowed for a meeting of experts upon a clearly defined matter connected with the application of Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The problem was one which had not so far been adequately explored, and which fell com- pletely within Unesco’s province. It should be studied by a committee of experts. Resolution 4.13, on the other hand, dealt with round-table discussions devoted to cultural problems of a much more general nature. [54] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) realized that Unesco might be well advised to appeal for the co-operation of specialized bodies, but he believed that the talks would have much wider repercussions if Unesco accepted a larger share of the responsibility of organi- zing them, as suggested in the Lebanese proposal. The expense would depend on the number of partici- GIOIM M1 S SIT ON 322 pants. Furthermore, the Lebanese delegate was of the opinion that items 4.13 and 4.52 were closely interconnected and that the proposed round-table discussion could be said to form a part of the cultural life of the community. Besides, it was difficult to call in experts or specialists in such a wide field as that of culture. [65] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) felt that the alternatives appeared simple. The Secretariat had proposed a reduction of $5,000 by eliminating one of the two meetings to be held in 1952. The Lebanese amendment agreed that only one meeting should be held in 1952, but requested an increase in the bud- getary provision to a total of $25,000. Mr. Missing- ham suggested that an immediate vote should be taken on the two proposals. [66] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL regretted that he was unable to endorse the Lebanese delegation’s re- quest. With an appropriation of only $25,000 the Secretariat would not be able to organize a large meeting like that held in India in 1951. Since numerous suggestions were made in favour of Unesco’s entrusting work as far as possible to outside organizations, it would be illogical to adopt a pro- posal based on the contrary principle. It would be impossible to combine items 4.13 and 4.52 in one resolution, because item 4.52 covered an examination of the cultural and legal aspects of the application of Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. [57] Put to the vote, the proposal of the Lebanese delegation was rejected. [58] Draft Resolution 4.13 was approved, with the reduction of $5,000 suggested by the Secretariat. [59] Mrs. POTTER. RUSSELL (United States of America) asked it to be noted that her delegation was not in favour of the reduction. Item 4.14. Draft amendment submitted by the Belgian dele- gation (document 6C/DR/6). [60] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that the Board favoured the Belgian delegation’s proposal, in spite of the increase of $3,645 which it would mean in the appropriation. [61] Mr. UNGARETTI (Italy) thanked the Belgian delegation for its proposal and said that Venice would be pleased to welcome the international con- ference of artists. He stressed the importance of the visual arts and was happy to see the interest taken by Unesco in artists.
393 PROGRAMME [62] Mr. CAIN (France) also supported the Belgian delegation's proposal. [63] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) said that his delegation had not found the project men- tioned under the item in question very sympathetic, but that the Belgian amendment gave hopes that real progress would be achieved. He felt, however, that the Conference proposed should be regarded as purely experimental and not as the first in a series of two-yearly meetings. He suggested that the con- ference should also consider the possibility of estab- lishing a fully representative body in the field of the visual arts. In the United Kingdom, the British Council had organized joint meetings of artists and art critics with great success and to their mutual benefit, and it was held that the experiment could, with advantage, be extended to the international field. [64] The Commission approved Resolution 4.14, and the increase of $3.645 in the appropriations. PRESERVATION OF THE CULTURAL HERITAGE OF MANKIND. liem 4.21. [65] Mr. HABIB (India) drew attention to the special importance of the project. He outlined the position in his country, where, in spite of lack of funds, great efforts were being made to protect and preserve works of art, monuments and other cultural assets. He supported any efforts Unesco could make to encourage MemberStates in action of that nature. [66] The resolution was approved. Item }.22. [67] The resolution was approved, after the Com- mission had noted the observations made in the Budget Committee’s report (document 6C/BUD/1, page 17). Item 4.23. Report on the possibility and advisability of adopting an international convention instituting a special tourist tax for the preservation of monuments and museums (document 6C/PRG/10 and Addendum I). [68] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) said that the majority of Member States which had been consulted did not favour the tourist tax, as it would be contrary to the principle of reducing obstacles to travel. Several States thought, on the other hand, that Unesco might study the possibility of forming an international fund. An appropriation of $1,000 was asked for the fees of an expert whom the Secretariat intended to consult. COMMISSION IV-8 [69] Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) observed that the establishment of an international convention was an act of the highest dignity and importance. His delegation felt that the conclusion of too many such conventions tended to reduce their value; it could, therefore, recommend consideration of a convention only if (a) no other appropriate means of taking action existed, or (b) a large number of Member States had expressed their willing- ness to ratify such a convention. [70] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) sup- ported Mr. Ribble’s view. The Brussels Treaty organization had alreday investigated the possibility of a convention on the subject under discussion but had encountered difficulties in drafting a text acceptable to all Member States. It would be prefer- able for Unesco to restrict itself for the moment to a declaration on the matter. [71] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) remarked that the statements by the United States and United Kingdom delegates coin- cided with the conclusions arrived at in the report in question. The Secretariat would, therefore, not attempt to establish a convention, but would seek another solution. Draft resolution submitted by the Swiss Government (document 6C/DR/4). [72] As the Executive Board had not commented in any way upon the draft, it was agreed to incorporate it in the work plan for item 4.23, which was also approved, note being taken of the statements made during the discussion. Item 4.24. Report on the preparation of a draft international convention for the protection, in case of war, of objects of cultural value (document 6C/PRG/22). Draft resolution submitted by the Italian delegation (some subject) (document 6C/DR/28). [73] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that a new draft resolution, 4,241, had been approved by the Executive Board. [74] The newresolution was approved by the Com- mission. Draft resolution submitted by the Italian delegation (document 6C/DR/29). [75] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that the Board had asked the Italian +       IV-8 PROGRAMME delegation if it could change the part of its resolu- tion relating to “unilateral declarations”. [76] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) believed that Member States might promulgate a unilateral declaration based upon the principles of the draft convention which had been studied by the Secretariat at the instigation of the Italian delegation. That document was a reversion to the former draft prepared by the Institute for Intellectual Co-operation. The draft of a unilateral declaration had been published by the Italian delegation in document 6C/DR/73. The dele- gation was prepared to agree to the revision of that draft by a drafting committee, which might have a membership of three. [77] Mr. remarks supported byPilotti’s were Mr. SASSEN (Netherlands), Miss MONSCHEIN (Aus- EUSTATHIADEStria), Mr. CAIN (France) and Mr. (Greece). [78] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, seconded by the Chairman, proposed that the Commission should decide on the principle contained in the Italian pro- posal and appoint a drafting committee to examine document 6C/DR/73. [79] That proposal was adopted. It was also decided that the drafting committee should consist of Mr. Pilotti (Italy) and a representative of both the United States of America and France. [80] Mr. CAIN (France) noted that no reduction in the appropriation for Resolution 4.24 was sug- gested. Reminding the meeting of an earlier state- ment made by the Indian delegate, he made a strong appeal for Unesco to pursue a more active policy to ensure the protection of monuments and objects of cultural value; he hoped that larger appropriations would be granted for that purpose in 1953. [81] The appropriation of $17,340 was approved, together with the text of item 4.24. COMMISSION 324 Criteria for the Establishment of priorities. Item 8.4 of the Agenda (continuation). Draft resolution concerning the Establishment of Priorities in the Programme for 1952, submitted by the Delegation of the United States of America (document 6C/DR/61, Rev. 2). [82] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL read the revised draft of the resolution. The text had been approved by the Executive Board and the Director-General considered that it would be an extremely useful guide, not only for the Director-General and the Executive Board in the execution of the programme, but also for the General Conference in keeping to the Budget ceiling fixed. [83] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) recommended that the Commission should approve the document. [84] Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) said that his delegation accepted the revised text, and moved its adoption in place of its original resolution. [85] Mr. CAIN (France) approved the new text, which provided a well-defined working basis. He emphasized the importance which the French dele- gation attached to paragraph (2), concerning the execution of long-term projects. Without that para- graph, his delegation would not have been able to agree to the American delegation’s text, for it was essential that Unesco’s long-term activities should not be interrupted. [86] Mr. VITO (Italy) also approved the text sub- mitted. [87] The Commission unanimously, with one abstention, adopted document 6C/DR/61 rev. 2, The meeting rose at 7 p.m.