11-16 PLENARY [117] Finally, the last recommendation of the Programme Commission is the adoption of the main report (document 6C/PRG/34), showing the reso- lutions which were adopted unchanged by the Pro- gramme Commission and the wording of the amended resolutions and new resolutions. The Conferenceis also requested to authorize the Director- General, if necessary, to change the lay-out of docu- ments and the number of resolutions relating to the Organization’s programme in the final edition of the Conference's decisions. This appears to me to be a normal and reasonable way to proceed. MayI then ask whether there is any objection to the adoption of the fourth and final recommendation of the Programme Commission? I hear none and therefore will rule that we have approved the four MEETINGS 204 — recommendations of the Programme Commission. [118] On behalf of this General Conference, I should very much like to express our appreciation to Professor Piaget, to his excellent Vice-Chairmen, Mr. Sharif of Pakistan, H.E. Mr. Castro Leal of Mexico, and to our Rapporteur, Mr. Gabriel. We all know how heavy a burden they have carried for us. [119] We have now completed our agenda for this afternoon. Tomorrow, we still have to consider the report of the Procedure Committee, the report of the Budget Committee, and several additional resolutions. The meeting rose at 5.07 p.m. SIXTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 11 July 1951, at 10 a.m. President: Mr. HOwLAND Sargeant (United States of America) CONTENTS Statement by the delegate of the United Kingdom on the report of the Official and External Relations Commission Speech by the observer for the Vatican E | Adoption of a resolution on programmepriorities for 1953 and 1954. Presentation and adoption of the second report of the Budget Committee Presentation and adoption of the second report of the Procedure Committee Statement by the Delegate of the Kingdom. United [1] The PRESIDENT — This morning I have as the first item on our Agenda a brief report to the Conference by the delegate of the United Kingdom, and I ask Mr. Hardman if he will come forward. [2] Mr. D. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) — Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I ask your per- mission to make a statement about one of the reso- lutions in the report of the Official and External Relations Commission, which I should have made yesterday büt for the fact that I was broadcasting about the work of this Conference when that report was taken. This statement from the United King- dom delegation refers to the resolution contained in the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission. It is as follows: [3] The United Kingdom regrets that it is forced to abstain from the vote approving the resolutions adopted by the General Conference on the report of the Official and External Relations Commission under Item 10.5.2. The draft resolution says in its operative paragraph, numbered 1, that the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organi- zation will furnish emergency assistance upon the request of the General Assembly. That is to say, the power of decision as to whether or not action should be taken by Unesco in any instance would rest with the Assembly. Under the Uniting for Peace Resolution, to which the resolution refers, the      “205 PLENARY General Assembly is empowered to make recommen- dations to Members. It can only make recommen- dations and not decisions. Recommendations, whether of the Assembly or any other body, are not binding on Members of the United Nations. They could not be binding on the Specialized Agencies. The Specialized Agencies cannot undertake greater obligations than their Members have under the Constitution. It would therefore be quite improper for the Specialized Agencies to be used as a medium for imposing on their Member States resolutions deriving from General Assembly resolutions, which would not themselves be binding on those States as Members of the United Nations. It would mean that the Specialized Agencies were being used to do something the Assembly itself could not do. This is precisely the effect the proposed resolution would have, because, under it, Unesco and, to that extent, its Members, would be compelled, at the request of the Assembly, to assist in carrying out an Assembly Resolution that would not itself be binding on the Members of the United Nations and to which some might object. Resolution 363.12 of the Economic and Social Council (Ecosoc), to which reference is made in the second paragraph of the Preamble, is not an instruction to Unesco to commit itself in advance to taking any action which the Assembly might request. It is a request for consultation be- tween the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies as to the arrangements which the Agencies might appropriately make to meet requests from the Assembly, and the invitation to the Agencies to make such arrangements. The Agencies are asked to put themselves in a position to act if a request is made. That is all. [4] We of the United Kingdom delegation regard this constitutional issue of sufficient importance to make us wish to record this view. We do not question the view that Unesco should be prepared, whenever the Security Council or Assembly may so request, fo give immediate and active consideration to the steps which it can properly and effectively take to co-operate with the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security. I am sorry to have to begin this last morning of the Conference on so discordant a note, but, unfor- tunately, I was unable to make this statement yester- day and, in finishing, Mr. President, and fellow- delegates, I would like to say that it is the view of my delegation—and I take the opportunity to make this known now—that this has been the best and most workmanlike Conference that Unesco has yet held. We have registered considerable progress and I am only sorry that I have to preface these words of praise and of congratulation among ourselves, with an explanation of our situation in regard to the resolution in the Report of the Official and Ex- ternal Relations Commission. [6] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the MIE TINGS 11-16 United Kingdom and, in accordance with his re- quest, we will see that the view of the United King- dom with respect to this item is properly recorded. This morning we have the privilege of listening to the observer from the Vatican, in accordance with the decision of your General Committee, and I shall now ask Mgr. Roncalli, known to all of us who have been at this Conference, if he would care to come forward to address his remarks to us. Speech by the Observer for the Vatican. [6] Mgr. RONCALLI (Vatican) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, may I first of all express my lively gratitude for your willingness to hear one who has, indeed, the honour to attend your proceedings but as an observer only. What I have to say will recall to Unesco veterans the address of Mgr. Borgongini-Duca, the Apostolic Nuncio in Italy, to the Conference held last year in Florence and the satisfaction he then expressed at that great meeting of nations drawn in by Unesco from every corner of the world to consider the most effective means of promoting the spread of education, science and culture. [7] The Society I represent is the oldest and the largest cultural organization in the world, called to life by the words which rang from the hills of Galilee over the waters of the lake below: “Go ye forth and teach all nations.” After two thousand years the work goes on on every shore and in every land where liberty is more than a mere name. Any representative of that society must inevitably recall the cornerstone, the first principle on which its mighty structure rests and whence it draws its strength: God, Dominus scientiarum. [8] It is with that thought in my heart that I rejoice to see that, as the years go by, Unesco’s phy- siognomy grows clearer and stronger. It is as though the Organization were struggling free of its childhood’s swaddling bands and, with the great ventures of history as its exemplars, launching forth and setting its course towards the future. I like to remind both the timid and the impatient that for the Creation itself six days were needed, each with its own particular task. We must know how to be patient. [9] Unesco does not seek to “make a corner” in teaching, public and private, everywhere in the world; all it seeks is, through its own initiatives, through its well-considered and priceless counsels, through its reports on material and spiritual needs and circumstances, to make the most effective con- tribution to the efforts of States and free institutions, private and public, for the growth of education and culture. [10] Thus we now see that Unesco has become, not what we might have feared at the beginning, a great museum to provide intellectual diversion and
11-6 PLENARY cultural opportunity for a curious throng, but as a leaping fire whose sparks will everywhere set aflame wholehearted vigorous effort and widespread co- operation to establish justice, liberty and peace for all the peoples of the earth without distinction of race, language or religion. [11] I want you to mark those words: “without distinction of race, language, or religion”. That is Unesco’s explicit attitude, embodied in the preamble of the Constitution signed in London in 1945, towards the relations between races, tongues and faiths in all the countries where it works. If I stress the point, it is not to imply that the racial, literary or religious values of the peoples should be ignored or overlooked but rather that the fullest account be ever taken of them. Let us put it plainly: Unesco seeks to be a school of mutual respect; and as such, it must be neither blind nor deaf to the values basic to the psychology of each people—its national spirit and religious outlook. It is the proofs of goodwill that Unesco has given in its handling of these basic facts and problems, which earn it the trust and co-operation of the greater part of mankind. [12] When I turn to the ambitious projects and practical plans for which the future will deem this session of the Conference notable, there is a twofold coincidence which gives me pleasure: firstly, the conference is meeting in Paris at the very moment when that great city is celebrating its bimillenary; and, secondly, Unesco’s endeavours are attuned to those of the United Nations themselves in the cause of peace. [13] Of the tasks of this session, two which strike me as of special importance are technical assistance to under-developed countries, and the establishment throughout the world of regional centres of funda- mental education. [14] To an observer from the Vatican the second of these enterprises must be of particular appeal, for it is closely akin to what has ever been and still re- mains the Church’s liveliest and dearest concern, the work of education and civilization which she has pursued for centuries through her missionaries in every corner of the earth. [15] In the last few weeks alone His Holiness Pius XII himself has treated of the matter in a Bull, Evangelii praecones, which cannot fail to impress and indeed to edify all whose work and interests spur them to strive for the reforms needed to re- make the modern world. The breadth of views and the soundness of method which the Bull displays cannot but strike every reader. You may judge of its quality from a single brief sentence: “The Church is not like a man who, sparing nothing, fells, plunders and destroys a flourishing forest; rather she emulates the gardener who grafts a pedi- gree stock on to the living wood to get from it later fruit of finer savour and greater sweetness.” [16] It will be for Unesco’s executive agencies to MEETINGS 206 study the technical aspects of this great problem. In education, and more particularly in fundamental education, technique is ever growing and improving. But technique can and should be governed by a lof- tier inspiration. For the Church it is the true love of soul; for all men of good will it is the spirit of brotherhood which shows them in the face of their fellowmen the mirrored image of their God. [17] Those, then, are my impressions of the work of this, the Sixth Session of Unesco’s General Con- ference, and on their account it is my duty to offer my heartiest and sincerest congratulations to all those from every country who have taken part. They impel me also to the view that the prospects for the future are such as must give us new heart. [18] Today, Unesco is like a mighty vessel, though storms still trouble the seas through which it sails. For you, Mr. Torres Bodet, who direct its course with such dignity and wisdom, the task is to keep the flag flying. Keep it high, then, that Unesco may extend its activities to ever wider lands and ever new horizons. [19] In Count Stefano Jacini, we have a lusty son of the Lombard earth in which I, too, have my roots. In his veins runs the illustrious blood of the Borromeo and he is thus a link to recall to us one of the greatest geniuses of education, science and cul- ture, who gave the decisive impulse to a new Christian humanism and thereby honoured his Church, his country and his century. To you, Count Jacini, we owe the tribute of our gratitude for the great and effective service you have rendered to Unesco as Chairman of the Executive Board. [20] And what shall IT say of Mr. Howland Sar- geant, who has occupied the President’s chair at the Sixth Session of the General Conference? As a keepsake of the friendly meeting of 26 June, when Mr. Sargeant, with so many others came to Paris on Unesco’s business, met to honour the office of the Apostolic Nuncio, he gave me, humble book-lover that I am, a volume of particular interest and worth to me, a copy of the first book printed in the Philip- pines at Manila in the 16th century, containing the first Catechism or Doctrina Christiana, in Spanish, Tagalog and Indian. The book in itself, its rich cri- tical and bibliographic background, the simplicity of this first Prayer-book and primer of Christian life, and the gracefulness and appropriateness of its giving, combine to touch me deeply. Mr. Sargeant, our eyes and our hearts can speak together and, though no word is uttered, the echoes of their dis- course will ring through both our lives. [21] Ladies and gentlemen, you represent a di- versity of faiths and ideologies. I would ask all of you whom Unesco has brought together in Paris in the weeks just past to accept my sincerest wishes for a continuance of good relations which may issue in the proclamation of the brotherhood and peaceful co-existence of the human family. “To look on one another with no challenge in our eyes, to draw close    o r . — = — — . w — . - . c - r e g e e s . e e a a : . M N ب ‎ — " > ب ح ك س ح e n ‏ — ] T T —
207 PLENARY without fear, to help one another without sacrifice of identity” that in itself is an ample programme for the progress of society towards Unesco’s goals. Together we shall tread the right road. [22] The PRESIDENT — I know that I speak for every one of us in this room when I say with the greatest simplicity and the greatest genuineness to Mgr. Roncalli that he has indeed brought us an inspiring message to begin what will probably be our final plenary meeting this morning. I was deeply touched by his faith and optimism in the future of Unesco when he said that we perhaps have emerged from our swaddling clothes and we boldly face the future. Adoption of a Resolution on Priorities in the Programme for 1953 and 1954. [23] The PRESIDENT — I have one item to take before we cometo the report of the Budget Committee this morning. I will call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom briefly to present to us the draft resolution “Priorities in the Programme for 1953 and
1954” (document 6C/DR/89), proposed by the United Kingdom, United States of America and Canada. [24] Mr. H. C. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) — Mr. President, in presenting this resolution my dele- gation wishes simply to legislate for a state of affairs to which attention has already been drawn by the Administrative Commission. The fact is that at this Conference, as at the preceding conference, it has been possible to allow the actual expenditure of this Organization to exceed the amount of contributions which can reasonably be expected from Member States in any given year. This process, as our Director-General has indicated, cannot be expected to continue indefinitely, and I think we all gen- erally recognize that, if Member States are unable to pay their contributions within a given time, a point will be reached at which the Executive Board and the Director-General must take steps to slow down the programme approved by the preceding Conference, to prevent expenditure from outrunning the income of the Organization. This means, we feel, that the Conference must undertake in future years the responsibility of indicating to the Executive Board and the Director-General, more clearly than it has been able to do at this and at preceding Con- ferences, which projects carry a relatively low priority. [25] My delegation believes that the Conference can do this only if the Executive Board has first drawn up a draft programme presented to the Con- ference on the basis of a system of priorities. There would, we feel, be another advantage in thus draft- ing the programme for future years. At this Con- MEETINGS 21L16 ference, the Programme Commission had a very hard task in making a number of cuts in order to adjust the level of programme activity to the budget total which Member States felt that they could approve. The process of preparing these cuts and proposing them to the Conference was loyally under- taken by our Secretariat and it means, in effect, cutting out a number of low priority items. This was presumably not a very difficult task for them, because the Director-General had already indicated in the introduction to his budget—and the Executive Board had drawn attention to this fact in their pre- sentation of the budget—that it was to be expected that some ten per cent of the draft programme would not in fact be carried out. Therefore, as soon as the Administrative Commission had indicated that funds were available to increase the real spend- ing budget of the Organization and bring it up to the level of the nominal budget total, it was, I imagine, a comparatively easy task for the Director- General to propose cutting those items out of the programme which it is reasonable to anticipate would not have been carried out in any case; but clearly it would have been better, had these low priority items been indicated as such in the Draft Programme itself, and we feel that the time has definitely come when the Executive Board must pre- sent a programme in which the various activities of the Organization are graded according to a clear and definitive system of priorities. My delegation feels that the criteria offered by the Economic and Social Council, as well as the criteria adopted by the Pro- gramme Commission for the execution of the 1952 Programme should be studied by the Executive Board and applied by them to the preparation of the 1953 and 1954 programme. [26] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the United Kingdom for his presentation of this draft resolution. I would remind you, since this has not been examined by our Commissions and Committees, that the operative part of this resolu- tion is the final paragraph, requesting the Executive Board and the Director-General, in drawing up and presenting the draft programme and budget for 1953 and 1954, to indicate clearly, within the Draft Pro- gramme, the respective degrees of priority which they consider should be attached to the various activities of the Organization. 1 call upon the dele- gate of France. [27] Mr. Julien CAIN (France) — [Translation from the French] As you have just told us, Mr. President, this question was not considered by a Commission and comes up to us just as we are about to break up. It is a very important matter and its significance has been ably explained to us by the United Kingdom delegate. [28] The French delegation, which learned of this Resolution yesterday, has given it very careful study
11-16 PLENARY and I beg to submitits observations. To begin with, it pays tribute to the idea behind this resolution, which is evidently to bring order into the proceed- ings of the Conference by establishing priorities. The French delegation has always favoured the establishment of priorities in the presentation of programme projects, conforming thereby to the re- solution passed by the General Assembly of the United Nations which is referred to in this text. The French delegation, however, wishes to point out that the adoption of priorities should in no cir- cumstances restrict the normal development of the different parts of the Organization’s programme—I stress the words “different parts”—nor should it disturb a balance arrived at by several years” ex- perience. We are anxious to avoid activities being jettisoned at a future date without the Conference knowing anything about it; but, more than that, the French delegation wishes to emphasize again that nothing should limit the Conference's sov- ereignty, especially now that we have adopted the principle of biennial sessions. For that reason, the French delegation accepts the text now submitted to you subject to an addition which I propose to read to you. The following words should be added to the last paragraph: Requests the Executive Board and the Director-General, in drawing up these priorities, to take account of Resolution 8.51 adopted by the Sixth Session of the General Conference and particularly of its paragraph 2, which lays it down that there shall be no interruption in the execution of long-term projects which have already reached an advanced stage. [29] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of France and ask whether I may have his motion in writing. I would like to ask whether the proposers of the motion would accept the proposal just made by the delegate of France. The proposers of the motion are the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada. The United Kingdom do you accept this proposal? United States do you accept the proposal? Canada do you accept the proposal? The addition proposed by the delegate of France is thus acceptable to the three movers of the original motion. Do other delegates wish to speak to this proposal? I see none. I therefore ask whether the meeting is ready to approve the motion as amended by the delegate of France. I am now going to ask that this amendment be read once again. [30] Mr. MONNTAGNIER, Secretary of the Con- ference — [Translation from the French] Requests the Executive Board and the Director-General, in drawing up and presenting the draft programme and the budget for 1953 and 1954 (a) to indicate clearly, within the draft programme, the respective degrees of priority which they consider should be attached to the various activities of the Organization; (b) to take account, in the establishment of these priorities, of MEETINGS Resolution 8.51 adopted by the Sixth Session of the General Conference, and particularly of its paragraph 2, which lays it down that there shall be no interruption in the execution of long-term projects which have already reached an advanced stage. [31] The PRESIDENT — I thank Mr. Montagnier. The delegate of Liberia wishes to speak. [32] M. Nathaniel V. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Liberian delegation wishes to inform this body that, in view of the far-reaching effects which this resolution might have on our programme for the following two years, the Liberian delegation will register an abstention on this issue. We are not prepared to vote in favour nor against. [33] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Liberia. Do other delegates wish to speak? I shall now ask you to vote on this proposal by holding up your signs. Those in favour of the motion? Those who are opposed? Abstentions? It is carried by a vote of 49, with one abstention. Presentation and Adoption of the Second Report of the Budget Committee. [34] The PRESIDENT — We now come to the second report of the Budget Committee, and I shall ask Mr. Guignolet, the Rapporteur, if he will come forward to summarize the conclusions. [35] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), Rapporteur of the Budget Committee — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the General Committee has recommended that every rapporteur shall make his report briefly, and that I am now going to do. T take it that all of you have in front of you Document 6C/BUD/4, which is the final report of the Budget Committee. Asthis is the first time that the Committee has met in advance of the Conference it thought it wise to consider its work- ing methods and try to imprové them. The Budget Committee has taken much account of the recom- mendations made at the Florence Session, but it thinks that it is possible, should the Conference decide to maintain this practice of meeting before the Session, to improve its methods still further, and this is considered in Section A of its report. 1 do not propose to comment upon if, but you will no doubt agree that the Committee’s sole concern is to facilitate the work of the other Commissions, and it can help that work by examining all documents which have financial implications and by assessing their Budget repercussions, though without taking any decision of substance, lest it encroach upon the functions of the Commissions. [36] Regarding Section B of the report, Membership of the Committee, our Committee found that it was able to work very comfortably with the 11 members
209 PLENARY making up this year’s Committee. It also thinks it desirable that at future sessions a certain number of the members should be re-eligible so that new members may benefit by their experience. As regards the appointment of members, which lies with the General Conference, the Committee further suggests that certain countries which contribute the largest share towards Unesco’s expenses should be invited to nominate a representative each year, since these coun- tries would obviously wish to have a representative controlling their assessments. The Committee makes no suggestion on this point and leaves it to the Con- ference to decide how many members shall be re- eligible. [37] As regards the size of the Committee, it may be thought desirable to enlarge it in certain circum- stances so as to enable more Member States to serve on it. In that event, however, the Committee believes that its sessions would last a little longer. They might extend to 10 days before the Conference instead of a week, especially if in 1952 the Committee has to examine a two-year Budget. [38] With regard to Section C of the report, Func- tions of the Committee, we have retained the draft resolution adopted in Florence, slightly amended in the matter of considering documents of the other Commissions which have budgetary implications and also in the matter of examining the report of the auditor, which we thought might give us useful data for our study of the budget estimates of subsequent years. [39] Lastly, we added a Section D, Form of the Budget, which is a kind of recommendation to the Secretariat regarding the Budget’s presentation. This year our work was based upon a first document, the Programme, and a second document, the Budget. It is difficult to examine Budget estimates without knowing the Programme, and last year in Florence the two documents were united in one. We think that this form is to be preferred and in a condensed document affords a more accurate picture of proposals and of their financial implications. This form of presentation is naturally desired, by financial experts, whose wish for clarity and exactitude does not always harmonize with the concerns of other delegates in other Commissions. We believe that the Secretariat will be able to follow our recommendations without however conflicting with decisions taken in other Committees and affecting the form or presentation of the Budget. [40] On page 5, you will find the draft appropria- tion resolution for 1952. This calls for no special comment. It is the identical draft resolution of last year, the Budget ceiling being altered to $8,718,000, as you will find in the Appropriation Table for 1952. That Table gives you for each part, chapter and section the sums which it appeared possible to appropriate to the different Programme activities. [41] The Chairman of the Budget Committee, and MEETINGS i 11-16 I myself, are at the Conference’s disposal if delegates should desire any explanations or further comments on this report. [42] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Rapporteur, Mr. Guignolet, for that very excellent summary of the work of the Budget Committee. 1 will call upon the delegate of Cuba, if he wishes to speak to the report of the Budget Committee. [43] Mr. Mariano BRULL (Cuba) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, Mr. Director- General, ladies and gentlemen, the Cuban delegation agrees with the Budget Committee’s recommendation except on one point, which I should like to submit for consideration. The Programme Commission approved by a nominal vote of 23 to 14 the Cuban delegation’s proposal to create a small information office at Unesco House under the direction of two specially appointed officials. Apart from the many general advantages mentioned in the project itself, the creation of such an office would benefit the whole Organization by centralizing the information service, which heretofore has only been partially effective. It would be more economical as well as more efficient and more democratic, in that it would make informa- tion accessible to humble intellectual workers and students coming to Paris from our far-off Latin American republics. Tt is hard to understand why the Budget Committee, after examining this project, made a decision which constitutes a dangerous precedent, which may impair the smooth and democratic running of the Organization, by interpret- ing the proposal in the sense that to set up this office, it would be sufficient to appoint one official supplied by the Mass Communication Department and one other imaginary official not provided for in any chapter of the budget, thus rendering ineffective the resolution approved by the Budget Committee to have two officials specifically appointed for this purpose. The Cuban delegation does not wish to re-open a use- less discussion by bringing up again a question which was duly approved by a large majority of votes; it merely wishes to see the original proposal re-established. We therefore propose that the Plenary Conference authorize the Director-General to appoint two officials, and at least one of them in a new post, to take charge of this essential informa- tion service. [44] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Cuba for his remarks on which I will invite com- ment. I should also like to have advice on this point from the Rapporteur and from the Director- General or his representative. [45] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), Rapporteur of the Budget Committee — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, the resolution submitted by the dele- gation of Cuba, numbered, if I remember rightly,
6C/DR.1, was first submitted to the Programme Commission, and thence referred to the Budget Com- mittee; the latter, after a first reading, thought that it might be possible to establish a Reception Office by a re-organization of services, and the view of the Committee was communicated to the Administrative Commission with the following particulars: The Budget Committee recognized the importance of the Cuban suggestion and the necessity for a Reception Office, and asked the Administrative Commission if it would be possible to set up the office without additional expense within the framework of existing services and by making use of existing embryo staff. Later, the Budget Committee re-examined this resolu- tion without having up to then had any reply from the Administrative Commission. Several votes were taken after a very long discussion; first two posts of Grades 12 and 8 were asked for, and then two posts at Grades 10 and 8; the ultimate decision by the Committee, taken by six votes to one, with four absentees, ran as follows: The Budget Committee was of opinion that it should be possible to set up the Reception Office by the use of services now existing in the Department of Mass Com- munication or in other Departments, without any increased appropriation. This seemed to the Members who voted for that resolution to satisfy the principle of the Reception Office asked for by the Cuban delegation. I repeat, our decision was in favour of creating a Reception Office by the use and development of existing ser- vices without any increase of Budget appropriations.
146] The PRESIDENT — 1 thank the Rapporteur and will ask the Director-General if he has any observations to make. [47] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] 1 must compliment the Budget Committee upon its excellent work and I do not think that the honourable delegate of Cuba would cast any suspicion uponit; that was not, I felt, his intention. You all know the facts; the Programme Commission approved a Cuban proposal, but made it very clear that the question of staffing lay outside its competence. Accordingly, it was for the Budget Com- mittee, which was faced with a very heavy task (a task in which the Cuban delegate who has just addressed you played a big part) to see how the Cuban proposal could be met without asking the Programme Commission to make further suppressions or cuts in the Programme itself. [48] I think, however, that the principle of the matter is settled: the Programme Commission urges upon us a small Reception Service which is to be more effective than in the past; a nucleus already exists in the Mass Communication Department: that will survive; it consists at present of only one person, but another will be added. T ask you only to trust MEETINGS 210 me. I shall consult the Executive Board about the transfer required in the Mass Communication budget, in order to be able to satisfy the Cuban delegation. There will be at least two qualified officials to discharge this work of a reception office. That may not be all that the Cuban delegation had in mind, but in the present financial circumstances that dele- gation will, I think, accept a proposal which meets its main wish. [49] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Director- General. The delegate of Cuba has asked to speak. [60] Mr. Mariano BRULL (Cuba) — [Translation from the Spanish] — Mr. President, Mr. Director- General, fellow-delegates, T agree with the proposal which the Director-General has just made, but l wish to support at the same time the recommendation to increase the size of the Budget Committee from
11 to 15. I would like the Conference to give its opinion on the proposed increase and at the same time, since the members of the Budget Committee have remarked that the time given them to prepare the first recommendation is insufficient, I would like the Committee to meet at least 10 days before the Conference. That is all I have to propose. [51] The PRESIDENT — I understand that the delegate of Cuba withdrawshis original proposal and is therefore satisfied with the item on which he spoke. [52] Nowhe has made a second proposal to us that the membership of the Budget Committee be increased from 11 to 15. You will recall that our Rapporteur said it was the feeling in the Budget Committee that the Conference in plenary session mightvery logically consider a small increase in the number of working members and pointed out that this would probably result in a greater burden of work, and that consequently the members of the Budget Committee would have to report for duty more than one week in advance of the opening of the Seventh Session of the General Conference. Is this proposal made by the delegate of Cuba seconded? It is by the United States of America. We therefore have a motion before us which has been duly seconded and is not in disagreement with the sugges- tions made to us by the Budget Committee itself, that the number of members be increased from 11 to 15. If no others wish to speak to this motion, may I ask those who are in favourto signify by hold- ing up your boards? Those opposed? Abstentions? I see none Therefore this has been carried unanimously. On conclusion of our discussion of the report of the Budget Committee, I shall ask the Chairman of the Nominations Committee to make certain recommendations to us. The delegate of Panama wishes to speak to an item in the Budget Committee Report. [63] Mr. Jorge ILLUECA (Panama) — [Translation p m m у е ‘ е е е Y P N W I R , W T I ح ي ‎ E E E E е н س س ‎ m m . S H E sa     А — ® — . . . . . Р А Н S E z m . . . = = "
211 PLENARY from the Spanish] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, my delegation is in favour of a yearly increase in the budget to allow for programmes of greater scope. Mandell Creighton’s statement to the effect that we are bound to go forward in human affairs holds a particular significance for Unesco in its noble task of educating humanity for peace and general well-being. That was undoubtedly the thought which the Director-General and the Executive Board had in mind when they presented the 1952 programme. [64] My delegation does not propose to make an exhaustive study of the different appropriations con- tained in the budget for activities envisaged in the widefields of education, social science, cultural activi- ties, exchange of persons, mass communication, reconstruction, statistics and so forth. Suffice it to say that the Executive Board and the Director-General have handled these activities in such a way as to guarantee real international co-operation towards the furtherance of education, science and culture. [55] The work done by the Executive Board, the Director-General and the Secretariat has earned for them the profound gratitude of the General Con- ference and of those great centres of population which will receive the benefits of their altruism and ex- perience. Personally, and on behalf of my delegation, I wish to convey to the Executive Board, to the Director-General and through them to the whole Unesco staff, the thanks of the Republic of Panama for the great task they have performed. [66] I must say, however, that not every aspect of Unesco and of its mission was taken into account in the drafting of the programme. The Budget Com- mittee introduced a programme of stagnation rather than evolution when it set a ceiling lower than that proposed originally by the Director-General, and this has resulted in a distressing mutilation of the Pro- gramme for 1952. Unesco appears like a modern Prometheus, punished for having stolen the fire from Olympus to teach man the arts and sciences of civilization, so that the concept of might is right prevails over its conserve. [67] The result of the final budgetary decisions is well known. We have been placed in an uncom- fortable and contradictory position. The Programme was not studied from the point of view of its objectives or of the needs it was meant to fulfil. It had to be squeezed into the limits of a pared down budget, which means that the appropriations for the various parts of the Programme were determined by sums available instead of being based on the Programme’s needs. [58] In Unesco, ladies and gentlemen, lies one of our greatest hopes for the survival of our civiliza- tion, but I am afraid that there are some countries which do not attribute to the Organization its deserved importance and, what is more deplorable, Unesco is not given more substantial financial aid by the United Nations to secure for it a greater and more practical fulfilment of its aims. MEETINGS 11-16 [69] It is fitting to ask oneself at this time whether the United Nations are really doing something positive. The man in the street derives no benefit either from the proceedings of the General Assembly and the sometimes exaggerated language used in the Security Council nor from the at times arbitrary awards pronounced by the International Court of Justice, as in the unfortunate case of the diplomatic asylum of Dr. Haya de la Torre. The useful and constructive programmes carried out in the great network of specialized agencies co-ordinated by the Economic and Social Council constitute the really positive side of the United Nations’ activities. [60] As I said a few moments ago, I do not wish to dwell on the budgets established for some of the most important items of the Programme, but a word must be said here of the work being done with unusual efficiency in the field of Human Rights. In the matter of establishment of international rules and regulations governing economic, social and cultural rights we have the full co-operation of the Organization. Our Director-General is ever pleading for prompt and determined national and inter- national action towards making the principles and benefits of civilization available to the great masses of human beings, among whom are numbered the thousands of Panamanian peasants and workers for whose rehabilitation we are striving. [61] We have furthermore the invaluable co- operation of the United Nations in facilitating the free flow of information, a fact which I can personally appreciate, having been a member of the sub-committee on Freedom of Information and of the Press at its 1948 meetings. This interest, essential for the survival of democratic institutions, is taking on new lustre from the increased efforts of Unesco to secure a more equitable distribution of newsprint throughout the world. [62] Perhaps the most fruitful of all Unesco’s undertakings is Technical Assistance especially in the fields of fundamental and general education, training of teachers, technical instruction, scientific research, science teaching and giving advice on scientific matters, and these, like all the other fields of activity, have been reduced in scope. [63] Another matter to Unesco’s credit is its untiring effort, put forth from the very beginning, to establish a universal copyright convention, the draft of which was prepared for this General Confer- ence by the relevant committee of specialists. Alongside that has been its unfaltering interest in the improvement of living standards in trust and non-self-governing territories. [64] In regard to the budget and programme of Unesco, my country, small in size and limited in economic scope, puts great hopes in the assistance which Unesco and the other specialized agencies can provide for the material and spiritual betterment of its population. On behalf of my delegation I have       e e m t a l l
11-16 POL E NACER Y requested Unesco’s technical assistance for the economical development of Panama in accordance with provisions of the Unesco programme and ofits budget. I hope that that request will be seriously considered, and for our part, we can promise the full co-operation of both our government and the autonomous University of Panama. [65] In the introduction to the Programme the Executive Board lays special stress on a big project designed to set up in various parts of the world, where they are particularly needed, six regional centres for the training of staff and the production of materials for fundamental education, with the object of training in 12 years several thousand specialists in this form of education whose development is essential to mankind’s progress. [66] The Panamanian delegation is particularly interested in this network of Fundamental Education Regional Centres and takes the liberty of requesting, on behalf of its government, that Panama City be chosen as the seat of one of those centres. Among the many reasons justifying such a choice, I shall cite the following:
(1) Panama has a tradition of international co- operation which has earned the respect of the community of free nations. Its proposals in defence of human rights and concerning the rights and obligations of countries have constituted a valuable contribution to the work of the United Nations from the very beginning. Its efforts on behalf of inter- national peace are reflected today in the work being done by Dr. Ricardo J. Alfaro of the United Nations Commission for the Codification of International Law.
(2) Geographically, the isthmus of Panamais the cardinal point linking North, South and Central America. The Panama Canal, the result of French imaginative genius and North American technology, joins the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
(3) The historical forbears of Panama made of it one of the principal seats of Hispanic civilization in the colonial period and due to its key position it has necessarily been a point of cultural integration.
(4) Panama was furthermore the cradle of Bolivar’s dreams which it was sought to realize at the 1826 Congress, and from which sprang the first shoots of modern Pan-Americanism.
(5) Lastly, the University of Panama, which enjoys absolute legal autonomy, has a splendid library and magnificent new buildings and is in a position to offer effective co-operation in setting up a Regional Fundamental Education Centre. It so happens that Dr. Octavio Mendez Pereira, until recently director of the Regional Centre of Havana, is president of the University of Panama, and in addition to his many other merits he is thoroughly familiar with Unesco's work and is an ardent supporter of the ideals and aspirations of the Organi- zation. MEETINGS 219 On the basis of the foregoing I should like to conclude by repeating once again my request that Panama City be selected as the seat of one of the Regional Centres. [67] We believe firmly in the limitless possibilities of a Unesco supported by budgetary resources and the co-operation of all the United Nations is ushering in a new phase of true social progress all over the world. Latin America, for example, offers an enormous field for sociological and technological experimentation. Within those vast geographical limits there are undeveloped regions inhabited by men of every colour suffering under feudal abuses and the uncurbed whims of undisciplined soldiery. In order to improve conditions in these as well as other such regions of the world every effort must be made to establish real and effective means to preserve basic human rights, and particularly economic, social and cultural rights, which constitute the source and basis of every good governmental system, so that we can realize our goal to stamp out want and fear in our contemporary world. Thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity you have given me to make these comments on the budget. [68] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Panamafor his offer of co-operation in the Funda- mental Education Programme, which, I am sure, will be noted with enthusiasm by the Director- General and those who deal with this problem. 1 should, however, like to bring you back to the starting point of the remarks of the delegate of Panama, which is the Report of the Budget Com- mittee before us. [69] There is one otherspecific proposal on which you must act before dealing with the individual resolutions of the Budget Committee. In item 4, page 4, English text of the Report, we have the statementthat the Budget Committee shall commence work alternatively one week or ten days before the opening date of the ordinary session of the General Conference. The delegate of Cuba indicated that he felt ten days in advance to be the minimum required. This plenary meeting of the General Conference is not, I believe, required to choose between the two periods, but simply to inform the Director-General and the Executive Board that such a choice will have to be made.” I am informed that this was the procedure that the Budget Committee has envisaged. [70] Therefore, I suggest that we now vote on the Report of the Budget Committee, beginning with the draft resolution at the bottom of page 3, going over to page 4. It has ten specific points, several of which we have discussed. We have resolved the first point as to the number of members of the Committee, so that the text should now read “15 members elected at the Sixth Session”. Is there any further discussion of individual items in this particular draft resolution of the Budget Committee Report? Then T declare it approved. — . — — — — m — —
213 PLENARY [71] We now come to the appropriation resolution for 1952 (page 5). We have been informed that, in substance, this resolution is exactly the same as the resolution approved in Florence at the Fifth Session of the General Conference. There is, of course, the difference in figures and in the details of the attached Appropriation Table. Do any dele- gates wish to speak before we proceed to a vote on this Resolution? If not, I shall ask you to vote by holding up your boards. Those in favour of adopting the Appropriation Resolution for 1952? Those opposed? Abstentions? You have therefore adopted the appropriation resolution. [72] We have now voted on the whole Report of the Budget Committee. We are all aware of the extremely laborious and delicate task of the people who served on this Committee, and on your behalf, I formally thank our Chairman, Mr. Bender and our Rapporteur, Mr. Guignolet, as well as the other members of this Committee. [73] In order to conclude our business in connexion with the Report of the Budget Committee, I now call upon the Chairman of our Nominations Com- mittee, Mr. Mafach, to propose to us the nomi- nations which the Nominations Committee has conditionally adopted for membership of the Budget Committee for the Seventh Session of the General Conference. [74] Mr. MANACH (Cuba), Chairman of the Nominations Committee — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, on behalf of the Nominations Committee, which, at its meet- ing on 9 July adopted unanimously the following proposals, I have the honour to present candidates for the 1952 Budget Committee; They are: Australia, Canada, Cuba, Egypt, United States of America, France, Iran, Liberia, Peru, United Kingdom, Sweden. Should the General Conference agree to increase the size of this Committee in accordance with the proposal in the report, the Nominations Committee propose additional candidates elected by secret ballot in the following order: Belgium, Greece, India, Uruguay. [75] The PRESIDENT — 1 thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee. You will see that the Nominations Committee was obliged to act con- ditionally. However, as the Chairman reported to you, it observed all the procedures that regulate the work of our Conference. The 15 countries whose names were just read out to you were unanimously adopted. The first 11 were unanimously approved on 9 July and four additional countries were appointed to allow for the suggested increase in the membership of the Budget Committee. The delegate of China wishes to speak. [76] Mr. CHEN YUAN (China) — Mr. President, MEETINGS 11-16 fellow-delegates, I have no objection to any indivi- dual Member State nominated by the Nominations Committee; individually each and every one is acceptable. It is when they are considered as a whole that I feel it is difficult to accept all the 15. Even so, I would not have said anything, if the question of geographical distribution had not been mentioned in Committee;. but in the Nominations Committee everyone agreed that the present Com- mittee is one of the most important organs of Unesco and that more special attention should be paid to equitable geographical distribution here than else- where. Yet what is the result? According to the report of the Working Party on the grouping of Member States by regions, there are six groups here altogether. Of 20 members of the Western Hemi- sphere, five are nominated among the 15 members of this Committee. In Europe there are 18 Member States; here, also five are nominated. In Africa there are two Member States, one is nominated. Here I take the opportunity to congratulate the Commission on having included Liberia. In the Middle East region there are 10 Member States and two are nominated. But in South Asia and the South Pacific there are 30 Member States, and here also only two are nominated. Finally, in East Asia, there are three Member States, but not a single one is included. This is an even more serious matter if examined more closely. If you take away Australia and New Zealand from these two regions, only one Member State is left to represent the 14 countries of Eastern and Southern Asia. These 14 countries have very large populations, and so you have only one Member representing half the population of the world. Can you call that equitable? Do you think that fair? Is Unesco a world organization, or is it an organization only of the West? [77] Now our delegation has no wish to put for- ward any new nomination. We know that such a vote would only waste the time of the Conference. But we cannot let this pass once more without registering a protest. It has happened too frequently before. We would abstain from voting not because, as I explained, we are against any one individual Member State nominated, but because we are against the way things are always and still moving. [78] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of China. I will call upon the delegate of Japan and then the Chairman of the Nominations Committee. [79] Mr. TAMON MAEDA (Japan) — Mr. Presi- dent and honourable delegates, I feel quite touched by the remarks made by the honourable delegate of China with regard to more impartial consideration of geographical distribution in case of nominations for such an important organ of the Organization; I quite agree with his views, in view of the fact that Japan, even though she is a very modest member,
11-16 PLENARY has now been admitted to the Organization. From now on, we feel that more thoughtful consideration may be given to the matter of geographical distribu- tion. Being quite a novice, unacquainted with the procedure of the Conference, I do not for a moment pretend that I am qualified to judge so important a matter as is now before us, but I sincerely hope —heartily associating myself with the views of the honourable delegate of China—that thoughtful consideration will henceforth be given to this question. [80] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Japan, and now call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Committee. Mr. MANACH (Cuba), Chairman of the Nomi- nations Committee [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, without entering into an examination of the remarks of the honourable delegates of China and Japan, I should like to say a few words in justification of our proce- dure, if justification is necessary. The purely formal aspect of the process followed in making up this list was explained a few moments ago. The original proposal submitted to the Conference by our esteemed colleague Mr. Bender was that a list of eleven countries should be made up on the basis of the present composition of the Budget Committee, and afterwards a list of 15 countries, should this plenary meeting adopt the suggestion of the Com- mittee. The Committee agreed, but after we had voted on our basic list of 11 candidates, the honour- able delegate of the United Kingdom suggested that it would greatly expedite matters to vote on four additional countries instead of going through the complicated process of another ballot. Since there had been a change in the procedure, I, as Chairman of that Committee, submitted the question to the Conference. At that time all the delegates had the opportunity to give their opinions on the procedure. It was discussed at length and put to a vote and, if my memory does not fail me, approved unani- mously or at least by an overwhelming majority. Once the list of 11 countries was approved, a simple vote was to be taken on a list of four further candi- dates in accordance with the suggestion of the United Kingdom delegate. In adopting that proce- dure the Conference in my opinion was faithful to the spirit of equitable geographical distribution whichis the aim of all of us. Mr. Bender, who had originally proposed a second list of 15 countries, withdrew his proposal and was content with the suggestion of the delegate of the United Kingdom to vote on only four additional names, being of the opinion that this procedure in spirit adhered sufficiently to the principle of equitable geographical distribution. [81] [82] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of MEETENGS the Nominations Committee for his explanations. I feel sure that we are all most sensitive to the prob- lems of fair geographical distribution in the important organs of this Conference and I hope that our task in future years will be facilitated by the report of the working party on the geographical distribution of Member States, to which the delegate of China referred. [83] You have now heard the. proposals of the Nominations Committee and an explanation of the procedure it adopted. The Chairman of this Com- mittee has implicitly conceded that these proposals are not the most perfect that could be submitted to you, but he does say that they have had the most careful and painstaking scrutiny of all the dele- gations represented at this General Conference and that the list before us was discussed and finally adopted by the representatives of each one of us in the Nominations Committee. Having heard these remarks and explanations, do you now wish to vote on the report of the Nominations Committee, or have you some other procedure in mind? [84] Your choices are (a) to accept the report of the Nominations Committee as presented to you; or (b) to vote again with a view to achieving a higher degree of perfection and more general satis- faction as regards the distribution of the fifteen members of the Committee. I should like to know your wishes in this matter. The delegate of New Zealand. [85] Mr. M. W. MASON (New Zealand) — Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I think we will all agree that this matter was thoroughly thrashed out in the Nominations Committee at a two-hour meeting. I therefore have much pleasure in moving that the proposals put forward by the Nominations Committee should now be put to the vote. [86] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of New Zealand. Is his proposal seconded? It is by the United Kingdom, Iran, Denmark, Monaco, Norway. I therefore put to the vote the report of the Nominations Committee. Those in favour? Those opposed? Those who abstain? The report of the Nominations Committee is therefore adopted by a total of 46 in favour with 4 abstentions. Presentation and Adoption of the Second Report of the Procedure Committee. [87] The PRESIDENT — Our next item of business is the second report of the Procedure Committee and I will ask the Rapporteur if he will come forward to summarize this report for us. [88] Mr. Bhunthin. ATTAGARA (Thailand), Rap- porteur of the Procedure Committee — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present
215 OE to you the second report of the Procedure Com- mittee [document 6C/PRO/14 (rev. 1) and Corri- gendum I]. T must apologise for a mistake in the English text. In this report of 20 pages, there are
12 main paragraphs, but I should like to draw your attention only to the last one, concerning the biennial principle, which has taken up much of our time. You will see, on pages 16 and 17 of the English text, the Committee’s recommendation that the Confer- ence adopt the important, much discussed resolution on this matter, carefully prepared with the as- sistance of members of the French, United Kingdom and United States delegations. The correct text of the draft resolutions reads: The General Conference Declares itself in favour of the principle of biennial sessions of the General Conference and the adoption, at its Sixth Session, of the amendment to the Constitution and of the various Rules of Procedure which will be required for the implementation of that principle; Considers nevertheless, that the Executive Board should be maintained in its present form and should continue to exercise the anthority delegated to it by the General Conference as a whole, in accordance with the provisions of Article V, paragraph 11 of the Constitution; Invites the Executive Board and the Director-General, if the General Conference adopts the constitutional and procedural changes necessary, to implement the biennial system at its Seventh Session, to consult forthwith with Member States as to the advisability of making further changes in the Constitution and in the working methods of the Organization and to report on this subject to a later session of the General Conference. [89] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Rapporteur, Mr. Attagara of the delegation of Thailand. I think that in order to keep ourselves entirely clear on this report, on which the Chairman, Mr. Saglam and his colleagues have worked so hard, we had best begin with the document called Second Report of the Pro- cedure Committee, from which our Rapporteur was reading (document 6C/PRO/14). On page 1 of that document, under Section I, you will find the proposed “Amendment to paragraph C.8 (b) of Article IV of the Constitution”. I remind you that, accord- ing to our Rules of Procedure, this amendmentto be adopted, must be voted by a two-thirds majority. [90] The text of the amendment, unanimously approved by the Procedure Committee, is given on page 2 of the Report. Do any delegates wish to speak to this amendment? If not, I shall proceed immediately to the vote. Those in favour? Those opposed?  Abstentions? We have more than complied with our necessary requirement of a two- thirds majority and have adopted the first proposal. [91] We now come to Section II “Amendments to Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure”, which follows logically from the adoption of the amendments in Section I. Do any delegates wish to speak to this item before we pass to the vote? I see none and MEETINGS 11-16 will therefore again ask those in favour of adopting the proposed amendments to Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure to hold up their signs. Those opposed? Abstentions? Unanimously adopted. [92] We then come to Section III, page 3: “Amendments to the Rules of Procedure with regard to the establishment of deadlines for the despatch to Member States of working documents of the General Conference”. If there are no speakers to this pro- posal, we will take the vote by a show of hands. Are there objections to the adoption of this amendment? I hear none and declare that we have so amended. [93] We then come to Section IV, page 4: “Rules for the Conduct of Elections by Secret Ballot.” No speakers to this draft resolution? No objections? Adopted. [94] For section V, you will need to refer to the Corrigendum to the Second Report of the Procedure Committee. No discussion on this proposed re- solution? No objections? Adopted. [95] Section VI is divided into two separate parts. The first part, relating to an amendment to the Constitution, again requires a two-thirds majority vote. Does anyone wish to address himself to this first point? If not, will those in favour of the adop- tion of this amendment to the Constitution please signify by raising their boards. Those opposed? Abstentions? The amendment is therefore carried by the requisite majority of two-thirds or more of those present and voting. [96] On the second part of Section VI, we do not need to have a two-thirds majority. The delegate of Australia has a proposal to make on this point. [97] Mr. J. STONE (Australia) — Mr. President, before I take the time of the plenary meeting, could I ask the Secretariat whether it would be possible to announce the error in the English text? If that is to be done, then I will not delay the meeting. [98] The PRESIDENT — I thank you, Mr. Stone. May I ask the representative of the Director-General if he will reply to the question of the delegate of Australia. [99] Mr. GARCIN (Secretary of the Procedure Committee) — [Translation from the French] 1 have to tell you of a slight accident that occurred in the reproducing of this document, which explains why the French text in front of you, with the small addition to the corrigendum, is correct, althoughthe English text, I regret to say, is not. I will there- fore read you the changes in the English text. The passage concerned is on page 5 paragraph (a) (ii): To participate equally with Members subject to the limi- {ation on voting in paragraph (i) above, in matters pertaining to the conduct of business of meetings of the Conference, from such of its Committees, Commissions or other subsidiary organs as the General Conference may from time to time indicate.
11-16 PLENARY [100] The PRESIDENT — I will ask the delegate of Australia if that clarifies the matter to his satisfac- tion? He assures me that it does. Ladies and gentlemen, I must now inform you that there is also a slight amendment to the French text. [101] Mr. GARCIN (Secretary of the Procedure Committee) — [Translation from the French] The French text of paragraph (a) (i) should, at the request of the British delegation, read as follows, “de participer sans droit de vote aux débats. ..”, the words “sans droit de vote” replacing the words “avec voix consultative”, which really mean exactly the same thing. [102] The PRESIDENT — Having had all points clarified, we may now take a vote on the second part of item VI. If I hear no objections to the text as amended and read out, we will assume that we have in fact adopted it. I hear no objections; it is approved. [103] We now come to Section VII “Membership and Functions of the Budget Committee”. Is there any discussion of this item? No objection? This item is therefore approved. [104] Section VIII: “Number and Election of Officers of the General Conference”, comprises sev- eral draft resolutions, on which we shall have to vote separately. You will find a revised version of the recommendation concerning Rule 22, “Submission of Credentials”, in document 6C/PRO/14 (rev. 1), which reads: These Credentials shall be communicated to the Director- General. The names of the Head of the delegation, delegates and alternate delegates shall be communicated to the Director-General one week before the date of opening of the Session. Is there any objection to the adoption of this amendment? Hearing none, we will say that we have adopted the amendment to Rule 22. [105] We must now consider the amendment to Rule 30, “Functions of the Committee”. Is there any discussion of this item? No objection? We have therefore adopted the proposed amendment to Rule 30. [106] We next come to the amendment to Rule 34, “General Committee of the Conference ”. If there is no objection, we shall adopt this. It is adopted. [107] We now come to the amendment to Rule 38, “Elections”. Is there any discussion of this amend- ment? I hear no objection; we shall then adopt the amendment to Rule 38. [108] We pass then to Rule 47, and this is the final amendment proposed under Section VIII dealing with the Election of Officers. Is there any discussion of this amendment? If not, in the absence of objections, we will adopt the amendment to Rule 47. MEETINGS [109] We are now to consider Section IX: “Dead- lines for the Presentation of Draft Resolutions and Amendments.” There is only one rule which needs to be modified, Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure. No discussion? No objection? It is then adopted. [110] We now come to Section X: “Co-ordination of the Work of Unesco with that of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies.” No discus- sion of the proposed resolution? Hearing no objec- tion, I declare it adopted. [111] We are nowto consider Section XI: “Acces- sion of Member States to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies.” Does anyone wish to speak to the pro- posed resolution? If not, in the absence of objec- tionsit will be adopted. Adopted. {112] We then come to Section XII: “Change in Periodicity of Sessions of the General Conference.” There is a correction to the resolution proposed in this section, which I shall ask the representative of the Director-General to explain to you. , [113] Mr. GARCIN, Secretary of the Procedure Committee — [Translation from the French] The Procedure Committee, during yesterday afternoon’s last-minute study of the resolutions it desired to submit to the General Conference, decided to make a substantial amendment to page 16 of the Report and to combine into one the first two resolutions at the bottom of page 16 and top of page 17 of the English text (on page 18 of the French text). Hence the French text of paragraph 1 on page 18, be- ginning: “La Conférence générale se promonce en faveur du système de la biennalité . . .” and ending with “. .. organes de 1'Unesco et feront rapport a ce sujet à la huitième session de la Conférence générale” is now deleted and replaced by the text you will find in the attached document 6C/PRO/14 (rev. 1). The same applies to the English text, ex- cept that paragraph (1) appears on page 16 and the revision itself has been very slightly amended to the terms just read to you by the Rapporteur. [114] The PRESIDENT — I call upon the dele- gate of France who wishes to speak to us on this item. [115] Mr. Charles LUCET (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, before we finally vote on the whole report of the Procedure Com- mittee, the French delegation, with apologies to the General Committee and to the Conference, wishes to go back to something we have already considered. This is No. VI of the Report, dealing with the forms of co-operation in Unesco’s work by non-self-govern- ing States or territories. During the discussions, the French delegation had occasion to state that it could not agree to this proposal, and it abstained from voting. Now that we are in Plenary Meeting
217 PRE NARA we wish to emphasize that abstention again. This is not the moment to reopen the question of why we are abstaining. I need only say that this resolution, as it stands, conflicts with the term of our Con- stitution. I should therefore be grateful if the Secre- tariat would note the French delegation’s abstention on this section 6. [116] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of France. The delegate of the United States also wishes to speak. [117] Mr. John M. CATES, Jr. (United States of America) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I refer to page 14 of the English text of document 6C/PRO/14, paragraph 4 (b), which refers to Member States being asked to con- tribute in each year one half of the total contribu- tion due from them for the two-year budget. Here I should merely like to re-iterate our remarks in the Budget Committee. We do not take exception to the wording of the proposal, as we understand that it is to be the subject of further studies. However, we feel that all Member States will wish to see if such procedure is desirable and possible under their con- stitutional procedure for the authorization and ap- propriation of funds. I just wished to make that known, but we are not in any way objecting to the report. [118] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the United States. Do other speakers wish to address themselves to the item before us, including the three resolutions we are asked to adopt. I regret that we had to present them to you in a manner that has been slightly confusing. However, I must add that I recognize the difficulties under which the Secre- tariat has worked; some of these texts were agreed to only about 9 o’clock last night and all the process- ing has had to be done since that time. I will now ask Mr. Garcin to read to you the first of the resolu- tions proposed to us by the Procedure Committee. [119] Mr. GARCIN, Secretary of the Procedure Committee — [Translation from the French] The first resolution submitted to you appears in its cor- rect form on page 2 of document 6C/PRO/14 (rev. 1) and continues in the French text on page 18 of 6C/PRO/14 in the paragraph numbered (2) in the margin. So that there may be no confusion, I Will read you the whole text: La Conférence générale : Se prononce en faveur du principe de la biennalité des sessions de la Conférence générale et considère qu’il conviendrait d’adopter, à sa septième session, les amen- dements à l’Acte constitutif et aux divers règlements nécessaires pour la mise en vigueur de ce principe. Estime néanmoins qu’il convient de maintenir la Structure actuelle du Conseil exécutif qui devra conti- nuer à exercer les pouvoirs qui lui sont délégués au nom MEET EN GS 11-16 de la Conférence générale tout entière, conformément aux dispositions de l’Article V, paragraphe 11, de l’Acte cons- titutif; Invite le le Conseil exécutif et le Directeur général, au cas où la Conférence générale adopterait à sa septième session les amendements à l’Acte constitutif et aux Règle- ments nécessaires pour la mise en œuvre du système de la biennalité, à entrer en consultation avec les États membres sur l’opportunité d’apporter de nouvelles modi- fications à l’Acte constitutif et au mode de fonctionne- ment de l'Organisation et à faire rapport à ce sujet à une session ultérieure de la Conférence générale. [120] I now turn to page 18 and read you the text that follows what I have just read: La Conférence générale : Charge le Directeur général de préparer, en accord avec le Conseil exécutif, et conformément aux directives figurant dans le Rapport du Comité du Règlement, les projets d’amendements à l’Acte constitutif relatifs à l’adoption du système de la biennalité des sessions de la Conférence générale, et de communiquer le texte de ces amendements aux États membres au moins six mois avant l’ouverture de la septième session, conformément à l’Article XII de l’Acte constitutif. Charge d’autre part le Directeur général de préparer, en accord avec le Conseil exécutif et conformément aux directives figurant dans le rapport du Comité du Règle- ment, les projets d’amendements au Règlement intérieur de la Conference générale et au Règlement intérieur de soumettre ces projets d’amendements à la septième session de la Conférence générale; Charge le Conseil exécutif et le Directeur général de soumettre respectivement à la septième session de la Conférence générale un projet de programme et un projet de budget couvrant les années 1953 et 1954. I ought however to add that there is a small amend- ment to the English text which the Rapporteur read to you from the rostrum. [121] The PRESIDENT — I will ask the represen- tative of the Director-General simply to give us again that modification in the English text. [122] Mr. GARCIN, Secretary of the Procedure Committee — [Translation from the French] The English text I am going to read you appears on page 2 of document 6C/PRO/14 (rev. 1). There is only one change to be made, the first paragraph having been incorrectly reproduced. I now read you this paragraph as it should be: The General Conference declares itself in favour of the principle of biennial sessions of the General Conference on the adoption by its seventh session of the amendments to the Constitution and to the various rules of proce- dure which will be required for the implementation of that principle. [123] The PRESIDENT — Thank you very much. Are we now ready to vote on this first resolution, the revised text of which you have all heard? I see no   PUEN AURY others who wish to speak on it. I hear no objection, so we may consider that we have approved the first of the resolutions. [124] We now come to the second of the resolu- tions, on page 17 of the English text. It has abso- lutely no changes in it. Unless there are any objec- tions, we shall consider the second of these resolu- tions approved. [125] The third andfinal resolution is on page 18, the last page of the Report. Following the same procedure, unless there is an objection to this third proposal, we will consider that it is now adopted. Adopted. [126] I should like to thank not only all the mem- bers of this plenary meeting but also the hard- working officers of our Procedure Committee, the Chairman, Mr. Saglam of the Turkish delegation, and the Rapporteur, Mr. Attagara of Thailand, as well as the members of the Secretariat who have worked right up to the eleventh hour to present this Report to us. I thank them very much on behalf of the General Conference. I shall now call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom for an important announcement, the substance of which has just been communicated to him. [127] Mr. D. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to make known to this plenary meeting of the Unesco Conference a telegram I have just received from His Britannic Majesty’s Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in London. [128] The telegram reads as follows: The German Chargé d’Affaires has today presented instruments of acceptance by the German Federal Govern- ment of the Constitution of Unesco, together with a note authorizing him to sign the said Constitution. Arrange- ments have been made for signature to take place today. The German Federal Government is anxious that Unesco should be informed at once in the course of today’s ses- sion of the German Federal Republic's accession to Unesco. Please inform the Secretary-General and the Conference accordingly. [129] The PRESIDENT — 1 should like to say on behalf of the General Conference that we welcome the announcement made by the delegate of the United Kingdom, I now call upon the delegate of the German Federal Republic. [130] Mr. Walter ERBE, Federal Republic of Ger- many — [Translation from the French] Mr. Presi- dent, fellow-delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that the German delegation heard the delegate of the United Kingdom announce to this Sixth Session of the Conference that the x MEETINGS 218 Federal Republic of Germany has become the sixty- fourth Member of Unesco. [131] I should like to take this opportunity of saying a word about the three Unesco institutions established in Germany. We understood from the first that Unesco, in setting up these bodies, was entrusting us with a sacred duty, a strategic task, 1 might say, in the field of morals. For that reason we hope to serve the cause of mankind by helping to appease tensions between men of all colours, races, religions, nations and social classes and also to help in establishing mutual understanding and esteem between East and West. [132] The instructions given to this institution as to how it shall work clearly reflect this spirit of universalism. The German Committee for Unesco activities has from its beginnings tried to train public opinion along these lines. In this coming autumn we shall be working to spread the idea of Unesco everywhere in Germany and to give it deeper root. We are planning a big demonstration at the Bundes- haus in Bonn to which we shall be inviting the Director-General and we hope that he will be able to attend in person. [133] This will give the whole idea of Unesco re- sounding publicity. Profoundly convinced that no excuse is to be sought in blind fatalism, we are pre- pared to accept our share of responsibility for what has happened, including our own recent past. In- bued with this same sense of responsibility to man, we believe that the entry of Germany into Unesco imposes upon us a duty which we can only discharge through concrete and practical work. [134] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the German Federal Republic for his remarks. I think that all I need say by way of comment is that we are now truly an organization of 64 Member States. [135] Fellow-delegates, it is now almost 1 o'clock, and I am afraid that it will be impossible to conclude within the next few minutes the outstanding items of our agenda. I am very sorry to make that announcement to you but I think you will agree with me that it was worth our while to take the time to consider very thoroughly the matters before us this morning. The General Committee has already made provisional arrangements for a short plenary meeting this afternoon, in which I am confident that we will be able to complete our task within one to one and a half hours. I therefore suggest that we reassemble at 3 p.m., which I hope will be a convenient hour for all of you. Our session is adjourned for this morning. The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.