NOMINATIONS SECOND COMMITTEE MEETING Tuesday, 19 June 1951, at 5 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Joree MañacH (Cuba) Nominations for the Offices of Chairmen, Vice- Chairmen and Rapporteurs of Commissions and Committees. [1] At the CHAIRMAN's request, Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) (Chairman of the General Committee) presented for approval a list of countries which had been designated by the General Committee to furnish the Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and Rap- porteurs of the various Commissions and Committees. He stressed the fact that the list had been drawn up in the light of Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure, merely as a guidefor the deliberations of the Plenary Conference, and that, in turn, the decisions of the plenary meeting were not binding upon the bodies concerned. The General Committee had sought to take into account, not only the capacities of the per- sonalities concerned, but also an equitable geograph- ical distribution of offices. [2] The proposals were as follows: Programme Commission: Chairman, Switzerland; Ist Vice-Chairman, Pakistan; 2nd Vice-Chairman, Mexico; Rapporteur, Haiti. Administrative Commission: Chairman, Belgium;
1st Vice-Chairman, Peru; 2nd Vice-Chairman, Israel; Rapporteur, Sweden. Official and External Relations Commission: Chair- man, Brazil; 1st Vice-Chairman, New Zealand; 2nd Vice-Chairman, Austria; Rapporteur, Indonesia. Procedure Committee: Chairman, Turkey; Ist Vice-Chairman, Venezuela; 2nd Vice-Chairman, Iraq; tapporteur, Thailand. Committee on Reports of Member States: Chair- man, Italy; 1st Vice-Chairman, Philippine Republic;
2nd Vice-Chairman, Liberia; Rapporteur, Greece. [3] On a vote being taken, the proposals of the General Committee with regard to the Programme Commission were adopted. [4] The proposals with regard to the Administrative Commission were adopted, the nomination of Israel for the second Vice-Chairmanship being approved by a majority, with three opposing votes. [5] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked permission to withdraw the candidature of his dele- gation for the Chairmanship of the Official and External Relations Commission. He proposed the name of Mr. Mameli (Italy) for that office. [6] The proposals of the General Committee with regard to the Official and External Relations Com- mission were adopted, with the substitution of Italy for Brazil in the Chair. [7] The proposals with regard to the Procedure Committee were adopted. : [8] With regard to the Committee on Reports of Member States, Mr. CASATI (Italy) begged leave to withdraw the candidature of Italy for the office of Chairman, since Italy had been nominated for the Chairmanship of the Official and External Relations Commission. [9] The following nominations were therefore made for the Committee on Reports of Member States: Chairman, Philippine Republic; 1st Vice-Chairman, Syria, 2nd Vice-Chairman, Liberia; Rapporteur, Greece. [10] One abstention was registered in the vote on the nomination of the Philippine Republic. The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.