CHAPTER VIII BUDGET COMMITTEE FIRST MEETING Monday, 11 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Opening of the Session. [1] Count JACINI, Chairman of the Executive Board, welcomed the members of the Committee and wished them success in their work. As there was a very heavy Agenda, he would ask that, for practical reasons, interpretation into the third working lan- guage should so far as possible be dispensed with. [2] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that he would himself, should the case arise, speak in Spanish, that being one of the working languages of the Organization; but that he would accept the suggestion of the Chair- man and waive the right to have the other delegates’ speeches interpreted into Spanish. Election of the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman and the Rapporteur. [3] On the proposal of Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), seconded by Miss LAISE (United States of America), Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) was elected Chairman. ! L [4] On the proposal of Mr. KIRPAL (India), Miss LAISE (United States of America) was elected Vice- Chairman. [5] On the proposal of Mr. RAADI (Iran), Mr. GUI- GNOLET (France) was elected Rapporteur. [6] The officers then took their seats at the con- ference table, and Count Jacini, who had duties elsewhere, withdrew. Presentation by the Director-General of the Budget Estimates for the Financial Year 1952. [7] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL congratulated the officers on their election, and hoped the work of the Budget Committee would be crowned with success. He regretted that he would be unable to attend all its meetings, as they coincided with the meetings of the Executive Board, which was discussing the final preparations for the General Conference. But he would closely follow the work of the Committee, at whose meetings he would be represented by Mr. Taylor, Deputy Director-General, and by his immediate assistants in the financial and administra- tive services. [8] The Director-General then made the following statement : Yourtask, though a thankless one, is of almost decisive importance; it is that of examining the Budget estimates. In extending my heartiest greetings to the members of the Budget Committee, I assure them of my confidence in the successful outcome of their endeavours. We should not be at Unesco at all if the difficulties of the present political, economic and military situation had persuaded us that education, science and culture must now form a smaller part of the combined efforts being made today to safeguard peace. The dominant idea that might inspire you in reaching your conclusions, it seems to me, would be that anything tending to increase the value of man constitutes a direct contribution to peace, and that this is Unesco’s special and irreplaceable contri- bution. We are all agreed, I imagine, in considering that education, science and culture, pursued in an international spirit, form the very foundation of world peace. This principle having been stated, let us go on to consider its application. [9] The study of these Budget Estimates is greatly complicated by the uncertainty at present surrounding certain economic factors which might, during the finan- cial year 1952, have a considerable effect on the Organization's receipts and expenditure. It will perhaps be helpful if I describe these factors, and try to estimate their possible repercussions. I will begin with those affecting expenditure, since the Committee, like myself, is concerned with regulating expenditure rather than with estimating receipts. Expenditure. [10] The main factors influencing expenditure are    VIIL-1 BUDGET obviously the level of staff salaries and allowances and the cost of the goods which the Organization has to buy and the services it has to hire. [11] In regard to salaries and allowances, I have explained, in my introduction to the Budget Estimates, the reasons which led me to base these estimates on the 1950 system. I will only remind you here that it appeared likely, as a result of the discussions held at the last session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, that the Member States would probably wish to reconsider the decisions taken in Florence concerning the salaries of “locally” recruited staff, and to make changes in the present salary system for staff recruited “on an international basis”. I thought it likely that, in this connexion, changes would be made by the present ses- sion of the General Conference, and decided that, to avoid all risk of confusion, it would be best to make no alterations in the method of calculating the Budget Estimates, until such time as the Conference itself should have finally decided what changes should be made. [12] However, to enable the Conference to obtain a clear idea of the budgetary implications of the possible changes in the salary and allowance system, I have set forth, in document 6C/ADM/10, detailed calculations which may be briefly summarized as follows. [13] If the General Conference approves the application to Unesco staff of the new United Nations salary and allowance system, as proposed, the net difference between the Budget Estimates now before you (which are based partly on the “international” and partly on the “local” scale) and the new figure will be as follows:
(1) In the light of the decisions taken by the Florence Conference in regard to “local” salaries—a saving of $232,692.
(2) Resulting from a literal, “automatic” interpreta- tion of the decisions taken by the General Assembly of the United Nations as regards “local” salaries—a saving of $50,986.
(3) Resulting from what appears to me to be a suitable and reasonable interpretation of the United Nations decisions—a saving of $3,554. [14] I wish to emphasize the fact that these figures have been arrived at without making any allowance for further rises in the cost of living. As it is impossible to foresee how much the cost of living may increase in the course of the next 18 months, it would have been unwise to deal with the question in the Budget Esti- mates. In document 6C/ADM/7, on the Administration of the Working Capital Fund, I have recommended that, in its resolutions concerning that Fund, the General Conference should make provision for extraordinary expenditure, especially such as might result from unpre- dictable events like further rises in the cost of living. [15] The second uncertain factor affecting expenditure is the cost of goods and services. The Budget Estimates now before you have been calculated, for the most part, on the basis of the prices ruling at the time they were drawn up, taking into account such rises as had already been announced. Since then, prices have risen to such an extent that I am obliged to submit to the Conference additional estimates for Chapters V, VI and VII: Contrac- tual Printing, Common Services, and Permanent Acqui- sition. These additional estimates, which are set forth in detail, with supporting explanations, in document
6C/5 (II) Addendum, amount in all to $318,002. The total figure in the Budget Estimates would thus be COMMITTEE 506 raised from $9,666,500 to $9,984,502, which I regard as the sum required in order to carry out the Programme submitted to you by the Executive Board. [16] Honesty obliges me to repeat that there is still a danger of further rises in prices, which I cannot fore- cast in any detailed or definite manner. In my opinion, the best way of meeting this situation, should it unfor- tunately arise, would be to have recourse to the Working lapital Fund. I therefore suggest that my draft resolu- tion concerning the administration of that Fund (document 6C/ADM/7) should be amended to permit the utilization of $500,000, instead of $300,000, for extraor- dinary, unexpected and unpredictable expenses. If the General Conference approves this recommendation, and that authorizing the Director-General to advance from the Working Capital Fund sums not exceeding a total of $100,000 in order to carry out Resolution 3.26, the extra-budgetary expenditure might, subject to the approval of the Executive Board, rise to a total of $600,000. This sum would, of course, have to be made good in the next Budget. [17] I have attempted to summarize briefly the possible effect on the estimated budgetary expenditure for 1952 of variations in the two principal factors: level of salaries and allowances, and level of prices. But as the Budget Committee is going to examine all the Budget Estimates, item by item, it will need detailed information concerning the manner in which the rise in prices and the changes in the salary and allowance scale will affect the cost of the various projects shown in the budget. With this in view, revised budget estimates have been provided, in the form of separate sheets, for each activity; the Budget Committee will find in these sheets a break- down of expenditure for each undertaking, calculated on the basis of current prices and of the salary and allowance scale which I have recommended the General Conference to adopt. I feel sure that these particulars will help the Budget Committee, not only to form an idea of the effect that price rises have already had on the cost of each project and of the possible effect of changes in the salary and allowance scale, but also to calculate rapidly all the alterations that may result from the final decisions of the Administrative Commission regarding salaries and allowances. Receipts. [18] It does not appear that the Budget Committee, under its terms of reference, will itself deal with the total. Budget figure; I do not expect, therefore, that it will directly consider the question of receipts derived from the contributions of Member States. A few general remarks on the subject may, however, serve to guide it in its work. [19] I have estimated that, if certain States join the Organization, those States which are already members in 1951 must, if the Budget I have presented for the 1952 financial year is to be balanced, be called upon for supplementary contributions totalling only about $900,000 more than the sum asked of them for 1951. This calculation, though inevitably only approximate, shows that the present Member States need not suppose that their contributions for 1952 would necessarily be Im creased to meet the full extend of the difference between the 1951 Budget and the 1952 estimates, which amounts to $1,784,948.    B'UD GET [20] Furthermore, as the Budget Committee is well aware, the total figure of the Budget which will be approved by the Conference will not correspond exactly to the sums which the Organization will actually have at its disposal in 1952. There seems no doubt that we shall have to continue to assume that about 10 per cent of the contributions asked for will not be paid. What I would like to emphasize here is that this 10 per cent deficit will inevitably necessitate a reduction of about 15 per cent in the programme activities, for no appreciable reduction can be made in expenditure on administrative work and on certain services involved in the execution of the programme. By re-organizing the services and elimi- nating all those which were not strictly essential, I have reduced the budget estimates for the administrative services and the services concerned in the execution of the Pro- gramme to an absolute minimum, so that the only adaptable element which remains in regard to the Budget consists in the Executive Board’s power to post- pone the execution of certain programme activities, or to eliminate them altogether. Therefore, whatever the total of the appropriations voted by the General Con- ference for the purposes of the Programme may be, it will have, in practice, to be reduced by 15 percent I have pointed out in my introduction to the Budget that this will inevitably mean a reduction in the programme activities for 1952 compared with those for 1951, because in 1951 it was found possible to take exceptional financial steps to bridge the gap between the total budget figure and the probable total to be received by way of contribu- tions; whereas we know that those exceptional measures cannot be repeated in 1952. I imagine, therefore, that the members of the Budget Committee will not think it necessary to warn me, as they have done in the past, of the difficulty I might have in carrying out next year’s activities at a rate of expenditure corresponding to the total figure of the Budget I have submitted. Conclusion. [21] I feel sure that after all these explanations you Will agree with my conclusion—that, taking into account the various factors influencing both the form and the content of the Budget, the General Conference, the Budget Committee and I myself are now faced with the most difficult and complex problem that the Organization has ever had to handle. I am convinced, however, that with the valuable assistance of the Budget Committee, the General Conference will finally succeed in arriving at a satisfactory Budget for the financial year
1952. It is in this conviction that I wish the Budget Committee all possible success in carrying out the diffi- cult task that awaits it. [22] The Director-General added that the Secretariat would gladly supply details on the precise breakdown of the figures included in the Budget total, which would show that, if certain States joined the Organization and if the contributions had been correctly estimated, the extra amount which the present 59 MemberStates would be asked to provide for 1952 would not exceed $900,000; he reminded the meeting that almost half that sum was required on the supposition that the Seventh Session of the General Conference would be held at Montevideo. The Executive Board had recommended that that meeting should be held at Montevideo if there were no insuperable financial obstacles. If the Conference decided that the COMMITTEE VIII-1 journey could not be undertaken, the Seventh Session would be held in November in Paris, and, as a tribute to Uruguay, the 1954 session would meet at Montevideo. If the Conference adopted the principle of biennial Con- ferences (and from the replies which had already reached the Secretariat it appeared that there was a large majority in favour of that course), the extra expenditure, $400,000, would be spread over two years— which would represent a direct saving, not for Unesco’s budget, but for the Member States. [23] The Director-General went on to say that, while it was the Committee’s duty to examine the estimated expenditure chapter by chapter, and to decide whether each item was in accordance with the requirements of the resolutions, he would venture to appeal to members to be completely fair to the Organization as a whole, and in that connexion he would remind them of the way in which the Budget was drawn up. The Director of each Department drew up a first draft, based on the pro- gramme of resolutions approved by the Executive Board. The Director-General was obliged to make immediate cuts in those proposals from the Departments, and after- wards, in view of the balance that had to be maintained between the different disciplines represented in Unesco, to make still further reductions, guided by the idea of that hypothetical ceiling figure which was always discussed at the Conference. Not being a visionary, the Director-General was perfectly aware that it would be difficult to get an increased Budget adopted, but he wished to remind the Committee that, if it were not done, the Executive Board would be faced, after the General Conference, with the necessity of making cuts amounting, not to one-fifteenth of the Programme acti- vities, but to a much higher proportion; that would endanger the moral stability of Unesco. [24] The CHAIRMAN thanked the Director-General for his very clear exposé of the problems facing the Budget Committee, and the main points which it should consider. He felt sure that the Committee would take his remarks into account in its deli- berations. Adoption of the Agenda [document 6C/1]. [25] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Bud- get, Office of the Director-General) suggested that one item should be added to the Agenda contained in document 6C/1. The Fifth Session of the General Conference had authorized the redistribution within the Budget of $100,000, representing the initial economy resulting from the introduction of local salary rates and allowances, and had asked the Secre- tariat to prepare a paper showing the further econo- mies which would accrue from that measure. That document was now being prepared for distribution, and consideration of its contents should be included in the Agenda of the Budget Committee. [26] The suggestion was approved, and the Agenda, as amended, was adopted.      VIII-1 EE DICE: © Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Report and Recommendations of the Executive Board on the Budget Estimates for 1952. [27] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) said that the Executive Board had examined the Director-General's budgetary proposals with the utmost care, and its comments were repro- duced at the beginning of the Budget Estimates (document 6C/5-II). He felt that the very clear exposé given by the Director-General obviated the necessity for further introductory remarks, but added that, on behalf of the Executive Board and its Com- mittee, he would be at the disposal of the Budget Committee to answer questions and give explanatory details whenever necessary. Examination of the Budget Estimates for the Financial Year 1952 [document 6C/5 (II) |. [28] The CHAIRMAN then outlined the proposed method of work for the Committee, with special reference to the programme of meetings contained in document 6C/BUR/1. From 11 to 16 June the Committee would consider the Budget Estimates item by item. On 18, 19 and 20 June, it would pre- pare its first report to the General Conference, and he suggested that that report should be divided into two parts : the first to consist of general remarks on the presentation and computation of the Budget Esti- mates, and the second of specific recommendations on the items contained under the different chapter headings. From 28 June to 4 July inclusive, the Committee would meet to advise the Administrative and Programme Commissions on the financial impli- cations of any newresolutions submitted by Member States. The Chairman also read the Budget Com- mittee’s terms of reference as established by resolu- tions 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. [29] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed with the Chairman’s suggestion for the programme of work, and pointed out that, as the Budget Com- mittee was meeting before the opening of the General Conference, its recommendations would carry even greater weight with the other Commissions. Fur- thermore, she felt that the Committee not only had the obligation of examining the actual costing of projects, but should also study the operational diffi- culties experienced by the Organization and make the appropriate recommendations to the General Conference. The Committee might find that the difficulties experienced in carrying out a particular project had completely jeopardized its possible suc- cess, and that a temporary suspension of activities in that field was advisable. [30] Miss Laise also pointed out that it would be OMMITTE*E necessary for the Committee to have full information upon the activities of the Technical Assistance Pro- gramme in fields of interest to Unesco. [31] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Bud- get, Office of the Director-General) said that a gen- eral review of the Technical Assistance Programme was contained in the Director-General's report, and that a document outlining its budgetary provisions was in process of reproduction and would be distri- buted within a day or two. [32] The CHAIRMAN agreed with the suggestions made by Miss Laise, but warned the Committee against the danger of exceeding its terms of refer- ence and overlapping with the work of the Pro- gramme Commission. He asked whether the Rap- porteur would be prepared, as in previous years, to attend meetings of the Programme Commission whenever the latter required the advice and recom- mendations of the Budget Committee. [33] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), while quite wil- ling, hoped that the Chairman would be kind enough to help him in that task, since, however carefully an agenda might be drawn up, a certain overlapping was inevitable. He asked that the Secretariat, too, should help him, by accelerating the procedure for bringing out the Summary Records, the provisional form of which might even, to save time, give the speeches in the original language only, translation of them being postponed until later. [34] The CHAIRMAN expressed his readiness to give the Rapporteur all possible assistance, while recalling the fact that he had other duties, as well, to fulfil at the Conference. He was sure, too, that Miss Laise, the Vice-Chairman, would be glad to help Mr. Guignolet. [35] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) confirmed that it was proposed to issue provisional minutes in the original language of speakers, within 24 hours of each meeting. Fully revised and translated editions would be distributed at a later date. [36] Mr. RAADI (Iran) asked that the text of the Director-General’s speech should be distributed as soon as possible, since it contained precise details which might provide useful guidance for the dis cussions. [37] The CHAIRMAN then suggested that the Com: mittee should open its examination of the Budget Estimates with Part IILProgramme Operations, and that the Secretariat should take special note of (a) general remarks regarding budgetary prin: ciple and (b) specific remarks on the detail of indi vidual projects.
508 | | Esti feren( quen only asked| form, [43] methd and M ring || make | [44] delega much pp. 24 [45] his ex generd    BUDGET [38] Miss LAISE (United States of America) raised the question of publications in the Budget Estimates. Those were included in the budgetary provisions for the different programme departments, but she felt that most delegates would prefer to consider the Organization’s financial policy with regard to publi- cations as an entirely separate item of special importance, the more so as the Executive Board had set up a special Committee on Publications. [39] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) said that the report of the special Committee of the Board on Publications was to be submitted to the Programme Commission of the General Conference. He thought, however, that it would be within the Budget Committee's terms of reference to consider the financial aspects of the Organization’s publications policy, and agreed with Miss Laise that that could best be done by dropping the question of publications as they appeared under the different Chapter headings and taking them as a whole afterwards. [40] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that there, already, was a matter affecting the Programme Commission, and he repeated that overlapping was inevitable. He therefore thought it would be well to adopt Miss Laise’s suggestion and to consider the documents intended for the Committee on Publi- cations, setting aside the question of the desirability of such publications, but checking the budget esti- mates. [41] Mr. Guignolet also suggested that the members of the Committee should be asked to submit indi- vidually to the Secretariat, in writing, particulars of information they would like to receive, so that the Secretariat would have time to prepare its replies. [42] Mr. RAADI (Iran) observed that the Budget Estimate for 1951, submitted to the Florence Con- ference and distributed to the delegates, had subse- quently been revised. The Secretariat was concerned only with those revised estimates, and Mr. Raadi asked that they should be distributed in their final form. [43] Miss Laise's proposal with regard to the method of examining the question of publications and Mr. Guignolet's suggestion that delegates requi- ring further information from the Secretariat should make their requests in writing were adopted. [44] With regard to the details requested by the delegate of Tran, the CHAIRMAN pointed out that much of the information was contained in Table MI, PP. 298, 299 and 300 of the Budget Estimates. [45] his explanation, but said that those figures were too Mr. RAADI (Iran) thanked the Chairman for general. What he was asking for was the full, COMMITTEE VII detailed Budget now being applied, the Budget which had replaced the estimates submitted at Florence. The tables to which the Chairman referred were, of course, useful, but he was obliged to insist on having detailed figures, which would be useful for purposes of comparison. [46] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) remarked that the required details were already contained in the Bud- gel Estimates, since each chapter included a column showing the estimated obligation in 1951 for each item. The figures given in that column were those established after revision of the 1951 Budget bythe Fifth Session of the General Conference and by the Finance Committee of the Executive Board. [47] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) observed that it would not be possible to give further details of 1951 expenditure until the end of the year. [48] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought that the question raised by the Iranian delegate deserved to be examined at somewhat greater length. He him- self would like to see a comparison between the appropriations voted at Florence and the actual appropriations for 1951, as modified by the transfers madeeither by the Executive Board or bythe Direc- tor-General. [49] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that the Secre- tariat could, although not without difficulty, produce an up-to-date Appropriation Table for 1951, but that, as pointed out by Sir Ronald Adam, no true picture of 1951 expenditure could be given before the end end of the year. [50] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed with the delegate of Tran that further information concerning the modifications in the 1951 Appro- priation Table, showing precisely how the Secre- tariat was implementing its 1951 Programme, was highly desirable. To give one specific example: without that information the Committee could not see what was happening to the Organization's pro- gramme for Germany, for which about $80,000 had been allocated in 1951, and which it was proposed to drop in 1952. She felt that the Committee might obtain the information it sought by taking the pro- gramme resolutions of the Fifth Session and asking the Secretariat what steps had been taken to im- plement them. [51] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) said that, having made a detailed study of the Organiza- tion’s programme, he felt that it would be more useful, and infinitely clearer, to seek information from the Secretariat on specific points as they arose,    VIII-2 BUDGET do TT TER 510 instead of requesting an entire new document at the stage reached. [52] After further discussion as to the exact type of additional information required from the Secre- tariat, it was agreed that the delegates concerned (those of Iran, the United States of America, and France) should come to an arrangement in private discussion with Mr. Hodson. The required infor- mation could then be prepared for circulation to the Committee. [63] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), summing up the results of the discussion, concluded by saying that if members of the Committee would submit to the Secretariat, in writing, a list of the information they required, the proceedings would be expedited. [64] The CHAIRMAN shared his view and sug- gested that that procedure should be adopted for all future questions. The meeting rose at 12.46 p.m. SECOND MEETING Monday, 11 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. BenDEr (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (11) ]. Education (Part III.1). PROGRAMME Cosrs (III.1.A) (pages 82 and 83). [1] Mr. WYNES (Australia) noted the amount of $3,500, provided for travel on official business, under Programme Costs and enquired the reason for the increase over 1951. [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the 1951 figure had been based on the 1950 obligation, during which period the post of the Department had been occupied for only eight months. [3] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked why there was a difference in the grade of the various Administrative Officers shown in the Budget (e.g., a Grade 14 in the Department of Education as compared with a Grade 10 or 12 in other Departments). [4] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the change reflected a new conception of the post, under which the Administrative Officer in the Department of Education was to assume heavier administrative responsibility. Since the time of drafting, the advisability of such a change had been challenged, but the Committee could be sure that the Secre- tariat would reconsider the matter before the change was finally effected. [6] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) said that he wished to revert to the question later when the budget for General Administration was under dis- cussion. [6] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether, under the proposed reorganization, it was intended to modify the procedure whereby there were ad- ministrative officers in each Department. [7] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that there was no intention of abolishing the post of Administrative Liaison Officer in each department, the presence of such officers being indispensable. [8] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, asked what was the position regarding the two posts of Programme Specialists (Grade 14) for German Liaison, to be abolished in 1952. Were their activities to cease? [9] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa tion) replied that those specialists were initiating a Unesco Youth Institute and an Education Institute and that their activities were to continue until
31 December 1951. The posts were at Headquarters and not in the field. [10] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether it was the policy of Unesco to appoint new