11-14 PLENARY MEETINGS 190 FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 4 July 1951, at 6.07 p.m. President: Mr. HowLanp SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Election of six members of the Executive Board . : ; : 190 Election of Six Members of the Executive Com- mittee. [1] The PRESIDENT — The only item of business before us this afternoon is to receive and take action upon the report of the Nominations Committee. This is Item 17 of the Revised Agenda—the election of six members of the Executive Board. I shall ask the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, Dr. Mafiach, to presentits report. [2] Mr. Jorge MANACH (Cuba), Chairman of the Nominations Committee — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, on be- half of the Nominations Committee 1 have the honour of submitting to the General Conference the names of the delegates suggested by the Committee to fill the vacancies on the Executive Board occurring this year. They are as follows in alphabetical order: Dr. F. Benner (Netherlands), Count Stefano JACINI (Italy), Shri A. L. Mupariar (India), Mr. Vladislav RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia), Mr. S. M. SHArIF (Pakistan) and Mr. Constantin ZURAYK (Syria). [3] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee for his report. [4] May I now remind you that earlier this after- noon, in the Nominations Committee, the Heads of delegations heard a very detailed and clear account of the procedure by which the decisions are taken with respect to the election of the six members of the Executive Board? To save time in this evenings plenary meeting, I prefer not to repeat those in- structions unless some delegate feels that we should do so. Otherwise I shall assume that you are fami- liar with them. To recapitulate, this plenary meet- ing of the General Conference, acting on the report of the Nominations Committee, is required to vote by secret ballot in accordance with the principles laid down by the Procedure Committee. You may decide to accept the report of the Nominations Com- mittee; if so, I will assume that no additional nomi- nations will be made from the floor. Should any delegates now wish to submit additional nomi- nations, I would remind you that such nominations may be considered only if supported by two or more delegations. Is this procedure clear to you? We are now ready to proceed with the discussion or with any proposals on the report of the Nominations Committee. But I shall first call for two tellers for the secret ballot; would Mr. Samaniego of Ecuador and Mr. Gabriel of Haiti be willing to undertake this task? Thank you. We are now ready for any pro- posals on the report of the Nominations Committee. Is there any further discussion? Are there any nominations from the floor? I call upon the dele- gate of Switzerland. [5] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, I find myself in an extremely difficult position. The candidates sug- gested all seem to be excellent, and I have no wishto raise an objection to any one of them. I would like merely to revise a statement I made a while ago to the Nominations Committee. There was one nomi- nee who did not receive a sufficient number of votes. That was Mr. Massaquoi of Liberia, who not only is a polytechnician who did advanced work at the Polytechnical School of Berlin, but he represents Africa. It is exclusively from the point of view of principle that I take my stand and not because I disagree with the choice of candidates, for, I repeat, as far as I am concerned, they have all been well chosen, but, with regard to the Executive Board's election, it is my opinion that, if we stand on principle, we must consider not only the personal qualifications of the candidates but we must take into account geographical distribution as well. - For my part I am somewhat disturbed that negro Africa is not represented. It seems inconsistent to me that in an Organization such as ours we show ourselves enthusiastically in favour of a fundamental edu- cation programme and at the same time, while voting on Executive Board members, we leave out of account the interests of an entire continent, by failing to nominate a candidate who represents it. For this reason my conscience bids me support the nomination of this candidate. My position, I repeat, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [ |   th те! ad no wi pa ve ge Ex re pa [1 na red ac W thd sul ful int is Bo gu     | | | | ؤ | | | | | | | | | | | | | {
191 PLENARY is based solely on the values of the Organization which are at stake, and I would not want my inter- vention to be regarded in any way as an objection to the list of candidates presented by the Nominations Committee. [6] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Switzerland. [7] The delegate of Haiti supports the nomi- nation submitted by the delegate of Switzerland. China, Ecuador, Israel and Lebanon also endorse the proposal. Therefore, in addition to the six can- didates suggested by the Nominations Committee, we have to include Mr. N. V. Massaquoi, Head of the Liberian delegation, in the nominations before this plenary meeting of the General Conference. Do any other delegates wish to speak? [8] The Head of the delegation of Cuba has said that he associates himself with the proposal by the delegate of Switzerland. The delegates of the Domi- nican Republic, Panama, India and Burma likewise support the proposal. I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom. [9] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. Presi- dent, fellow-delegates, I will be very brief but I think that, on behalf of the United Kingdom dele- gation, I ought to add one thing complementary, if not complimentary, to what Mr. Piaget has just said. He asserted that at present there was no member of the Executive Board from any country which was responsible for Africa. Those were not his words, but the impression left, at least on me, was that, unless the Executive Board were strengthened by the addition of our good friend from Liberia, it would not meet the important condition, laid down by the Constitution, of including distinguished persons who are not only distinguished but can speak for all parts of the world. I merely wish to point out a very obvious fact, namely, that the distinguished gentleman, Mr. Seydoux, who is a member of the Executive Board and who, I am happy to think, will remain so until 1952, barring accidents, is a national of France, which, for our purposes, includes those parts of Africa for which France is responsible. [10] I might add—but TI will not—that another member of the Executive Board, who shall remain nameless, is a national of a country, which also has responsibilities for some 50 million persons who acknowledge the same King as the country from which that distinguished gentleman comes. It is therefore in no spirit of criticism of Mr. Piaget’s suggestion, but in order that we mayall have the full facts before us that I thought it necessary to intervene and point out that, even if Mr. Massaquoi is not elected to the Board on this occasion, this Board will nevertheless contain not only distin- guished persons, but persons who have a right to   MEETINGS 11-14 speak for at least some parts of the great Continent of Africa. [11] The PRESIDENT — TI thank the delegate of the United Kingdom. I call upon the delegate of Israel. [12] Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) — Mr. President. I merely wish to register amazement at the statement made by Sir John Maud. [13] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Israel for his remark. Do any other delegates wish to speak before we proceed to the vote? None? We can then vote. I remind you of the procedure which we shall follow in accordance with the rules laid down for us by the Procedure Committee for the conduct of elections by secret ballot. Each delegate has a piece of paper on which he is to list the names and the countries of not more than six members that you wish to have elected to the Executive Board. I should like to make it clear that you must now make your selection from the seven names which are before you, because, according to the Rules of Procedure, you may now vote only on those names that have been duly submitted to you by the Nomi- nations Committee or by delegates at this plenary Meeting. The seven names that are before you are, in alphabetical order: Mr. Bender, Netherlands; Count Jacini, Italy; Mr. Massaquoi, Liberia; Mr. Mudaliar, India; Mr. Ribnikar, Yugoslavia; Mr. Sharif, Pakistan; Mr. Zurayk, Syria. These are the seven names from which you are to select six. May I call your attention to the fact that, if you put no names on your paper your ballot will be regarded as an abstention. If you place more than six names on your ballot, it will be regarded as void and will be rejected. You may, if you choose, place a number less than six, as the number of names that you wish to vote for, as this is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. There- fore, I will ask you now to write on these ballots six or less names, together with the countries, selected from those submitted to you; please do not sign your names or indicate the name of your country; when you have marked this ballot, put it in the envelope and I will ask the Secretary to call the roll in French alphabetical order; when your name is called you will deposit your envelope in the ballot box. I will now ask the tellers to come forward to the ballot box. We shall now vote. (Voting took: place by secret ballot.) [14] The PRESIDENT — Fellow-delegates, I now have the honour of presenting to you the results of the secret ballot just taken. TI will repeat to you that 61 Member States were entitled to vote at this session; 14 were absent, none abstained, and one ballot was invalid. A total of 46 votes was thus
11-14 PLENARY recorded, including the invalid ballot. According to Rules 88 and 89 of the Rules of Procedure, an absolute majortity of 50 per cent plus one vote must be recorded, in this case 24. Six of these candidates have, in fact, succeeded at the first ballot in obtaining the absolute majority of 24 or more votes, in this order: Mr. Bender, 45 votes; Count Jacini,
37 votes. These six have therefore obtained the absolute majority. A total of 23 votes were cast for Mr. Massaquoi, the Head of the Liberian dele- gation. The first six candidates have thus obtained an absolute majority, and I now declare them elected members of the Executive Board. [15] Fellow-delegates, I have only a few more remarks to make. Moved by our warm admiration for the members we have just elected, I feel we should not close the proceedings this afternoon withoud a word of deep appreciation from us all to the outgoing members of our Executive Board. They have worked—hard and faithfully—in Unesco’s service. The extent of their contributions is not wholly known to any one of us but we have all seen the standards which they have set and all that I can say on behalf of this General Conference to the new members of the Executive Board, is—try to emulate the very distinguished services rendered by these outgoing members, and, as we leave tonight, I would like, by the warmth of our applause, to make these people feel that we appreciate their services. They are: Shafik Ghorbal Bey, Mr. Victor Doré, Mr. Alex. Photiades, Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and Mr. Louis Verniers. I feel that these men have earned our applause and I know you want to show that we appreciate their work. [16] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. President, may I very briefly say two things. [17] The first is that, as it fell to me to make a speech which might be interpreted as derogatory to Mr. Massaquoi, I would like to say how glad I was to see the very large measure of support which he received, although he was not elected a member of the Board. [18] Secondly, one of the distinguished outgoing members of the Board, about whom we have just expressed our sentiments, is Mr. Victor Doré. It is my privilege to have been one of the original mem- bers of the Executive Board and I shall never forget what Unesco owes to Mr. Victor Doré for his early work as Chairman before we had an Executive Board at all—when we were in the most difficult process of preparing for action; and I also remember the unanimity with which we insisted that he should continue to be Chairman after the First General Conference. I think I am entitled to speak for all of us—whether in this room or in other parts of the MEETINGS 192 world—who wish to express their thanks to Mr. Vic- tor Doré of Canada, the first Chairman of our Ex- ecutive Board, now that he is leaving the service of the Board. [19] The PRESIDENT — I thank Sir John Maud, himself a former Chairman of the Executive Board, for reminding us all of our debt to Mr. Victor Doré. I call upon the delegate of Mexico. [20] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) —  Transla- tion from the Spanish] Mr. President, in regard to Sir John Maud's remarks concerning Mr. Doré, who is well known to us all for his devotion to Unesco and who, in spite of his illness, has been attending the Executive Board meetings, I should like to say a few words about the members who are now leaving the Board. The job of Executive Board members is not an easy one. One must get ac- customed to thinking from a universal point of view, giving attention to matters of both individual and general scope, and that is always hard. [21] During the time I have had the honour of attending the Board’s meetings I have seen how, while each of the outgoing delegates represented a separate outlook concentrated on different aspects of the work and expressed an individual point of view, all their differing attitudes nevertheless blended into a coherent whole. [22] Sir S. Radhakrishnan was the one who pre- sented the ideal point of view, the point of view of deep, spiritual interest always standing above per- sonal interests. [23] Mr. Verniers of Belgium, with his profound knowledge of educational practice has always shown an alert interest and a deep insight in all that con- cerns youth and its problems. [24] Mr. Photiades prides himself on his know- ledge of procedure, but his knowledge covers a far wider range than merely that. He knows not only how to work his way through the complicated net- work of varying opinions but how to arrive at a re- solution which has the unanimous approval of the entire body. The absence of his university experi- ence and his fine cultural background will certainly be felt. [25] We have had only brief glimpses during the Board meetings of the Egyptian delegate, Mr. Ghor- bal Bey, who was more often replaced by Mr. El Diwany, but we have listened with pleasure to his well-constructed speeches. His life has been closely linked with the interests of Egyptian university stu- dents studying in Paris and the culture they re- present. And while defending the interests of that cultural body in general and in particular the cul- tural area which his country represents, he has shown the greatest concern in the development and progress of Unesco. E S g e ‏3 ت ح س م . . . . . — — — — ب
193 PRE NA RY [26] I wish to express my deepest and warmest feelings of respect and admiration for all the out- going members of the Executive Board. [27] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Mexico; he speaks as a colleague of these men and MEETINGS 11-5 he has seen their work. Now, in adjourning this evening, may I thank our tellers, Mr. Gabriel of Haiti and Mr. Samaniego of Ecuador, for their good work? I now declare this meeting closed. . The meeting rose at 7 p.m. FIFTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 10 July 1951, at 3.20 p.m. President: Mr. HowLanp SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Presentation and adoption of the report of the Committee on Reports of Member States я 193 Presentation and adoption of the report of the Official and External Relations Commission E E 195 Presentation and consideration of the report of the Administrative Commission. Adoption of the amended text thereof . . . . 196 Presentation and adoption of the report of the Programme Commission 202 [1] The PRESIDENT — This afternoon it is pro- posed to consider, first, the report of the Committee on Reports of Member States; second, the report of the Official and External Relations Commission; and third, the report of the Administrative Commission. If we have time, we may be able to begin considera- tion of the report of the Programme Commission. At tomorrow morning’s meeting, we may then con- tinue with the Report of the Programme Commission and also consider the reports of the Procedure Com- mittee and of the Budget Committee. [2] For the presentation of these reports, the Gener- al Committee has recommended that we adopt the following procedure: [3] First, I shall ask the Chairman or Rapporteur of each of the Commissions and Committees to make his report to us, wherever possible summarizing the main conclusions and not reading the entire text of the report to us. This will be possible since these reports will have been distributed to each one of us in advance. [4] Second, the General Committee felt that, while a Rapporteur, summarizing the important work carried out by many delegates over the period of the Con- ference could not be asked to confine himself to any fixed time, each Rapporteur or Chairman, in present- ing the Report, should avoid even those courtesies which I know that many of us would like to pay to our Officers who have handled the work of the Commissions. The work of the plenary meetings would thus be greatly advanced. [5] Third, it is the suggestion of the General Com- mittee that, when a report has been presented and its major conclusions outlined to us by the Rapporteur, those delegates who agree with the conclusions of the report should not ask to speak. If delegates wish to move amendments or new proposals, they should limit their remarks strictly to five minutes. Rap- porteurs should be prepared to comment on any such amendments or proposals, summarizing, for the benefit of all of us, any relevant discussion within their working parties. If you approve this procedure, I shall first call upon Professor Eustathiades of Greece, Rapporteur of the Committee on Reports of Member States. Presentation and Adoption of the Report of the Committee on Reports of Member States. [6] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece), Rapporteur of the Committee on Reports of Member States —