BUDGET [46] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wished to draw attention to the Committee's work regarding econ- omies to be made in the 1952 Budget. [47] The reductions already effected on the budget items examined by the Committee appeared to total $560,000. Mr. Guignolet thought it would be pos- sible to add $40,000 at the second reading, which would mean a total reduction of $600,000 for that section of the Budget. [48] A reduction of about $100,000 would remain to be made on budget items not so far examined, i.e. those referring to General Policy, General Administration, the External Relations and Docu- ments and Publications Services, and Common Service Costs. [49] Mr. Guignolet asked Mr. Hodson whether those figures corresponded with those of the Secre- tariat. [50] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that, according to the Secretariat’s figures, a total reduction of $537,422 had been effected so far. A further cut COMMITTEE VIII-24 of $146,525 was, therefore, necessary to bring the total budget within the ceiling voted by the General Conference. Proposals to achieve a further reduc- tion of $146,525 were being prepared by the Secretariat for submission to the Programme Com- mission. There remained the $105,000 needed to finance the special project on fundamental education. It was proposed to obtain part of that amount by an economy of $30,000 in Common Services, and the rest by an arbitrary percentage cut on all other appropriation lines, [61] Mr. Hodson then informed the Committee of a recent decision, taken at a joint meeting of the Programme and the Official and External Relations Commissions, to maintain a sum of $35,000 for liaison with Germany and Japan instead of sup- pressing the total provision for that activity. If that decision were upheld, the Director-General would have to find additional funds and con- sideration would have to be given to the means of doing so. The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m. TWENTY-FOURTH MEETING Friday, 6 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) Proposed Establishment of a Reception and Information Office at Unesco House: Draft Resolution presented by the Cuban Delegation (document 6C/DR/1). [1] The CHAIRMAN read a letter from the Chair- man of the Programme Commission, Mr. Piaget, stating that the Programme Commission had adopted the Cuban proposal at its second reading of the pro- gramme, and that, at the request of the Rapporteur of the Budget Committee, the Cuban delegate had agreed that the office in question should consist of not more than two posts. [2] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) stated that the budgetary implications were $7,740, on the assump- tion that there would be one grade 8 post at $3,210 and one grade 4 at $2,130. It would therefore be necessary for the Department of Mass Communication to make available funds for the purpose from another item, [3] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that the staff of the Information Office would have to be adequately trained and remunerated accordingly. In the ori- ginal plan three posts corresponding to grades 12, 10 and 8 were provided for, but that scheme was not approved. By way of compromise the number was reduced to two posts, at grades 10 and 8, correspond- ing to the work to be done and the responsibility involved. It had to be kept in mind that there were other Unesco officials carrying out less important functions with less responsibility who held the grades of 12, 14 and 16. [4] Miss LAISE (United States of America) wondered precisely what the functions were for the two posts and how Mr. Brull proposed to distinguish between them. [5] Mr. BRULL(Cuba) said that the qualifications of the officials and the work they had to do were factors to be determined by the Director-General. Tt was his own opinion, however, that the function of    VIIT-24 BUDGET those persons was to furnish Unesco officials with all such information as they might require as well as answering requests from outside, especially when such requests bore on cultural matters. Their ser- vices might also be useful in arranging interviews, and finding appropriate premises for exhibitions and conferences for visiting artists and authors. [6] That was his idea of the functions of the above- mentioned department, which he considered would be most useful, especially to any Latin American intellectuals, professors and artists who came to Paris for professional and cultural purposes. [7] Mr. Brull mentioned that in the course of con- versation, the Head of the Belgian Cultural Depart- ment had expressed regret that missions sent by his Department to discuss questions of cultural interest met with many difficulties, due to lack of the necessary information. [8] Mr. Brull insisted finally, that it was the Director-General’s business to determine, in col- laboration with the relevant departmental Heads, the exact activities to be carried out by the officials in question. [9] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Programme Commission had decided that the Service should consist of not more than two persons, and that the Budget Committee should decide whether it was reasonable that those persons should hold posts of grades 8 and 4, as suggested by the Secretariat, or grades 10 and 8, as suggested by the Cuban delegate. Once that had been decided, Mr. Schneider would have to explain how the money was to be found. [10] In reply to Mr. WYNES (Australia), Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) stated that two posts in grades 10 and 8 would necessitate an appropriation of $9,580. [11] Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought that the question of whether one or two persons were needed depended on the calibre of the person recruited. She also wondered whether the office would not more properly be attached to the External Relations Service. {12] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) thought that it was a very easy questionto settle, since it involved a new general service, to be included among those already under Mr. Montagnier. [13] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) stated that the Pro- gramme Commission had considered a suggestion that the proposal should be submitted to the Adminis- trative Commission. That suggestion had, however, been turned down because a similar service already COMMITTEE 636 more specifically in the Department of Mass Com- munication. [14] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked the Cuban delegate to state exactly which Department was to have the Office attached to it. If it was Mass Communication, the Programme Commission was competent to deal with the matter; if the Office was to come under General Services, then it was a question for the Administrative Commission. [15] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) did not understand why the delegate of France had brought up the question of the competent body. The resolution had been definitely approved and all that remained to do was to fit the newservice into tho general administrative machinery of Unesco. It did not matter to which Department the service was attached; the important thing was that it should be so developed as to render the maximum service. In any case the final decision could be left to the Director-General. [16] The CHAIRMAN asked the Director of the Department of Mass Communication whether it was necessary to create two new posts, or whether the job could be done with the existing services. [17] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) had always tried to co-operate wholeheartedly with the Budget Committee in its examination of the retrenchment necessary in his Department. He still addressed the Committee in the same spirit. In 1950, he reminded the Committee, an Office had been set up within his Departmentand located on the ground floor of Unesco House. Visi- tors could find there a card-index system and full documentation on Unesco. During the first five months of 1951, 550 visitors from 35 countries had used the service. They included 27 teachers,
35 students, six government officials, four librarians, two journalists and 26 people in various professions. The official in charge of the service also organized lectures and film shows for students or secondary- school pupils coming from France or other countries. During April 1951, that Office received 127 visitors, including 54 students and teachers, some of whom wished to take Unesco as the subject for a thesis or course of study. The Department of Mass Communi- cation also included a liaison service with the press, employing four specialists. Thus it could be said that to a great extent Unesco met the requirements mentioned in the Cuban delegation’s proposal. As for the question of information for visitors to Paris, mentioned on page 2 of document 6C/DR/1, Unesco did not supply such information and assistance direct but put people into touch with the official French services. The person in charge of the service per- formed his duties most satisfactorily. Dealing with existed in the programme section of the Organization,— the financial side of the problem, Mr. Schneider had    BUDGET made a detailed study of his Department's budget on the basis of Mr. Hodson's estimates. It seemed possible to do away with the $8,000 allocation on page 218 of the Budget: Co-operation with Radio Organizations. That was the only item in which an economy seemed feasible if additional allocations were needed to implementthe resolution in question. [18] The CHAIRMAN summed up the three possibi- lities before the Committee: (1) A reception service already existed in the Organization, which fulfilled about nine-tenths of the Cuban delegate's require- ments. The Committee might therefore decide that that was sufficient. (2) The Committee might decide that two more posts were required at grades
8 and 4, as suggested by the Secretariat. (3) Orit might decide that two more posts were required at grades 10 and 8, as requested by the Cuban delegate. [19] The Chairman recalled that Mr. Piaget's letter did not state that it had been decided that two extra posts should be created, but merely that the service should be centralized, with not more than two posts. [20] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) understood that the Programme Commission had decided that the Reception Office should have a staff of two. If there was already one person in the Secretariat performing the same kind of duties, the estimate was excessive. He asked whether the Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services did not possess a section with almost identical functions. If so, all that was needed was to put the two officials into one and the same office. [21] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that information was furnished not only by Mr. Schneider's Department which was efficient, but by other Departments as well, without there being any one person responsible. His own plan would tend to centralize responsibility for the issue of information which, at the moment, went out irregularly and without co-ordination. [22] Mr. Brull was surprised that Mr. Schneider, whose Department had suffered big cuts in appro- priations in the course of the budget debate, believed he would be able to issue information in 1952 on the same scale as in the past. [23] The point at issue was the creation, for the first time, of a central information office, and for that it would be necessary to engage the services of two persons who belonged or had belonged to the Organization or who, at least, were familiar with the Way it functioned and who, bytheir background and experience, were qualified to do the job satisfactorily. [24] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General), who, like the Director-General, had not been present during the discussions in the Programme Commission, thought the Chairman's first solution was the best. In the first place, a service already existed in the house; in the second, the establishment of two posts COMMITTER VIII-24 at grades 8 and 4 would involve finding nearly $8,000; and, in the third, Mr. Schneider had stated that one person was already employed full time, and one secretary part time, on such work. In a year ofeffort to keep down the budget, he would assume that the functions proposed by the Cuban delegate could be satisfactorily discharged with the available services. [25] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) noted with surprise that the Secretariat did not accept the Programme Com- mission’s decision to set up an independent service. He reminded the meeting that that Commission had approved document 6C/DR/1 with the Cuban amend- ment reducing the numberof posts in the Reception Office from three to two. That was stated by the Chairman of the Programme Commission in his letter. [26] The CHAIRMAN, referring once more to Mr. Piaget's letter, considered that the existing two posts were adequate, and that that was what the Programme Commission had asked the Budget Com- mittee to decide. [27] Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought that the proposed decision might be taken as giving the Director-General a directive. If it were found that the work was not carried out satisfactorily with existing resources, the Cuban delegate could always protest at the next session that the work had not been properly carried out, but the Budget Committee could not, on the evidence available, make such a decision forthwith. [28] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) considered that such an interpretation altered the sense of his resolution advocating the creation of two posts. The Committee should therefore determine the figure for the necessary appropriation. [29] Mr. RAADI(Iran) wished to know what posts there then were in the Department of Mass Communication and the Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services which could supply a reception service. [30] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked for the exact classifications of those posts. [31] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) replied that the person he had previously mentioned was one of the two grade
10 assistants shown on page 201 under the heading “Office of Director”. Furthermore, of the secretaries allotted to that Office, one spent three-quarters of her time working for the reception and information service. It had no special name because it formed part of the Office of the Director in the Department of Mass Communication,    VIII-24 BUDGET [32] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General), replying to Mr. RAADI, confirmed that there was in fact no provision for such work anywhere in the Estimates for 1952, except in the Department of Mass Communi- cation. [33] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) suggested that an office should be officially set up, where the work of the two officials mentioned by Mr. Schneider could be combined. [34] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) explained that in point of fact the office of one of the above-mentioned officials already had a notice up saying “Reception Office”. [35] At the request of Mr. BRULL (Cuba), the CHAIRMAN took a vote by roll-call on the Cuban proposal to create two new posts at grades 10 and 8. [36] The proposal was rejected by 7 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions. Voted in favour: Cuba. Voted against: Australia, Egypt, France, India, Sweden, United Kingdom, Yugoslavia. Abstained: Iran, United States of America. [37] In reply to a question from Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) stated that the grade 8 Conference Assistant in the Office of the Head of Conference Planning, under General Ad- ministration, shown in the budget table on page 75 of document 6C/5(II), was partly concerned with questions of the type involved, such as receptions and hospitality given by officers of the Organization. [38] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thereupon stated that he would vote against the second solution proposed by the Chairman, namely the creation of two new posts of grades 4 and 8. [39] That proposal was then rejected by 6 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions, Mr. BRULL (Cuba) voting negatively. [40] The CHAIRMAN then suggested that the Committee should vote on the first proposal, namely that the activities suggested in the Cuban proposal could be carried out with existing personnel, and a better co-ordinated service. [41] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that that would require the addition of one post, since the one referred to by him in the General Administration was to be discontinued in 1952. [42] Mr. RAADI (Iran) then suggested that logic COMMITTEE would demand that the post in question should be retained in the 1952 budget. [43] The CHAIRMAN revised the motion to state that, in the opinion of the Committee, the activities in question could be carried out with the funds provided in the 1952 budget. [44] Mr. BRULL motion. (Cuba) formally opposed that [45] Mr. RAADI (Iran) having expressed his conditional agreement, the motion was adopted by
6 votes to 1, with 1 abstention. Draft Report on the Membership and Functions of the Budget Committee (Working paper without reference number). [46] The CHAIRMAN stated that the paper would form the introduction to the Committee’s final report, which would also include the appropriation table. The latter, however, was not yet ready. [47] The Committee had also to discuss the draft resolution which was to be examined at the joint meeting with the Procedure Committee on the morning of Monday, 9 July. [48] The Chairman proposed that the paper should be considered section by section. A. Working Conditions. [49] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) stated that, as a result of the work done at the current session, the Board was putting forward a proposal to the Procedure Committee, to the effect that all draft resolutions and amendments to them should be received earlier in the General Conference. He thought it would be useful if the Budget Committee could support that suggestion by pointing out that their own work had suffered owing to the late arrival of certain proposals. [50] The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Guignolet to take that suggestion into account. [51] Section A was approved with the addition of a new paragraph (d) proposed by Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), reading as follows: The Committee did not in every case have sufficient time to study new resolutions, which in future should be submitted at least 15 days before the opening of the General Conference. B. Membership of the Committee. [52] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) observed that the Cuban delegation was the only representative of Latin America on the Committee. He proposed that the
639 BUDGET number of members should be increased to 15 in order to admit two representatives of Latin America. [53] The CHAIRMANpointed out to Mr. Brull that it was for the Nominations Committee to appoint the countries to serve on the Committee, and that the latter could not express any wishes concerning those to be represented. [54] The usefulness of continuity had been amply shown, and had therefore been alluded to in the report. No specific comment had been made on the desirability of the presence on the Committee of the largest contributors to Unesco’s budget, but it seemed an evident point and should clearly be kept in mind by the Nominations Committee. With regard to membership, any member was of course free, if he thought it desirable, to propose an increase in the number of countries represented. [55] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that the membership of the Committee raised certain practical problems. It was already difficult to obtain a quorum with 11 members owing to delegates’ many duties during the General Conference. The problem would be still more difficult to solve if the number of members were larger. Besides, it was natural that the Finance Ministries of the United States of America and the United Kingdom, who paid
50 per cent of the total contributions, should wish to expresss their views each year on expenditure incurred and appropriations proposed. [66] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) agreed with the French delegate. A Committee of nine would certainly be the most practical; but it was necessary to enlarge the Committee so as to take in more Member States and ensure more democratic representation. [67] Mr. RAADI (Iran) advised a slight increase in the number of delegates to bring their number up to
13, for example. He would like the reasons for continuity in the membership of the Committee to be more forcibly expressed. For instance, he thought it would be better to replace only a proportion of the members at one time, as in the Executive Board, than to elect a whole new Committee at once. He admitted the right of the largest contributing countries to retain representatives on the Committee, but the interests of countries desiring representation for some technical reason should also be borne in mind. [58] The CHAIRMAN explained that, as the con- stitution of the Committee would have to be changed as a result of the introduction of biennial sessions of the Conference, it seemed desirable to leave the Com. mittee unchanged until the Seventh Session, the matter being more fully studied the following year. It might be useful to suggest an increase in numbers Owing to the increase in the number of MemberStates COMMITTEE VII-24 of Unesco, but the plenary meetings usually disliked suggestions which were not definite recommen- dations, and it might therefore be advisable not to mention the matter at the present juncture. [59] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) suggested that, to cover the points put forward, the first sentence in the section under discussion should be redrafted to read : The figure of 11 members, fixed by the Conference at Florence, was thought suitable and it does not seem advisable, without weighty reasons, to make any sub- stantial change . . . If the membership were too large, the discussion might be unduly prolonged. Mr. Guignolet also proposed to add, at the end of the first paragraph: It seems advisable that the terms of office of five or six persons should be continued from one session to the next. [60] Miss LAISE (United States of America) suggested stating that the figure of eleven members had been found suitable for working purposes, but was rather small in view of the increase in the membership of Unesco. The reference to the dis- advantages of increasing membership should be omitted, mention merely being made of the fact that it was recognized that such an increase would inevitably extend the discussion. Furthermore, the Committee might suggest that the time-limit for the submission of documents should be extended to
10 days before the end of the Conference. Finally, the report might state that the Committee had considered the figures of 11, 13 and 15 for its membership, leaving it to the General Conference to decide. [61] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) approved alike of the reasons advanced in favour of limiting the number of Committee members as far as possible, and those for broadening representation upon it. He also thought that the Nominations Committee was the only body competent to study the delicate problems of geographical distribution of seats and of States’ representation according to the scale of their contributions. [62] The CHAIRMAN said that was a question to be decided by the General Conference. The Nomi- nations Committee could decide only which countries should fill the number of vacancies decided on by the General Conference. He therefore agreed with the proposals put forward by Miss Laise, and asked her to agree on a suitable form of words with Mr. Guignolet. C. Functions of the Committee. [63] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) considered that the Com-    VIII-24 mittee did not meet long enough before the opening of the General Conference, and suggested that the date of its meeting should be fixed at 10 days before the Conference opened. [64] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed, especially when the system of two-yearly conferences was instituted. [65] It was agreed to recommend that the Budget Committee should meet 10 days before the Confer- ence, particularly in view of the need to prepare a budget covering two years. [66] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) proposed that the second and third paragraphs of the section dealing with the functions of the Committee should be amended to read: The Committee feels, however, that it would be pre- mature to include in the Rules of Procedure a statement of its functions. The Committee therefore recommends:
(1) That paragraph 3 of Rule 25 be amended as follows: The Committees of the General Conference shall include the Credentials Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Procedure Committee, the Budget Com- mittee and the General Committee (document 6/PRO/3, page 2).
(2) That the following draft resolution be adopted. [67] Agreed. Draft Resolution. [68] Miss LAISE (United States of America) put forward the following amendment to paragraph (5) of the draft resolution: The Committee shall examine the Budget Estimates presented by the Director-General, for the purpose of considering whether the work plans and organization are reasonable from the standpoint of costs and the pro- gramme objectives as stated in the draft resolutions. [69] Adopted, subject to any necessary drafting changes. Office Space for Permanent Delegations: Draft Resolution submitted by the Brazilian Dele- gation (document 6C/DR/81). [70] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) read the text of Resolution 10.5 adopted by the Conference at Florence. The budgetary implications of the Brazilian proposal would be a loss of about $6,000 on the anticipated sources of revenue included in the $100,000 of miscellaneous income which formed part of the $640,000 for special financing in 1952. B'UD GET COMMTTT EE [71] Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought there were certain major reasons in favour of the proposal. He asked the Committee not to take a hasty decision, since the resolution did not involve new expenditure. He also pointed out that, in existing conditions, delegates often had difficulty in prevailing upon national authorities to approve the necessary allocations for renting space in Unesco. House itself. That factor might even lead to delays in the payment of contributions. [72] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) considered that it was a matter for the Administrative Com- mission. All the Budget Committee could do wasto state that the adoption of the proposal would have an adverse effect of $6,000 on the budget. [73] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observed that
13 delegations then had offices in Unesco House. If those offices were provided free, each of the 60 dele- gations could ask the Secretariat to place an office at its disposal. Moreover, the adoption of the rent-free principle would force Unesco to repay the sums expended by the countries which were at the moment renting office space from the Secretariat. In the circumstances he proposed that the Committee should insert the following words in its report: The Budget Committee notes that, in the present cir cumstances, the provision of rent-free office space would involve a decrease of $6,000 under ‘miscellaneous income’. [74] Mr. RAADI (Iran) would agree to that wording if the phrase “in the present circumstances” were deleted. In point of fact, rent-free office space would not necessarily result in greater demands, for those countries which kept a permanent delegation in Paris were thereby burdened with various additional expenses. [75] Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought the Committee should say that the immediate effect would be a loss of $6,000 on the budget, but that there might be further effects in the future. [76] It was agreed, by 5 votes to 1 to transmit the proposal to the Administrative Commission, subject to the reservations proposed by Mr. Thompson and Miss Laise. Letter from the Chairman of the Programme Commission. The CHAIRMAN read a letter from Mr. Piagel, | Chairman of the Programme Commission, conveying | [77] a request from that Commission that, in the eventof there being any balance available in the 1952 budget
641 BUDGET COMMITTEE VIII-25 after the cuts had been made to keep the budget to $8,718,000, that balance should be allotted to the Field Science Co-operation Offices under the Natural Sciences Department. [78] The Committee agreed to take note of that request, pending final discussion on the programme. The meeting rose at 65.40 p.m. TWENTY-FIFTH MEETING Saturday, 7 July 1951, at 8.30 p.m. Chairman: Miss Caror Laise (United States of America) Liaison Services with Germany and Japan. [1] The CHAIRMAN explained that, as the joint meeting of the Programme and Official and External Relations Commissions had decided that $35,000 should be retained for liaison with Germany and Japan, that sum had to be found within the budget of $8,718,000 for 1952. To that end, it was suggested that $23,000 should be transferred from the External Relations Service, and that the remaining $12,000 should be found from the one per cent overall cut - to be made in order to finance the Fundamental Education Project. The Budget Committee had therefore to consider the proposed transfers and decide whether they were the most reasonable that could be made. [2] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) expressed concern at the proposal to maintain an office to help the German and Japanese National Commissions. Was it the intention that any Member might be given such assistance from Unesco? Or was the proposal purely transitional? [3] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Budget Committee was merely asked to say whether the financial proposals were reasonable, but not to give its opinion on the substance of the matter. [4] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wanted to know the exact size of the reduction made in the budget of the External Relations Service as a result of the abolition of the section for liaison with Germany and Japan. According to his information, the budget for that Service stood at $370,000, including indirect costs. A further reduction of one per cent would therefore give a saving of only about $3,000, Instead of the $12,000 quoted. [5] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) stated that the total reduction for the offices for Germany and Japan, if it had been agreed to eliminate them entirely, would have been $110,000, plus $14,000 from indirect costs. Since, however, the joint meeting of the Programme and Official and External Relations Commissions had decided on the maintenance of a sum of $35,000, that amount had to be found. The $12,000 mentioned by the Chairman was not being cut from the budget of the External Relations Service, but was the balance from the $87,000 representing the one per cent overall cut on the budget, of which $75,000 would go to the Funda- mental Education Project, leaving $12,000 for the offices for Germany and Japan. [6] In reply to a question from Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) about the $8,000 which it had been pro- posed should be allocated to the Department of Natural Sciences, Mr. HODSON reminded him that, whereas a firm decision had been taken on the figure for the offices for Germany and Japan, the Programme Commission had merely expressed the wish that any balance available should be allocated to the Department of Natural Sciences. The Secre- tariat would be able to state on Monday, 9 July, whether or not that allotment would be feasible. [7] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) realized that the German and Japanese National Commissions would be in their initial stages in 1951, but he wondered why further help should be needed in 1952. A large number of Member States still had no properly established National Commissions, and Sir Frank therefore feared that additional demands on Unesco might be made to help those as well. [8] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) recalled the discussion which had taken place in the joint meeting. It had been pointed out that, thanks to generous contributions from certain Member States, it had been possible to set up three C E E o   p =