BUDGET535 to be gained at that seminar to facilitate the proposed project. [79] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) remarked that that was yet one more example of the requests received by his Department to send a representative. It explained why it was impossible to reduce travel costs. co VIII-6MM IT TEE Promotion of Educational Activities Organizations (page 107). of Youth [80] The CHAIRMAN noted that the project was to be carried out in the normal course of the Secre- tariat’s work. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. SIXTH MEETING Wednesday, 13 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (IT) J. Education (continuation) (Part III.1). EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING (con- tinuation) (III.1.D). Services to Work Camps (page 107). [1] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, noted that the sum of $6,000 was proposed for the purchase of books, and asked whether any information was available about the number of calls made for such books. [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) said that the sum was provided rather as part of the effort to impart an educational bias to the work camps than to meet specific demands. Particular emphasis was laid on education for international understanding. [3] The books provided for travelling libraries were on loan and remained the property of Unesco. [4] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) enquired whether the International Federation of Children’s Communities [document 6C/5 (I), draft Resolution
1.343, page 48] had enough affiliated communities to be of real help to Unesco in producing a report. [5] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) said that the International Federation was an organ- ization sponsored by Unesco and was particularly strong in France, Italy and Greece. In all, 80 com- munities were affiliated to the Federation, which had done good work on a small budget. The children's villages were proving valuable as communities in which educational methods could be tested. [6] In reply to a question from Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom), Mr. Elvin informed the meeting that other countries were represented in the Fed- eration, although the latter was stronger in the three mentioned than in others. [7] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, noted a discrepancy in the figures. That indicated for draft programme resolu- tion 1.343 in document 6C/5 (II) was $12,200 for the heading under discussion so that the total expenditure under the resolution should be $33,900 instead of $35,900 as shown in document 6C/5 (I). [8] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of thé Director-General) explained that the difference was due to an error in document 6C/5 (IT) in which the $2,000 provided forfees should be $4,000, bringing the total for the paragraph to $14,200. [9] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked whether it might not be possible to bring draft Resolutions 1.343 and 1.344 together, providing some $50,000 for a unified youth programme. [10] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) thought that such a solution would be possible but, if adopted, would require the addition of the $20,400 proposed for draft Resolution 1.342. Services to Youth Groups in General (page 107). [11] No comments.    BUDGETVIII-6 Direct Contact with Youth Groups (page 107). [12] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought it unde- sirable to devote $7,700 to Travel on Official Business by members of the staff. He though that sum might be more usefully applied to the organization of direct contacts between children’s communities. [13] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) considered that the travel expenses for which provision had been made under that heading were essential to the success of the programme for, in dealing with young people, the presence of a Unesco official was more than ever necessary to persuade them of Unesco’s interest in them. Furthermore, such travel should not be confined to Europe. [14] Mr. Elvin was aware that the travelling expenses for the whole Organization had shown a general increase, but he was sure that the share for which the Department of Education was responsible was modest when measured against the importance of its task. International Communication among Youth (page
108). [15] Mr. WYNES (Australia) felt that the Inter- national Federation of Children’s Communities might collect the material without payment of a fee. [16] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) explained that the Federation, as an organ- ization created by Unesco, had hitherto been receiving a subvention. 1952 would be the first year for which a contract was planned. It might be thought premature both to suppress all aid and to ask for services in that year. Associating Youth Organizations with the carrying out of the Programme of Unesco (page 108). [17] Mr. WYNES (Australia) asked how the travel expenses had been estimated. [18] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) replied that they had been based on the experience of earlier conferences. The per diem proposed was the lowest possible, and third class travel had been suggested. [19] The item was then approved. Personnel Costs (page 109). [20] The CHAIRMAN speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, noted that two posts had been created under the heading “Curricula and Methods”. [21] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) gave the following list of corrections: Curricula and Methods. COM MAT TEE [22] Line 4 to read: — 1 1 Programme Assistant 10 Teaching about United Nations and Specialized Agencies. [23] Line 3 to read:
1 1 2 Programme Assistant 10 Education and Human Rights. [24] Line 1 to read: — 1 1 Programme Specialist 14 [25] Line 2 to read:
1 — — Programme Specialist 13 == [26] Those alterations brought the totals of posts for 1950, 1951 and 1952 to 19, 25 and 30 respectively, i.e., an increase of five posts for the year 1952.
6,370 [27] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) appreciated the reasons given for increasing the number of posts, but felt bound to point out that, during the previous financial year, 20 posts, not 25, had been envisaged. There must have been some degree of administrative reorganization, by means of internal transfers of staff and funds. The reasons for that action should be given to the Committee. [28] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that the
1951 column was a translation of the facts into the new organizational form, so that the figures were comparable, [29] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that, in any case, the effects of the administrative reorganization effected during the financial year were not shown clearly enough. Each of those transfers should be reported, chapter by chapter. [30] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that there had been no major adminis- trative reorganization affecting the table of Personnel Costs. [31] With regards to the staff shown unde “Curricula and Methods”, the post for a programme specialist, Grade 14, did not represent an increase in the number of posts, as a post at Grade 13 had been abolished in the Estimates for 1952. The same applied to a post of programme specialist, Grade 12, which had been replaced by a post of programme assistant, Grade 10, in 1951. The only additional post was that of a technical assistant, Grade 8. [32] The staff’s duties were allocated in the follow- ing manner: the programme specialist of Grade 14 was in charge of the programme for children; the pro- gramme assistant of Grade 10 was engaged on follow- up work for all seminars; the new technical assistant of Grade 8 was required for the implementation of the expanded programme; the secretary of Grade 5 was dealing with seminars; and the Secretary of Grade 4 would work partly with the assistant, Grade 10, and partly on education and humanrights. [33] The increase of five in the number of staff      — [ Ë . m . m , — р и >. т е p c , — G E ج ح ‎ жи р = N — ; — — Ea ‎و —
537 BUDGET employed in the Education Department was justified by the expansion of the youth programme, increased aid to children, and a more pronounced emphasis on education and human rights, including seminars. [34] Mr. RAADI (Iran) noted that, in the table of expenditure relating to Youth Movements and Organizations, there was an unclassified Adviser's post, which was consequently equivalent to Grade 16 or thereabouts. During the previous financial year that post had been occupied by a specialist at Grade 12. Was the change of classification a result of the internal reorganization? [35] Throughout the discussion it had been dis- covered that it was possible to make certain reduc- tions concerning which the Budget Committee was entitled to put forward recommendation. Mr. Raadi asked that the report should indicate the possibility of making considerable budgetary reductions, in particular, by diminishing the number and financial figure of contracts, cutting down the amount of travel and its cost, combining several projects of a similar nature, and reducing the number andsize of certain publications and the number of copies printed. In all those fields, the current financial difficulties made it a duty for the Secretariat to assume the responsibility of an ever-increasing num- ber of initiatives and an ever-growing amount of work. It was also the duty of the Secretariat to encourage a spirit of initiative in the National Com- missions. Compared with the previous year, the budget estimates in the chapter under consideration showed a total increase of $62,000, $28,000 of which represented an increase in administrative costs. Mr. Raadi hoped that close co-operation between the Budget Committee and the Secretariat would make it possible to compress that expenditure and to devote the sums thus saved to other work of greater Importance, [36] Mr. Raadi was sorry he could not base his general remarks on the revised Budget for 1951, which the Committee had not yet received. [37] The CHAIRMAN said that Mr. Raadi’s remarks would be taken into account in the report. [38] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked for the figures of the turnover rate in the Depart- ment as a whole, for local and international staff. If the rate had been high, it would seem to follow that all staff members had not given a full year’s activity ind more work could be expected of the existing staff
10 1952. [39] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the informa:tion requested was being prepared. [40] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) explained that the staffing of the enlarged СОМ МТТ VIII-6 youth programme had necessitated the employment of the unclassified adviser. In view of the difficulty of filling that post, which called for a young man combining enthusiasm with wisdom and long experience, the post had been left unclassified so that Unesco might have the full benefit of the collab- oration of a very valuable official, not only in matters of youth movements and organizations but also in matters of general policy. [41] Mr. Elvin would request the representative of Iran to make concrete proposals for the amalgamation of projects under the heading of youth movements. He further pointed out that each item of travel expenditure had been carefully examined and that a measure of agreement had been reached. It was impossible for the Secretariat of the Education Department, without an increase of staff, to take on more work of a highly specialized nature which would otherwise have been done under contracts. The Committee might like to suggest the employment of a full-time official as being more economical than the contract system, but that was another matter. [42] Mr. RAADI (Iran) reserved the right to return to the question when the Budget was considered for the second time. For the moment, he asked the Rapporteur to note the main points of the remarks he had felt it necessary to make about various reduc- tions, which seemed to him to be both desirable and easy to carry out. [43] The CHAIRMAN then declared the discussion of the budget of the Education Department closed. [44] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) felt sure that the Committee realized that the vigour he had shown in defending certain items was due to the enthusiasm that he, like all the mem- bers of his Department, felt for the task entrusted to them, and he thanked the Committee for its courtesy. Natural Sciences (Part III.2). PROGRAMME Cosrs (IIT.2.A) (page 114). [45] No comments. DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATION (III.2.B) (page 116). SCIENTIFIC ‎ا Assistance to other Organizations (page 116). [46] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, asked whether subventions to scientific organizations accounted for the larger part of the estimate. [47] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said the largest subvention envisaged was
1111-6 BUDGET for the International Council of Scientific Unions ($185.000). The next largest was for the Council for the Co-ordination of International Congresses of Medical Sciences ($25,000). In that instance, the World Health Organization was contributing double that amount. As for the Union of International Associations of Engineering Sciences, in which
14 Unions were grouped, the subvention of $10,000 was intended for the organization of certain con- ferences and the publication of selected Proceedings. [48] The subvention of $10,000 for the Inter- national Union for the Protection of Nature would be used chiefly for producing books intended to bring home to children the vital necessity of conserving natural resources. [49] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, asked what item accounted for the increase from $196,750 to $249,000 in the pro- vision for subventions (page 119). [50] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out in the first place that the funds estimated for contracts with the international non- governmental organizations were included in the total figure for subventions, so that in reality the amount was $227,000; consequently there was only a comparatively small increase over the corresponding item in the last budget. The increase was chiefly due to the Union of International Associations of Engineering Sciences, which had just been formed, and the International Mathematical Union, founded in 1950, which had been granted a special subven- tion for the organization of its first General Assembly. The later Union would soon join the International Council of Scientific Unions and would no longer have a separate heading in the budget. In addition, a subvention of $8,000 had had to be allotted for the organization of the Eighth Pacific Science Congress. Moreover, the Division of Scientific Research had been allotted a sum of $12,000 in the 1951 Budget, which would be paid in the current year to the Council of Scientific Unions. That sum should therefore also be deducted from the increase to which attention had been drawn. [61] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether there had been certain transfers, authorized by the Executive Board. [62] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) replied that no transfer had been made. Certain subventions had been increased. [53] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether there had been savings under the heading for the year 1950. [64] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) said that there had been a total COMMITTEE
538 saving of $18,000, $10,000 of which came from unspent provision for the attendance of delegates at conferences and could not be carried forward under the existing financial system of the Organization. The remaining $8,000 came from funds provided for projects which could not be put into effect owing to lack of time, and could be carried forward. [55] Miss LAISE (United States of America) enquired whether the Executive Board had adopted the principle that subvention should be granted only in consideration of the extent to which the organ- ization concerned contributed to the implementation of Unesco’s programme. [56] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) said that the rules had always stated the principle and that the Executive Board had reaffirmed it. [57] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether the research to be carried out under draft programme Resolutions 2.21, 2:22 :2:23 7and2:24 could not be undertaken by the International Council of Scientific Unions in return for its subvention. [58] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) replied that that method might be con- templated but that, if it were adopted, a proposal for a contract with the International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU) would have to be included in the Budget. The step would be of doubtful financial advantage, for the Secretariat would have less opportunity of supervising the work, which would be slowed down. The ICSU reports, such as that on the Arid Zone, were of great value to the Secre- tariat. [59] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that her Government considered that Unesco's sub- vention to ICSU should be calculated to take account of the fact that ICSU was receiving an incomeof $78,000 from other sources, including government contributions. If ICSU was returning part of its sub: vention unspent, there was an even stronger case for reducing the subvention of $185,000. Such à reduction would bring Unesco’s policy in regard № ICSU into line with the general policy of decreasing subventions. If necessary, a contract might be given to finance the survey, but in that case the total of the contract and the subvention should not exceed the existing subvention. [60] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said it was a question of fundamental principle, involving a re-examination of the whole programme of scientific co-operation. The question raised was whether it was Unesco’s duty to help the various scientific organizations without expecting concrete benefits from so doing. Unesco had always      —   T — ب ج ‎ r r r " m m
539 BUDGET regarded the Scientific Unions as international research bodies, which should be helped in their work in order to promote a high international ideal, ranging beyond geographical and intellectual fron- tiers. If, on the contrary, the Scientific Unions were to be regarded by Unesco purely as instruments, it might be considered that special contracts should be concluded with them. Mr. Auger himself was entirely opposed to such a view. Work would be impeded if such organizations were to be incited to build up large secretarial staffs in order to undertake tasks that could be better done by the Unesco Secretariat, or more usefully covered by small indi- vidual contracts. [61] Miss LAISE (United States of America) appreciated Mr. Auger’s point, but felt that, in the case under discussion, the survey would be in the general interests of science. Unesco would be making a contribution to the progress of science and, if Unesco was to give financial assistance to meetings to discuss other subjects, the meetings, on their side, might, in return, make a contribution to the pro- gramme of Unesco. [62] Mr. WYNES (Australia) requested an explana- tion of the connexion between contracts and subven- tions. He asked what were the figures for individual subventions and how the figures were fixed. [63] The total for all subventions granted by Unesco had risen from $434,850 in 1951 to $527,000 in 1952, an increase of some 21 per cent. What was the reason for that increase? His Government viewed the matter with concern and would oppose the payment of new subventions and any increase in existing subventions. [64] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that a subvention was intended to help an organization in carrying on its own activities, whereas a contract was given in order to obtain specified services contributing to the implementation of Unesco's programme. [65] A breakdown of subventions by organizations appeared on page 307 (Table IX) and thetotal cre- dits requested for subventions on page 299 (Table VI, Chapter IV, Grants and Subventions). A breakdown by Departments was given on page 292 (Table IV). [66] The original proposal for a subvention came from the receiving organization. The Secretariat then consulted with the organization and made proposals to the Director-General, who put the matter to the Executive Board, which, in turn, forwarded its recommendation to the General Conference. [67] Mr. WYNES (Australia), noting that the sum of $31,000, shown on page 119 as the estimated obligation for contracts with non-governmental organizations in 1951, had been included in the figurefor subventions in the 1952 estimates, asked whether Unesco no longer received the services previouslyprovided for under contracts, COMMITTEE VIII-6 [68] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that, on the one hand, there were certain Unions which had not yet been formally constituted, and with which it had therefore been necessary, in the past, to deal by means of contracts. Once they had been regularly constituted and granted consultative status, they could be allotted subven- tions. On the other hand, certain activities which had previously been carried out under contract had been transferred to the International Council of Scientific Unions. In that case, Unesco received a direct return for its subventions. It was therefore to be expected that the former contracts would be gradually converted into subventions. [69] As for the increase just referred to, the total figure for the Department’s work in respect of scien- tific co-operation had been reduced from $333,000 in 1950 to $309,000 in 1951 and $284,000 in 1952, so that in reality the item showed a very appreciable decrease, thanks to Unesco’s policy, which was gradually to reduce all subventions. In 1951-52, only the new organizations had received subventions—and very small ones—to help them to get started; but there had been no change in the policy of restricting subventions. [70] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, said that the total direct project costs given on page 119 seemed to have decreased mainly because of a decrease in the number of staff employed. If that was so, was the same service being obtained? [71] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that certain parts of the Department's work had been transferred to the scientific Unions so that the services obtained were the same, although the cost had decreased. [72] Mr. DURING (Sweden), referring to the sug- gestion made by the United States representative, said that his Government would regret any reduction in the support given to ICSU for two very different reasons: firstly, because the activities of the Unions were extremely useful, and secondly because the Unions would find it difficult to collect money in small sums from many countries. Unesco was an organization whose aim was to promote scientific progress, and it seemed reasonable for Unesco to provide a subvention, as that was the most convenient way of contributing to the financial upkeep of the Unions. [73] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) thought that, while it might be permissible to allocate subventions to the International Council of Scientific Unions, the ques- tion of granting other subventions to flourishing organizations, like the Council for the Co-ordination of International Congresses of Medical Sciences, or the Union of International Associations of Engi- neering Sciences, was much more debatable. The =   | ]     VIII-6 BUDGET members of those organizations earned a very good living, and their associations had never needed help before Unesco was founded. The sums allocated to them could therefore be reduced to a token amount, designed to encourage them. That did not apply to the International Mathematical Union, which de- served concrete support. [74] Mr. El Diwany nevertheless fully appreciated that the work of the various scientific organizations should be helped forward in a spirit of generous co- operation. He noted however, that the International Union for the Protection of Nature was to receive $10,000 for producing books for teachers. He would like to know what date had been fixed for the publication of those works, and what precisely their interest for Unesco was. [75] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed with the Swedish representative but asked why ICSU should receive both a direct grant from governments and indirect financial assistance through Unesco. She had not realized that ICSU contributed directly to the carrying out of Unesco's programme. That being so, some form of assistance would have to continue. She would prefer a system of contracts for services. She associated herself with the Egyptian representative's remarks. [76] Mr. DURING (Sweden) pointed out that the national grants to ICSU were not made by govern- ments in all cases. Some. came from other sources. [77] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) replied that the criteria mentioned by Mr. El Diwany had indeed been adopted by Unesco as a guide in allocating subventions. The Council of Scientific Unions, which was by far the least wealthy, was receiving the biggest subvention, which was a matter of life and death to it, whereas the Union of International Associations of Engineering Sciences was receiving only a very small subvention. Unesco’s chief aim was to encourage the various organizations to adopt a world outlook and to collaborate more closely. Thus, thanks to advice and subventions from Unesco, the Union of Inter- national Associations of Engineering Sciences had succeeded in bringing together 14 Engineering Unions, and in undertaking fresh activities. [78] Unesco supervised very closely the use to which the subventions were put. Its proposals were studied by the Executive Board, and the reports concerning the utilization of the sums allotted were subjected to a very close critical examination. Any balance remaining unspent was submitted to the Executive Board. ; [79] The publications undertaken by the Inter- national Union for the Protection of Nature were already beginning to appear, so that that particular subvention was showing a yield within the year. [80] There was therefore no question of free gifts;   COMM IT TEE 540 the policy of subventions gave Unesco the benefit of improved international co-operation and invaluable documentation. [81] The CHAIRMAN then declared the discussion on the chapter closed. Improvementof Scientific Documentation (page 117). [82] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) announced that a multilingual dictionary had just been published under Unesco’s auspices and that he would like the members of the Committee to have the opportunity of forming an idea of its quality. [83] Mr. DURING (Sweden) thought that $8,800 was a modest provisionfor the four problems covered. [84] Mr. Düring observed that the wording of paragraph 2 on page 52 of document 6С/5 (1) was misleading. It failed to make it clear that the booklet in several languages would consist of abs- tracts. [85] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that the paragraph referred to abstracts published by certain periodicals which specialized in the abstracting of scientific articles. A booklet was to be published in 1952, to describe the general rules to be followed in the preparation of such summaries. [86] Mr. WYNES (Australia) wondered whether ICSU could not perform the functions of the inter- national organization referred to in the last sentence of the paragraph on the Improvement of Scientific Documentation [document 6C/5 (IT), page 117], thus obviating the necessity for an additional subvention. [87] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that, as a general rule, Unesco wished gradually to transfer to the International Council of Scientific Unions the work being done in the field of scientific literature, leaving to the Secretariat only the methodological task of co-ordination. [88] The CHAIRMAN then declared the discussion on section B. closed.
(111.2.C)REGIONAL SCIENCE CO-OPERATION OFFICES (page 120). [89] Mr. WYNES (Australia) enquired the reason for printing “lists of scientific work carried on in the region” and a “Co-ordinated Report on Regional Science Co-operation Offices”. Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) replied that Unesco had published a report on scientific co-operation which had had a large circulation and had enabled knowledge to be gained of the valuable work done by the Regional Offices. [90]
541 BUDGET That publication, which was out of print, was to be re-issued in 1952. [91] Mr. KIRPAL (India) asked whether any lists were published during 1951. [92] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, asked why the increase in the number of posts (from 7 to 10) was necessary. [93] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) replied that the Specialist of Grade 14 attached to the Secretariat of each Office was respon- sible for maintaining contact with the European specialists, a matter which was becoming more and more difficult. [94] Mr. RAADI (Iran) noted that the table on page 123 showed the total sums allocated to the regional offices. The Secretariat should provide a statement indicating the situation and organization of the offices, and the sum allocated to each. [95] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) replied that the Secretariat was trying to make a fair distribution, but the situation and working conditions of the different offices varied considerably. In any case, the Secretariat made itself responsible for seeing that each of them was provided with resources suited to the task it had to fulfil. [96] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, expressed concern at the increase of some $40,000 in the total direct project costs for
1952. - He further noted a substantial increase in the item “Contracts with International Non-Governmental Organizations”, and asked for an explanation of those increases. [97] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that the organizations in ques- tion were regional and therefore had no international COMMITTEE VIII-6 character; that was the case, for instance, of the Associations for the Advancement of Science which were to meet at Bangkok in connexion with various enterprises of local interest. The extra $9,000 were intended for that meeting. [98] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked for an assurance that there was co-operation between Unesco’s Field Science Co-operation Offices and those of other Specialized Agencies, and that the latter offices would be associated with the Bangkok meeting. [99] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) replied that the closest co-operation was maintained on the spot, in excellent conditions. Liai- son work had yielded the best possible results. [100] Mr. WYNES (Australia) considered that the sum of $3,500 for travel of consultants was rather high, in viewof the fact that they would already be in the region. [101] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that travel costs stood at a comparatively low figure, compared with that of consultants’ fees. The main object was to profit from the visits of certain well-known scientists, who were asked by the Science Co-operation Office to take the opportunity of making a special lecture-tour in the region. The previous year, for instance, a distinguished scientist on his way to Afghanistan had been persuaded to stop at Karachi to give a series of lectures, which it would not otherwise have been possible to arrange. That was an economical way of obtaining the help of specialists whose travelling expenses were already being paid by other interna- tional organizations. [102] Moreover, in order to estimate the work of each Office, each of the figures should be divided by five. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.