219 PLEN AEN MEETINGS 11-17 SEVENTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 11 July 1951, at 3 p.m. President: Mr. HowzAND SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Tribute to the City of Paris: adoption of resolution submitted by the delegations of Haiti and Lebanon [document 6C/DR/86] . ٠‎ 219 Fifth Centenary of the birth of Christopher Columbus and Isabella of Castile. Adoption of resolution submitted by Mr. Carneiro LLNS 220 Adoption of resolution submitted by Mr. Lhérisson (Haiti) . . . 223 Speeches by ‘the delegates of Laos and Turkey . ‎ألا 7223 Observations by the Director-General 225 Closing speeches 229 Tribute to the City of Paris. [1] The PRESIDENT — 1 declare this meeting open. Our first item will be the draft resolution (document 6C/DR/86), presented by the delegations of Haiti and the Lebanon, and I will call upon the delegate of Lebanon briefly to present this resolu- tion. [2] Mr. Ch. DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, if anything can lessen our homesickness it is certainly the atmo- sphere of Paris. The soul is nourished by the beauty of this fair city and one identifies itself with its life. The bimillenary gives us the opportunity of express- ing our thanks and appreciation for the hospitality Paris has shown us. At the same time, since this city seems to represent the realization of Unesco’s objectives, we wish to express how much we feel at one with destiny, which, Allah grant, may continue to be glorious. We also feel, in asking you to vote unanimously in favour of this proposal, that we are rendering homage to a city to which we are all spiritually indebted. [3] The PRESIDENT — I am sure that no one of us who, over the past three weeks and more, has attended this session in this wonderful city of Paris would wish to do other than signify his whole- hearted support of this resolution presented by the delegations of Lebanon and Haiti. You have already shown by your applause what your feelings are. I then declare the resolution adopted by acclamation. I now call upon the delegate of France, who has asked to speak. [4] Mr. Charles LUCET (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, I regret most profoundly that your Chairman, Mr. Lapie, has been kept by his work this afternoon at the National Assembly and consequently is not here to thank the Conference for the honour conferred upon us and the complimentary tribute paid to the hospitality of Paris. [6] I wish to thank the entire Conference, and particularly the delegations of Haiti and Lebanon, for their initiative in that delicate tribute which has moved us so deeply. I need not tell you to what extent Lebanon and Haiti have been the bearers of French culture. Lebanon, with its traditional use of the French tongue, thrives in its glorious blend of Arab and French culture. Haiti, a French-speaking country, unites all the great qualities which can be created by the mingling of African and French culture. To these two representatives I wish to express my heartfelt appreciation of the magnificent spirit which animates them. I hope you have been happy in Paris during this meeting of Unesco. I amnot sure that this year is the exact “Bimillénaire”, but in any case we have done all we could to provide you with a fitting welcome by this ancient city. I thank each of you from the bottom of my heart. [6] The PRESIDENT — I do indeed thank the delegate of France for his generous response to the motion that you have adopted by acclamation. I now call upon the delegate of Haiti. [7] Mr. LHÉRISSON (Haiti) — [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, we arrived as pilgrims of culture, and the time has come for us to part. Permit me, Mr. Director-General, to convey to you our most fervent wishes for personal happiness and good fortune. We are well aware of your great n e s e n n eu‏ ا ن ل ا T E E m m
11-17 ‎ل responsibilities and of the splendid work carried out by you and yourcollaborators. 1 have been pleased to have the opportunity of knowing you and I extend our very best wishes to you all. To our French friends, I offer our warmest thanks for the delightful hospitality they have shown us. To His Excellency, the President of the French Republic, to Mr. Schuman, Minister of Foreign Affairs and to Mr. Lapie, Minister of National Education, we express our sincere gratitude. France, worthy, proud, and courageous guardian of peace and liberty, by virtue of the spiritual mission which has been hers through- out her glorious past, will always hold a privileged place in our hearts. And that is why we are happy that the permanent seat of Unesco is in Paris. Unesco will be able to associate her destiny with that of the City of Light. Nowhere is there a more ap- propriate atmosphere for the task of bringing about understanding among men of different backgrounds and feelings. Let us look beyond the mere horizon and strive to awaken universal consciousness of mankind’s destiny and need of unity. We are all expecting Unesco to reconcile ideologies, mystiques and material interests. [9] Among the masterpieces of Rodin is the Homme qui marche, that powerful work representing a man standing erect with the right foot forward and the right shoulder in the energetic attitude of a man advancing. This posture is Unesco’s. Mayits destiny be glorious in the service of mankind and peace. [10] Kant chose as a motto for his treatise on per- petual peace a passage from David Hume, in which Hume likened the nations at war to two drunken swashbucklers laying about them in a china shop. It is not enough, he said, to heal their wounds, they must pay for the damage they have done. [11] If Unesco is to make a concrete contribution to the cause of peace, we must showgreater courage and more logic. We, large and small Member States, must realize our weaknesses. Although it is true that it is sometimes better to remember one’s short- comings than to boast of one’s successes, we must have a more realistic sense of moral and spiritual values and, in effectively aiding education, science and culture, must rise above self-interest and preju- dice. More than ever before, the world has need of a militant humanism convinced that the virtue of truth is tolerance and that the principles of tolerance and freedom must not be exploited by fanaticism. [12] All nations, great and small, must enjoy the same rights and the same privileges if we desire to respect the spiritual values and attain to that militant humanism I spoke of just now. [13] Great virtues, we know, can breed as many evils as vice itself. In the pursuit of dark designs, certain peoples have deployed what they called moral qualities. “One of the most important lessons that life teaches us is that, without love and goodwill and a deep sense of human brotherhood, all such things MEETINGS 220 as science, technical progress, culture, and even morality, may make men worse than they were before.” [14] One of the grave errors of our times has been the wrong conception of what culture really 15. Intellectual culture seems to have severed its connexion with moral culture. “The sense of re- sponsibility is wanting in those who worship the intellect, for they have not understood that moral and intellectual values are inseparable.” And in the world today we have come to think that all whichis not empiric is worthless; truth itself becomes a blurred vision of reality. Mr. Herriot said yesterday in his presidential address to the National Assembly that the un- restrained use of words leads to confusion. But, because of our deep interest in the work you are doing, we wished to give you our frank opinions and tell you how glad we are to have sat among you. [15] The PRESIDENT — I feel sure we are all encouraged by the inspiring words of our friend Mr. Lhérisson, Head of the delegation of Haiti. Fifth Centenary of Christopher Columbus and Isabella of Castile. [16] The PRESIDENT — We now come to the item of our Agenda which I regard as one of the most important and solemn of the commemorative events of our General Conference. This is the resolution adopted by the Executive Board at its Twenty-Sixth Session (document 6C/10). It will be presented by Professor Carneiro of the Brazilian delegation, whose suggestion it was that Unesco should associate itself with the commemoration of the Fifth Centenary of the birth of Christopher Colombus and Isabella of Castile. The Executive Board has adopted the resolu- tion in this document, which it wishes to bring to the attention of the General Conference. Now 1 must say to my friends of the General Conference this afternoon that, as your presiding officer, I am frankly confronted with a dilemma. In our dis- cussion in the General Committee yesterday, it was recognized that this would be an occasion on which many of our delegates would feel genuinely and deeply moved to express the strong emotions that many of us feel in connexion with this fifth centenary. [17] On the other hand, our General Committee felt equally strongly that on this last day of the Con- ference, we would find ourselves with unfinished items of business and with many of our delegates compelled to leave because of plans to which they had committed themselves. The General Committee requested me to convey to this meeting its belief that our General Conference could commemorate this event with due solemnity with addresses from Professor Carneiro, the original proposer of this
221 PLENARY motion, and from the Chairman of the Executive Board. As the General Committee anticipated, other delegates have announced their desire to speak this afternoon. TI should personally be delighted to hear these other speakers, should it be the desire of the General Conference, but I must also consider the necessities of our time schedule. Will you therefore indicate to me whether you accept the recom- mendation of the General Committee that we have only two speakers to this resolution—Professor Car- neiro, who proposed it, and the Chairman of the Executive Board; or whether you wish to take note of that recommendation but at the same time to invite such others as may care to speak. May I know your wishes in this matter? I call upon the delegate of the Philippines. [18] Mr. Proceso SEBASTIAN (Philippines) Mr. President, I have just learnt of the resolution now bofore the Conference. Although I realize that there is not time to hear all speakers, I believe that this is the most appropriate time for delegates at least to express their feelings on the resolution under con- sideration. I therefore suggest that we allow each intending speaker two minutes and no more to ex- press himself on this question. Thank you, Mr. President. [19] The PRESIDENT — You have heard the motion of my friend the Head of the delegation of the Philippines. If it is the will of this General Con- ference to adopt this rule, your presiding officer will do his best to enforce it. I will assume that he has, however, excepted the two original speakers, Pro- fessor Carneiro and the Chairman of the Executive Board, from this restriction. Is the motion of the Senator of the Philippines supported? TI see that it is. Now I realize that delegates will feel that within two minutes it is not possible to express adequately what they would like to say. I will therefore sug- gest a compromise. Speakers might be given the privilege of expanding their remarks in writing and having them incorporated, if they so desire, in the records, as being what they would wish to have said beyond the two-minute limit. Will you accept this? Accepted. The delegate of France wishes to raise a point of order. [20] Mr. H. MARROU (France) — [Translation from the French] Forgive me for holding up the discussion while claiming to advance it, but our dele- gation cannot support such an ingenious and light- hearted motion as has just been put by the Philippine delegate. It is not with his ingenuity that we would find fault but possibly with his humour. [21] The proposal submitted by the Brazilian dele- gate seems to me to be so weighty in nature, so sober in expression and so important to Unesco's activities that it is hardly possible to apply to its discussion a procedure so light-hearted. I share the MEETINGS 11-7 opinion just expressed by the President that the General Conference is in some difficulty regarding its agenda and the limited time remaining, so it seems to me that there are only two ways of handling this proposal; either we accept it with cheers, for I think we all agree on the great interest this proposal holds for humanity and particularly for the Organi- zation, or we discuss thoroughly what is a very care- fully prepared motion. It is not a simple question of principle which Mr. Carneiro has submitted for our approval, but an entire programme of action. [22] I do not believe that the two minutes allowed each delegate would cover the question, no matter how succinct their remarks might be. I suggest that, since the time is too short to enable us to hold a satisfactory discussion of the proposal, we simply finish by giving our unanimous and enthusiastic approval to its principle. [23] The PRESIDENT — I should like to ask Pro- fessor Carneiro, for whose judgment I have the most profound respect, whether he would be willing to accept the proposal of the delegate of France. [24] Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, this will not be a speech but merely an answer to your question. I believe we have two different problems before us. There is on the one hand a very short proposal of the Executive Board, which is the only one that has been sub- mitted for your opinion, and it consists of instructing the Executive Board to provide for a study plan and then a series of discussions in the next draft pro- gramme. This is the specific proposal that the Board has requested the Conference to approve in order that the Board in the course of next year can work out a plan, keeping in mind, as far as possible, any personal suggestions which I might have made or any other suggestions which might come up. I believe that if there is to be a general discussion it will bear upon this specific proposal of the Executive Board. [25] My personal letter to the Chairman of the Board was just a means of launching an idea which seems to me too important to be let slip by Unesco. However, I did not mean that it should be the subject of discussion at this moment. I merely wanted the Executive Board to study the question and think about it should you authorize the Board to take it into consideration. Therefore, I suggest that we consider only the proposals made by the Board and limit ourselves to a general declaration of our enthusiastic respect and profound admiration for the memory of Columbus and Isabella. Consequently, Mr. President, I do not believe that any discussion in which we might engage at this time would call for detailed arguments. It would merely enable us to express our general views and opinions, which would serve as useful directives to the Board when the time came to work out its programme. If you
11-7 PLENARY permit me, I shall suggest that the Conference allow from three to five minutes to discuss the specific proposals of the Executive Board, after which I will put the general point in as short a time as possible. [26] The PRESIDENT —I particularly desired the advice of Professor Carneiro as the originator of this motion to the Executive Board. His proposal seems to me a very simple one. He merely asks whether the Conference this afternoon wishes to adopt the resolution presented to us by the Executive Board. Its adoption would, in fact, constitute a solemn and responsible declaration by this General Conference that we wish active consideration to be given to the matter of Unesco’s association with the commemora- tion of the fifth centenary of the birth of Christopher Columbus and Isabella of Castile. He feels that, within a relatively short time, complete agreement may be reached as regards the merits of this pro- posal. We merely have to decide whether the Ex- ecutive Board shall include in its next draft pro- gramme—which will ultimately come back to the General Conference of Unesco itself for final decision— the two specific plans which you will find under sub-section (b) of this resolution. If we follow Pro- fessor Carneiro’s suggestion, I think we should be well advised to set a limit to the time to be devoted to it. Are there any objections to this procedure? If there are none, I will now ask Professor Carneiro briefly to summarize, in perhaps three, or even five minutes, the essentials of his proposals. [27] Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) [Translation from the French] Mr. President, Unesco from the beginning has considered it a duty to associate itself with the commemoration of centenaries of pro- minent historical figures. It has participated in the commemoration, among others, of Confucius, Avi- cenna and Goethe, and it is my opinion that the Organization renders a great service to universal culture by honouring those who have done so much for human advancement. [28] Chance predestined that Christopher Colum- bus and Isabel of Castile should both be born in
1451: In 1492, those two beings, so different in background, met at the gates of Granada at the moment whenthe unity of Spain became a fact.- That meeting gave birth to a New World and to deeds which were to transform the destiny of man. What was the message which mysterious historical forces entrusted to Isabella the Catholic and Columbus the Navigator to deliver to worlds till then unknown? First of all it was the message of ancient science inherited from Egypt, India, China and Greece, which the Arabs had brought to the Iberian peninsula. It was also the message of Roman civilization, the parent of western culture, which had introduced the concept of greatness and discipline to peoples divided until the time of Caesear’s entry MEETINGS into Gaul. The last, and perhaps the most beautiful and noble part of the mission entrusted to these two instruments of destiny was the introduction of feudalism and of the Catholic faith. They re- presented the soul of the Middle Ages and bore it to the shores of the New World. The Franciscans were the first to administer the balm of brotherly love which has remained the supreme lesson of Christianity. The greatness of that achievement lies in that predestination, thanks to which a wonderful woman patronized the heroic work of a conqueror devoted to the service of all humanity. Everything great that was conceived and realized during the Middle Ages is represented in those few caravels which on the third of August set out from Palos in search of new trade routes. [29] What were they to discover in that new world of which the Great Admiral had only the dimmest notion? Enormous unarmed and naive populations sunk in primitive traditions of fetishism and star- worship. This is neither the time nor the place to judge the way in which the conquest and coloniza- tion of the newcontinent were carried out. The historic misadventures which occured in the process of incorporating the New World in Western civiliza- tion may have been inevitable. The task was cer- tainly not accomplished by apostolic gentleness but by ruthless fighters, and, to demonstrate the drama of this venture, we have only to note a papal declara- tion of the early sixteenth century reminding those heroes of the sea that the natives of the newly con- quered lands also possessed souls. However, history is filled with unhappy deeds to be atoned for; we must not condemn our entire past for its mistakes. Let us rather fill our hearts with gratitude to all those countries which have contributed so much to the building of the New World, now the refuge of all our hopes, the land where every nation represen- ted has been born anew. The Church forgave many crimes in consideration, perhaps, of the noble intentions that went awry. History could not take a less conciliatory and less generous view. It is therefore with profound respect that we hail the finished work in spite of the cruelty and suffering which have marred chapters in the story of its achievement. [30] Of course we cannot forget the slave ships, but instead of wasting our time in sterile condemnation, let us try to make up for the martyrdom endured by those gentle black mammies who suckled the off- spring of the new World's feudal masters and the injustices inflicted upon the humble builders of the incipient economy which lacked the hands to extract the gold from its land and cultivate its sugar cane. [31] It was the vast influx of people of all races and nationalities which created what is today the Amer- ican continent. 1 am asking you, gentlemen, to authorize the Executive Board to attack the problems of every kind arising in that continent, bringing to
293 PLENARY their study minds clear of prejudice and paro- chialism, minds victorious over the streams and sometimes floodwaters of falsehood swollen by cen- turies, minds free of the tyranny of inherited passions and lusts. [32] May the Old World become more and more aware of the contributions of the New World to its civilization, and may the New World keep fresh in its heart the gratitude, untainted by bitterness, which it owes to western culture, its richest, most beautiful and noblest heritage. [33] The PRESIDENT — 1 can see that I set Professor Carneiro too hard a task in attempting to limit his remarks to five minutes, but I do not regret that he has taken the extra time. But I have to inform my colleagues that we have now reached the end of the 10 minutes that I originally proposed that we use for the discussion of this motion. I now want to know how you wish to proceed. The only way I can keep you within the proposed time-limit is to pass immediately to the vote. On the other hand, I have some five or six speakers who have asked to speak. The General Conference expressed approval of the resolution by acclamation. [34] I thank you, fellow delegates, and I should like to say to my friends—including a member of my own delegation of the United States—who were most anxious to speak to this resolution, that I think the eloquent remarks of Professor Carneiro and the action we have just taken, in adopting by acclamation the resolution of the Executive Board, will have to be a sufficient demonstration for today of our sincerity and of our solemn observance of this anniversary. I thank you for permitting us to pass now to other items of our Agenda. I call upon Mr. Lhérisson of Haiti to speak briefly to resolution 6C/DR/84. Adoption of resolution submitted by Mr. Lhé- risson (Haiti). [35] Mr. LHÉRISSON (Haiti) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to present the following resolution: The various governments represented at the Sixth Ses- sion of the Unesco General Conference, conscious of the collective moral responsibility which the dangers of war place upon them, from the political, economical and social standpoints, Solemnly bind themselves to work for peace and peace- ful ends in full and friendly trust, complete independence and full equality of rights. [36] The PRESIDENT — I could only wish that this resolution had followed immediately upon the earlier remarks of the delegate of Haiti, since its substance MEETING, Hr follows so closely the spirit of those remarks. I should like to know whether the response of this General Conference is the same as my own. Will you adopt this also by acclamation? Adopted by acclamation. I thank you very much. I now call upon the delegate of Laos who has asked to address us briefly this afternoon. Speeches by the Delegates of Laos and Turkey. [37] Mr. OUROT SOUVANNAVONG (Laos) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, honourable delegates, much as I regret taking up any of the precious time remaining, I should feel remiss in my duty where I not to express, on behalf of the Royal Government of Laos which I have the honour to represent, my sincere gratitude for the admission of my country as a Member State to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. [38] We especially thank France for suggesting and backing our candidature. We are pleased to discern in that gesture her ever-present interest in promot- ing our independence and in raising a friendly country to the level of the great nations. Our thanks go out as well to the 36 States which have manifested their active sympathy and approval by registering an affirmative vote, and we have noted with great satisfaction that among them were States which have not yet had the opportunity to learn very much about our country. [39] Our joy would be complete had the five States, four of them Far Eastern countries, not thought it necessary to abstain from voting. With all due respect to a free and democratic vote I cannot help expressing our regret and astonishment that these same five countries registered their favourable attitude to our admission to the World Health Organization. The Philippine delegation even gave us their warm support. It also seems to me that everyone here applauded President Stefano Jacini when he opened this session by saying that once again Unesco has thrown wide its gates to welcome the delegates of the whole world. Did not the honourable delegate of India, H.E. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, in his fine speech at the sixth plenary meeting, ask Unesco not to turn away any country desirous of becoming a member of the Organization, but rather to go out and invite new membersto join without their having to ask for admission? If he will allow me, I would say to him inall friendliness, “We have come to you of our own free will, in all good faith and with the firm determination to work with you for the unity of mankind and universal understanding and you wish to leave us standing at the door.” [40] T also believe it my duty to bring to the atten- tion of Mr. Ribnikar, the eminent Head of the Yugoslav delegation, who seems not to know the role that Indo-China is playing at the present time,     II-17 PL EN ARE that our country is a haven of peace in that troubled region of the world. An examination of the past will show that it has never in its history sought the least quarrel with its neighbours. [41] Mr. President, after hearing so many clear- visioned and eloquent orators, allow me first to offer my most sincere congratulations upon the wisdom, knowledge and authority you have manifested throughout our discussions, and secondly, to hail you as the representative of a great country of such generous traditions that it was the first to recognize our State and the first to take the initiative in aiding under-developed countries. [42] Mr. Director-General, permit me to add my modest contribution to the eloquent praise already showered upon you by my colleagues on the occasion of your address by expressing our deepest, most sincere and respectful admiration. [43] We should be very pleased if, in the course of your pilgrimages through different continents, you could stop one day in Laos. Our country would be honoured to receive Unesco’s animating spirit. You would be aware of the gentle serenity of a nature- loving people. [44] Ladies and gentlemen, if we have asked to be admitted into your midst it is not only because of our desire to serve the great purposes of the Organiza- tion shared by all nations of goodwill, but also be- cause its Constitution embodies all the principles upon which the ideal and life of our Buddhist reli- gion are founded. [45] In our eyes, Unesco has represented from the time of its creation a great association of nations enjoying equal rights and liberties, desirous of work- ing together towards the common goal of creating mutual understanding among the peoples of the world. It is an organization in which those coun- tries which were once colonial powers have sub- stituted friendship and equality for subservience and now, to quote Ernest Bevin’s remark, treat their former protectorates on an equal footing. Finally, it is an organization in which racial discrimination ceases to exist and where, in spite of Kipling, East and West do meet. [46] Such was the conception we had formed of Unesco, and now that we have been impregnated with the atmosphere of the General Conference, we can say that we have not been disappointed. On the contrary, we have been inspired by the perfect accord subsisting in the relations between the dif- ferent delegations and their remarkable community of views. We admire your persistance as well as your faith in the success of your undertakings. [47] Rest assured that we shall take back with us from this first contact with the General Conference the hope and confidence you have given us that a brighter and better future is in store for all mankind. We shall not fail to tell our compatriots that, having seen you in action, we can testify that you have spared no pains to attain the goal set by your Con- stitution which is: MEETINGS to contribute to peace and security by promoting colla- boration among nations through education, science and culture in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and funda- mental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion. In order to implement the noble work of this pro- gramme we wish to urge the delegates who have met here to continue and enrich the contacts they have made by paying visits to one another in their different countries. [48] In his remarkable address of 19 June, the Director-General said: Under the fearful threat of a new world war, mankind is living days of anxiety and despondency. . . It is as though fear had become an obsession, freezing all generous impulses, inspiring every utterance, poisoning silence itself. It seems to us evident that this anguish and fear have been inspired in large part by the enormous increase in scientific inventions. We should desire that Unesco undertake action, not to hinder scientific progress but to encourage the use of newly dis- covered power for the betterment of humanity. Rabelais said that knowledge unguided by conscience can only lead to the ruin of the soul, and does not each one of us fear the results of modern nuclear science? If left unguided by conscience, will it not lead to the ruin of our planet? [49] Ladies and gentlemen, in thanking you again on behalf of the Royal Government of Laos, we are authorized to assure you that our government will take pride in being associated with all your noble and generous undertakings which will lead to inter- national co-operation based on respect for the sove- reignty and independence of all nations and the establishment of a harmonious and lasting peace on earth. [50] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Laos for his observations and for the pledge given on behalf of his country to work wholeheartedly for the aims of Unesco, in association with the other 63 Member States. We now approach the concluding items of our agenda this afternoon. Before calling upon the Director-General, who wishes to address us before the close of this Conference, I shall ask the delegate of Turkey to comment on a document presented to us by the Executive Board. Mr. Tevfik SAGLAM (Turkey) — [Translation[51] from the French] Mr. President, the meeting has received through the Director-General the communi- cation transmitted to the Executive Board by the Turkish National Commission and contained in document 6C/12. [52] As you know, ladies and gentlemen, it is a sad account of how one of those tragedies which mar
225 PHENART our times by their violation of the sacred principles of human rights has affected the peace and even the lives of hundreds of thousands of men, women and children. The deportation of Turks from Bulgaria, robbed of all their possessions, presents my country with a very grave problem. You are well aware of the difficulties of providing for these great numbers of people. The Turkish people have made and still are making great sacrifices to attend to the most immediate needs of these Turkish refugees. Our efforts are beginning to bear fruit and it is not the object of the communication sent by the Turkish National Commission to ask Unesco at this time for material assistance to meet the cultural needs of these deported masses. The Turkish delegation takes the liberty of reminding you that the matter has already been discussed by other international bodies, and gave rise to severe reproaches levelled by the Council of Europe against the party responsible for this situation. What we have -come to ask is that you take cognizance of this communication so that, if the courageous efforts of the Turkish Government and the Turkish people should prove insufficient to meet the problem of maintaining educational facili- ties for the thousands of children who for the moment have their lodging and food assured, a request from us might at that time be considered and the helping hand of this great Organization stretched out to administer the assistance needed. [53] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Turkey and, in accordance with the request made by him on behalf of the Turkish National Commission, I suggest that we note this communication setting forth the substance of the problem which he has discussed with us. I should like to come to, in a way, one of the saddest parts of our meeting yet, at the same time, one of those that we most look forward to. Tt is sad in that it marks almost the close of our plenary meetings and of our General Confer- ence. I shall now call upon the Director-General for such remarks as he may care to make to us, and for his observations on how he feels this General Confer- ence has accomplished its purposes. Observations by the Director-General. [54] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentle- men. Now that your labours are drawing to their close, T should like to associate myself, by anticipa- tion, with your Chairman in saying that the Session which is just finishing is a landmark in the youth- ful history of Unesco. [55] This Session has been a demonstration of goodwill and serious purpose which enhances the authority of the Organization. Scepticism, illwill, and the discouragement which always threatens the most generous efforts of human solidarity in their MEETINGS 11-17 early stages, have all been clearly given the lie by the example you have provided of good sense, toler- ance and realism. Important decisions have been taken. TI shall content myself with briefly recalling the chief of these. [66] The General Conference decided to accept into the Organization five States who had applied for membership, namely the German Federal Republic, Cambodia, Japan, Laos anfl Viet-Nam. These States have deposited with the British Foreign Office the instruments of acceptance of the Constitution of Unesco, bringing the number of Member States up to 64. [67] The Conference also decided to amend Art- icle II of the Constitution so as to permit territories or groups of territories which are not responsible for the conduct of their international relations to be admitted as Associate Members, upon an application being made by the responsible authority. The nature and extent of the rights and obligations of these Associate Members have been determined. That is an innovation whose importance need not be empha- sized and which may well open up wide avenues for the development of the work of Unesco, especially in Africa. [68] The question of the individual part to be played by Member States in the collective work of the Organization—a question of the first importance, which overshadows and embodies all others—was given particular attention. As at Florence, it was recognized that the solution of this problem is a decisive condition of the efficiency of the Organi- zation as a whole. For the first time, the reports of Member States have been thoroughly examined by a Commission specially constituted for this purpose, whose recommendations, I have no doubt, will be most useful in stimulating efforts on the national level and fitting them more satisfactorily into the international plan of work. The General Conference has moreover adopted the recommendations drawn up by the representatives of the National Com- missions at their third session. I trust these re- commendations will be as warmly received by the Governments concerned, and that they will be pre- pared to give them practical expression, so as to hasten and enlarge the development—still much too feeble—of these essential bodies. [59] If the individual role of Member States in carrying out the programme of the Organization is to be as large as we could desire, we shall have to see to it that this programme, while aiming at objec- tives which all can accept and work for, pays due attention to the different needs, and is adapted to the different resources, of the various States. During the last years Unesco has resolutely tended in this direction, which is one of practical action. The pro- gramme adopted for 1952, containing projects of direct interest to a large number of countries in every part of the world, will accentuate this ten- dency. Whilst rejoicing that this should be so, the
11-7 PLENARY General Conference quite properly came to the con- clusion that these healthy developments require as a counterpart, and in order that the essential unity of the Organization should be preserved, a strengthen- ing of the bodies responsible for the liaison between Member States and the international Secretariat. Most National Commissions are unfortunately not yet in a position to make sure that this liaison is satis- factorily established. The General Conference there- fore decided to approve, in principle, the progressive establishment in regions distant from Headquarters, of a network of regional offices of Unesco, in thé light of the experience gained by the Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere at Havana, and by the scientific co-operation centres at Cairo, New Delhi, Manila, Djakarta, and Montevideo. [60] Finally, to this system of co-operation de- signed to link up the efforts of Member States, must be added the International Non-Governmental Organi- zations, which bring together experts in the various subjects that lie within Unesco’s field of operation, or representatives of social groups particularly inter- ested in our work. Once more the General Con- ference has emphasized the conspicuous value which it places upon the collaboration of these organi- zations. The welcome it has given to the contribu- tion which several of them have made to the debates, notably on questions concerning youth movements, the workers, and human rights, has shown this clearly, no less than the considerable sums granted in subventions and working contracts, which trans- late into figures the increasing volume of services exchanged between these organizations and Unesco. [61] It is within the framework of this double system of international co-operation that the pro- gramme of the Organization takes significant and effective shape. The programme adopted for 1952 is practically the same as that presented to the Con- ference by the Executive Board. It is marked above all by a regard for clarity and concentration. I think I may say it is the best programme Unesco has yet offered its Member States. [62] The number of projects has been considerably reduced. Most of them are concerned either with the maintenance of permanent services like the ex- change of information and the international co-operation of specialists, or with the development of activities already in progress, or else with long term undertakings. The period of feeling our wayis over. Henceforth Unesco has acquired enough maturity and determination in its plans to enable it to follow a continuous and methodical scheme of work. [63] In deciding to hold its sessions in future every two years, instead of annually, the General Confer- ence did not have in mind merely a measure of economy and a lightening of the bureaucratic burden—much as I welcome these. It also wanted above all to impress upon the Organization a rhythm of work much more suited to the enlarged possibilities opening up for our planned action. MEETINGS [64] Another feature of this programme is that the projects are attached to a limited number of problems which keep reappearing in a variety of forms in the sections dealing with different subjects. It is these problems which give unity to the whole. The programme is not a collection of projects juxtaposed, but a balanced, articulate and well-knit entity, pursuing the same ends by different means. These ends may be defined in a few words: to con- solidate international peace based upon respect for human rights. Peace is at one and the same time the condition of our work, its justification, and its goal. Recognition of Human Rights in the con- sciences of men, in their manners, and in their laws, is the motive behind all that we do. For Unesco was founded on the principle that there can be no real peace except that which is accepted by the minds of men, that is to say, peace based on justice. The promotion of Human Rights dominates and comprises the entire work of Unesco. [65] In this noble undertaking the work of the Organization is becoming more and more practical in character. Whether it is a question of funda- mental education, of free and compulsory primary education, of workers’ education, of international institutes or committees for scientific research, the study of social tensions, the fight against racial prejudice, the preservation of historical and ar- chaeological monuments and sites, the protection of writers’ and artists’ rights, the increase of studies abroad, the supply of newsprint, the international exchange of information, and technical assistance for economic development—in all these sections of the programme may be seen an over-riding concern for efficiency, a very clear desire to get down to real problems and find practical solutions for them. [66] Then, if we pass from the programme and the world-wide effort we are making to the internal administration of the Organization, I am happy to think that questions which have so long been hanging fire have been solved at last, particularly as regards the staff of the Secretariat. The stabili- zation of working conditions is absolutely essential if the services are to work effectively and recruit- ment is to be improved. [67] I cannot conclude this brief recapitulation without expressing my gratitude to the French Government for the kind offer which it has made, and which the General Conference has accepted, with a view to enabling the Organization to have as its headquarters buildings which are worthy of Unesco and of Paris. In Paris, Unesco found from the beginning the ideal climate for its work. It is a good thing that it should have its home here. [68] So Unesco exists. It lives. It asserts itself. It works. And already the results being achieved, or becoming apparent, are capturing the attention of the alert-minded. That is a fact you ‘have both observed and demonstrated. It is becoming clearer and clearer what Unesco wants, and how it is striving to get it. What is still uncertain is how     = MeeeDeOREE | ‘ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ت  س ر ب ب س
227 PLENARY much it can do. And let me say in this connexion that the Conference has posed more questions than it has answered. I hope you will allow me to ex- plain briefly and in all frankness what I mean. [69] What can Unesco do? So long as a clear, precise and satisfactory answer had not been given to that question, I feel quite sure that the public will be rather reticent and our best friends rather uncomfortable. We live in an epoch obsessed by power where ideas are judged by their effect on reality. [70] What can Unesco do? As its Constitution indicates and its experience confirms, two courses of equal importance are open to it: to create tech- niques and establish norms. The first aims, by a general improvement in intellectual techniques and their diffusion at bringing about changes in the conditions of life and thought of the peoples of the world. The second is the gradual setting-up of an international system within the Organization’s field of operation, an international order which in turn serves as a measuring-rod for national activities, so that instead of becoming isolated and antagonistic to one another, they can be harmonized and brought to work together for the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind. [71] Direct action means above all promoting re- search, perfecting the training and organizing the work of experts, and placing the results of these researches and the abilities of these experts at the disposal of Member States on a certain number of essential problems. This work is done simul- taneously by the Secretariat, whose function is both to initiate and co-ordinate and by the Member States assisted by National Commissions, upon whom the function of execution properly devolves. During its first five years, Unesco has gained experience in this direction which already equips it—as the Report I submitted to you and the comment on the report clearly show—to render concrete service to its Member States. The method and instruments of international co-operation have been devised to enable every Member State to benefit from the col- laboration of the rest of the world in the develop- ment of education, science and culture within its national frontiers, and at the same time make a direct contribution to the general progress of hu- manity in these fields. [72] But we must realize that the hour of achieve- ment—I mean achievement on a scale equivalent to the gigantic tasks of which we are speaking —has not yet come. Neither in its Secretariat nor among its Member States has Unesco the resources to match its technical capacity. We can do no more than sow a few seeds here and there while the labourers wait in the empty furrows for a chance to raise the vast harvests for whichthe peoples of the world have been hoping since the dawn of history. [73] Direct action not merely postulates techniques and tools. It also requires above all men and     MEETINGS HAT money. The men—by which I mean the experts— are hardly enough to go round. At least Unesco can collect and mobilize the available ability and good- will, and it has resolutely applied itself to the task of increasing the number and improving the quality of candidates for this work, and of training them in ever-increasing numbers. [74] There remains the question of finance. That is where, for three years, Unesco has been brought to a standstill. It will come one day to the point where it must either surmount this obstacle or give up altogether. [75] The Budget you voted is for $8,718,000. There is not one of you who does not feel that this is a ridiculous sum for an Organization which is dedicated by its Constitution to such an ambitious mission, and which can boast 64 Member States. You are well aware that despite its apparent increase over the budget for the current financial year, this budget, on account of the rise in the cost of living, will not be quite sufficient to maintain the activities of the Organization at the level we fixed a year ago at Florence, and which was only $230,000 higher than the one of two years ago. Above all you know —because you saw it happen when the Programme Commission had to cut the programme, or rather the work plans in the programme, to suit the budget— that the budget is not large enough to cover all that the Organization is capable of doing, nor to supply all the services which Member States have a right to expect. The unanimous regrets ex- pressed during this painful operation are the best tribute the General Conference could pay to the progress made by Unesco. But they also reflect, alas, the impasse in which we are placed, and where the Organization cannot be imprisoned for ever. [76] For the first time, the contributions of the majority of Member States have decreased. I think it my duty to warn the General Conference very seriously of the danger of taking this as a precedent for the future. The Organization, as such, has started out in life. Every year, simply by the natural development of its work, it raises the highest hopes. Every year it assumes growing re- sponsibilities. It is like a young plant springing up, or a growing child. It expects more and more of you. Surely you have not brought it into being just to let it vegetate. The day will come when you will have to ask yourselves seriously how you intend to carry out your obligations towards Unesco. [77] The Conference has just charged it with a fresh responsibility—a very noble one, but for that reason very formidable. I refer to the plan to create a world-wide network of international centres for the training of teachers in fundamental education. This plan, which has been the subject of careful preparation and study, was adopted unanimously and with acclamation. It is a plan which entails long-term activity of wide range, of a kind that has never before been attempted in the field of education   | |
11-7 PLENARY by means of international co-operation. The Con- ference unanimously decided that this plan must immediately be put into action. Yet for the launching of this urgent and mighty enterprise, in which the United Nations and the Specialized Agen- cies, through their chief representative, have shown the greatest interest and for which they have promised the fullest collaboration, it has proved im- possible to collect the necessary funds, except by making inroads on the amounts reserved for Tech- nical Assistance and the normal programme. What are we to do when it comes to the really active stage? We shall then be obliged to settle the ques- tion whether or not Unesco can go on living for ever on promises. [78] For my part I think it extremely dangerous to raise hopes and aspirations in the heart of the people unless we are able to supply at the same time the means of satisfying them. And of all the hopes and aspirations which one must be careful not to disappoint once they have been awakened, those which centre on peace and whose appeal is to the spiritual values, are the ones which deserve the greatest respect and the most vigilant attention be- cause they are the noblest, and because once they have taken hold of a man, a group, or a people, they impart a lofty sense of destiny which cannot be abandoned without revolt and bitterness. [79] You cannot give with one hand and take away with the other. If there was ever an institution to which that old, wise and sensible proverb applies, it is indeed Unesco as you yourselves have created and defined it: an Organization made for the emancipa- tion of the mind, for education in peace, and to be the apostle of human rights. One cannot give with one hand in the programme and take away with the other in the budget. [80] It is of course possible to imagine that the work of the Secretariat might be stabilized if at the same time Member States developed in such a way as to ensure the steady progress of the Organization. Unfortunately, the Commission set up to examine the reports of Member States has come to the conclusion that we cannot count on this. The Secretariat still remains the chief instrument for carrying out the work of Unesco, and the budget voted by the General Conference constitutes almost the entire resources at our disposal for executing the programme. That is what obliges me in my capacity as administrator, to say that these resources are inadequate, inadequate already today and in themselves, but which through the consequences they will have in the future, threaten to lead to a situation where the very justification for Unesco’s existence may be called in question. [81] The second course I mentioned just now, of crealing an international system of norms—does that offer a solution? It is true that this legal operation does not involve high financial charges, since it only asks the adherence of sovereign states to certain inter- national norms. MER T IN GS [82] At Florence, the General Conference seemed disposed to follow this course rather more resolutely than it had until then. Thus the programme for
1952 provides for the detailed preparation, and I hope the conclusion, of an international copyright convention, as well as for the study of various prob- lems arising out of the establishment of appropriate texts for agreements. [83] In any case, these special efforts, important as they are in themselves, do not absolve us from following a more ambitious and systematic policy, in which the Covenant of Human Rights now being drafted at the request of the United Nations must naturally be the framework and the support. I am sorry that the interval between the last session of the Commission on Human Rights and the present session of the General Conference was too brief to allow the delegations at this Conference to proceed, with full instructions from their Governments, to a thorough examination of the text which the Com- mission has drawn up for presentation to the Eco- nomic and. Social Council. To be the technical adviser of the United Nations in matters relating to education, science and culture, has always been the function of Unesco and this function could only be exercised with the necessary authority by the sovereign body of the Organization. I hope at least that in future circumstance will allow the General Conference to take this task fully in hand and that next year the General Conference in the light of the technical studies planned for particular problems, may be able to map out the main lines of an inter- national policy of agreement covering both the rela- tions of the State with individuals and the relations of States to one another, within the domain of Unesco’s competence. If it were to turn out other- wise, if budgetary restrictions were aggravated by legal reserve, Unesco would indeed be in a dangerous situation. I am quite sure that you will want to avoid this at all cost. [84] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, T do not think it shows a lack of respect if I speak to you with such frankness. Moreover, I do not think it can hurt the work of this Conference to cast a glance at the next stage of our work. [85] I think you will be able to return to your countries with the satisfaction of work well done. I think you will be able to tell your Governments that Unesco has become a living, active reality, that it is capable of rendering effective service to its Mem- ber States, and that by the help it can bring to their own efforts it can become an effective instrument from the solution of technical problems within its province, and a meeting place or rallying ground for free minds in the service of peace. T think you will be able to tell your Governments and your National Commissions that the programme you have laid down for the Organization is a good programme, suited to the designs of Unesco and taking into ac- count the necessary concentration of effort. It is a     > .
229 РЫНКАХ MEETINGS 11-17 programme devoted to priorities as the Florence Con- have slackened, and that in a world less obsessed ference desired. It constitutes a whole in which even: with the fear of war, the various States will be able after the closest examination, it is impossible to, make substantial reductions or changes. It is, in short, a minimum programme, below which the Organization could not go without abdicating its functions. And I think you may add that this pro- grammeis calculated to rally, both amongthe general public and mong theelite, all men of good will who value peace and the progress of the mind. [86] But I think you will also be able to warn the Governments who have sent you, the Parliaments to whom you are responsible, and finally public opi- nion, which watches and judges us, that the time has come to consider seriously what each one of your countries can do to ensure that Unesco has resources equal to its opportunities, as you have seen them to be, and to its responsibilities as you have laid them down. What your countries will have to do is to estimate the importance of Unesco, not only as con- cerns their national work for education, science and culture, but also their general peace policy and their efforts for international co-operation. Not the ideal theoretical Unesco of 1945, nor a Unesco hesitant and dubious at the outset of its career, nor even Unesco as it is today, limited by the mediocrity of its resources, but an active, youthful, influential Unesco which could take its proper place in the world tomorrow if it only had means adequate to its capacity. And if this examination is carried out faithfully, and also, I dare to hope, with realism, you will then have to decide what support it would be desirable for every one of you to give the Organi- zation, both in the technical and the legal field. For let me repeat it once more, every step forward that Unesco takes means a fresh responsibility for you, because it represents a promise to the peoples of your respective countries and to mankind as a whole. The Organization cannot go on forever draw- ing blank cheques on the future. [87] Of course I do not forget that your Govern- ments are obliged to take into consideration the demands of the present international situation. I have been a statesman myself. I know the burden which weighs upon those who have to think first and foremost of security in the present. I would be the last person to try and distract them with impos- sible dreams, but I also know that a policy which never looks beyond the immediate present is not a policy worthy of the name, and that in this world nothing solid is ever built except upon the dignity of man and the brotherhood of nations. And it is because 1 was profoundly convinced that Unesco can help the Governments to build this necessary edifice, that I left the work of governing my own country in order to enter the service of Unesco. [88] I hope with all my heart that when we meet in Paris in November 1952 we shall meet in peace. I hope that the tension between the Powers will to provide increased resources for the work of pro- gress and spiritual concord to which Unesco is dedicated. In that case Unesco may still receive from its Member States resources which are worthy of the great tasks it has set itself. But if, alas, it should turn out otherwise and we should still be living in the climate of distrust and fear that we have known for several years, we must not give up hope, but on the contrary we should redouble our faith, tenacity and enthusiasm. Unesco was not created to be the sport of circumstance, but to be an historical force capable of shaping events for itself. Unesco is not a luxury designed for easy times. For my part I have always thought of it as an heroic effort, and it is in the most difficult days that the world has greatest need of it. I know that you share this belief and that when you go back to your own coun- tries, after the excellent work you have done here, you will be ardent and persuasive missionaries for Unesco. And I do not doubt that you will be heard. I thank you in advance. [89] The PRESIDENT — I do not believe that I should comment on the remarks the Director-General has made, for fear of blurring the vision that he has set before us of Unesco as it may—and, with your determination can—become. With your permission, therefore, I will call upon speakers who have asked to be heard briefly in these closing minutes. First, the delegate of Iran.   Closing Speeches. [90] Mr. SIASSI (Iran) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment when our Conference is drawing to a close and we shall be leaving for our respective countries scattered over the four corners of the globe, we are all feeling what can be ex- pressed in one word: “satisfaction”, satisfaction at having done a good job. Our work, which has con- tinued without pause for 23 days, will not have been in vain. We have reached positive results, as the Director-General has just said, and we can, with- out false modesty, be proud of what we have done. [91] We now have a well-studied work programme and a well-balanced budget for 1952. In addition, we have been able to solve certain problems of capital importance, such as the matter of biennial sessions and the establishment of fundamental education centres. [92] Tt can therefore be said that the quality of our work over those 23 days has not been sacrificed to quantity. The decisions made seem to be such as to dispose of certain criticisms of Unesco, and to dissipate, if not entirely at least in part, a certain
11-7 PLENARY sceplicism about our Organization to which I alluded at the time of the discussion of the Director- General’s report. Our efforts, we think, will help to create faith among the peoples—or, where faith al- ready exists, to reinforce it—in the efficacy of Unesco’s work. [93] We have, consequently, fulfilled our mission; each of us has played his part. But none of us can forget that the central character, whose presence was felt keenly everywhere and whose experience and knowledge found a solution to every problem, was Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet. Many problems, such as the question of fundamental education centres, would have gone unsolved had it not been for his far-reaching wisdom. Let me then express once again our admiration and sincere thanks. His col- laborators are also most deserving of our sincere gratitude especially those who were responsible for the splendid organization of the Conference. Its smooth running struck us all. [94] Our thanks go out as well to the President of the Conference, Mr. Sargeant, who led our discussions with remarkable skill and ease. His composure and paternal firmness have inspired in us an affection and respect akin to that which one feels for a good father. [95] Finally, how could we not thank our hosts, the French Government and the city of Paris, whose “Bimillénaire” has made her younger and more ravishing than ever? During our stay in the City of Light we have been constantly under the irresistible spell of French hospitality, good taste and wit. All this as well as the receptions, honoured by the pre- sence of the President of the French Republic, at the Elysée Palace, the Palais de Chaillot and the French Theatre have left an unforgettable impression upon our minds. From the bottom of our hearts, then, we say to our noble hosts of France and to the lovely city of Paris: Thank you and . . . au revoir. [96] The PRESIDENT — I thank Dr. Siassi pro- foundly for his remarks. I now call upon the dele- gate of Greece. [97] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) — [Translation from the French] I should like to suggest that all of us, representatives of 64 countries, express our warmest thanks to all the members of the Secre- tariat. Indeed, we should extent our expression of gratitude to even the humblest members of the staff, which all too often has been criticized. Uninformed sources have attacked our personnel on the basis of the most superficial information. These unjust and futile attacks are prejudicial to Unesco’s reputation and nourish subversive propaganda directed against work which you all know to be honest and guided by the best intentions. For a man to give up an assured job in his own country to work in an inter- national secretariat requires faith in the objectives of the Organization in addition to willingness on his MEETINGS part to make sacrifices. Most of the members of this Secretariat have made a sacrifice in accepting short-term contracts without guarantees for the future to come to work with us. We ourselves can- not without sacrifice assure for the Organization the continuation of work which for the most part con- stitues a thankless task for the members of our Secretariat. I am convinced not only that the Secre- tariat at present is adequately compensated for its labours but that it is fully equal to its task and worthy of our appreciation and profound gratitude. We have often expressed these feelings for the work of a body which seeks not a barbarian peace but a peace based on civilized standards. [98] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Greece and am particularly grateful for the tribute he paid to our loyal, devoted and hard-working Secre- tariat. I nowcall upon the delegate of India. [99] Mr. A. L. MUDALIAR (India) — Mr. President, at this late stage of the proceedings of our Con- ference, I feel extremely reluctant to impose anything like a long speech upon you, but I feel, on behalf of my delegation, that we shall be failing in our duty if I do not avail myself of this opportunity to speak a few words. [100] For the last three weeks we have here had splendid opportunities of making fresh contacts and renewing old contacts, of together discussing the many problems with which Unesco is faced and of trying to understand what we stand for and how best we can co-operate. You, Mr. President, have guided our deliberations in a manner that is at the same time most remarkable and most sympathetic, and I can say, from my extensive experience of the proceedings of many Assemblies at which T have sometimes had the misfortune to preside, that I wish I could have a tenth of the eminent qualities that you have brought to bear in the discharge of your high office as President of this Conference. [101] We have had, from the Director-General, a résumé in brief of the activities of the Conference and of the conclusions at which we have arrived, and a mere enumeration of those points would make every one of us feel that we have done some sub- stantial work and that there was no reason for us to regret that we had this opprtunity of meeting at this Conference. Unesco is an Organization which, though it may not yield immediate results, is of such importance that, in the course of time, I feel sure that it will be the greatest factor for a permanent evolution of peaceful ideas and peaceful aims among all nations in this wide world. Critics there have been who have sometimes been unable to see eye to eye with some of the activities of Unesco. Critics there have been who have, in our humble opinion, passed somewhat harsh judgment on the work of Unesco. But I feel that, as we are deliberately and most avowedly of the opinion that it is our duty       PLEIN AIR Y not only to take note of all criticisms with a view to improving ourselves, but also to see that such critics are converted to a frame of mind enabling them to see more in the work of Unesco than they perhaps see at present, we wish to say that we thank them, even though we may sometimes feel that such criticisms are not altogether deserved. I am re- minded of a little couplet which I may quote with a slight alteration, a couplet from a Scottish bard who said Oh wad some Pow’r the giftie gie them, To see themselves as others see them. and I hope that these critics will see themselves as others see them. [102] Mr. President, in the very eloquent and most moving address to which we have just listened from the Director-General, he has passionately pleaded for the work of Unesco not to be stifled. 1 feel sure that every one of us will agree with him that it is of the utmost importance for the plans laid down to be carried out in such in manner that, from year to year, there may be an orderly development of the programme of Unesco, so that the final results may be proportionate to the task undertaken by us. And I feel sure that when we go back to our countries, each one of us will feel impelled to tell our govern- ments, to tell our National Commissions, to tell our people, the message that Unesco has to give to the peoples of the world. And may I say this: may we not remind ourselves that it is of the utmost impor- tance for us to realize that what Unesco wants is what we can give, and not what we hope to get. If we work in that spirit for the fulfilment of Unesco’s ideals—in the spirit that we must give rather than receive, so that the less developed and the under-developed countries may benefit much more and in a shorter period of time—I feel sure that Unesco's programme of work will burgeon forth from year to year. There may be some who feel rather disheartened occasionally, there may be some whofeel a twinge of conscience that the work is not proceeding as rapidly as one would wish: I presume to think, Mr. President, that in the very nature of things Unesco can never give the rapid results that perhaps some of the other Agencies may be in a position to give, that the very task to which we have addressed ourselves is such that it must take some time before results are ultimately attained. T am reminded again of a little couplet, which says: In front the sun climbs slow, howslowly, But westward look, the land is bright. It is in that sense, I hope, that we shall all go back to our respective countries with the sure knowledge that we have fulfilled a task, but that the task is never over but must be continued in our respective countries. When we come back to Unesco at its MEETINGS 1117 next session, let us all have the satisfaction of hav- ing attempted something for the furtherance of the cause of Unesco and that the cause of Unesco is safe in the hands of every one of us present here. [103] The PRESIDENT — I am particularly de- lighted at the remarks of the delegate of India because he comes to us, as you know, with a wide experience in some of our sister Specialized Agencies. 1 now call upon the delegate of France. [104] Mr. P. O. LAPIE (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, my dear colleagues, the flattering words of praise we have just heard have found their way to our hearts. I appreciate the delicacy you have shown in your tribute to our capital in alluding to its distant past, now being celebrated. For five years Unesco has had its home on the banks of the Seine and we all agree, I believe, that both Unesco and Paris can be justly proud. May the Organization’s future be secure in the newbuild- ing about to be put up for it. Be assured that the proper French governmental agencies will do all they can to help in carrying out this project. No doubt unforeseen vicissitudes may create difficulties from time to time but it is for each of us not to lose sight of the final goal and to make every effort towards its realization. [105] On behalf of the French delegation and of those who were present at the founding of Unesco I should like to express the thanks we owe to those men who are leaving the Board this year, some of whom can boast of having been the real founders of the Organization: I think of Mr. Doré, Mr. Photiades, Mr. Verniers, Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and Ghorbal Bey. The only consolation we have in seeing them depart is the assurance that they will not cease to participate in our activities and lend their whole-hearted service to the continuation of the Organization's efficient operation. [106] The French delegation has been pleased as well to see that the debates and discussions have taken place in a friendly atmosphere in spite of differing opinions. Unesco provides a permanent ground of mutual understanding for all who cherish the same high spiritual values. [107] My dear fellow-delegates, you and I have probably shared the experience of other international conferences, some of them not of an intellectual nature. All too often upon leaving those diplomatic conferences, it can be admitted among us, we have felt somewhat disillusioned—I most not say entirely despondant, but anxious and uncertain. But this time, upon leaving my first General Conference of Unesco, I and my fellow members of the French delegation are filled with the highest hopes and con- fidence in a better future. These hopes, I am sure, are shared by all of you, for nothing can be more moving than this meeting of men, so different in religious and racial background, who have come
11-7 PLENARY together to unite in defence, not of private interests, ideological tenets or of social groups, but of an ideal which is common to the whole of humanity. Of course, all we delegates have been united by one will and one goal, but, if our debates have preserved an orderly aspect, we owe it to the skill and masterly direction of our President, Mr. Sargeant, who has guided them with an unceasing good nature, a firm- ness and an authority which I feel justified in call- ing incomparable. I must also say that our dis- cussions have been greatly facilitated by the excellent work of the Secretariat, to whose members we all owe our praise and sincere thanks. [108] In saying nothing about Mr. Torres Bodet, I shall be the exception, for everyone has said some- thing, and I myself have already said something before. All delegations have joined in their praise of our Director-General, for whom it is not enough merely to serve the Organization with his great abilities: he burns with an inner flame that nourishes a continuous and ever-renewed devotion in all around him. [109] Ladies and gentlemen, the ideals laid down in London in 1945 have lost none of their worth, and we are all ardently desirous that nothing shall prevent us from continuing to be guided by that spirit of universality which is inseparable in our minds from the pursuit of intellectual liberty, of liberty in gen- eral. A few moments ago, the Head of the Brazilian delegation reminded us of those great navigators who set forth to discover the New World. Well, fellow- delegates, we too are bold navigators in this very new world where peace should reign undisturbed. May Unesco, like the white caravels described by the great French poet, José Maria de Heredia (his name links two continents) see the star of peace, so long sought by mankind, rising above the perilous waters. [110] The PRESIDENT — I know that I speak for every one of us when I express our apprecitaion to the Head of the French delegation—who, I know, has set aside some important duties with the Assembly to come and be with us at our final meeting—and, through him, to our host, the entire people and Government of France. I thank him on your behalf for his fine discourse to us. [111] Now I come to a moment to which I, person- ally, have looked forward as an admirer of one of our ablest statesmen. I have heard some very kind, generous remarks about the way in which your President has guided the work of this Conference but I may say that what I have been doing is an attempt to come somewhere near equalling the ability shown by Count Jacini as former President. There is no one that I am happier to call on this afternoon, as we approach the end of our Conference, than Count Jacini, Chairman of our Executive Board. [112] Count JACINI (Italy), Chairman of the Ex- ecutive Board [Translation from the French] Mr. MEETINGS 232 President, you have so overwhelmed me with com- pliments that I scarcely have power to speak. How- ever, it is my duty as Chairman of the Executive Board, a duty which, in a few moments, will be entrusted to much stronger and abler hands than mine, to add a few remarks to the many already made today and which have, I may say, almost exhausted the field. [113] I cannot let the matter of the celebration of Christopher Columbus pass without a word, for, being Italian, I recall that he was born in Genoa. I like to see in his immortal deeds something more than the conquest of a new world by the old, something more than the Cross borne across the seas to new lands, more than an incomparable realm added to the crown of Spain. I see in those deeds something which likens Columbusto Homer’s Ulysses, as immortalized in Dante’s poem; the man ever searching for the new and the unknown, the man whose thirst for new truths can never be slaked. [114] What makes this fifth centenary particularly moving for us is that we too have embarked for an undiscovered world without knowing too well where we shall land. Like Columbus, we too are imbued with great faith and hope. [115] Allow me to recall Mr. Lapie’s witty compari- son between Paris, two thousand years old, and Unesco. The shield of Paris is a golden ship on a blue background bearing the motto, “Fluctuat nec mergitur”. We too have embarked on a ship not exactly of gold, as our Director-General just brought out, but which is, we hope, strong enough to brave the waves and carry us toward that distant goal so deeply blazoned in our hearts that we seem already to see its shining shores. [116] Having paid tribute to the two great anni- versaries spoken of, I should like now to express a sentiment which moves me deeply at this moment as I am about to leave my post and return to the ranks of a simple trooper in Unesco’s service. We are here, men of every country, representatives of many dif- ferent religions, races and colours. We speak a language similar in form, though less similar in meaning, for words mean different things in different countries. But this meeting allows us to fuse our languages and ideas and to prepare. Just what is it that we are preparing? We are preparing the city of tomorrow. We are striving toward something which we scarcely even dare to proclaim officially, for, were I to speak here of world confederation, I should be speaking of a thing which seems for the moment a political anomaly. But in spite of our- selves, in spite of every precaution and every pre- judice, that world community is being forged, and Unesco is and will be, in everything that has to do with culture and science, the great organizer of that world community. We are the world’s future Ministry of Education, and, like the various ministries of any country, we shall have many different tasks to accomplish. But our goal must be defined, and,
233 PLENARY to attain it we must all be ready and willing to sur- render some of our power, some of our traditional heritage. Not, of course, any of the characteristics of our race and history, but certain ultra-nationalistic prejudices, even certain sovereign rights. We must have the courage to undergo these painful surgical operations, if we wish to attain positive results. [117] As a French poet has it, we may never see that day dawn. But our children will see it; we are the cocks that herald a day yet distant. [118] The PRESIDENT — As always, the Chairman of our Executive Board finds that magic touch with which both to inspire us and to spread a little good humour and perhaps just to showus that we should not take ourselves too seriously even though we are those bold navigators, building the city of tomorrow and exploring the unknown. [119] I now come to the moment in our General Conference, when, unfortunately, we have completed our list of speakers, when there is nothing left to do but to bring to a close a session which has lasted now for almost a month and in which we have come to know each other, as we who believe in Unesco should, as friends. My remarks will be very simple and I can assure you they will be very brief. [120] I should like to say,( first of all, that I have deeply appreciated the honour that you did me in electing me your President and I shall always look back with both pride and satisfaction on this General Conference and the honour that you have done me. I have used the word “satisfaction”—and you will remember that Dr. Siassi used it a little earlier this afternoon—because this General Conference, I honestly believe, is the very best that Unesco has ever had. I think we can leave here with the most genuine feeling of satisfaction in a job that has been well done. Now why has it been well done? 1 think, in part, because the Director-General and the Executive Board this year have given us the best prepared programme that Unesco has ever had, and, consequently; we were able to deal with the prob- lems before us in a very orderly and, I think, in a thoroughly satisfactory way. [121] Now this meeting has other achievements to its credit. I think it is a meeting of great decisions. We have taken some great decisions—it remains to be seen whether we will have the will and determina- tion to carry them through—but we have made these decisions and in that sense I find that our General Conference has been one of action—not of words but of action. In particular, the decisions we have taken in launching the project for the world network of fundamental education centres, and in re-affirming our decision to work with other Agencies of the United Nations in the Technical Assistance Pro- gramme, do, I feel, give a large measure of responsible participation and leadership to Unesco in connexion with the advance of many of the countries of this MEETINGS 11-7 world that have not yet attained so high a level of development as others. I feel that these programmes Will make this advance possible and will be of the utmost significance to a large number of countries, truly desirous of taking a more effective part as members of the family of nations. [122] Now beyond these very brief remarks I only want to say that I am personally delighted at the addition of our five new Member States and at the attitude in which they have come to join us in our work. [123] In conclusion, if there is any one remark made earlier this afternoon which I should like to reinforce, it is probably that made by Professor Pho- tiades with respect to our Secretariat. When I was simply the Head of a delegation, I did not always see the very hard work that goes on behind the scenes. I do not know how many of you have the opportunity to see what our Secretariat has done, but I can assure you that, as I presided over the General Conference, I have looked behind the scenes and you are to be congratulated on the devotion and the energy and the hard work of your Secretariat a matter I sometimes think we tend to overlook. I for one would not like this General Conference to adjourn without having communicated to you my own feelings regarding the efforts being made by that which is indispensable to the success of the mission to which we are devoted, namely our Secre- tariat, under the leadership of a first-class Director- General. [124] Each one of us is now going to return some- where—many to our home countries—and, in a short time, these pleasant days we have lived together in Paris are going to be memories, very vivid, very pleasant, but they will be memories. Now I have found, in my own experience, that one of the most effective things that can be done to create inter- national understanding is to wrap an idea in a person. In other words, you make a person an ambassador of ideas, and each one of us seems to me—as I look around this room and see the many delegates that I have come to know, and from whom I have learned much about this world which is so inter-dependent today—each one of us, I believe, is an ambassador of ideas, and most of all, we are ambassadors of ideas to our own people, to our own National Commissions, to our own countries. The one thing that I would urge each one of us to do on returning to take up the task interrupted for a time to come to Paris, is to remember that the ideals and noble purposes of Unesco cannot be realized in Paris, they cannot be realized by a Director-General and a Secretariat, however devoted, they must be realized in what each one of us will do, in what each one of our Member Nations will do. I think back to one truth which I recalled last year to our delegates at Florence and which I had, by courtesy of the Head of the Indian delegation, appropriated to my own    L'EN AR Y11-17 P purposes: it is that statement by the great leader of India, Gandhi, which runs as follows: The world is one in truth, it must become one in the hearts and minds of men. [125] Nowwhat I pledge you to again, as we leave our Conference this evening, is that you will truly and MEETINGS 234 faithfully, as ambassadors of Unesco’s ideas, undertake to serve this noble philosophy that the world must become one in the hearts and minds of men. I now declare the Sixth Session of the General Conference of Unesco closed. The Session closed at 5.26 p.m.