- VII-7 AD MINS TRATE which already contained a high-graded Deputy Director. [64] The United Kingdom delegation was also highly critical of the new structure of the adminis- trative Bureaux. As it had pointed out at previous sessions of the General Conference, a thorough overhaul of the Organization’s methods of accounting and control was required. It still felt strongly that the existing close financial control of programme Departments was unnecessary and wasteful. [65] Sir Ben Thomas noted that, despite the disso- lution of the Bureau of Administrative Management and Budget, four Bureaux remained in existence, at a total cost of over one million dollars, or more than ten per cent of the total budget. Thus the reorgani- zation carried out by the Director-General appeared to result in a negligible economy, and the United Kingdom delegation regretted the statement that the limit of compression and economy in the adminis- trative services had been reached. [56] In particular, it was critical of the new organi- zation and distribution of functions in the Office of "the Director-General. That Office contained 28 posts, including an unclassified Deputy Director-General, and a Director at grade 19, as well as a separate Programme and Budget Division. The necessity for a Director at the same level as the Directors of pro- gramme Departments was not understood. From the outline of the functions of the Office, it appeared that the programme and budget planning of the SEVENTH E COMMISSTON 468 different Departments would be duplicated in the Office of the Director-General, under the title of “synthesis and co-ordination”. That seemed a most wasteful system and might even lead to strained relationships within the Secretariat. With great respect, the United Kingdom delegation would recommend that the Director-General himself, with the assistance of his Deputy, could take the task of co-ordination and synthesis into his own hands. That could be achieved very simply by regular and full meetings between the Director-General and his Deputy and the heads of the programme Departments and administrative Bureaux concerned, with joint meetings when necessary. At a lower level, small committees could be established under the Deputy Director-General to deal with problems affecting one or more Departments, such as publications policy and control of Unesco’s literary output, general per- sonnel policy, etc. [67] Sir Ben Thomas made the foregoing general comments as a prelude to the debate on the matter at the Commission’s next meeting. [68] As he would be unable for a few days to preside over the Working Committee's meetings, he proposed the election of the United States delegate as Vice-Chairman of the Working Committee. [59] Agreed. The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m. MEETING Friday, 29 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) Correction to Document 6C/ADM/17. Pre- liminary Report of the Administrative Com- mission to the General Conference on Methods of Financing the Budget for 1952. [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that he had received a letter from the Chinese delegation relating to the use to be made of the available balance of the China Reconstruction Fund ($32,000). [2] He recalled that, in fixing the budget ceiling, it had been assumed that the total balance of $640,000 would be absorbed into the general budget. It was impossible for the Commission to change that decision. The Chinese delegation could, how- ever, comment on the subject in plenary meeting. [3] The Chairman went on to say that he thought it would be desirable to make clearer the meaning of the passage relating to the balance of $640,000 in the preliminary Report of the Administrative Com- mission to the General Conference on methods of financing the Budget for 1952, which had been drafted before the fixing of the budget ceiling. He was referring to the first paragraph on page 2. He asked delegations for suggestions. [4] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) proposed that the following wording should be substituted for the first paragraph at the top of page 2 of document
6C/ADM/17: [5] The Administrative Commission recommends there- fore that the Director-General be autorized to use these E | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |    ADM INES T RAT I VE non-recurring funds for the purpose of helping to finance the 1952 Budget, subject to the proviso that expenditure shall not exceed the budget total approved by the Con- ference or the total of Member States’ contributions for
1952 plus the total of non-recurring funds, whichever is the less. [6] The reason for the proposed amendment was that, when the matter had last been discussed, certain delegations had expressed a fear that the use of non-recurring funds might lead to an excessive budget expenditure by the amount of non-recurring funds available exceeding the total approved by the Conference. It had therefore been deemed expedient to draw a line above which expenditure should not be incurred. Contributions for 1952 might be such that it would not be necessary to use the whole of the non-recurring funds in order to have a real spending budget of $8,700,000. On the other hand, contributions might fall so far short of expectations that even the use of the non-recurring funds would not be sufficient to enable a real spending budget of $8,700,000 to be achieved. The United Kingdom delegation therefore recommended, in the first case, that the Director-General should use only that pro- portion of non-recurring funds which would enable him to command a spending budget of $8,718,000. In the second case, the United Kingdom delegation recommended that the Director-General and the Executive Board should keep expenditure under constant review, ensuring that it did not exceed the total contributions for 1952 plus the non-recurring funds available. MEME TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) pointed out that a constant review of expenditure during a given year would not help the Secretariat to ascertain the total amount of contributions for that year, as contributions were often paid some time after they were due. The spending budget would not exceed $8,718,000 because, starting from that figure and deducting 7.5 per cent of estimated non-contributed income, or $653,850, the amount left would be $8,064,150. If $640,000 available from previous years were then added to $8,064,150, the spending ceiling would be $8,704,150. [8] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) agreed to the insertion of the word “anticipated” before “Member States’ contributions for 1952”, proposed by Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General). [9] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) wished to be sure that the study of anticipated income would continue throughout the year and would be taken into account in expenditure. [10] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured Mr. Hockin that such had always been the Secretariat’s practice and that it would continue to be so in the future. COMMISSION VII-7
٠ [11] The CHAIRMAN recalled that, in order to make up the difference between the ceiling of $8,718,000 fixed for the 1952 budget and the income expected by the Secretariat, it had been decided to authorize the Director-General to use the balance of $640,000 for the execution of the Programme as a whole. It was, however, understood that if income exceeded the amount anticipated, only that pro: portion of the balance could be used which would bring the total spending budget up to the ceiling fixed by the Conference: in no circumstances should that figure be surpassed. Consideration of the Report of the Working Committee on the Financial Regulations (docu- ment 6C/ADM/6), Per diem Allowance for Mem- bers of the Executive Board (document 6C/ADM/
18) and Unesco’s Participation in the United Nations Administrative Tribunal (document 6C/ ADM/19). [12] The Working Committee’s conclusions regard- ing document 6C/ADM/6 were approved. [13] Document 6C/ADM/18 (Per diem allowance for members of the Executive Board) was approved. [14] The Director-General’s proposals relating to the Administrative Tribunal (document 6C/ADM/19) were approved. Election of Representatives of the General Conference to the Committee for the Joint Staff Pension Fund. Item 9.5.4 of the Agenda (document 6C/ADM/12). [15] The CHAIRMAN reminded delegates that, as the principle of renewing annually one-third of the membership of the Committee for the Joint Staff Pension Fund had been adopted, the Commission had only to elect members to replace those whose term of office expired in 1951. He explained that the term of office of the first member appointed would expire in 1952, that of the second in 1953, and that of the third in 1954. Each member was assisted by an alternate, whose appointment was subject to the same conditions. [16] The Chairman proposed the re-election of Mr. P. de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil), Mr. Guy Ladreit de Lacharrière (France) and Mr. A. de Clementi (Italy), who had discharged their duties to everyone's satisfaction, and who were permanently resident in Paris, so that they could attend the Com- mittee’s meetings regularly. He asked for sug- gestions regarding the other three posts, the occupants of which=Mr. K. Holland (United States of America), Mr. H. Birecki (Poland) and Mr. P.      VII-7 no longerMathews (United Kingdom)—were resident in Paris. [17] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) proposed Mr. Gardner Davies (Australia) to replace Mr. P. Mathews (United Kingdom). [18] Mr. AL-YASSIN (Iraq) proposed Mr. El Diwany (Egypt) to replace Mr. Birecki (Poland). [19] Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed Mr. Robert Smith of the permanent United States delegation to replace Mr. K. Holland (United States of America). [20] Following the proposals made, it was agreed to appoint the following as representatives of the General Conference on the Committee for the Joint Staff Pension Fund: Members: Mr. P. de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil), whose term of office would expire at the Seventh Session of the General Conference; Mr. Guy Ladreit de Lacharrière (France), whose term of office would expire at the Eighth Session of the General Conference; Mr. A. de Clementi (Italy), whose term of office would expire at the Ninth Session of the General Conference. Alternates: Mr. Gardner Davies (Australia), until the end of the Seventh Session of the General Conference; Mr. Hassan Fouad El Diwany (Egypt), until the end of the Eighth Session; Mr. Robert Smith (United States of America), until the end of the Ninth Session. Report on the Reorganization of the Secre- tariat (continuation) (document 6C/ADM/14). [21] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) introducing document 6C/ADM/14, drew attention to the three main objectives which the Director- General had endeavoured to attain in re-organizing the Secretariat. [22] Speaking from his six months’ experience in the Office of the Director-General, the Deputy Director-General assured the Commission that the Office was functioning smoothly and without loss of motion. Although it was realized that the new system was still not perfect, the Secretariat felt that it was an improvement on the former arrangement and would continue its efforts to achieve a really satisfactory organization in the future. [23] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) expressed his Government’s confidence in the Director-General and the Secretariat. The criticisms which he was about to formulate were therefore offered in a ADMINISTRATION E COMMISSION co-operative spirit and prompted by a desire to assist the Organization. [24] Mr. Bender associated himself to some extent with what the United Kingdom delegate had said the previous day regarding the danger of a larger Office of the Director-General, which might act as a screen between the Director-General and the sub-divisions of the Secretariat. There seemed to be a general tendency to overload the Offices of the heads of Departments and Bureaux: for example, the Office of the Director of the Department of Edu- cation had been increased from six to seven posts; the same was true of the Office of the Head of the Documents and Publications Service, and the Office of the Director of the Department of Mass Communi- cation counted 10 posts. [25] Secondly, Mr. Bender referred to page 238 of the Budget Estimates and observed that there seemed to be too many secretaries in the External Relations Service and that the Service had too large a budget for travel. He wondered what the secretaries did when the heads of their service were away on mission. He suggested that a typing pool for the External Relations Service might be a satisfactory solution. [26] Mr. Bender's last point related to the size of the Secretariat. The Budget Tables showed 863 posts in 1951 and 846 posts in 1952 but, in the document on geographical distribution before the Commission, there appeared to be 893 posts on 31 May 1951. He asked if that number included Technical Assistance staff. [27] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) observed that the delegate of the Netherlands had raised many of the points he himself had intended to mention. He wished, however, to ask a few questions which would help him to explain to his Government the way in which the Organization worked from day to day. [28] In the first place, he did not understand why the Director in the Office of the Director-General should have the same rank as the heads of the programme Departments. It seemed to him unnecessary to have such a high-ranking official in addition to the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General. In the army, the chief Staff Officer was of a lower rank than the commanders of subordinate units, the purpose being to enable the subordinate commanders to consults more freely with the commander-in-chief than they could do if the Chief of Staff was of their own rank. It seemed to Mr. Mason that Unesco might do well to apply the same principle, avoiding a screen between the Director-General and the heads of the programme Departments. [29] With regard to the number of secretaries, he asked how many of them were “confidential secre- taries”. In the departments of the New Zealand Government, only the head of the department and
2 | | | | | | | | |     mm the deputy-head had their own secretaries, and the Government would not think of employing as many as Unesco did. In Unesco, almost every officer above Grade 10 seemed to have a private secretary. [30] Mr. MOHR ernment appreciated (Norway) stated that his Gov- the work of the Director- General and his staff, but was concerned at the constant rise in the number of staff. In particular, the External Relations Service seemed to be too large. [31] Mr. PANGILINAN (Philippines) said that his delegation felt that the reorganization of the Secre- tariat was a step in the right direction. In view of the new Member States and the increasing demands made on the Secretariat’s services, his delegation did not think it unreasonable that the staff should be increased. Unless it could be definitely proved that the staff should be reduced, his delegation felt that the Director-General was entitled to the Confer- ence's support. [32] Mr. KIRPAL (India) stated that his Gov- ernment was pleased on the whole with the adminis- trative pattern which had emerged after five years of trial and experiment. It was satisfactory that programme operations were being decentralized and that centralization in the Secretariat had produced much more effective co-ordination of activities. The Indian delegation was particularly glad to note the economy of personnel in administration, and hoped that it would continue. At first, Mr. Kirpal had been alarmed at the growing size of the Secre- tariat, but after listening to the debates of the Budget Committee and seeing the various programme items and their requirements, he thought that no serious objection could be made on that subject. In supporting the Director-General, Mr. Kirpal expressed the hope that the group spirit would be developed in the Secretariat, which should resemble a university, rather than a bureaucracy. [33] Mr. MOORE (Australia) said that he felt it bis duty to support the criticisms voiced by the delegates of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and New Zealand, particularly as similar criticisms had been made at the previous session of the General Conference; in his opinion, criticisms should be repeated until it was evident that they had been met. Mr. Moore agreed with former speakers that there was duplication in the Director-General’s Office with the functions of the heads of programme Departments; he further agreed that there were too many secretaries, and that the External Relations Service was very costly as a liaison service. He also thought that there was some duplication of effort among the administrative Bureaux. [34] Mr. SEYDOUX (France), like the delegate of India, realized how heavy were the tasks incumbent AUMINTS TR ATIVE COMMISSION VII-7 upon those responsible for administering an organi- zation as vast and complex as Unesco. An ordinary administration could not be compared with an inter- national Organization which, in order to discharge its manifold duties, required a staff drawn from many different nations, speaking different languages and specializing in different branches of learning. After six years of existence, Unesco had at last managed to overcome a great manyof its difficulties and Mr. Seydoux felt that, in all justice, the staff deserved nothing but praise. [35] Mr. Seydoux drew attention to the fact that, although the General Conference decided upon the programme and the budget, it was the Director- General’s responsibility to see that the work was carried out not only as economically as possible, but also in a manner which would produce the most satisfactory results. [36] Referring to the comparisons with military administration drawn by the delegate of New Zealand, Mr. Seydoux observed that, in the French Army, the Chief of Staff was of higher rank than the com- manders of subordinate units; it therefore seemed perfectly normal for the assistant to the Director- General of Unesco to be of the same grade as the Department Directors. [37] Mr. Seydoux pointed out that it had been clear to all delegates from the Director-General’s report that Unesco was beginning to reap the benefit of its efforts; it seemed logical to conclude, there- fore, that the means employed to achieve such good results were satisfactory. He paid tribute to the work accomplished by the Director-General, calling upon his fellow delegates to trust the Director- General in the future, as they had done in the past, to organize the Secretariat in the best interests of Unesco. [38] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) wished to clarify one point: his earlier statement regarding the rank of the Chief of Staff and of commanders of subordinate units was true, in any case, of the army in which he had served during the last war. [39] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) asked the Director- General whether he had approached the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies, or had been approached by them, on the subject of common services in regional and branch offices. He quoted a resolution passed by the General Assembly of the United Nations, calling for the promotion of such common services. [40] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) fully shared the opinion expressed by the delegate of France. Since 1946, he had watched Unesco’s development and the work accomplished by the Secretariat, and the Director-General’s report for the current year supplied convincing evidence in favour of the organi- zation of the Secretariat, to whom it fell to execute         VII-7 the programme, since National Commissions were still extremely limited in their action. In his opinion, the successful results obtained were to a large extent due to the efforts at co-ordination for which the Director-General himself was directly responsible. [41] Mgr. Maroun associated himself with other delegates who had expressed their satisfaction, and appealed to the Commission to leave it to the Director-General to organize the Secretariat as he thought best. [42] Mr. ERIKSSON (Sweden) stated that there was still a great deal of criticism of Unesco in his country; be felt it his duty to inform the Director- General of the fact, in the hope of obtaining infor- mation from the latter which would enable him to defend Unesco upon his return to Sweden. [43] The main criticisms were levelled at the size of the Secretariat, the over-strengthening of the Office of the Director-General and the offices of the heads of Departments and Bureaux, and the lack of contact between the heads and the staff in the sub- divisions of the Secretariat. [44] Mr. Eriksson thought that many of the dif- ficulties encountered in the past had been due to the weakness of the Bureau of Personnel and Management, but he believed that that office was in future to be strengthened. [45] Lastly, he urged that the problem of recruitment should be given further consideration. [46] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that concern over the increase in the size of the Organization’s staff should not be transformed into a desire for reduc- tions which would give rise to anxiety of just the opposite kind. If such reductions were made, many of Unesco’s services would almost certainly be overburdened with work during 1952. [47] Mr. Brull added that the current discussions were to a certain extent an encroachment on the Director-General’s prerogatives. He concluded by associating himself with the tributes paid by previous speakers to the Director-General’s work. [48] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) recalled that, even before the Constitution had been drafted, it had been decided to leave the organization of the Secretariat entirely in the hands of the Director-General; in his opinion, the Administrative Commission could not divest the Director-General of that responsibility. He was glad to have the opportunity of paying tribute to the progress made by the Director-General in his efforts to co-ordinate the activities of the different Departments, and he was convinced that such co-ordination could not be ensured unless there was a special office responsible for that task. [49] With regard to criticisms among the public, Mr. Photiades did not think that undue importance should be attached to them, since the public had no idea what an international Organization really AD MIN IS TR AUTIIIV EE COMMISSION 472 was; in any case, Governments never consulted the public regarding the composition of the Cabinet. [50] Mr. GIBSON (Liberia) joined in the tributes which had been paid to the Director-General and his staff, saying that his delegation was very grati- fied by the Secretariat’s achievements. He pointed out that such successes could not have been achieved without an ample and efficient staff. The increase in the Secretariat was justified by the increasing demands made upon the Secretariat by Member States, and the latter should also be ready to accept sacrifices. He supported the Director-General and hoped that all other delegations would do likewise. [61] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked the dele- gates who had commented on his report on the reorganization of the Secretariat, expressing his gratitude both to those who had expressed con- fidence in him and to those who had voiced criti- cisms in the hope of helping him to improve the existing organization. He had noticed that the former had based their praise on tangible results, whereas the latter had formulated criticisms based on a number of preconceived ideas which had been current in the world for many years and which, although true at one stage, had been outdated for quite a long time. He drew attention to the complex problems which Unesco had to face on account of the extreme diversity of the fields in which it operated, and emphasized the importance of co-ordinating the activities of the different Departments, in order that the Organization micht be, not a series of Departments, but a completely coherent whole. He recalled that the Executive Board had recommended a concentration of the pro- gramme and had expressed the view that that could be achieved only through more effective co-ordination. But it was impossible to obtain such co-ordination without a strong Office of the Director-General, able to ensure the necessary liaison to produce a single, coherent programme, and to avoid the past mistake of presenting seven separate programmes. That co-ordinating Office should therefore not be con- sidered as a screen, but rather as a bridge, between the Director-General and the Directors of the different Departments. As a matter of fact, the Office was still not strong enough, and the Director-General felt that the funds at its disposal were not compatible with the importance of its task. [52] With regard to the External Relations Service, the fact that the National Commissions had not yet reached a satisfactory stage of development and constantly needed the Secretariat’s assistance added to the arduous duties already incumbent on the Service. The National Commissions had recently expressed a desire to have even greater assistance from the Secretariat in the future, and it therefore seemed perfectly justified to have a large staff in the External Relations Service. [53] In replying to criticisms regarding the’ large — w ‏< ل ض ا ا ل س — ; $ — — — & — ( :
1 — — " A A N T I , A T E e , S E E E E T E I N     ADMIN number of secretaries, the Director-General pointed out that Unesco’s work entailed the production of a great many documents, which required the assistance of numerous secretaries; he was glad to have an opportunity of paying tribute to their devotion to duty. With regard to “personal assistants”, there were only four in the whole Secre- tariat, of whom one was employed by the Director- General. [64] The Director-General was convinced that to meet the criticisms which had been made would be harmful to Unesco and would prevent it from attaining the objectives laid down by the General Conference. He was sure that the delegates themselves would be convinced of that fact it they were able to follow Unesco’s work more closely. [55] The CHAIRMAN thanked the Director-General for his statement. He noted with satisfaction that the discussion had furnished some delegates with explanations which would enable them to convince their Governments that the money which they con- tributed to Unesco was not wasted, and that the Commission as a whole had paid tribute to the efforts made by the Director-General and hisstaff in carrying out the hard task entrusted to them. [66] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) thanked the Director-General for his explanations, but regretted that he could not agree that the results achieved were the criteria by which the Secretariat should be judged. The question was whether the Secretariat could not achieve those same results with greater economy and efficiency. NewZealand set great store on the efficiency of the Organization, and if he could show the National Commission and the Government that the Secretariat was run with real efficiency and economy, Unesco would be assured of their full support. [57] In reply to a question from Mr. BENDER (Netherlands), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the report covered not only members of the Secre- tariat responsible for executing the regular pro- gramme, bul also 32 posts under Technical Assistance. [58] As a permanent delegate to Unesco, Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) had observed that the Secre- lariat was satisfactorily organized and that the successful results obtained were due to co-ordination of the Organization’s various activities. He was therefore opposed to any reduction in the body responsible for co-ordination and was also against reducing the External Relations Service, which needed a large staff. [59] With regard to recruitment, Mr. de Clementi Suggested that all Member States should be informed of vacancies in the Secretariat, and that recruitment should be competitive. CSTFR'AT FIVE COMMISSION VII-7 [60] In conclusion, Mr. de Clementi expressed his approval of the Director-General’s report. [61] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) drew attention to the fact that there were only two persons (a special- ist and a secretary) in the External Relations Service responsible for liaison with the Middle Fast. The number seemed inadequate for such a complex area of the world. [62] Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) said that the current discussion was one of the most inter- esting that had taken place; it would enable him, on his return to Costa Rica, to dissipate certain doubts and correct certain erroneous opinions. [63] Mr. Trejos Dittel thought that there was a certain lack of co-ordination between the Secre- tariat and the National Commissions, and also that the latter did not have a clear idea of their own functions. Certain matters which had been criti- cized, such as the lengthy process and excessive documentation involved in dealing with some questions, would not be remedied by a reduction in the size of the Secretariat; the whole problem was one of co-ordination. ‘The National Commissions should apply to the bodies responsible for the various subjects, instead of criticizing the Organi- zation. In its turn, the Secretariat could establish closer co-ordination between its various Depart- ments. The shortcomings which had been referred to would not be remedied by staff reductions, but by increased information and understanding. [64] In conclusion, Mr. Trejos Dittel agreed with those delegates who thought there was no need to alter the structure of the Secretariat. [66] Miss LAISE (United States of America) pointed out that the Secretariat was an instrument for giving expression to the wishes of Governments, and that the Director-General, as the senior adminis- trative officer, should have freedom in shaping that instrument. But Unesco was an Organization of Governments, and many of the Secretariat’s dif- ficulties were the result of their decisions. She therefore appealed to Governments to discharge their own obligations towards Unesco and lessen the demands which they made upon the Secretariat, thus enabling it to concentrate more on the pro- gramme. Until Member States discharged their own responsibilities, the Secretariat was obliged to have a large External Relations Service, but it should not grow into a buffer between Unesco and its Member States. Miss Laise concluded by thanking the Director-General for all that he had achieved. [66] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed with the delegate of New Zealand that the Administrative Commission, if it did not think that the organization of the Secretariat was satisfactory, should try to offer guidance to the Director-General. He had protested
1711-7 against certain criticisms only because it seemed to him that they echoed adverse comments which applied more to the past than to the existing organi- zation of Unesco. Economies had already been made on staff, as was proved by the fact that the current programme represented considerably more work and yet the staff had not been increased proportionately. Those, in his opinion, were the only economies which could be made without endangering the very existence of Unesco. It was particularly important not to weaken the core of the administration, which was the co-ordination office responsible for keeping the balance between the budget and the programme of the different Depart- ments. If the programme in future years was to be still more concentrated, it would be necessary to strengthen still further the Office of the Director- General, without whose aid the latter could not carry out the heavy burden of work entailed in co-ordinating all the Departments’ activities. [67] Replying to the delegate of the United States, the Director-General said that every effort was being made to improve the External Relations Service; if decisions were taken in favour of decentralization, its work might be lightened in the future. [68] As to the point raised by Mgr. Maroun, not only two persons but the whole of the External Relations Service ensured liaison with the Middle East. In view of Unesco’s restricted budget, it was impossible for the time being to consider setting up a large section to be responsible for that area alone. [69] The Director-General recalled that the system of competitive recruiting suggested by Mr. de Cle- menti had not yielded satisfactory results in the past; it had, in particular, the disadvantage of delaying appointments considerably. He assured the Commission that, in recruiting members of the Secretariat, the two principles of geographical representation and professional ability were always borne in mind, but the need to fill posts rapidly sometimes had to be taken into consideration as well. [70] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) pointed out that over-staffing and inefficiency, had they existed, would have been evident in the documents prepared for the General Conference, whereas all delegates ADMIN IESE RAT EYEE COMMISSION had appeared to be completely sincere in their praise of the documents. With regard to the question of the Director of the Office of the Director-General, she believed it was the practice in democratic States to have a head executive officer who spared the head of his department all the routine work. As far as the External Relations Service was concerned, she thoughtit essential for an international organization like Unesco to have a very strong service of that kind. Nor did she consider that Unesco had too many secretaries; they were able to save the time of higher officials. [71] The CHAIRMAN observed that document GC/ADM/14 had been submitted to the Commission for information only and that there was no need to take a vote on it. [72] The Administrative Commission would inform the General Conference that, after hearing the Director-General's explanations, it had taken note of the document submitted to it. [73] At the suggestion of Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), the Commission showed, by applause, its confidence in the Director-General and its admira- tion for the work he had accomplished. [74] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked: the members of the Commission. [75] In the absence of the Chairman of the Working Committee, the CHAIRMAN requested the delegate of the United States of America to inform the Commission how far that body had progressed in its work. [76] Miss LAISE (United States of America) stated that the Working Committee had not completed its work and was still considering the question of salaries and allowances. It hoped to be able to report to the Commission on Monday, 2 July. She added that the Committee would commence its agenda the following day, Saturday 30 June, with the question of international salaries, taking local salaries later in the day. The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m. | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | [ | |   [1] Се: of1 hac the wel inf wo wit Dis mit for [2] at i part
6C/ firs as ti con [3] sect pose Wor unas [4] man had Thai had freq the beco with had repo
0 mity kind on tl page [6] to th mark Ame