VIII-15 BUDGET Ze dered whether the Programme Commission was aware that suggestions involving increases in staff in one of the Departments had further repercussions in the same direction in the Administrative Services. [30] Mr. MOORE (Australia) enquired how far the Director-General was empowered to increase the numberof posts in a service beyond that authorized by the General Conference. He was disturbed to discover that actual expenditure under any heading could be ascertained only when studying the Budget Estimates for two years later. [31] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) replied that the estimates were the best possible, and that the Director-General was empowered (although often only with the consent of the Executive Board) to alter the number of posts, when necessary. When new services were established, it was only possible to make reasonable guesses at the cost, and the figures had consequently to be modified in the light of experience. The creation of additional posts in established services was very strictly con- OMMITTEE 588 trolled. The General Conference had appointed the Director-General as the administrator of the Organi- zation and should allow himto act as he thought fit. [32] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that in Part III of the Budget the Director-General was empowered to make transfers between the objects of expenditure within a single appropriation; in Part II he was empowered to transfer expenditure not only within individual appropriations but also between appropria- tions. Any transfer between appropriations in Part III had to be approved initially by the Executive Board. [33] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that, while she did not wish to comment on that particular point, she would later wish to discuss the administrative question raised by the Australian representative. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. FIFTEENTH MEETING Monday, 18 June 1951, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) later: Miss CAROL LAISE Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II)]. Statistical Service (continuation) (Part III.10). Collection, Analysis and Publication of Statistics (page 274). [1] No comment. Compilation of Statistical Data relating to Unesco’s Programme (page 275). [2] Mr. MOORE (Australia) requested an explana- tion of the functions of the consultants whom it was proposed to engage. In view of the addition of two posts to the permanent staff of the unit, the services of consultants should not be necessary. [3] The CHAIRMAN agreed with that view [4] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) explained (United States of America) that consultants would be required to assist in the compilation of working papers for the proposed con- ference on educational statistics. The Secretariat would prepare the basic documents, but these would require revision, from the point of view of content and method of presentation, by specialized con- sultants. The limited size and geographical represen- tation of the Secretariat made such outside advice both necessary and valuable. [5] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) regretted that the Secretariat seemed to lack confidence in its permanent statistical staff, and wondered whether it would not be preferable to reduce the established posts in the Statistical Service and call in officials of wider experience. [6] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) sought an assurance that by 1952 the Secretariat’s work would be sufficiently advanced to enable it to make good use of the services of consultants, even if Its   sci ра! сот
10 latt wa [10 sut pla mi tha Un eve, adr acc to atte [11 mit the to t Imp [12 info for [13] brea Stat item Terr ecut; mitt $30(   m n © y | | | | | Ë | E — — — — ] — " — Ñ
589 BUDGET modesty prevented it from carrying out the entire project unaided. [7] The CHAIRMAN felt the Committee might indicate that possible economies might be made on the item. Standardization and Improvement of Statistics (page
275). [8] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observed that a sum of $2,500 (page 275) was provided to coverthe cost of travel for certain statisticians. He would like to have particulars of the benefit which the Secretariat hoped to derive from those specialists. [9] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service), explained that the Secretariat possessed a small staff of statisticians, whose primary task was the compilation of statistics on matters relating to the educational, scientific and cultural aspects of Unesco’s pro- gramme and the study of the international com- parability of those statistics; his staff was entirely competent in that respect. But it was also necessary to establish statistical definitions, and it was for the latter work that the advice of consultants and experts was necessary. [10] The Conference for which it was proposed to subsidize the travel of delegates was originally planned as a Conference of Statisticians in the field of Education. It was felt, however, that a saving might be made by combining the conference with that on educational statistics to be organized jointly by the International Bureau of Education and Unesco’s Department of Education. It had, how- ever, been found that the latter conference would be administrative rather than technical, and it had accordingly been decided that it might be necessary to subsidize the travel of statistical experts to attend it. [11] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Com- mittee should note the doubts expressed regarding the necessity for subsidizing the travel of delegates to the Conference, and for the hiring of consultants. Improvement of Statistical Education (page 275). [12] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) requested detailed information on the allocation of the $5,600 requested for the Statistical Education Advisory Service. [13] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) gave the breakdown of the sum of $5,500 allotted to the Statistical Education Advisory Service, the main items being as follows: Associate on Statistical Terminology $1,200; Office expenses $500; Ex- ecutive Office of the Statistical Education Com- mittee $1,000; Travel $500; Secretarial expenses $800; a further amount of $1,500 was proposed for COMMITTEE VIII-15 two meetings of the Statistical Education Committee to establish policies for the improvement of statistical education. Mr. Liu added that the Inter- national Statistical Institute had resources of its own, in addition to the grant to be made by Unesco. [14] Mr. MOORE (Australia) requested an assurance that, if the project were indeed one of statistical education and not educational statistics, care would be taken to ensure that there was no duplication of work with the Food and Agriculture Organization. [15] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) said that Unesco’s work in connexion with statistics was closely co-ordinated with that of other Specialized Agencies. The particular type of statistical edu- cation work proposed by Unesco was far more a question of general, long-term training, than the short-term activities being undertaken by FAO and the United Nations. [16] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked whether co-ordination was also maintained with other organizations not so closely allied to the United Nations but nevertheless active in the field. [17] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) assured Sir Frank Harby that it was so, and cited the two examples of the International Statistical Institute, which received a grant-in-aid from Unesco, and the Inter-American Statistical Institute, whose regional activities were co-ordinated by the International Institute. The Secretariat also welcomed the co- operation of smaller national bodies—such as the Cambridge Research Unit—and encouraged their expansion in international fields: viz. the Statistical Education Centre at Calcutta. [18] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that Unesco’s Statistical Services budget for 1951 was the smallest of any of the Specialized Agencies, being
0.75 per cent of the total Budget, whereas other Agencies devoted up to 10 per cent of their budgets to the corresponding service. Staff (page 276). [19] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked why the cost of travel for staff on official business had risen from $1,000 to $2,000, and also why there were still to be temporary posts when the established posts were being increased. [20] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) explained that an increase in the allowance for travel was necessary, as 1950 had not been a complete operating year. The estimates for 1952 also included0 for the travel of a consultant. With regard to the provision for temporary posts, he pointed out      VIII-16   B'UD'GET that the Statistical Service’s workload was dependent upon the requirements of the other Departments and Bureaux of Unesco. Experience showed that a rush of requests for statistics nearly always arrived at the same period. Provision had, therefore, been made for the necessary temporary posts to meet such emergencies in 1952. : [21] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) reiterated that the sum required for the Statistical Service was a very small percentage of the total budget, and he therefore felt that the sum of $1,400 for temporary posts was insignificant. [22] There were no further comments on that part of the Budget Estimates. Documents and Publications (Part III.9). Documents AND PusuiCATIONS Service (IIL.9.A). [23] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee should consider first the budgetary estimates for the Service. The whole question of publications policy, together with the report of the Executive Board's Working Party on Publications, could be discussed at a later meeting. [24] It was so agreed. Organization (page 258). [25] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the staff of the Service had been cut to an absolute minimum in an effort to reduce administrative costs. The question of sales promotion had been sacrificed, for the time being, to that principle. [26] In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publi- cations Service) explained that, during the prepara- tion of the draft Budget, and in the light of the discussions of the Executive Board’s Working Party on Publications, a study had been made of methods calculated to ensure an improved distribution of Unesco’s publications for sales purposes. The draft Budget took no account of the measures proposed in that connexion. Some experts would certainly have to be engaged to ensure that they were satisfactorily carried out: to draft advertising matter, analyse demand, make contacts with commercial firms, etc. As Mr. Hodson had pointed out, the 22 people employed in the Sales and Distribution Division could not take on the running of a systematic pub- licity campaign. Languages Division (page 259). [27] On the proposal of Sir Frank HARBY (United COMMITTEE Kingdom), a discussion ensued on the question whether or not the Committee was competent to discuss the organizational structure of individual Services. [28] The CHAIRMAN and Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt that the Committee could properly indicate where re-organization would result in a general economy, although decisions of that nature would have to be taken by the Administrative Commission. [29] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) said that his specific point was that the interpreters should more properly be administered by the Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services. He did not see why they were included in the Documents and Publications Service—although he understood there was an historical explanation— and felt that greater administrative efficiency would result from their transfer to the Bureau mentioned. He was supported in that view by the delegates of the United States of America and France. [30] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) added that he had already asked Mr. Montagnier some questions about the Interpreting Service, with particular reference to the loan of interpreters and the discrepancy between the rate applicable in the case of loans ($38 a day) and the salary of temporary interpreters engaged by Unesco ($25 a day). The rate of $38 seemed likely to discourage other organizations, which might use interpreters lent by Unesco but which, in view of the slenderness of their budgets, tended to engage outside interpreters at $25 a day for their meetings in Paris, even though they might not be of such high quality. It might perhaps be advantageous for Unesco to pay such organizations smaller subventions for their meetings, on the understanding that Unesco would provide its permanent interpreters free of charge. Such an arrangement would result in a general saving for Unesco and a more rational use of the permanent interpreters. [31] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) felt that Unesco’s rates for the loan of interpreters wer reasonable and, in fact, cheaper than those of other international organizations. If Unesco were to reduceits rates, it would lose money, since the sul fixed was based on the number of interpreter- working days per year as compared to the inter: preters” salary. [32] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) was under the impression that the rate of $38 had been fixed by the United Nations for New York, but thought that interpreters could be engaged at a lower rate In Europe. The figure in question had been based on the average rate of pay divided by the numiber of working days. He pointed out that temporary inter- — — m . . . … … … m m . ( —
6 .   рге int wh inte pro
010 Bur Un to res] [33 dur Doc [34 that wor rath [35] Pub revi hist The Serv zatic toge rem: situa of cl [36] Secti whal macl woul [37] Publ: ing Secor foun Colla
10 sl was weig] use t [38] Savin, Servic Sectic the n had + of sec there] [39]
591 BUDGET preters engaged at the rate of $25 a day usually interpreted only from one language into another, whereas Unesco’s permanent interpreters interpreted into two languages. However, he thought that the programme of conferences would be better co- ordinated if the interpreters were attached to the Bureau of Conference Planning. In that way, Unesco would also be able to lend its interpreters to organizations free of charge and save a cor- responding amount on subventions. [33] It was decided to bring the remarks made during the discussion to the attention of the Administrative Commission. Documents Division (page 260). [34] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) felt that, as the Typing Pool dealt mainly with copy- work, it should be staffed by copy-typists at Grade 2 rather than by the 21 shorthand-typists. [35] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) said that the matter was under review at the moment. Once again there was an historical explanation for the existing establishment. The Typing Pool had originally provided secretarial services to the various Departments of the Organi- zation. That practice had ceased, but the posts, together with many of their original incumbents, remained. Efforts were being made to remedy the situation, and to increase the number and efficiency of copy-typists. [36] With regard to the Machine and Assembly Section, Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked what use Unesco made, or proposed to make, of machines in operation at the United Nations, which would reduce the number of assembly personnel. [37] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) said that two assembly revolv- ing tables were already in use in Unesco. A second machine had been studied, but had been found slower than the hand-process. The Thomas Collater was also in use for documents not exceeding
10 sheets, but experience showed that the machine Was not efficient for documents printed on light- weight offset paper, and was, therefore, of limited use to the Organization. [38] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought that any savings that might be made in shorthand-typist services should not necessarily affect the Typing Section. On the contrary, that Section might form the nucleus of a secretarial pool, whose formation had been advocated the previous year. The number of secretarial posts in the various Departments could thereby be reduced. [39] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and COMMITTEE VIII-15 Publications Service) did not share Mr. Guignolet's opinion, and pointed out that the Typing Section was engaged chiefly on copy-typing work. The typists also took dictation from the Translation Services. With the help of the Bureau of Personnel he hoped to achieve an economy in that respect by arranging for the translators to type their own docu- ments, which were onlyin draft form. With regard to Mr. Guignolet’s suggestions, he thought that it would be wiser to ask the other Departments to make the necessary arrangements. The Typing Section already had a heavy load of work and could not meet the demands of other Services without an increase in personnel and costs, and a lowering of its efficiency, [40] Miss LAISE (United States of America) stressed the increasingly large number of reports and documents being received by Governments from the United Nations and Specialized Agencies. Con- sideration should be given to reducing, instead of increasing, the number, and to avoiding duplication. For instance, it would appear that the Draft Pro- gramme of Unesco could be combined with the Budget Estimates, since the Programme Resolutions and workplans were contained in both documents. Miss Laise also criticized the length of documents, and felt that efforts should be made to keep them shorter. She suggested that, if the number and size of documents were reduced, the personnel thus released could be used on sales promotion. The latter activity was of the utmost importance, since it was no good producing documents if they did not reach the public. [41] The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee should mention the point about combining the Draft Programme and the Budget Estimates in its report, and asked Mr. Delavenay if he could give a complete list of documents and publications distributed to Member States. [42] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) speaking as the official re- sponsible for reproduction of the Draft Programme and Budget Estimates, explained that it had so far been necessary to print two separate documents, as the material was received too late for printing and binding in a single volume to be feasible. [43] The problem of reducing the Internal Printing Service with a view to increasing sales promotion activities was constantly under consideration Unfortunately, the internal printing staff was con- tinually working to capacity and had frequently to put in long hours of overtime to meet emergencies. [44] With regard to the length of documents, his Service was constantly endeavouring to intervene in that respect, but the tempo of work did not often allow sufficient time. [45] Mr. Delavenay promised to provide a complete
7111-5 BUDGET list of all documents and publications distributed to Member States. [46] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the Secretariat was in a most difficult position in that respect. Measures had already been adopted to decrease the number and circulation of documents, but Member States had complained about that policy. The Secretariat needed a clear directive on the subject. [47] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said it was for that reason that she had raised the matter. The time had come to make firm recommendations for a reduction in the size and number of documents, and in their distribution. Perhaps Member States could be given a complete list of documents and publications and asked to indicate which they wished to receive. [48] The CHAIRMAN said those remarks would be noted in the Committee's report. [49] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) felt that Miss Laise’s suggestion to ask Member States which documents they wished to receive would result in larger distribution than ever. He thought a small committee of the General Conference could more ably deal with the question. [50] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) asked, as a matter of detail, what was the total cost of the Documents and Publications Service. He would be interested to know the exact figure, as certain items included in the draft Budget had been increased by
25 per cent. [51] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) asked the Cuban delegate to refer to the figures given on page 256 of the Budget Estimates. [52] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) wished to point out, for example, that a 25 per cent increase was to be anticipated in contractual printing costs, and said he would like to have a precise statement on the total cost of document production. [53] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the total costs for the Service, including Indirect Personnel Costs, would be found on page 256 of the Budget Estimates. The funds for contractual printing for the various Programme Departments would be found in the estimates for those Departments. The estimates for contractual printing for the Service amounted to only $9,000, so that the possible increase due to rising costs (25 per cent) would not represent a very large sum. COMMITTEE Sales and Distribution Division (page 261). [54] No comments in addition observations already made. to the general Other Objects of Expenditure (page 261). [55] Mr. MOORE (Australia) and the CHAIRMAN noted that the estimate of $35,000 for temporary posts represented a large increase over previous years, and asked for further justification. Mr. Moore also questioned the increased amount for hospitality, since it had been stated that sales promotion activi- ties were to be neglected for reasons of economy. [56] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) explained that temporary posts were required to cover two emergencies: (a) peak periods, since the Service was normally working to capacity; and (b) annual and sick leave. The sum of $12,720 had been provided for temporary posts in 1951 and $12,840 had been obligated in the first five months of the year. Mr. Delavenay gave the replacement figures for certain parts of his Service and stressed the necessity for the increased amount in 1952. The availability of funds for temporary posts ensured sufficient flexibility to deal with the various emergencies in all parts of the Service. [57] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that the increase in the allowance for hospitality was very small and that, although it would be of some assistance in promoting sales activities, it was insignificant compared to the $25,000 which would be needed for a good Sales Service or Division. [58] With regard to the estimates for temporary posts for the Service, the Secretariat had studied the point with the utmost care and, in view of the extremely heavy workload of the Service, had found it necessary to provide for extra assistance at peak periods. It was also more economical to adopt that practice than to provide additional permanent posts to meet frequent peak loads. [69] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) recalled that in the previous year, Mr. Delavenay had promised a decrease in the amount of overtime worked. [60] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) replied that overtime had decreased by 40 per cent or 50 per cent since he had been in charge of the Service. In particular, Saturday and Sunday work had been almost abolished, except during the four weeks preceding the General Conference. As the Chairman was obliged to attend 2[61] meeting of the General Committee, Chairman, Miss Laise, took theChair. the Vice:
593 BUDGET SPECIAL LANGUAGE SECTIONS (III.9.B). [62] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the question of the Spanish Translation Section had been carefully considered by the Secretariat. The Service was too small to deal with the increasing volume of Spanish translation, but, in order to keep administrative costs to a minimum, it had been decided not to increase the estimates for it in 1952. It would, however, be necessary to provide further temporary personnel, or perhaps additional per- manent posts, and it was hoped to do so by effecting economies elsewhere. [63] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that he had gathered the impression, in reading the draft budget, that, considering that Spanish was the third working language of the Conference, the increase in funds and personnel allowed to the Service concerned was not enough to enable it to fulfil its new obligations. [64] Mr. Brull therefore wished that mention should be made in the record of the Cuban delega- tion’s general reservation on the point. [65] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) noted that funds for the Spanish translation requirements of the General Conference were included in the budget of the Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services. The amount shown in section III.9.B. was for the translation into Spanish of documents which the Executive Board thought should be published in that language during the year. [66] The CHAIRMAN felt the Committee should note that the estimates in the General Conference budget had been considerably increased to allow for the inclusion of Spanish as a third working language. [67] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that he had no precise figures but had gathered the general impression, in reading the Budget, that inadequate provision had been made for the Spanish Translation Section in relation to its needs; his reservation was therefore of a general nature. He was satisfied with the Secretariat's explanation that part of the funds for an increase in the Spanish-speaking staff had been included in the General Conference budget, but would maintain his previous statement. [68] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked for an explanation about the $15,000 requested for con- tractual printing of documents in Arabic. He reminded the meeting that, the previous year, the Secretariat had said that economies could be effected when the section was finally organized. [69] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and COM WITTE VIII-15 Publications Service) replied that the Arabic publi- cations programme was developing normally. A member of the Secretariat would be going to the Middle East to examine the possibility of giving local printers certain work, which could be carried out more advantageously there than in France, where facilities for such work were inadequate. General Administration (Part II). OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (II.A). Legal Affairs (page 51). [70] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that provision had already been made in the draft Budget for three legal officers in various Departments outside the Legal Affairs Section. He wondered whether it would not be possible to concentrate all legal work in the Office of the Director-General, as that might perhaps enable one legal officer's post to be abolished. Such a re-adjustment might also enable the Organization to dispense with the services of outside legal advisers. [71] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) explained that proposals had originally been made to reduce the legal staff in the Office of the Director-General by one, and to decentralize certain legal services among the Departments. It had then been decided to reverse that decision, and to maintain the same number of legal staff in the Office of the Director-General as in 1951. [72] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) reminded the Com- mittee that it had been decided to suppress the posts for legal advisers in various Departments, but that in two casesMass Communication and Cultural Activities—those posts would be maintained as Pro- gramme Specialists. The directors of the two Departments had already justified such action before the Budget Committee. [73] Mr. KIRPAL (India) expressed his satisfaction with the efficiency and economy resulting from the re-organization of the Office of the Director- General, but felt that a possible overlap might result between the review of the reports by the Special Assistants and the Programme and Budget unit. [74] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that the Special Assistants had an editorial function with regard to documents and reports, whereas the Pro- gramme and Budget unit was concerned with substance rather than presentation. There was, therefore, no danger of overlapping; their functions were quite different.      VIII-15 BUDGET [75] The CHAIRMAN felt that the necessity for three Special Assistants to review the presentation of documents and reports was an adverse reflection on the ability of Directors of Departments. Further- more, the External Relations Service also had a responsibility for editing and reviewing cor- respondence, and she felt that a clarification of the functions of the two units was necessary. [76] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) pointed out that matters of organizational structure were to be discussed in the Administrative Commission. He would, however, be interested to trace the progress of any given document through the Organi- zation. [77] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that there was no general pattern for every document. Its treatment depended upon its nature and content. Documents, such as the Annual Report of the Director-General, which were received from the various Departments, Bureaux and Services, and given coherence and continuity in the Office of the Director-General, were not edited by the Documents and Publications Service. Speeches by the Director- General represented a large part of the documents edited by the Special Assistants in the Office of the Director-General. In reply to Sir Frank HARBY, Mr. Hodson said that he would try to produce statistics showing the total numberof reports, docu- ments and speeches sent directly to the Office of the Director-General for editing. [78] The CHAIRMAN said that it would also be useful to have information about the numbers of documents, letters, reports, etc., received by the Documents and Publications Service, and the External Relations Service, for editing. COMMITTEE 594 [79] Mr. KIRPAL (India) felt that the estimate of $1,500 for fees, given on page 53, appeared excessive. There had been no obligation for fees in the Office of the Director-General in 1951, and only $350 had been obligated in 1950. Why should there be a need for outside assistance on special legal questions in 1952? [80] That view was supported by the CHAIRMAN and Mr. MOORE (Australia). [81] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that, as a lawyer, he would like briefly to state his opinion, based on experience, that a knowledge of legal matters was always useful. At the University, instruction was given in the drafting of legal documents, with a view to the avoidance of errors in the future. It was extremely important to have the services of legal advisers, so as to avoid giving rise to dif- ficulties which a knowledge of the law would have prevented. [82] Mr. Brull felt obliged to make the above remarks, as it had seemed to him at one time that some delegations considered the services of Unesco's legal advisers unnecessary. [83] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that law was a highly specialized subject, and it was often necessary, as in the medical profession, to consult an expert on a specific point. The legal experts on the Secretariat could give a more detailed reply on the point as soon as they were available. [84] The CHAIRMAN suggested that further questions on legal matters should be held over until the legal advisers could attend. The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.