11-2 TPE NERY MEETINGS 48 SECOND PLENARY MEETING Monday, 18 June 19517, at 4 p.m. President: Count STErANO Jacrni (Italy) CONTENTS Kepoit of ihe Credentials Committee 48 Adoption of the revised agenda (6C/Lrev y SUE emu 49 Establishment of the Nominations Committee . . . 7... 49 [1] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The meeting is open. In view of certain complaints which have reached us, I have to make the following statement. For reasons of economy, and in order to make the best use of the services available in the Secretariat, the Sixth Session of the General Conference is being held in Unesco House, and the plenary meetings are taking place in the room in which we noware. Although this room is the largest in the House, it is not big enough to allow all the members of delegations to sit at the tables; it has therefore been necessary to divide the two hundred and thirty available seats among the delegations in proportion to their numbers; there are seats for other members of the various delegations round the room. Report of the Credentials Committee. [2] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I now call upon the Chairman of the Cre- dentials Committee to submit the Committee’s first report to the Conference. Professor Stone. [3] Professor J. STONE (Australia), Chairman of the Credentials Committee — Mr. President, I have the honour to present the first report of the Cre- dentials Committee. The Committee set up by the Sixth Ordinary Session of the General Conference of this Organization, at its meeting on 18 June 1951, met today, its members being representatives of Australia, France, India, Norway, Syria, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay and Yugoslavia. This Committee elected Professor Julius Stone, delegate of Australia, Chairman. It then pro- ceeded to examine the credentials submitted to it by the Director-General of the Organization from the States listed below and decided at this first meeting, that the delegates of these States had been duly accredited in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference by instruments issued either by the Head of the State, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or by another minister authorized for that purpose by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The States in question are: Afghanistan, Australia, Brazil, China, Colombia, Korea, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Italy, Liberia, Luxembourg, Monaco, New Zealand, Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Salvador, Swe- den, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela and Yugoslavia. [4] The Committee recommends that the delegations of the Member States aforesaid be allowed to take part in the Sixth Session of the General Conference. Credentials, in the form of letters, telegrams, or other documents issued either by some minister of the country they repre- sent, other than the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and not authorized by him or by heads of diplomatic missions, or by senior officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been submitted by representatives of the following States: Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Bolivia, Canada, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Iraq, Lebanon, Mexico, Peru, Philippines and Union of South Africa. The suggestion of the Committee is that those documents received should be deemed to constitute provisional credentials for the representatives of the aforesaid countries, subject to later presentation of credentials in due form, and that mean- while the said delegations be admitted to participation in the Sixth Session of the General Conference. [6] The Committee also examined the credentials pre- sented by the Chinese delegation; these credentials, which are signed by the Head of State as well as by the Minister for Foreign Affairs at Taipeh, Formosa were the ground of an objection on the part of the Yugoslav and Indian representatives. The Committee agreed to examine this objection in the course of its next meeting and meanwhile to recommend that the General Con- ference allow the Chinese representatives to take their seats provisionally in conformity with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure. у [6] Moreover, in conformity with powers conferred by the General Conference, the Committee examined the position with regard to Member States’ contributions as at 16 June 1951. It found that the arrears due from Bolivia, China and Poland were equal to or greater than the contributions due from those States for the last two complete years and that therefore in accordance with Article IV 8 (b) of the Constitution, the delegations of those States could not vote at this session.
49 [7] catio testi Unes City time mitt penc and dele; Cont dela her Cred [8] the not Chil Laos den [9] Fre Cre the wis [10 tior bri
49 PLENARY [7] Further, the Committee has received a communi- cation from the Embassy of a fourth State, also in arrears, testifying that a payment has been made in favour of Unesco during the last forty-eight hours at the National City Bank of New York. The bank not having yet had time to inform the Organization of this credit, the Com- mittee considered that the delegation in question could, pending confirmation of payment, fylly participate in and vote at all the Conference proceedings. The Chinese delegation’s request for special authorization by the Conference to be allowed to vote on the ground that the delay in China’s payment is due to circumstances beyond her control, will be considered at a later meeting of the Credentials Committee. [8] The Committee finally examined the credentials of the observers representing the following States or entities not being members of this Organization: Cambodia, Chile, Finland, German Federal Republic, Iceland, Japan, Laos, Nepal, Portugal, Spain, the Vatican and Vietnam. That, Mr. President, is the first report of the Cre- dentials Committee. [9] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] You have just heard the report of the Credentials Committee, for which I have to thank the Committee's Chairman. Does any delegation wish to speak on the report) [10] Mr. V. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) — [Transla- tion from the French] Mr. President, I should like briefly to explain the Yugoslav delegation’s position with regard to the vote which is about to be taken. My delegation, which was represented on the Credentials Committee, approves the report except for one matter which it was not possible to discuss in the Committee. This is the question of the representation of the Spanish Government at the General Conference. My Government maintains regular, friendly relations with the Spanish Repub- lican Government and, for that reason alone, my delegation would be obliged to oppose the admission of a Spanish delegation, even in the capacity of observers. It is also obliged to oppose its admission for other reasons, which are too well-known to need further comment here. My delegation will, there- fore, abstain from voting on the Credentials Com- mittee’s report. [11] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Does anyone else wish to speak? If not, MEETINGS 11-2 does the Conference approve the report which has just been submitted? The report was approved unanimously, except for two abstentions. Adoption of the Revised Agenda. [12] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] We now come to the adoption of the Agenda. On behalf of the Executive Board, and in accordance with Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, I have to submit for the approval of the General Conference the revised agenda of the Sixth Session, finally drawn up by the Executive Board at its Twenty-Sixth Session. The agenda, document 6C/1 (rev.), is before you. It comprises the new items whose inclusion was requested by six Member States prior to 19 May 1951, when the period prescribed for the inclusion of such items expired. A list of the additional items was communicated to Member States by the Director- General under cover of CL/521 of 26 May last. [13] The six new items included at the request of Member States are items 8.7.1.1., 8.7.5.3., 8.7.5.4.,
8.9.1. and 10.4.4. of the revised agenda. [14] The Director-General has added a new item to the agenda of the Procedure Committee; this is item
6.9.1 of the revised agenda. I have the honour to propose the adoption of the revised agenda set out in document 6C/1 (rev.). Does the Conference approve? If there are no objections, the agenda is adopted. [15] Under Rule 14, paragraph 2, and Rule 36, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, it is now impossible for any new items to be inserted in the Agenda. Any new matters must be referred to the General Committee, which will have to report on them to the General Conference. Urgent and impor- tant newitems can be added only by a decision taken by a two-thirds majority. Establishment of the Nominations Committee. [16] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The Nominations Committee, consisting, as you know, of the Heads of all delegations entitled to vote at the Conference, is now to meet in this room. The meeting rose at 4.22 p.m.