PROGRAM ME THIRTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 3 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. JEAN PraceT (Switzerland) Deposit of an Instrument of Acceptance. [1] The CHAIRMAN stated that the Director- General had just been informed by the British Foreign Secretary that the Japanese Government had signed Unesco’s Constitution and deposited the instruments of acceptance. The Japanese delegation was therefore entitled to take part in all the discuss- ions, with all rights pertaining to Member States of the Organization. Discussion of the Draît Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (1)]. Natural Sciences (continuation). SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NATURAL SCIENCES WORKING PARTY TO THE PROGRAMME Commission (document 6C/PRG/26, Add. I). [2] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America), introducing the supplementary report, said that it embodied no new conclusions but was designed only to state in more explicit form the conclusions given in the document itself. He added that there was an omission in paragraph 2, in the second line of which the word “and” should be inserted between “Member States” and “of the United Nations”. [3] Mr. GUIGNOLET (Rapporteur of the Budget * Committee) said that the Budget Committee had studied the question of the subvention of $20,000 which it was proposed to give to the International Computation Centre. It had been possible to find only $15,000, by cutting out two posts and reducing indirect and travel costs. In all, it seemed that a total of $150,000 would be required in order to get the Centre started. Of that total, $75,000 were offered by the host country, $15,000 could be found from the budget of the Department of Natural Sciences, and the outstanding $60,000 would have to be in the form of a loan from the Working Capital Fund. That was the only solution which had appeared possible to the Budget Committee. The funds allocated to the Natural Sciences Department had in fact been reduced by some $100,000 as compared with the original estimates made by the Secretariat, and were almost equal to those of the СОМ М Том previous year. It would not be possible to reduce them further without seriously affecting the Depart- ment's entire programme. [4] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that the Centre would later have to work on contributions from the States which were its founder members. $150,000 were, however, required to ensure that the Centre could be set up. [6] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the problem of the $60,000 loan should be referred to the Adminis- trative Commission, as the only competent body. He invited the Programme Commission to agree to a reduction of $15,000 in the funds allocated to the Department of Natural Sciences, so as to make that sum available for the International Computation Centre. [6] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded the pro- posed solution for the Computation Centre, and emphasized the particular interest of the problem to the United Nations. [7] Mr. KOKSMA (Netherlands), speaking as a delegate of one of the countries which had offered to house the Centre, appealed to the Commission not to reduce the $20,000 subvention. Governments were rarely willing to finance projects whose value was not clearly brought home to them, and a re- duction of that sum might be interpreted as a reflection on the value of the Centre and so make it difficult for the offer of an interest-free loan to be maintained. He, therefore, urged the Commission to find the missing $5,000.
6C/PRG/26, Addendum I,[8] Document was adopted. [9] The allocation of $15,000 from the fund of the Department of Natural Sciences was also approved. [10] The CHAIRMAN called on the Commission to vote on a proposal to make available a further $5,000. [11] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) asked whether it might not be possible to find $5,000 T R , T N [ |
357 PROGRAMME[e i within the budget for the Department of Natural Sciences. [12] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) stressed that, after carefully scrutinizing the activities of the Natural Sciences Department as a whole, the Budget Committee had considered that no further savings could be effected without gravely endangering that Department’s programme. [13] The CHAIRMAN, seconded by Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), proposed that the Commission should agree in principle to the allocation of a supplement- ary appropriation of $5,000, subject to a final decision’s being taken on the matter at the second reading of the Programme. [14] Agreed. [15] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) proposed the formal adoption of a recommendation that a loan should be made available for the International Computation Centre from the Working Capital Fund. [16] The CHAIRMAN thought that the adoption of the working party’s report would amount to the adoption of such a recommendation. He was, how- ever, prepared to accept the Belgian delegate’s pro- posal. [17] The Commission thereupon agreed to submit to the Administrative Commission the question of a $60,000 loan, together with a recommendation that the suggestion should be accepted. Report on Problems of World Production and Distribution of Newsprint (Items 8.753 and
8.754 of the agenda) (documents 6C/PRG/23 and Addenda I and IT). Draft Resolution Presented by the Belgian and French Delegations (document 6C/DR/15). Amend- ment to Draft Resolution 6C/DR/15, Submitted by the French Delegation [document 6/DR/15 (rev.)]. [18] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) recalled that, as early as 1947, the Secretariat had carried out a remarkable enquiry into the technical means available to the press—an enquiry which had more- over been continued in 1948 and 1949. The experts convened in 1947, 1948 and 1949 had emphasized the dangers of a shortage of newsprint, from the three angles of an independent press, social progress and international understanding. Furthermore, both in 1948 and in 1949, the General Conference had requested the Director-General to take steps regard- ing the supply of newsprint and printing paper. The French and Belgian delegations had, however, con- COMMISSION IV-13 sidered it necessary to ask that the matter should be put on the Conference’s agenda, owing to the recent, rapid deterioration of the situation. Docu- ment 6C/PRG/23 set out the two main problems: a long-term problem, arising out of the permanent lack of balance between production and consumption; and an immediate problem deriving from the con- siderable increase in the prices of pulp on the world market. In such conditions, the free, democratic press of the whole world was in danger of being stifled and even of disappearing. Low-priced news- papers were in fact an essential condition for the existence of a democratic press, and that condition was directly related to the price of paper. The Belgian delegate emphasized that the price of raw materials to the non-producing countries had more than doubled in one year, while the producing countries had introduced a dual price-system for pulp—one for the home, and one for the export market. Certain producer countries also imposed heavy export duties. Moreover, speculation had helped to upset the market. In view of the exceed- ingly serious situation, both France and Belgium had lodged protests with the Pulp and Paper Com- mittee of OEEC. The Belgian delegate considered that Unesco had a greater obligation than any other organization to take steps in the matter. It was essential that a conference should be convened on the question, and world public opinion should also be warned. All Unesco’s Member States recognized the need for an independent and democratic press, yet the situation was a grave threat to the very existence of such a press. The International Feder- ation of Newspaper Proprietors and Editors had laid the problem before Unesco in its letter of
6 March 1951. It was time for the General Confer- ence to accept its responsibilities. The situation had further deteriorated since the draft resolution had been submitted. Recent and even long-standing newspapers were threatened with disappearance in the near future unless steps were quickly taken. In conclusion, the Belgian delegate asked the Com- mission to second the measures proposed by the delegations which had requested that the important problem in question should be put on the agenda. [19] Mr. TERROU (France) explained his dele- gation’s point of view in a statement annexed to the summary record. [20] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) stated that, without taking any decision in the matter, the Board had shown the greatest interest in Unesco’s activities with regard to newsprint and printing paper. It hoped that those efforts would be successful. [21] Mr. FRANÇOIS (Food and Agriculture Organi- zation) stated that. the Food and Agriculture
17-3 PROGRAMME Organization was the only Specialized Agency dealing with the production and distribution of wood pulp and newsprint. In 1949, FAO had convened the Pre- paratory Conference on World Pulp Problems in Montreal, which had taken note of the requests put forward by Unesco’s Director-General. FAO had also compiled up-to-date and detailed statistics and undertaken large-scale technical research. It was ready to give advice to governments which asked for it, and to suggest possible solutions. FAO had been very gratified to note the text of the draft resolution proposed by the French and Belgian delegations. Although for technical reasons it was admittedly impossible to increase production in the near future, the studies undertaken by FAO showed that, provided they were rationally exploited, the world’s forests were adequate to satisfy all foreseeable needs. It was also possible to consider the utiliza- tion of other resources, such as tropical species of wood. Technically speaking, conditions were there- fore such that it should be possible to overcome, in the relatively near future, the two evils from which the world wood-pulp market was suffering, namely, inadequate production, and excessive con- centration of industrial equipment in the producing countries, which had benefited at a certain period from natural and economic conditions. The steps recommended in the revised draft resolution should be capable of smoothing out all the difficulties, since they called for a large measure of international co-operation. [22] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) seconded the state- ments by the delegates of Belgium and France. The shortage and the rising price of newsprint were in fact threatening the success of the literacy campaign in almost all countries, not to mention Unesco’s Fundamental Education, and even its Technical Assistance, programmes. The confirma- tion provided by the Haitian delegation was all the more significant as the Republic of Haiti was not a paper-producing country. The very groundwork of education was at stake, and the dele- gate of Haiti would be happy to see the Commission give its attention to that crucial problem, which was also a social problem, since the dissemination and knowledge of human rights and duties would other- wise be threatened, and freedom of expression con- siderably hampered. [23] Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) was particularly happy to note that the emphasis had been laid on increased production and on the use of substitute materials, since no country was producing sufficient newsprint. [24] Mr. de Palma drewattention to the fact that the United States of America was not a major pro- ducing country and that the bulk of its newsprint had to be imported. During recent years, his COMMTSSTON 358 country had been importing less and less from Scandinavian sources, so that it could not be held responsible for the increase in Scandinavian prices— nor, indeed, in any others. He explained that the United States of America was in the fortunate posi- tion of being able to contract for the bulk of the Canadian production because it had taken up contracts ‘abandoned by other countries at a time when prices elsewhere were falling. Finally, newsprint in the United States was not under govern- mental control, so that economies depended entirely upon the goodwill and co-operation of consumers. [25] Mr. de Palma drew attention to the efficiency of the Wood Pulp and Paper Committee (of the International Raw Materials Conference) in dealing with immediate crises, and urged the General Confer- ence not to take any steps likely to prejudice its work on the long-term problem. Any appeal to the United Nations or Specialized Agencies would be better left to that Committee. He felt that the solution to the problem lay in the voluntary co-operation of consumers and producers. [26] In conclusion, Mr. de Palma suggested the deletion of the numbered paragraphs (1), (2) and
(3), in the preamble to the draft resolution contained in document 6C/DR/15 (rev.), which merely repeated the operative part of the resolution but included certain statements likely to lead to misunderstanding. With that deletion, he would be able to give the resolution his wholehearted support. [27] Mr. SAMANIEGO (Ecuador) supported the French and Belgian proposal, in the first place, because his country had been the first to raise the problem at the meeting of Foreign Ministers held in Washington the preceding April, and in the second place, because he entirely agreed with the opinion expressed by the various delegates who had spoken before him, pointing out the prevailing difficulties in the production and distribution of paper throughout the world. [28] Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) drew attention to the desperate situation of many Asian countries. India was not producing enough pulp for its own needs and would not do so for many years to come, and, in the face of constantly rising prices, many newspapers were faced with a decision to close down. Others were increasing their prices and it would soon become impossible for some citizens to buy a newspaper. [29] ‘Mr. Khushwant Singh described the special part played by the newspapers in his own and other countries, where they were the only means of com- municating information to large sections of the population, which, in the absence of the film, radio and television, were dependent upon newspapers for general information and news of current affairs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
359 PROGRAMME [30] India was carrying on a mass literacy campaign, for which supplies of paper were indispens- able. He, therefore, appealed for steps to be taken to prevent profiteering in raw materials of such vital importance, and expressed the hope that the resolution would be carried unanimously as an indication of the importance which Unesco attached to the solution of the problem. [31] Speaking for a producing country, Mr. Mc- GREER (Canada) expressed his Government's con- cern and will to co-operate to the fullest extent in solving the problem. It was his Government's opinion that the best hope for a solution lay in the International Raw Materials Conference and its Wood Pulp and Paper Committee, in both of which Canada was playing its part. The Committee had proved its ability to deal with immediate crises and should be given a chance to deal with the long-term problem. Mr. McGreer therefore thought that it would be unfortunate, ill-advised and unnecessary for Unesco to attempt to duplicate the work of the Committee. Unesco should, in his opinion, confine itself to an expression of concern and offer its faci- lities to the Wood Pulp and Paper Committee. [82] In conclusion, Mr. McGreer added that his delegation had not put forward any request that the matter should be referred to the Economic and Social Council. [33] Mr. GIL (Uruguay) warmly supported the French and Belgian proposal. He believed that the problem was of great importance for all the free countries of the world, and that the production of pulp should be stepped up and its distribution made more fairly between the interested countries. [34] Mr. Gil pointed out that difficulties relating to paper supplies affected Unesco in a particular way; they threatened the development of education and the free flow of information. At the same time, a great part of the world’s press was, in his opinion, no real instrument for the dissemination of news and true democracy, for it devoted insufficient space to cultural affairs. [35] In conclusion, Mr. Gil expressed the wish that proposals should be submitted to the next session of the General Conference of Unesco, and that steps should be taken to raise the standards of the press throughout the world. [36] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that the question had become one of Unesco policy. He felt that, by adopting the French resolution, Unesco would risk duplicating the work of the International Raw Materials Conference. He shared the United States delegate’s views and would support the reso- lution, subject to the deletion of the three paragraphs numbered (1), (2) and (3).   COMMISSION 1178 [37] The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the preamble to the draft resolution contained in docu- ment 6C/DR/15(rev.). [38] Mr. TERROU (France) was anxious to know which points were affected by the views expressed during the discussion. In his opinion, the introduc- tory paragraphs to the resolution were entirely in accordance with the body of the text. [39] Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) repeated that the paragraphs in question were taken up again in the body of the resolution and that, as they stood, they contained statements likely to mislead. [40] Paragraph (1) of the preamble suggested that Member States should increase the action of the Wood Pulp and Paper Committee by “giving it the benefit of the activities and research carried out by the competent international organizations”, whereas the body of the resolution called upon the Economic and Social Council to get the research under way. Paragraph (2) requested the Economic and Social Council to put the matter on its agenda, while the operative clauses merely called upon the Council to draw the attention of the various organizations and agencies concerned to the importance of technical research. [41] It was to avoid discrepancies of that kind that the United States delegation had proposed the dele- tion of the three numbered paragraphs of the preamble. If it were decided to maintain them, they should be made exactly repetitive. [42] Mr. TERROU (France) was not opposed to the requests of the United States delegate, provided the preamble accurately reflected the text of the body of the resolution. [43] Mr. McGREER (Canada) considered that the word “bound” in the third (unnumbered) paragraph of the preamble might suggest that the terms of reference of the Wood Pulp and Paper Committe were restrictive, whereas in fact they were very wide. His delegation was most anxious to avoid any inference that the Wood Pulp and Paper Committee might not be able to deal with the long-term problem. On the contrary, it believed that it could do so. In the fifth (unnumbered) paragraph of the preamble there was an indication that Unesco felt that international or- ganizations had a contribution to make. If the Commission wished to maintain that part of the resolution, Mr. McGreer would suggest that it should be more carefully worded, in order to avoid any inference of the kind to which he had referred. Such a wording might be: Taking note of the fact that Unesco and certain other international organizations having permanent Secre-
1713 PROGRAMME tariats have a vital interest in this problem and may be able to assist the International Raw Materials Conference in the solution of this problem. [44] Mr. TERROU (France) considered that the paragraph in question merely contained an allusion to the facts of the situation. [45] The CHAIRMAN suggested altering the words “which is bound to”, in the English text, to which the Canadian delegate took exception. [46] Mr. McGREER (Canada) maintained his position. The change of wording which he had proposed was designed not to change the sense, but to frame the idea in a more positive way. In the third paragraph, the General Conference was to note “with satisfaction” the creation of a Wood Pulp and Paper Committee of the International Raw Materials Conference. After that statement, he felt that the General Conference should merely state that other organizations might be able to assist the Committee in its work. There should be no indication of lack of faith in the ability of the Committee when the General Conference had, immediately above, ex- pressed its satisfaction at its formation. [47] Mr. TERROU (France) asked to what extent the Canadian delegate could consider the wording used in sub-paragraph I (a) of the operative clauses satisfactory, for in his opinion that passage was far more important than the preamble. [48] Mr. McGREER (Canada) did not press his amendment, although he still wished to avoid implying any lack of confidence in the Wood Pulp and Paper Committee. [49] Mr. TERROU (France) stated that he entirely shared the Canadian delegate’s confidence regarding any future decisions which might be taken in the matter. [60] The preamble of the draft resolution was adopted, omitting the paragraphs beginning: “believ- ing therefore that the solution. ..”, and ending: . . warn public opinion of the grave nature of this problem”. [51] Paragraphs I (a), (b) and (c) were adopted. [62] Mr. McGREER (Canada) considered the reference to the Economic and Social Council in paragraph II to be the result of a compromise which did not give full satisfaction to any of the parties. Insofar as it might be interpreted to imply lack of confidence in the International Raw Materials Conference, it did not meet with his delegation’s approval. He had consulted his Government on the COMMISSION 360 question and, in the absence of instructions, he would have to reserve his position. [63] The Commission adopted paragraph II, taking note of the Canadian delegate’s abstention. Para- graphs III (a) and (b) were then adopted. Report on Unesco’s Technical Assistance Pro- gramme (document 6C/PRG/20). Technical Assistance Programme and Budget for 1952 (Items 8.81 and 8.82 of the agenda) (document
6C/PRG/21). Draft Resolution Submitted by the Executive Board (document 6C/PRG/21, Add. 1). [54] Mr. GROS (United Nations) stated that the United Nations expert who was to be present during the debate on the technical assistance programme would not arrive in Paris until the following day. He asked the Commission to allow the expert to make comments, if necessary, evenif the discussion on technical assistance were concluded at the current meeting. [55] Mr. ADISESHIAH (Head, Technical Assistance Service) said that, in June 1950, soon after the General Conference’s Fifth Session, at which the Director-General had received a general authorization to participate in the United Nations Expanded Pro- gramme of Technical Assistance, a United Nations Technical Assistance Conference had met in Lake Success and pledged sums amounting to over $20,000,000 for the implementation of a technical assistance programme. Unesco’s share of that sum was 14 per cent. Over $12,000,000 of the total sum had already been made available. [66] Document 6C/PRG/20 gave an account of Unesco’s participation in the programme. By
14 July 1951, 47 agreements with 28 Member States would have been signed. Sixty-five requests for assistance had been received from 30 States. Under the agreements, the services of 156 experts in the various fields of education and scientific research were being made available, and 195 fellowships were being awarded. It was expected that, -before the end of the year, five more agreements would be signed, entailing a corresponding increase in the number of experts and fellowships. [67] Of the 156 experts, six had completed their work, 70 were in the field or about to go. Thus some 50 per cent of the experts promised had been made available. [68] Mr. Adiseshiah gave a brief analysis of docu- ment 6C/PRG/20, pointing out that Annex II reflected the situation at 22 May 1951 as foreseen during the month of April. [59] Document 6C/PRG/21 gave the proposed | — — _ — a ; е т и н е е е — — ( m - a     PROGRAMME scheme of activities for 1952 under the same six headings as the earlier document, with the addition of a seventh on “Public Information Agencies”. The estimates which it contained were based on the experience of the year 1950-1951 and on the ability of the Organization to offer technical assistance. It had already been forwarded to the Technical As- sistance Board, which was examining the programme with reference to those of other Specialized Agencies. As a clear picture of the situation would be available only towards the end of the year, when the govern- ment pledges in implementation of the decisions of Ecosoc were received, the document was intended only for the information of the Commission, as an indication of what Unesco could do. [60] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) submitted the draft resolutions pre- pared by the Executive Board at its Twenty-Sixth Session. [61] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) stated that his delegation warmly supported the resolu- tions as a whole. He emphasized that no activity during the past months had been more fruitful, or had done more to make Unesco better known throughout the world. He hoped that, at the next meeting of the Economic and Social Council, Unesco would try to obtain larger funds, Unesco’s partici- pation in the Technical Assistance Programme was in fact greater than had originally been expected. Additional States were putting forward requests for technical assistance, and needs were continually growing. He therefore urged Unesco to lose no opportunity of asserting its right to a larger share of the total funds, and concluded by congratulating the Secretariat and expressly his approval of the whole of document 6C/PRG/21, Add. I. [62] Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) expressed his delegation’s satisfaction with the progress made and with the general headings of education and science under which Unesco’s activities were grouped. It was clear that such activities would be most valuable in enabling under- developed countries to take their place in the cultural life of the world. [63] Unesco had been allocated 14 per cent of the total funds available, and Mr. Zook thought, for obvious reasons, that there would be no change. He noted with regret the disproportion between the staff engaged under the technical assistance pro- gramme and the staff of Unesco proper, but felt that it was unavoidable. [64] While paying tribute to the choice of activi- ties under Technical Assistance made by the Secre- tariat, Mr. Zook would welcome a greater partici- pation in that choice by the Programme Commission and the General Conference. He felt that there COMMISSION Iv-13 should be some means of obtaining better continuing advice on such matters from the Programme Com- mission. [65] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) recalled that he had already had an opportunity of expressing his dele- gation’s approval of Unesco's technical assistance activities, and called on the Commission to endorse unanimously the resolutions proposed by the Ex- ecutive Board. [66] Items 1.1 to 1.23 were adopted. [67] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) requested that the information contained in Annex II of docu- ment 6C/PRG/20 should be made available to Member States as early as possible. He suggested that the employment of a travelling recruiting officer on a short-term basis might be useful, as also the formation of a small committee of appointments officers from the main countries from which experts were drawn. . [68] Mr. ADISESHIAH (Head, Technical Assistance Service) said that the Director-General and the Secretariat would welcome advice from the Pro- gramme Commission and the General Conference. A commission might be set up to provide such guidance, though he thought that that might not be the best procedure since it had been agreed that experts were not to be sent out on the Organization's initiative, the principle having been established that the request had to come from the Member State concerned. However, Mr. Adiseshiah considered that it would be useful if, in the course of the dis- cussion of the documents submitted, the Programme Commission were to offer its advice on the choice of activities. [69] In reply to the United Kingdom delegate, Mr. Adiseshiah informed the Commission that two recruitment officers were to be appointed on a short- term basis—one for the Western Hemisphere and one for Europe. One had already been appointed. Furthermore, 19 governments had set up small groups within the appropriate Ministry to act as appointments committees. The Secretariat was doing all in its power to promote the formation of such groups. [70] With regard to the United Kingdom sug- gestion, Mr. Adiseshiah explained that the inclusion of last-minute information had made it impossible to distribute the document earlier. [71] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) proposed that the wording of the first sub-paragraph of item 1.3 should be altered to make it clearer. [72] Ttem 1.3 was adopted, subject to redrafting
1V-13 PROGRAMME of the text of the first paragraph in accordance with the suggestions of the Belgian delegate. [73] Items 1.31 to 1.34 were then adopted. Rural Education in Colombia (document 6C/PRG/30). Draft Resolution Submitted by the Delegations of Colombia and Ecuador (Item 8.711 of the Agenda) (document 6C/DR/78). Unesco’s Contribution to the Development of Complete Demonstration Areas Approved by the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies (Item 8.91 of the Agenda). [74] Mr. LHÉRISSON (Haiti) was happy to note the Commission’s decisions, and emphasized that Haiti’s Constitution contained provisions about teaching which were entirely in accordance with the aims of the technical assistance programme. COMMISSION [75] At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, the Com- mission took note of the two documents. [76] Mr. ADISESHIAH (Head, Technical Assistance Service) said that the intention of the delegate of Salvador had been to request Unesco's continued participation in the joint project undertakén by the World Health Organization, Unesco and the Inter- national Labour Organization in Salvador. On receiving that assurance, the delegate of Salvador had withdrawn the item. [77] Delegations would find a report on the pro- ject annexed to the Report by Salvador to the General Conference. The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m. ANNEX STATEMENT BY MR. TERROU (FRANCE) Our eminent colleague, the representative of Belgium, has stated far better than I could have done how grave is the problem which has arisen in many countries from the scarcity and increased cost of newsprint and printing paper. His weighty speech and the report prepared by the Secretariat, which really provides us with all the necessary documentation, have said all there is to say concerning the extent and the various aspects of the crisis. I shall therefore not repeat the figures; those which have been quoted are sufficiently eloquent. I would merely like, before presenting the formula which, as it seems to us, might define the work to be done by Unesco in this field, to stress the fact that the paper shortage is already now directly threatening all your efforts to achieve the ends you have set yourselves. You have rightly placed at the head of your objectives the fight againstilliteracy, because, to paraphrase Mr. Torres Bodet: ““We cannot tolerate that most unjust of fron- tiers, separating those who can from those who cannot.” But what is the use of multiplying the methods and institutions whereby we are first to reduce, and later entirely to eliminate this intolerable frontier, what is the use of education centres and experts if, because of the lack of paper, the most elementary books, and even alpha- bets, are not everywhere available? Yet this will soon be the position. You are devising ingenious ways of developing cultural and scientific exchanges, and of promoting progress and relations in all sectors of knowledge and the training of minds. But how is this to be done if, owing to lack of paper, it becomes impossible to publish enough textbooks and other works whereby that knowledge or culture is to be expressed or disseminated? Or again, if the development and wide distribution of scientific, cultural and technical periodicals is endangered—which perio- dicals are an essential channel of exchange, nay, even of progress in this field, because they closely follow changes as they occur? To be convinced that we have in fact already reached that stage, one need only read, on page 3 of the document submitted to us by the Secretariat, the vigorous appeal from the International Federation of the Technical and Periodical Press, representing these organs. Furthermore, you are concerned with the establishment of freedom of information, which is a fundamental human right, as well as the pre-condition for the free exchange of knowledge and ideas. And it is perhaps here that the whole measure of the problem becomes apparent, not so much on account of its size, as because it stands out acutely. In many, in very many countries, the development, sometimes the very existence, and often the freedom of the press, are imperilled by the paper shortage. As regards its development, no explanation is needed. In whatever form the crisis becomes apparent—whether in the insufficiency of supplies or in the constant rise in prices, whether it be the paper itself or the raw mate- rials used in its manufacture—wherever there is a shortage, it inevitably leads to a reduction in the circu: lation of the press, either through a drop in the number of copies or in the number of pages of newspapers. | | | || | | | Ë | | | Ë | | | | | | | | | | | |