PROCEDURE COMMITTEE SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 20 June 1951, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Mr. TEvrix SAGLAM (Turkey), later: Draft Amendment to Paragraph GC 8b of Article IV of the Constitution (5C/Resolutions,
18.21) (document 6C/PRO/2). Proposed Amendments to Rules 79 and 28 of the Rules of Procedure (Items 6.4 and 6.5 of the Agenda) (document 6C/PRO/2, Annex I). [1] The SECRETARY introduced document 6C/ PRO/2 and its annex. At its previous sessions the General Conference had noted delays on the part of certain MemberStates in the payment of their con- tributions and had decided to suspend the voting rights of Member States which were more than two years in arrears with their payments. At its Fifth Session, it had adopted resolution 18.21, which provided that the amendment to Article IV, para- graph C 8b of the Constitution, reproduced below, should be submitted to the Member States and to the General Conference at its Sixth Session: A Member State shall have no vote in the General Con- ference if the amount of its unpaid contributions to the Organization exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the current year and the immediately pre- ceding financial year. [2] Five Member States had agreed in principle with the amendment when it was communicated to them. Switzerland and Yugoslavia had also recently expressed their agreement. [3] At the Fifth Session, no procedure had been laid down for the collection of unpaid contributions. Measures for ensuring the application of the new Article were therefore set forth in Annex I of docu- ment 6C/PRO/2. In that annex, amendments were proposed to Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure and an additional fourth paragraph to Rule 28 was sug- gested, so that the Credentials Committee might be in a position to decide which Member States should have their voting rights suspended for non-payment of their contributions. The Credentials Committee was the first to meet at each session of the Conference and was competent to decide which States, having presented their regular or provisional credentials, had the right to vote. [4] There were thus two questions before the Procedure Committee: (1) an amendment to Article IV, paragraph C 8 (b) of the Constitution;
(2) the procedure for applying the new Article. Mr. Zéreca Fomsona (Venezuela) [5] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) said that his delegation entirely approved the draft amendment. It wished, however, to ask one general question which had a bearing on the current discussion: on what basis was the amount of the contributions of Member States of Unesco which were not Members of the United Nations determined? [6] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that it was for the General Conference and the Administrative Commission to say how contributions should be determined. The Procedure Committee was not competent to consider that question which, more- over, was not on its agenda. [7] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) was satisfied with that explanation. [8] Mr. STONE (Australia) stated that the Cre- dentials Committee, of which he was Chairman, had discussed the question of arrears in contributions in connexion with the right to vote, and had come to the conclusion that, as the matter had important budgetary implications, it should not be left to the decision of the Credentials Committee, but should be referred to some other body of the Conference, such as the General Committee or the Procedure Com- mittee. The proposals contained in Annex I to document 6C/PRO/2 did not seem to him to take into account the difficulties discussed by the Cre- dentials Committee. [9] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure consisted in the addition of a fourth paragraph io Rule 28. [10] Under the Constitution, if a Member State did not pay its arrears of contributions, it was deprived of its voting rights. The Chairman of the Cre- dentials Committee had mentioned the fact that the General Conference reserved the right to decide whether, on account of exceptional circumstances, a Member State might be authorized to vote. As far as the proposed addition to Rule 28 was con: cerned, it would be sufficient to know whether 1l related to the findings regarding the payment of contributions. [11] Mr. STONE (Australia) replied that he saw no difficulty in connexion with the draft amendment    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | PROCEDURE to Rule 28. His objection related to the procedure outlined in the last paragraph but one on page 2 of Annex I, namely that a Member State in arrears with its contributions could “either present a memorandum to the Credentials Committee or furnish all the explanations it deemed necessary to the General Conference in plenary session”. His point was that, in view of the budgetary implications of the problem, it should be dealt with, not by the Credentials Committee, but by some other body of the Conference. [12] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) pointed out that document 6C/PRO/2, Annex I, gave sufficient grounds for establishing the competence of the Credentials Committee to deal with problems in- volving the payment of contributions. It was, however, also necessary to consider the event of a Member State’s demonstrating that its failure to pay was due to conditions beyond its control (Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure). Would the Credentials Committee then be the appropriate body to deal with the case? If so, the Conference, which usually received that Committee's report before beginning its work, might be delayed by a prolonged discussion on the question of arrears. [13] The wording of the draft amendment to Rule 79 seemed to indicate that exceptional cases would be considered by the Conference itself; but such a discussion, in plenary meeting, at the begin- ning of the Conference’s work would hamper the proceedings. Would not the General Committee be the appropriate body to deal with the matter? [14] Furthermore, in the draft amendment to Rule 79, the expression “conditions beyond the control of the Member State” would not meet all the difficulties that might arise. Could not some other wording be devised? [15] The Greek delegate would also like to know what repercussions the adoption of the principle of biennial sessions of the General Conference might have on the point in question. [16] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that Rule
79 was in terms similar to Article IV of the Con- stitution, which contained the expression “conditions beyond the control of the Member State”. [17] With regard to biennial sessions, Mr. Saba thought they would not affect the situation, because even if sessions of the Conference were held only every two years, there might be States which had made only one payment. It was, moreover, a matter of drafting; the expression “yearly instalment of the contribution” might, for instance, be used.
18] In reply to the Australian and Greek delegates, Mr. Saba said that it was not contemplated in the proposed texts that the Credentials Committee would be competent to discuss the “conditions beyond the control”. Might not the Committee merely draw Up a list of Member States which had paid their COMMITTEE X-2 contributions and another list of those which had not paid and were therefore debarred from voting? That would not prevent the Conference itself from examining any request from a Member State which wished to invoke exceptional circumstances. [19] Such questions were outside the competence of the General Committee, which was concerned only with the administration of the Conference. [20] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) asked why the word- ing of the Article had been changed. The Fourth Session of the Conference had adopted the phrase “equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the preceding two full years” [Article TV C 8 (b)], whereas the draft amendment under consideration only stated “exceeds the amount”. [21] Mr. de Spot pointed out that the expression “conditions beyond the control of the Member State” was incomplete, and suggested the insertion of the word “exceptional” before “conditions”. [22] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) agreed with the Australian delegate that it would not be fair to expect the Credentials Committee to take a decision on the question whether Article IV, C, paragraph 8b of the Constitution should be waived if failure to pay was due to conditions beyond the control of a Member State. Nevertheless, in view of the important questions put to the vote during the first three or four days of the Conference, a decision should be taken as soon as possible. In his opinion, the Conference in plenary meeting should not try to examine the problem in detail, as that would slow down its work considerably. He therefore suggested that the Secretariat should give further consideration to the matter and report back to the Procedure Com- mittee, which could then take a decision. [23] Mr. Mason strongly supported the proposed amendments to the Constitution in connexion with arrears of contributions. The sanction of loss of vote was right and should be rigorous enough to persuade Member States to bring their contributions up to date. [24] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) also supported the proposed changes in procedure. Although he was not in favour of a detailed examination in plenary meeting of the problem of arrears and the right to vote, he stressed the fact that the Plenary Conference was alone competent to take a final decision in the matter of arrears due to circumstances beyond the control of a Member State. He supported the New Zealand delegate’s suggestion that the Secretariat should undertake a further study of the problem, reporting back to the Procedure Committee; the latter could then take a preliminary decision, leaving the final decision to the Plenary Conference. [25] Mr. STONE (Australia) observed that, for the       X-2 PROCEDURE current session of the Conference, it was not urgent to decide which body of the Conference should take a preliminary decision on the question of arrears and loss of vote. He therefore moved an amendment to Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure. A further paragraph should be added after the proposed new paragraph 4, worded as follows: It shall be for the General Conference, if necessary on the recommendation of some other designated com- mittee, to determine whether any such State may nevertheless be permitted to vote under Article IV, C, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution. [26] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) said that, in his opinion, paragraph C 8c should be maintained. That pro- vision constituted a guarantee for those Member States whose contributions were in arrears owing to conditions beyond their control. [27] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that the Constitution provided for consideration by the Con- ference of draft amendments to the Constitution, provided they had been presented six months in advance. The addition of the word “exceptional”, proposed by the Belgian delegation, could not there- fore be considered. The wording of the paragraph, furthermore, had been taken from the San Francisco Charter. [28] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) agreed with the Australian delegate that the Conference should appoint a committee (which might be a sub-com- mittee of the Credentials Committee) to determine whether any State should be permitted to vote as an exceptional measure. [29] Whatever that Committee might be, the time factor would have to be borne in mind. Account should be taken of the fact that loss of the right to vote during the first days of the Conference, when important decisions were being taken, might be very serious for a delegation, and constituted a penalty. The Greek delegate admitted that there should be some such penalty. Steps for reinstatement would be taken as soon as the reasons given were recognized as valid by the Conference. The penalty would of course vary in severity according to the length of time that contributions had remained unpaid. [30] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the draft amendment to paragraph C 8b of Article IV of the Constitution (document 6C/PRO/2). [31] Adopted unanimously. [32] The Chairman then proposed the adoption of the amended Rule 79 (document 6C/PRO/2, Annex I). [33] Adopted. COMMITTEE 684 [34] Finally, the Chairman asked the Committee to consider the amendment to Rule 28, paragraph 4, proposed by the Australian delegate. [35] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that Rule 28 was entitled “Functions of the Committee”. It was, of course, not illogical to mention in that Rule cases that were outside the Committee's com- petence. But it was sufficient to say that it would be for another committee to decide whether the ex- ceptional conditions invoked were valid. [36] Mr. STONE (Australia) pointed out that, if the General Conference decided to ask the Cre- dentials Committee to deal with the matter, his amendment would fall into place under Rule 28. [37] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought the Committee could agree with the Australian delegate's proposal, whilst refraining from specifying which would be the appropriate committee. [38] Without prejudging the adoption of the pro- posal, could not the wording of Rule 28, para- graph 4, be shortened, to read: “The Committee shall draw up a list of Member States which have failed in their responsibilities as described in Article IV, paragraph C 8b of the Constitution”? [39] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that, on examining Rules 27 and 28 of the Rules of Procedure, he agreed with*Mr. Saba that Rule 28 did not seem to be an appropriate place for the addition of the Australian amendment. He proposed, however, that if the Procedure Committee adopted the amendment, the Secretariat should be asked to find an appropriate place for its insertion, reporting back to the Pro- cedure Committee within 24 hours. A final decision could then be taken the following day. [40] Mr. Zérega Fombona (Venezuela) took the Chair. Deadlines for the Despatch to Member States of Working Documents of the General Conference (document 6C/PRO/4). [41] The SECRETARY pointed out that the time- limit within which Conference documents should reach Member States was a matter of great impor- tance to them. Commenting on the draft resolution given in document 6C/PRO/4, he recalled that the time-limits for the despatch of documents had not been determined with sufficient clarity at previous sessions, and that certain difficulties had arisen in consequence, particularly in cases where the Co: | operation of other organizations was needed in the preparation of those documents. It was therefore proposed, to simplify the procedure, that the time- limit should be 25 days before the opening of the |, Conference for general documents, two months for    — o — [ — — " у — , — p — . . … m . m
685 PRO CGEDURE the Draft Programme and Budget Estimates, and
10 days for documents relating to supplementary items, and that those provisions should be incor- porated in the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. [42] Mr. SELFE (Union of South Africa) pointed out that the question of deadlines for the despatch of working documents was of great importance to distant countries, not only because the documents took longer to reach them, but also because their delegates had to leave earlier for the General Con- ference. In view of the Secretariat’s difficulties, however, he had no objection to the insertion in the new Rule 10A of the words “so far as possible”, proposed on page 2 of document 6C/PRO/4, but he stressed the importance of the words “at least” in paragraphs 1 and 2 of that Article. The 25 days and the two months should not be regarded as a target, but as an absolute minimum. Indeed, if the prin- ciple of biennial sessions of the Conference were adopted, Mr. Selfe hoped that the 25 days and the two months would be extended to longer periods. [43] Mr. STEPHENS (Canada) also hoped that the words “at least” would really mean what they said, as Canada had, in the past, often received docu- ments too late to give careful consideration to the problems involved, or to consult various national bodies. [44] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) agreed with the views expressed by previous speakers and observed: (1) that the intervals at which sessions were held would probably be changed and there would in consequence be more time for the preparation of documents;
(2) that, if the Conference were to meet every two years, the questions submitted to it would be more numerous and more important, and a considerable time should therefore be allowed for the reception of documents before the opening of the Conference. [45] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) supported the re- marks made by the delegates of the Union of South Africa and Canada, particularly as surface mail to New Zealand took two months to arrive, and even air mail took 14 days. He realized the Secretariat’s difficulties, but when Member States called meetings of committees to discuss the items on the agenda and prepare instructions for delegates, it was alarming to see the numberof items labelled “Report not received”. [46] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) joined his fellow delegates in supporting the proposed changes, Which were based on resolution 10.4 adopted by the General Conference at its Fifth Session. His dele- gation, however, would like to go slightly further: another resolution (5C/Resolutions, 10.5) had been passed on a similar subject, reading: COMMITTEE X-2 Draft resolutions, basic proposals and amendments calling for substantial modifications in the Programme and Budget Estimates should be submitted in writing not later than the opening date of the Conference. He proposed that resolution 10.5 should be added as a fourth paragraph to Article 10A on page 3 of document 6C/PRO/4. [47] Mr. STONE (Australia), representing one of the countries furthest, in the physical sense, from Unesco, supported the remarks of the delegate of New Zealand and expressed the hope that Unesco would try to allow longer than 25 days and two months. He supported the proposals before the Committee. [48] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that, follow- ing a decision of the Economic and Social Council, the United Nations Administrative Committee on Co-ordination had drawn up some model rules of procedure, which the Secretariat had used as a basis for preparing the proposed draft resolution. [49] Mr. Saba mentioned that, during the Sixth Session, the Procedure Committee might also have to consider proposals put forward by the External Relations Commission concerning deadlines for the submission of projects that had budgetary implica- tions. [50] Mr. CATES (United States of America) also supported the proposals contained in document 6C/ PRO/4, but thought that Mr. Saba’s remarks opened the door to a further proposal, namely that, in accordance with the recommendation of the United Nations Administrative Committee on Co-ordination, the deadline for the submission of new projects with budgetary implications should be six weeks in advance of the Conference, instead of on the opening day of the Conference. The Secretariat might sub- mit a resolution to that effect to the next session of the General Conference. [61] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that the model rules of procedure drawn up by the United Nations Administrative Committee on Co-ordination provided that “new projects” could be included in the agenda of General Conferences only if they had been proposed at least six weeks beforehand. [52] In reply to the United States delegate, Mr. Saba pointed out that the questions he had men- tioned would be submitted to the Procedure Com- mittee after they had been considered by the Ex- ternal Relations Commission. [63] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) proposed to amend paragraph (1) of Rule 10A in the draft resolution by changing the number of days specified to 35; in paragraph (2), the time-limit should be three months; and in the fifth paragraph which it was            X-2 PROCEDURE proposed to add to Rule 11, the time-limit should be a fortnight. He thought that, since Member States had to assemble their National Commissions to study the documents received, they ought to be allowed sufficient time for the purpose. Furthermore, if the principle of biennial sessions were adopted, the Secretariat would be able to prepare the necessary documentation in good time. [64] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) assured the Com- mittee that the Secretariat would do its utmost, but that certain practical difficulties connected with the time required for the reproduction and despatch of documents were bound to occur. If the principle of biennial sessions were adopted, the Rules of Pro- cedure might be amended so as to provide for new time-limits that would meet the wishes of Member States. [55] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that, however much his country desired a longer time to study documents, he appreciated the Secretariat’s dif- ficulties and could not support the proposal made by the delegate of Italy. [66] Mr. CATES (United States of America) repeated his former proposal regarding the deadline for the submission of new items, and asked if the Procedure Committee could be given an opportunity to consider those recommendations of the Adminis- trative Committee on Co-ordination which related to a change in procedure, even though, because of inter- nal Unesco practices, they had been referred to the Official and External Relations Commission. Com- missions and Committees should be allowed flexi- bility in considering all agenda items related to their work. [57] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) agreed with the delegate of Australia that it would be desirable to receive documents earlier, but did not wishto create an impossible situation for the Secretariat. Con- sequently, he did not support the Italian proposal. [58] Mr. CATES (United States of America) asked the Secretariat if the Official and External Relations Commission could not pass on the recommendations of the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination to the Procedure Committee as soon as possible, so that the Procedure Committee could consider the re- commendations before it terminated its work. [59] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that that would give rise to administrative difficulties. A committee could not consider a question that was not included in its agenda unless that question had been referred to it by another committee. Moreover, he did not think it necessary to study both questions at the same time, although they were closely related. The Committee should come to a decision on the   COMMITTEE 686 first, and wait to consider the second until the latter had been referred to it by the Official and External Relations Commission. [60] The CHAIRMAN said that the wishes expressed by delegates would be borne carefully in mind, although, for the moment, they could not be embodied in a definite proposal. [61] The Chairman put to the vote the resolution submitted by the Secretariat in document 6C/PRO/4. [62] The resolution was adopted. [63] Mr. CATES (United States of America) agreed that the Procedure Committee should approve the proposals in document 6C/PRO/4, but asked that, before the Procedure Committee closed its discussion of item 6.5.2 of the Agenda, members should be allowed to see the recommendations of the Adminis- trative Committee on Co-ordination which were being submitted to the Official and External Re: lations Commission. Conditions for the Validity of Ballot Papers in the Election of Several Persons (Item 6.5.3 of the Agenda) (document 6C/PRO/5). [64] The CHAIRMAN introduced discussion of document 6C/PRO/5 and the SECRETARY ех- plained that, at its Fifth Session, the General Con- ference had requested that brief rules should be drawn up for the conduct of elections by secret ballot, so as to avoid indefinite results such as had occurred at previous elections. The rules proposed by the Secretariat were those usually followed at meetings. He drew the Committee’s attention to Rules 10 and 14. Rule 10 provided that, if the number of ballot papers deposited in the ballot box were greater or less than the number of delegates voting, the vote should be declared invalid. Rule 14 provided that ballot papers containing the same number of names as there were persons to be elected, or fewer names, should be valid. The reason for the latter Rule was that, as only candidates nomi- nated by the Nominations Committee or by two delegations at least were eligible, some delegates might not find on the list a sufficient number of candidates for whom they wished to vote. [65] Mr. CATES (United States of America) con- sidered that the draft Rules contained in Annex I to document 6C/PRO/5 would gain by being simplified and made less detailed, but if the Procedure Com- mittee was prepared to accept them as they stood he would offer no further objection. [66] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) drew the Com- mittee’s attention to the penultimate sentence of paragraph 2 of document 6C/PRO/5 in which it was — o o S E E , — — — — e e e о — — — у = a . | | [ | | |
687 stat the ced the on [67 the was mul he | the to I [68 that of shot “Bel shal to telle [69] deci vote resu avoi( [70] Gree gene clear spon How whic a vie [71] not 1 earli the Proc he w   PROCEDURE stated that, at the Fifth Session of the Conference, the Nominations Committee had requested the Pro- cedure Committee to establish precise rules to cover the question of secret ballots, in general, and rules on the validity of ballot papers, in particular. [67] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) agreed with the remarks made by the United States delegate. It was obvious that great care had been taken in for- mulating the Rules submitted to the Committee, but he thought that certain details such, for instance, as the locking of the ballot box, were too unimportant to be incorporated in the Rules, even in an annex. [68] Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) proposed that the first sub-paragraph of Rule 16—“number of Member States entitled to vote at the Session”— should be inserted in Rule 2, which would then read: “Before the ballot begins, the President or Chairman shall announce the names of Member States entitled to vote at the Session and shall then appoint two tellers, etc.” [69] The SECRETARY said that it had been decided that the list of Member States entitled to vote should be announced at the same time as the results of the ballot, so as to simplify the process and avoid making more than one announcement. [70] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) disagreed with the Greek delegate’s view that voting rules should be general and flexible; in his opinion, they should be clear and definite, as otherwise too much re- sponsibility was placed upon the Secretariat. However, he would be interested in any suggestions which the United States delegate could make with a view to condensation. [71] Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) did not want too much importance to be attached to his earlier remarks. He admired the care with which the draft Rules had been prepared and, if the Procedure Committee thought they were satisfactory, he would be quite ready to agree with his fellow   COMMITTEE X-2 delegates. As, however, the delegate of New Zealand had asked him for suggestions on how the Rules might be condensed, he would suggest that Rules 1, 4, 5 and 19 were perhaps superfluous. If his proposal was not supported, he would withdraw it. [72] Mr. LEBRAS (France) asked whether the questions before the Committee had been submitted as the result of real or hypothetical difficulties. [73] The SECRETARYreplied that the Rules had been drawn up to meet misgivings that had arisen as a result of certain ballots that had taken place in difficult circumstances or in a strained atmosphere; their sole purpose was to avoid, by covering every possible point, any dispute in future. [74] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) suggested that the United States and New Zealand delegates should meet with members of the Secretariat and produce a simplified version of the draft Rules for consider- ation at a later meeting. [75] Mr. STONE (Australia) felt that the Com- mittee was spending too much time on the item. He did not think any of the Rules were seriously redundant, and moved their adoption. [76] Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) said that if that were the sense of the meeting, he would be quite willing to agree. [77] The CHAIRMAN put the amendment proposed by the delegate of India to the vote. [78] The amendment was rejected, 2 delegates voting in favour and 4 against. [791 The draft Rules contained in document 6C/ PRO/5, Annex I, were approved by 17 votes to 0. The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.