CHAPTER 1 1 PLENARY MEETINGS FIRST PLENARY MEETING Monday, 18 June 1951, at 10.50 a.m. President: Count Sterano Jacint (Italy) CONTENTS Opening of the Session by the Head of the Italian delegation . Establishment of the Credentials Committee Opening of the Session by the Head of the Italian Delegation. [1] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, once again Unesco House has opened wide its doors to welcome dele- gates from all over the world. Their number grows year by year, the aims and policy of the Organization take clearer shape with every day that passes. For all nations are becoming more generally and more deeply aware and convinced of the irreplaceable nature of the function we are called upon to fulfil— by reason of those very obstacles that we have to surmount and of those prejudices that we have to overcome. Peace is in danger: we are working with zealous ardour for peace; civilization, human- ism, are menaced; we are working with redoubled determination to preserve that civilization, to save that humanism. Among us are scientists, artists, teachers, politicians: here, each and all of us must feel that we are apostles. [2] For that, ladies and gentlemen, is the crux of the matter. All totalitarian organizations, what- ever they may be, have one undisputed advantage over the democracies—they are technically more efficient. Their aims, simpler than ours, are easier to attain, because they bank upon the most primitive tendencies of human nature. On the other hand, freedom has a strength which nothing can conquer, and which finds in that same human nature a source of perpetual renewal; it has an inexhaustible variety of methods, can adaptitself to all climates, survive every defeat; above all, it is supported by an unshakable confidence in the future. [3] There has been a great deal of argument about Unesco; together with much praise, many criticisms have been passed upon the Organization. But those of us who have watched it develop from the outset, who have witnessed its successive attempts to adapt and perfect its methods, can testify sincerely to the tremendous work that has been accomplished, the ground that has been covered, the obstacles that have been overcome. From Paris to Mexico City, from Beirut to Paris, from Florence to Paris, the process of deepening and consolidating has steadily con- tinued; wider and wider vistas open before Unesco, ever new experiments lead now to success and now to failure; but Unesco goes on its way and draws ever closer to what it must ultimately become—the great institution for the defence and dissemination of culture, science and education in what is virtually already the world confederation of peoples. Its subject is the human personality; its method is the free circulation of ideas and of the instruments of culture; its purpose is peace. [4] So our Sixth Conference opens, once again, in Paris, in the midst of that France which has been called God’s champion, being destined, as it seems, to experience in herself the effect of all the great spiritual currents on which mankind is tossed; in this great city which is like a second home for all of us and which, in its two thousand years of youth- fulness, has again and again swept away the traces of disaster, preserving only those which tell of triumphs. I greet the French Republic, which has once again extended to us its hospitality. T greet those old friends whom we meet with pleasure year after year, and who tend more and more to form one big family; I greet the new members whomthe United Nations have called upon or authorized to send their representatives here. 1 greet the representatives of the large Specialized Agencies of the United Nations,
11-1 PLENA Y and those of the non-governmental organizations, whose presence bears witness to the fructifying irradiation of the idea of Unesco. 1 extend a special greeting to the representatives of the Press and appeal to them most earnestly for a co-operation we so deeply appreciate. I am well aware that the matters with which Unesco deals may, from a certain point of view, be regarded as dry. But it is essential to us that the general public in all countries shall be kept informed of our efforts. Only if public attention is constantly drawn to Unesco’s work—if that work is rendered familiar to every section of society—can our ideas attain their greatest possible power of penetration and diffusion. [5] I wish above all to express, on behalf of all who are gathered here, our fidelity and devotion to the United Nations Organization itself—to which we are so closely linked and whichis once again showing its brotherly feeling for us, by delegating one of its distinguished officials to follow our proceedings and through the presence at this ceremony of its eminent Secretary-General. In venture to assure Mr. Trygve Lie that, while Unesco has its own methods, and a tradition of its own to uphold, it is nevertheless, in the fullest sense, a living organism of the United Nations. It has no other aims than those for which they strive, and it fights in their ranks for brother- hood among the peoples and respect for international law. [6] Your work, ladies and gentlemen, will be long and difficult. You will be following, step by step, the indefatigable daily effort of our beloved Director- General, who not only acts as a constant stimulus to the rest of us, but extends his own activity into every branchof the enterprise; it will be for you to indicate the immediate aims which he is to achieve in the near future. In so doing, you must set aside even the most legitimate of your political leanings, the most natural of your patriotic sentiments—re- membering only that you are free men, and that the defence of the essential liberties of human beings has been entrusted to you; you wil remember that you are the inheritors of ancient civilizations, and that all civilizations are interdependent so that if one is assailed, all are injured; remember that religion, science, morality, the brotherhood of man, whatever his race or creed, are not abstract concepts which need only be proclaimed in order to prevail, but living realities, to be experienced in our own persons and won by daily struggle. Remember, above all, that it is vain to live for an ideal unless one is ready at any moment to die in its defence. [7] Ladies and gentlemen, the Sixth Ordinary Ses- sion of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is nowopened. I call upon Mr. Trygve Lie, Secretary- General of the United Nations. [8] Mr. TRYGVE LIE, Secretary-General, United Nations — Mr. President, honourable delegates, MEETINGS ё 42 Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen: This is the first time that I have had the honour to attend a session of the General Conference of Unesco and I am especially glad to have been able to accept the invitation of my friend and colleague Mr. Torres Bodet, for this meeting is being held at a time of great political difficulty and uncertainty. On the other hand, it is stimulating at such a time to attend a meeting whose deliberations go beyond the tangled foreground of political struggles towards the great long-term human objective, which lies beyond. In times of crisis, it is doubly important that the direc- tion and stability of long-terminternational pro- grammes should be maintained. It is precisely at such times that courage and imagination have their greatest opportunity and may pave the way for the greatest advances. It cannot be said too often that the United Nations family of organizations is designed for peace, and is based on the assumption that peace is the normal and rightful condition of mankind. All of our organizations must have sufficient confidence in themselves to continue to build the foundations of peace without being intimidated by the fear of war. The disturbances which will inevitably con- tinue to arise in various parts of the world for some time are an added reason for pressing on with the fundamental work of establishing the basic condi- tions for a rational world order. They should never be considered as the reason for delaying or reducing this work. As the world stands at present, it is very important that the international agencies should close their ranks against the forces of scepticism and despair and should persist in the great and seldom spectacular task of making possible a peaceful world. [9] Of course, we must in all our organizations continually exercise the necessary care to see that our efforts are realistic and that they meet some real need. We must make sure that the resources available are concentrated on tasks of primary importance and are used to the best advantage and with the utmost economy. We must all see that we keep in step with one another and work in the closest co-operation towards common objectives. I feel that in all these matters of co-ordination, substantial progress has been made in the past few years. I think we have also made real progress in weeding out well-intentioned but ill-advised projects. Our efforts in this direction must continue, but at the same time we must be careful not to fall into the opposite error of stifling the creative power and imagination which can infuse new and vital ideas into our work. In any democratic bodythere are always a great many voices which urge caution, and T agree that caution is a virtue. And nowthere are even more voices in the international world which preach despair and imply that no effort of the human race to consolidate its great achievements and improve its condition can succeed in face of what are often loosely termed the realities of the situation. All the great historical movements of the human spirit have had to contend   N A S E E E
43 PLENARY with these voices in their early years. In some ways these prophets of failure are even more destructive than the open opponents of international organi- zation for they sap the confidence and destroy the momentum of growing institutions. It is very easy to question the great idea. It is much more difficult to turn this idea into an effective institution. [10] Unesco has a key position in the efforts which the United Nations organizations must now make to fulfil, in an unsettled world, the great purposes for which they were established. Through the wide scope and diversity of its various activities, it has an immense range of contacts throughout the world. Through the nature of its work, it has the possibility of influencing the minds of men and the ideas which motivate men’s actions. It has a vital role to play in support of the total United Nations effort for peace —a role with many different aspects. [11] In this connexion, I recall that Unesco is now being requested by the Economic and Social Council to take appropriate measures to bring its relations with the United Nations into line with the collective security proposals adopted last autumn by the Gener- al Assembly in the “uniting for peace” resolutions. [12] As the programme for 1952 shows, Unesco is already engaged on a wide range of activities, but those tend increasingly to crystallize around certain main themes. Two of those themes are of especial concern to the United Nations and are among the
10 points of the 20-year peace programme which the General Assembly endorsed at its last session. 1 refer firstly to technical assistance for economic development and social progress, and secondly to the advancement of human rights. [13] The United Nations representative at the last session of your Conference spoke at some length on the second of these, and I shall confine myself on this occasion to saying how crucially important to the whole human rights programme of the United Nations is the contribution which Unesco can make and how gratifying has been the co-operation which it has already given. [14] I propose to say a few words about technical assistance. I note that the Conference has before it a new proposal—the special project on fundamental education—which goes to the very root of the problem of the world’s under-developed areas. [15] The importance of such a project is clear when it is realized that perhaps three-quarters of the adult population of the world do not in fact have a formal education. Thus the possibilities are enormous. [16] Perhaps we may here have an essential key to the problem of how to help this vast sector of the human race in the struggle to emerge from their poverty, hunger and disease. [17] Perhaps this programme of fundamental edu- cation, in whatever form it seems best to develop it, may become a lever which can move large areas of the world towards a better future. MEETINGS 11-1 [18] This concept of education, closely connected as it is with social and economic progress through community organization, is related to many aspects of the whole programme of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies for raising standards of living and promoting economic and social progress. [19] If international efforts in this field are to succeed, active methods must be used and interest must be focused on the practical problems of local communities [20] Indeed, I believe that the whole technical assistance programme will depend to a great extent, for its lasting success, on the degree of confidence and support that it can command in the small com- munities, and on its ability to stimulate local action with a view to lasting improvement. [21] Although Unesco has a primary responsibility in the field of fundamental education, this new pro- ject must be a co-operative one. It touches on funda- mental problems central to the work of other agencies, such as social welfare, agricultural exten- sion and nutrition, standards of health and the development of technical skills and skilled manpower. The United Nations and the Specialized Agencies concerned, have in fact co-operated with Unesco in working out the plan, and are prepared to give it the fullest support at all stages of its execution. [22] It should, I believe, provide an opportunity for the agencies to bring their collective experience to bear in the many countries at the community level, that is, at the most basic level of social life, on the great problems that face the under-developed areas. [23] I note with the greatest interest that, on
9 May 1951, the first regional fundamental education centre was opened at Patzcuaro in Mexico. The Government of Mexico is to be congratulated on the initiative it has shown in assisting Unesco in this pioneer development, from which many most valu- able lessons will undoubtedly be learned. [24] In the coming weeks, this Conference will be bringing its combined efforts to bear on the final framing of this plan. Given the firm support of governments, and of all the various departments concerned in those governments, I believe that it will develop into one of the most effective elements in laying the firm foundations of a peaceful world. [25] The United Nations and Unesco have, of course, many other common interests, but I do not propose to lake up your time by discussing them now. Your Director-General gave the United Nations the opportunity of commenting in advance on your
1952 programme, and I hope that our comments may have been of some use, just as our consultations with Unesco on many of our own problems have proved of value to us. [26] The task of the United Nations family of agencies is, by its very nature, a long, perhaps an endless, one. Quick results and spectacular triumphs will not be ours; and we should be foolish to expect them or to encourage others to expect them.
11-1 PLENARY [27] It was partly for these very reasons that just over a year ago, at a time of acute political tension and frustation, I drew up a 10-point 20-year pro- gramme of long-term objectives for the United Nations. The General Assembly welcomed the presentation of this programme and requested that it be given further consideration by all the appropriate organs and that a report on progress achieved be presented to the next session of the Assembly. I hope it may help to provide a goal and in some sense a yardstick for our efforts. [28] These early years of the United Nations have been and will continue to be difficult. But I think we should remember that any successes we may achieve, especially in the economic and social fields, can lead to greater results from future efforts. But, Mr. President, real progress in these fields depends upon lasting peace. [29] About a year ago—on 25 June 1950—the United Nations made a great decision. For the first time in history a world organization acted to meet armed aggression with collective force. [30] Because of that action, and because of the courageous and self-sacrificing fight waged by United Nations forces in Korea, the development of collective security against war anywhere in the world has been greatly advanced. [31] The men who are fighting and dying under their national flags and the flag of the United Nations serve the noblest cause of all. They are fighting to prevent a third world war. By risking and sacrificing tens of thousands of lives they seek to save from future war tens of millions of lives. [32] Already, by repelling the armed aggression, they have won a great victory for the United Nations, for all the Specialized Agencies and for peace. I hope and pray that this victory will soon lead to a cease- fire and an end to the bloodshed and destruction. [33] For all who love peace 25 June should be a day of tribute to the men who have fallen in this cause. It should be a day of rededication to the purpose of establishing firm collective security under the United Nations to prevent future armed agression anywhere in the world. The 25th of June should be a day of re-affirmation of faith and work to build upon the foundations of the United Nations Charter a peaceful world with security and independence for every nation. [34] The work for a peaceful world and for better understanding among peoples must go on in all circumstances, whatever the obstacles. In the present state of world crisis it is sometimes difficult not to become discouraged. But if we can maintain a sense of perspective, we shall realize that the con- structive work accomplished in the past five years by the Specialized Agencies and the United Nations will bear fruit increasingly as time passes, if we are both patient and persistent in carrying forward our great task. [35] Mr. honourablePresident, delegates: On MEETINGS 44 behalf of the United Nations I wish the present ses- 1 i |sion of the General Conference of Unesco all success in its discussions and decisions. I know that the interest of the whole world is directed toward one and all of you and this Conference. [36] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I should like to thank Mr. Trygve Lie, on behalf of the whole Conference, for his admirable speech. And now I have the honour to introduce to you Dr. Dorolle. I am very grateful to you, Dr. Do- rolle, for having come here today. The World Health Organization, like Unesco, is one of the youngest Specialized Agencies. Its success in the vital fields in which it operates is all the more striking and this Conference wishes you well in your notable fight against death and disease. Links between WHO and Unesco are particularly close and numerous, for it is increasingly evident that health and education go hand in hand; indeed, neither is conceivable without the other. Mens sana in corpore sano. We therefore greet you with a particular conscience of the extent to which our two Organizations can and do help each other. [37] Dr. DOROLLE, Deputy Director-General of the World Health Organization — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, delegates, Mr. Director- General, ladies and gentlemen. As you have just pointed out, Mr. President, among the great family of the United Nations there are two members—the Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the World Health Organization—which stand in particularly close relationship. Our Organi- zation, the younger of the two, has four years’ experience behind it. These four years have found us shoulder to shoulder in every effort to raise the level of human dignity, whether in the wide and splendid field of education, science and culture, or in the narrower, but still very useful field allotted to us by the Constitution of the World Health Organi- zation. Our task there is to raise the human being, without distinction of race, creed, or political out- look, to the highest standard of health—health, which our Constitution defines as being not merely the absence of sickness, but a state of complete well- being, mental and social as well as physical. In that United Nations family to which our two Organi- zations have the honour of belonging, they regard it as their duty to demonstrate their membership by constant collaboration; and collaboration, co- operation, are no empty words. Each Organization —a responsible director and co-ordinator in its own sphere—can unfailingly rely, in case of need, upon the technical assistance of its sister associations and organizations. There is no rivalry between them; if overlapping occurs, it is a process by which each strives to help its partner. I could give you examples, but they would be too numerous, so long, already, is the list of our joint activities. The Secretary-General    N N — E — — ] — ] ] — — — — —
45 PLENARY of the United Nations has spoken of Fundamental Education—a great undertaking which will do Unesco honour. In its own modest field, the World Health Organization is a close collaborator in this effort, as also in Unesco’s work for the arid zones, in the co-ordination of scientific research, and in the field of Fellowships, regarding which we have a joint programme. And, as Mr. Trygve Lie reminded us a few minutes ago, the expanded programme of technical assistance for under-developed countries offers us a superb opportunity of increasing this collaboration, with greater resources and in a wider field. But above all—and this is something which needs to be said and which all delegates must realize—this co-operation is not confined to the sphere of concrete achievements; it is even more apparent in the close association between the Secre- tariats. Geneva and Paris are not far apart, and communication is continually maintained between themwhether in the form of contacts between qualified members of our respective staffs, or by meetings of a more official, but none the less friendly nature, held in order to consider our programmes. We collaborate with Unesco in the preparation of these programmes. In October 1950, for instance, in this very building, we had the privilege of discuss- ing our programme for 1952 with our Unesco col- leagues, comparing it with the Unesco programme for 1952, and in that way ensuring a collaboration which, having taken root at the earliest preparatory stage, could not but prove fruitful. Thus, in the 1952 Programme which awaits your scrutiny, and regard- ing which you will have decisions to make, there are many items in which the World Health Organi- zation takes a keen interest. [38] Foremost of these is, of course, Fundamental Education. When this subject comes up for discus- sion, Dr. Brock Chisholm, our Director-General, whose career has equipped him, to an exceptional degree, for dealing with this problem, will be here himself, and I must not forestall what he will have to say to you. In the programme now before us, our Organization also notes with the greatest interest questions such as the teaching of hygiene as a part of Fundamental Education, and educational problems connected with mental hygiene, which constitute the most definite meeting-point between our respective programmes. We often say that, when sickness and ignorance are charted, their two zones are seen to be superposed. The methods of combating them, too, are often identical: they consist in a better under- standing of the problems to be faced, a more thorough education of the public, and, above all, a more thorough education of children. A sage of ancient times declared that upon the education, good or bad, that was given to a child depended the order- liness and happiness of the home. We chose this saying as the theme of our last World Health Day, which was devoted to children; and, as I have said elsewhere, Socrates’ words, while true of each MEETINGS 11-1 individual family, are still truer of that far-flung family which makes up the present-day world. This, gentlemen, is a point on which Unesco and the World Health Organization are, as usual, in fraternal agreement. My presence here, as Deputy Director- General of the World Health Organization, in the absence of our Director, is not to be taken as a mere gesture of courtesy, glad though we are to make that gesture, and to return the visit with which my col- league, Dr. Taylor, honoured us at the opening of our own Assembly a month ago. I am not here only to wish you—as 1 wholeheartedly do—great success in your deliberations and fruitful results in your work: my presence at today’s ceremony has, I feel, a much deeper significance: it synthesizes, symbolizes and gives material shape to the co-operation between our Organizations which is reflected, believe me, gentlemen, in uninterrupted work. [39] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] In the name of all those present I thank Dr. Dorolle for having come here to speak as re- presentative of the World Health Organization, and I welcome Mr. Jean Morellet, Deputy Director- General of the International Labour Organization. We are happy to see Mr. Morellet here, and are grateful to him and to Mr. Morse, Director-General of that Organization, for arranging his visit. ILO is by far the oldest and largest of our Specialized Agencies, having been established in 1919. It has a magnificent record, for it has laid the foundations of a system of international legislation covering every aspect of employment, labour conditions, social security, etc. Its technique, and its legislative pro- cedure, taking the form of conventions and recom- mendations, are of the greatest interest to Unesco, in connexion with several of our projects. Unesco works in the closest harmony with ILO in many matters and I therefore pray wholeheartedly for the success of our joint efforts in the future. I call upon Mr. Morellet. [40] Mr. MORELLET, Deputy Director-General of the International Labour Organization — [Transla- tion from the French] Mr. President, I thank you for your kind words of introduction, and I must apologize on behalf of Mr. David Morse, Director- General of ILO, who would have liked to be present at this meeting, but has been prevented by the fact that our Organization is now holding its General Conference in Geneva. He has asked me to offer you his good wishes for the success of your Sixth Session, which opens today. The International Labour Organization, which, as we have just been reminded, has been working uninterruptedly for the past 32 years, is no doubt the oldest of those Special- ized Agencies which are now attached to the United Nations. If I refer in passing to this question of relative age, it is not in order to suggest that ILO takes a coquettish pride in its seniority, but because
11-1 PLENART far back in the course of its already lengthy existence, it realized the need of co-ordinated effort in all those spheres where international collabo- ration is seen to be necessary or useful. This in- dicates the importance it attaches to the success of your Institution, the happy arrangement of whose English initials has endowed it with a name now familiar throughout the world: Unesco. [41] Neither is it in a spirit of merely abstract good fellowship that the International Labour Or- ganization follows with interest the work of its sister agency. At many points there is close relationship, even a direct contact between the respective spheres of activity of our two Organizations, though they never overlap. Daily co-ordination of this activity is therefore necessary, and the senior officials of the International Labour Organization take every care to maintain that co-ordination, so as to ensure maximum progress in the task we all desire to further. [42] I may mention, by way of example, the keen interest with which the International Labour Or- ganization pursues, in collaboration with Unesco, the immense undertaking destined to provide tech- nical assistance to under-developed countries, to which the Secretary-General of the United Nations has very rightly drawn your attention. One question in which collaboration between the International Labour Organization and Unesco is particularly close is that of vocational training. [43] Having referred to technical assistance—that novel form of international co-operation—I may mention that a few weeks ago, during an official visit to the East, I happened to meet a Unesco expert; he had come to a country which had formerly been almost a desert, to teach reading and writing to nomads for whom the Government was trying to provide stable living conditions. Our brief con- versation left me with the impression that I had been talking, not with an “expert”, as dry adminis- trative language has it, but with someone who in everyday speech would be called a missionary—for he approached his task with the zeal of ardentfaith. As we all know, that same zeal characterizes the Director-General of Unesco, to whose inspiring personality I take this opportunity of paying my tribute. [44] I will not take undue advantage of the op- portunity offered to me today to address your As- sembly. I know that long and serious work awaits you. So I will now conclude, associating myself, on behalf of the Director-General of the International Labour Organization, with the wish expressed bythe Secretary-General of the United Nations—that your discussions may be completely successful and effec- tive. Thank you, Mr. President. [45] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Mr. Jean Morellet has been addressing you in the name of the International Labour Organi- zation, and I thank him on your behalf. I now call MEETINGS 46 upon Mr. Mulatier, Secretary-General of the Inter- national Telecommunications Union, and am de- lighted that he was able to accept our invitation. [46] Mr. L. MULATIER, Secretary-General of the International Telecommunications Union — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, it is with some embarrassment that, in the wake of so many brilliant orators, I rise to assure you of the pleasure 1 feel in being present at so large a gather- ing and one whichwill certainly do very important work. [47] The words “Telecommunications Union” may not mean much to you. I was a little disturbed, just now, to hear my colleague of the International Labour Organization refer to that body as the oldest of the Specialized Agencies. Speaking for a very old lady, I lay claim to that title for our own Organi- zation, which, having been in existence for 85 years, is certainly, I think, the oldest of the Specialized Agencies, the oldest of international organizations. It is thanks to that organization that today it is pos- sible for you to hear the voices of your correspon- dents, speaking from any spot on the earth’s surface to any other spot, to hear the voices of those dear to you, and to hear the radio, which may irritate you at times, but which you are very glad to be able to turn on in periods of unrest, in order to find out what is happening in the world. [48] These transcontinental connexions have not been established without difficulty, and, if the Inter- national Telecommunications Union had not existed —it has, of course, passed through various forms— you would certainly be much more isolated than you are today; and I do not think that Unesco itself, or perhaps even the United Nations, could have reached the present state of development. That is why the very old lady whom IT am here to represent wants to parade her seniority—ladies do not usually admit their age, but it enables them to make known the services they have rendered—and I would add that what made it possible to render these services was the fact that, perhaps for the first time in his- tory, countries consented at different times to give up a measure of their sovereign rights in the cause of telecommunications, and so the world network that you all make use of today, and which, I think, gives cause for satisfaction to you all, was able to come about. For the existence of such communi- cations has always depended on the fact that, in spite of disagreements and sometimes of wars, cer- tain States have been willing to allow their territory to be crossed by systems of communication which did not belong to them, cables which were not their property, and have left unharmed in the sea cables which they would gladly have destroyed. I think this is an example that really deserves to be quoted, and that much more of that kind of thing might be done—it is, I think, an example that might be followed. [49] I must apologize for being obliged to praise            T T е е с е
47 PLENA a Union which I did not create—of which I am merely the humble servant—but if all countries would decide to follow the example of the Telecom- munications Union, to remember the sacrifices it obtained from them, the self-esteem and sometimes national pride it persuaded them to renounce, I think that progress even more considerable than has so far been achieved might result in all fields, and especially in that of Unesco. [50] I know what impetus has been given to edu- cation and culture by my colleague and friend, Mr. Torres Bodet, I know how much he has done for Unesco; and there is no doubt that his task would be made much easier if in your meetings—especially the meetings that you are to hold this year—you would admit that above the separate countries with their various legislations there must be one legis- lation of general application that can little by little impose a single culture and a single philosophy on all countries. There is no doubt that little by little, if you accept this idea, the world will make enor- mous progress towards understanding and co-oper- ation: and when everyone thinks in this way—like Mr. Torres Bodet, like Mr. Trygve Lie, like all who serve the United Nations, whether in the Organi- zation itself or in the Specialized Agencies—we shall, as I say, have travelled far along the road of under- standing, and shall perhaps succeed in banishing the scourge of war for ever from the world. [51] Gentlemen, I apologize for having, when speak- ing of the small, yet important domain of tele- communications, raised questions of a general nature. I hope you will all much enjoy your stay in my home city of Paris, and that your work will be crowned with success. Establishment of the Credentials Committee. [62] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, we will now turn to item 2 of the Agenda: Establishment of the Cre- dentials Committee; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this Committee must be established at once. [53] Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure lays down that “the Credentials Committee shall consist of nine members, who shall be elected by the General Conference on the proposal of the Acting President”. I therefore have the honour to propose that this Committee consist of delegates of the following Member States: Australia, France, Great Britain, India, Norway, Syria, United States of America, Uruguay and Yugoslavia. [54] Does the Conference accept this proposal? The proposal is accepted, and I shall be glad if the members of the Committee will meet in Room No. 3 as soon as the present meeting is over. [55] I must draw your attention to a clause in the Constitution which makes the right to vote con- MEETINGS 11-1 ditional upon the payment by Member States of their financial contributions. Certain States whose con- tributions were in arrears were advised of the fact by the Director-General in a letter dated 13 February
1951, which gave them ample time to bring their contributions up to date. I have also been informed that the facts of the situation were officially com- municated to the members of the delegations con- cerned. Nevertheless, certain States are in arrears with their contributions as Members of the Organi- zation, and will therefore be unable to vote during the General Conference, since the amount of their arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the con- tributions due from them for two full years. These States are Bolivia, China and Poland. The same Article of the Constitution declares, however, that the General Conference may permit such Member States to vote, if it is satisfied that the failure to pay is due to conditions beyond their control. It there- fore rests with the delegations of the countries con- cerned to request the General Conference, if they think fit, to adopt this latter course; a request from the Chinese Government has, indeed, been passed to me by the Chairman of the Executive Board, to whom it was originally addressed. TI suggest that, before being considered by a plenary meeting of the General Conference, this question be referred for dis- cussion and report to the Credentials Committee, which is just about to meet. Any objections? The proposal is accepted. [66] Here are some particulars concerning this afternoon’s work: [67] The Second Plenary Meeting will be held at
4 p.m. in this room. We shall first of all hear the report of the Credentials Committee, and then go on to adopt the Agenda and elect the General Com- mittee of the Conference. Before electing the Presi- dent and the seven Vice-Presidents, we shall call a meeting, in this same room, of the Nominations Committee, which consists of the Heads of dele- gations. As soon as that Committee is ready to submit its report, the Plenary Meeting will be resumed. [68] The Nominations Committee must also pre- sent a recommendation concerning the Chairman- ship of the Procedure Committee, so that the latter may be able to meet at 5 p.m. today, in Room 4. [59] It is expected that the Second Plenary Meeting will end at about 5.30 p.m., to enable the General Committee to meet in Room 3, for about three- quarters of an hour, for a first exchange of views regarding the candidates for the posts of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur of the various Con- ference organs, in conformity with the procedure laid down in document 6C/NOM/2, and also for a first discussion of the proposed organization of the work of the Sixth Session (see document 6C/ BUR/1). The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m.