7573 BUDGET merely in order to clarify her porposals. She asked only that her view should be noted in the report of the Committee. > [56] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) very largely shared the views of the French representative; he felt that to register formal agreement would be to take up a position a priori on a question which had not yet COMMITTEE VIII-12 been debated. Though he agreed with the arguments put forward, he did not thinkthe time had comefor the Committee to express a unanimous opinion on a complicated point, which, he repeated, would be tantamount to taking up a final position regarding a question that had not been discussed. The meeting rose at 10.30 p.m. TWELFTH MEETING Saturday, 16 June 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Programme of Work. [1] The CHAIRMAN said that it was hoped during the day to finish Part III of the Budget and perhaps Part I also. That would leave Parts II and IV. [2] The Chairman proposed that the Drafting Committee should meet at noon for one hour to discuss the way in which the report should be written and its timing. Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 ani Exchange of Persons (Part IIL.5). SERVICE CosTs (IIL.5.A) (page 186). [3] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) wished to recommend to the Committee a method of gaining time. It was à waste of time to discuss the deletion of certain tems or the inclusion of some items in others. The Committee's proper work was to consider the Justification of each part of the budget. If his proposal were adopted, the discussion could be completed earlier than the Chairman had supposed.
4] The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Brull that debate should be expedited as much as possible. There were no comments on section III.5.A. CLEARING Housr OF INFORMATION AND PROMOTION OF EXCHANGE or PERSONS (II1.5.B) (page 188). [6] Mr. WYNES (Australia) observed that the budget estimates for that section for 1952 were three and a half times as much as they had been for 1951 His Government considered that some attempt should be made to reduce the cost by stimulating Member States to play a more active part in the exchange of information and persons. Clearing House (page 189). [7] No comment. Evaluation of Exchange Programmes (page 189). [8] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observed that pro- vision had been made for a sum of $6,700 for travelling expenses in connexion with the meeting of the Committee of Experts in Exchange of Persons Programmes. Item for travel expenses recurred in all sections of that part of the programme and amounted to a total of $12,315. Mr. Guignolet pointed out that in the 1951 budget no travel expenses had been provided for that chapter. [9] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) asked why a consultant was necessary at all. He thought the Secretariat had had sufficient experience in exchange programmes to dispense with the services of a consultant. [10] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service), replying to Mr. Guignolet’s ques- tion, pointed out that the travel costs involved were for experts and consultants and not only for members of the Secretariat. As regarded Mr. Thompson's question, the Exchange of Persons Service felt that it still needed the assistance of a consultant to evaluate programmes and give the Secretariat new    VIII-12 BUDGET ideas. It was felt impossible to dispense with a consultant’s services at the stage so far reached. Exchange Programmes for Young People, Workers and Teachers (pages 189-191). [11] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) recalled that, in the matter of exchanges of workers, the Executive Board had advocated the tentative provision, for the first year, of only 200 fellowships, and not 500 as was proposed. Mr. Guignolet added that he person- ally had no criticism to make regarding exchange programmes for workers. [12] Referring to Unesco’s general exchange pro- gramme, Miss LAISE (United States of America) wondered whether there was a definite change of policy. In the past, the Secretariat had done excellent work in stimulating exchanges and widen- ing Unesco’s sphere of influence, without under- taking direct operations itself. She noted, however, that, in the three exchange programmes under discussion, Unesco intended to take action itself; she feared that such a departure from the Organi- zation’s usual policy would hinder its efforts to induce MemberStates to take action themselves. [13] If Unesco had nevertheless decided to change its policy, she suggested that its exchange pro- grammes should be directed towards the achievement of some of the major objectives of the programme departments. [14] The CHAIRMAN said that the Netherlands delegation had studied the same question, namely: whether Unesco should confine itself to stimulation or should carry out exchange programmes of its own. It was, however, a programme matter and one which did not seem to concern the Budget Committee. [15] Referring to Mr. Guignolet'’s remarks about the action taken by the Executive Board, Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) observed that Mr. Guignolet was right to the extent that the Finance Committee had held a long dis- cussion on the exchange of workers and had come to the conclusion that such exchanges should be started on a small scale; no definite decision had been taken, however, as the matter belonged to the Executive Board's programme and the Finance Com- mittee could not change it. [16] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed with the Chairman that it was a programme matter, but thought it was the Budget Committee's duty to comment on the numbers indicated. Before know- ing what the long-range policy was, however, it was difficult to take a decision on the number of exchanges. COMMITTEE 574 [17] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) stated that Unesco had established excellent relations with organizations dealing with group travel for workers, and it was anticipated that it would be easy to arrange travel for groups of 20 to 25 workers. [18] Replying to Miss LAISE, Mr. Kadhim said that there was no question of a change of policy, Unesco intended to organize a few exchanges of workers in order to stimulate further action by Member States themselves. Whether the number of the exchanges should be increased would depend upon the results achieved in the first year. [19] The CHAIRMAN thought that the feeling of the Committee was that too many grants were being proposed, in view of the fact that the programme resolution (5.23) merely stated “to promote . .." The Secretariat was in fact proposing to spend $40,000 on exchanges of young people, $50,000 on exchanges of workers, and $30,000 on exchanges of teachers. [20] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) assured the Com- mittee that there was no change of policy. What the Secretariat had tried to achieve was a proper balance between information services and direct operations. It was for the Conference to decide whether or not it had succeeded. [21] Miss LAISE (United States of America) assumed that Unesco itself would administer exchanges of teachers. She asked which non- governmental organizations would administer ex- changes of students and workers. Mr. Kadhim having replied that such exchanges would be administered by non-governmental organizations having consultative status with Unesco, she asked whether Unesco would draw up plans for meetings and projects connected with those exchanges. [22] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained that, as soon as the exchanges were approved, the non-governmental organizations concerned would be asked to send projects to Unesco. A committee would meet before the end of 1951 to study the projects and propose an order of priority. Unesco would be responsible for the final choice. University Courses sponsored by Unesco (page 191). [23] The CHAIRMAN referred to Resolution 5.24 (page 189), budgeted for under Assistance to Member States, and observed that the estimate of $79,000 (page 194) was very high. [24] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) agreed with the Chairman’s arguments, which he amplified by    BUDGET reference to Resolution 5.23, authorizing the Director-General to promote international edu- cational exchange, and to Resolution 5.24, providing for parties of distinguished professors to be sent to universities which requested their services and were ready to bear part of the expense; they would teach in those universities for a year on subjects of interest to Unesco—a condition that should apply to all exchanges. Mr. Guignolet, fearing that the two activities would overlap, thought it simpler to allow for only one party, either of distinguished professors or of other teaching staff; his suggestion would mean a considerable saving. [25] Mr. MOORE (Australia) realized that, in dis- cussing Resolution 5.24, the Committee was border- ing on a programme matter, but it was the Committee's duty to consider how the resolution was to be financed. The Australian Government, Which had done much to promote exchanges of persons, felt very strongly that the project should not be financed out of Unesco’s ordinary budget; either funds should be found outside the regular budget, or else the bulk of the expense should be borne by beneficiary Member States. Further, it was his Government’s opinion that there should be only one team during the first year. [26] Explained the cost of the. project, Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) stated that each team would cost $34,000; $11,000 was ‚also allowed for official travel and a temporary post. In reply to Mr. Guignolet, he pointed out that there was a distinct difference between travel grants for teachers and university courses sponsored by Unesco. Travel grants for teachers were intended to stimulate Member States to do more in that line themselves, whereas the idea underlying Resolution 5.24 was that teams of distinguished professors of various nation- alities should give definite courses in different universities to stimulate instruction and research in their own subjects. Document 6C/PRG/13 ex- plained the project in detail. [27] The CHAIRMAN personally agreed with Mr. Moore that there should be only one team instead of two in the first year, thus effecting an economy of $40,000. [28] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt), referring to the purely budgetary aspect of the problem without Wishing to discuss the programme itself, criticized the lavish scale of remuneration for the professors giving the university courses sponsored by Unesco— a typical feature of international organizations. ~ Allowing for the fact that university vacations lasted three or four months, the salary of $12,500 for the senior professor would be equivalent to $1,300 a month—a fantastic figure when it was remembered that the professor would be given accommodation COMMITTEE VIII-12 and have books and materials at his disposal; in addition, he would be accompanied by a professor (whith a salary of $10,000), an assistant (salary of $6,000), an interpreter (at $3,500) and a secretary (at $2,000). [29] Mr. El Diwany remarked that the salary for the senior professor was out ot keeping with all university traditions, and he drew attention to the danger of thus unsettling the traditions of the country. Many distinguished foreign professors— some of whom had been awarded the Nobel Prize or held senior positions in the universities of Oxford, Cambridge or Paris—had come to teach in Egyptian universities, which had never dreamt of offering them such salaries. A very generous living allowance was added to the salary paid to them in their home country, thus doubling it, but it was still far below the salaries suggested by Unesco. Egypt, and doubtless many other countries, could not forsake all their university traditions by the appointment of such professors—a matter that would be all the more serious as they would thus lose the benefit of other countries’ learning, so essential to their rehabilitation. [30] In conclusion, Mr. El Diwany suggested either the deletion of that project or a salary for the senior professor more in keeping with university practice. As for the various persons who were to accompany the professor, Mr. El Diwany did not see what good purpose they would serve. [31] Mr. DURING (Sweden) endorsed what Mr. El Diwany had said. The budget provided for the project was exactly the sort that members of Parliament would be glad to pounce upon as an example of Unesco’s prodigality. He thought that the Committee should include in its report a strong recommendation for economy on that item. [32] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) agreed. He saw no point in providing for an interpreter and a secretary, who could be supplied and paid either by the Member State or by the University concerned. In his opinion, so costly a project would have to be dropped altogether, or provision would have to be made for sending 10 to 12 individual professors, who should receive reasonable salaries and be perfectly capable of promoting international exchanges. [33] The CHAIRMAN observed that the Committee could not delete the project. All it could do was to state in its report that it considered the remuner- ation too liberal, and recommend that the Secretariat should reconsider the relevant budget estimates. [34] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) thought that Mr. Guignolet’s suggestion that the interpreter and secretary should be dispensed with showed that he had not understood the real purpose      VIII-12 BUDGET of the project. With regard to salary, there was no such thing as a world salary scale. In the United States, many professors obtained a higher salary than that indicated in the budget estimates. In the second place, it was not a question of employment for the academic year only; the idea was that the team would remain at the university for a full year. If Unesco wished to obtain the services of an excellent professor, it would have to offer him a high salary. The past salaries of candidates would, of course, be taken into consideration. [35] Mr. BRULL (Cuba), after hearing the remarks of the Egyptian representative, felt that only one solution was possible: to recommend that delegations should bear in mind the Com- mittee's views when they came to consider the programme. [36] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) pointed out that the reason for providing for two teams was to enable comparisons to be made, with a view to ascertaining whetherthe project had succeeded or failed. He observed that, in line 6 of the relevant paragraph on page 191, the word “professor” should be inserted after “assistant”. [37] Mr. RAADI (Iran), without wishing to discuss the programme, pointed out that, while it was advisable that the Committee’s report should draw attention to the far too high rate of remunera- tion, the Budget Committee should nevertheless give the Programme Commission some guidance. Accordingly, Mr. Raadi asked that the views expressed so eloquently by the delegate of Egypt should be borne in mind when drawing up the report. [38] The CHAIRMAN assured Mr. Raadi that account would be taken of Mr. El Diwany's remarks in the Committee's report. [39] It was agreed to express the opinion in the report that the remuneration provided for under resolution 5.24 was too liberal. International Scholarship Fund (page 192). [40] Miss LAISE (United States of America) objected to the proposal that Unesco should not only assist other organizations to establish a Com- mittee for an International Scholarship Fund, but should also give a separate grant of $1,500 to that Committee. [41] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained that it was planned to set aside $1,500 in case the Committee found that it needed money for the raising and administration of COMMITTEE funds. The fund was intended for the benefit of all students with no means to pursue their studies, including refugees and displaced persons. [42] Miss LAISE (United States of America) hoped that the other organizations concerned would also contribute to the Committee's expenses. Regional Unit for the Western Hemisphere (page
192). [43] Mr. RAADI (Iran), before passing any judgment, called for further particulars regarding the work of the Regional Unit for the Western Hemisphere, for which the budget estimates amounted to $10,050. [44] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained that the post at Grade 14 was for a person to look after all Unesco exchanges in the Western Hemisphere. The sum of $4,000 was to cover his travel expenses. FELLOWSHIP ADMINISTRATION (III.5.C). Unesco Fellowship Programme (page 195). [45] In reply to a question from Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) stated that the cost of each fellowship was estimated at $2,900. [46] Mr. MOORE (Australia). thought that Unesco should tread very warily in that field. Under the Commonwealth Technical Co-operation Scheme, the Australian Government had offered 150 fellowships, for which only 100 suitable candidates had been found. Unesco should not make the mistake of giving fellowships to unsuitable candidates because there were not enough satisfactory candidates available. [47] Mr. RAADI (Iran) asked for details regarding the number of fellowships available to Unesco, the distribution between the various countries, and their duration. [48] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) thought there was little danger of Unesco’s not finding enough suitable candidates in”, its 59 Member States for the 40 fellowships which it proposed to offer. It was intended to offer, à far as possible, one fellowship to each country. In certain cases, two fellowships might be offered to one country, if that was found to be necessary for the implementation of the programme. [49] In reply to Mr. RAADI, Mr. Kadhim said that the fellowships were given for the implementation of Unesco’s programme. The Executive Board
577 BVD GET established priorities within the programme and the Secretariat then drew up, in consultation with pro- gramme departments, a prospectus for fellowships based on those priorities. Allocation was made on the basis of the ability of the beneficiary country to implement Unesco’s programme, its needs and the number of fellowships previously allocated to it. The reason why the fellowships for teaching about the United Nations had been increased from five to ten was that they had proved very successful and many requests had been received for an increase in their number. [50] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked what plans Unesco had made for people who were to teach about the United Nations. [51] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) replied that it was planned that such people should spend four months at United Nations Headquarters, attending seminars and visiting schools; they would then come to Unesco for two months, visiting Switzerland and probably the United Kingdom. [52] Mr. RAADI (Iran) made a few remarks in the light of the information supplied. [63] One of his questions had been left un- answered, and Mr. Raadi was anxious to know, before the Committee’s work came to an end, exactly which countries had so far received Unesco fellowships. [64] Mr. Raadi intended to speak in the Programme Commission on the criteria for selecting such countries, but he wished forthwith to make the point that, if the choice were limited to countries capable of carrying out Unesco’s activities, those countries lacking such means would always be shut off from such activity, and were in danger of remaining permanently ignorant of Unesco’s work, thus forming a vicious circle. [65] The fellowships had been described as lasting for a maximum of six months. Mr. Raadi thought such a period quite inadequate for profitable work in such a country as Iran. In viewof the difficulties thus created, it would be preferable to drop the fellowship programme in that area, but Mr. Raadi intended to bring the matter up again in the Pro- gramme Commission. [56] Mr. Raadi pointed out that the exchange of persons programme seemed to be considered mainly from the point of view of fellowships, but that a sum of only $220,905 was set aside for them, whereas the other activities were allotted a budget of $296,870; Mr. Raadi hoped that the report would draw attention to the lack of proportion. [57] Moreover as each fellowship in fact cost Unesco only $2,900, giving a total of $116,000 for the 40 proposed fellowships, Mr. Raadi pointed out that only a fifth of the total budget of the Exchange COMMITTEE VIII-12 of Persons Service was earmarked for fellowships, which were the focal point of that Service's activi- ties; he intended to enquire in the Programme Commission whether such an apportionment could be justified. [58] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), replying in his capacity as Rapporteur to the foregoing remarks of the Iranian delegate, pointed out that it was difficult to deal with such matters in the Committee’s report, as it should not contain too many suggestions to the Programme Commission, which might feel that the Committee was encroaching on its prerogatives. Accordingly, Mr. Guignolet asked the Iranian dele- gate to tell him, after the meeting, exactly what he wished to have included in the report on that matter. [59] Returning to the question of fellowships, Mr. Guignolet observed that, if account was taken of travel expenses, amounting to a total of $76,000, each fellowship cost Unesco $4,800—a sum which to him seemed very high; he reminded members that the fellowships of the International Monetary Fund amounted to $3,000 for a whole year. Furthermore, it had to be remembered that not all fellowships were for the United States of America, and Mr. Guignolet thought that an average of $2,000 for each fellowship would be sufficient. The choice might be between 40 fellowships with a budget of $80,000, or 100 fellowships with a budget of $192,000, such sums including boththe fellowships and the travel expenses. [60] As for the five fellowships intended for students who were to study Unesco’s work and administration at the Secretariat’s headquarters, for which a sum of $14,350 had been provided, Mr. Gui- gnolet thought that $700 for each fellowship would adequately cover all expenses. [61] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) passed a list of beneficiary countries to Mr. Raadi. [62] With regard to criteria, there was no need to fear that, if fellowships were granted only for activities related to the programme, some countries would receive none. Mr. Raadi should remember that Unesco’s programme in education, science and culture was so wide that it would cover all needs. [63] As stated on page 195 it was proposed to extend fellowships, where desirable, from six to nine months in 1952. [64] Mr. Kadhim pointed out to Mr. Guignolet that Unesco proposed to award 65 fellowships in all:
40 fellowships for studies directly related to the programme, 10 for workers, 10 for teaching about the United Nations, and 5 for the interneships pro- gramme. Unesco proposed to pay the rates agreed upon by the United Nations and Specialized Agencies; as already stated, an average amount of a fellowship would be $2,900. It was anticipated    VIII-13 BUDGET that Unesco fellows would often go to two or three countries. [65] With regard to the question of interneships in Paris, the idea was to enable officials from the various Ministries of Education to come to Paris for six months to study the programme and administra- tion of Unesco from within the Secretariat. It was proposed to give them a per diem of $10, or, in other words, $300 a month. [66] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that the United Nations rate for fellowships and interneships for the same level of persons was only $250 рег month. She thought it would be most unfortunate if Unesco paid a higher rate. [67] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) noted that Mr. Kadhim had stated that the fellowships were for civil servants, whose salaries would continue to be paid in their home countries. [68] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) thought it unnecessary to bring officials of Ministries of Edu- cation to Paris, as the National Commissions should be able to provide them with all the information concerned. [69] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of GCIOM MT IT TEE Persons Service) stated that the Secretariat had not considered a per diem of $10 to be too high, in view of the cost of living in Paris. It had been felt, moreover, that such fellowships should be at a slightly higher rate than the others. However, if the Committee was of the opinion that the rate should be reduced, the Secretariat would of course agree. [70] It was agreed to recommend in the report that the interneships should be reduced to the United Nations rate of $250, and that further con- sideration should be given to Sir Frank Harby's suggestion that the interneships might be abandoned altogether, leaving it to National Commissions to supply the Ministries of Education with the neces- sary information on Unesco’s programme and administration. [71] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) urged that the report should stipulate that it was desired not to reduce the funds allocated for Resolution 5.24, but to reduce some of the over-generous allowances so as to increase the number of recipients, since such work was of paramount importance to Unesco. The meeting rose at noon. THIRTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 16 June 1951, at 2.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. BENDER (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (11) ]. General Policy (Part I). GENERAL CONFERENCE (L.A) (page 35). [1] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought it was not incumbent upon the Budget Committee to take an immediate decision on the General Conference estimate, because the place of the next General Conference had not yet been definitely fixed. He pointed out that the appropriations for the General Conference in Florence had been used for their right purpose, but that certain Departments had had recourse to funds earmarked for travel expenses, so as to send extra members of the Secretariat to Florence. He wondered whether the travel expenses of the different Departments, which seemed to him rather high, had been calculated so as to cover the possible travel of some officials to Montevideo. In his opinion, that method was illogical; Member States were entitled to know the exact expenses involved by a General Conference. It was therefore desirable that all appropriations for a General Con- ference should be administered by one service. [2] Mr. WYNES (Australia) queried three points: (a) Hospitality—his Government felt that the sum of $6,000 was unnecessary, and could be reduced to $3,000. (b) Travel—he suggested that a maximum of 140 persons from the Secretariat should attend the next session of the General Conference if it were held away from Paris, instead of the 170 proposed.