1717 PROGRAMME Cultural Activities. [62] At the proposal of Mr. CAIN (France), seconded by Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), it was decided to set up a Working Party to study the budget cuts relating to the Department of Cultural Activities. [63] Mr. MILLS (Australia), seconded by the dele- gates of New Zealand and Italy proposed that the Working Party should consist of five members. [64] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) pointed out that the Working Party was being given full powers to make a final decision, subject to any changes which might be made in the plenary meeting. It seemed to him rather dangerous to limit the number of opinions which could be heard to as few as five. He therefore suggested that the Commission might compromise on a membership of ten, which would be both more judicious and more democratic. [65] Agreed.
382GOOM MIS S10N [66] Mr. CAIN (France) suggested that the Working Party’s terms of reference should be restricted to studying the four resolutions mentioned by the Director-General, whereupon Mr. MAHEU (Director, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the role of the Working Party would not be exactly the same at that of the Party concerned with the Natural Sciences. [67] At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, Mr. Cain’s proposal was adopted, and it was agreed that the Working Party should consist of representa- tives of the following countries : Australia, France, Haiti, Iran, India, Italy, Lebanon, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Exchange of Persons. Rehabilitation. Mass Communication. [68] The Director-General’s proposals were adopted. The meeting rose at 6 p.m. SEVENTEENTH MEETING Friday, 6 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Prager (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation). Second Reading. Natural Sciences. [1] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) expressed the anxiety felt by the Belgian delegation concerning the situa- tion of the Department of Natural Sciences. As a result of programme cuts made to adjust its budget to the limits enforced by the ceiling adopted, that Department would have even smaller funds in 1952 than in 1950 and 1951. The Belgian delegation was not proposing a resolution at that stage of the work, but merely the adoption of a recommen- dation to the Budget Committee, proposing that . . . E a sum of $8,500 be added to the budget of the Department of Natural Sciences for the Field Science Co- operation Offices, whose appropriation has been con- siderably reduced. That sum would bring the Department's budget back to the 1950 and 1951 level. The Budget Committee would be entirely free to take a final decision on the recommendation. [2] The proposal was seconded by various dele- gations. [3] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had every under- standing for the anxiety felt by the Belgian dele- gation. He suggested that, in order to find the necessary funds, the Budget Committee might be requested, in revising the budget, to make available to the Department of Natural Sciences any surplus, however small, resulting from its examination of the proposals as a whole. Such a procedure would be no more than fair, and would avoid upsetting the balance of the Department’s programme at the juncture reached. [4] Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) considered that, in order to avoid misunderstanding in the future, a limit should be set to the amount
383 PROGRAMME of any available surplus on the budget to be allotted to the Department of Natural Sciences. He would suggest $8,000. [5] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL principle of such a limitation. agreed to the [6] Mr. MILLS (Australia) was unable to fall in with the Belgian proposal. In the unlikely event of any sum remaining unallocated in the budget, he could not agree that all or most of it should go to one Department only. [7] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) explained that his proposal was aimed at bringing the budget of the Department of Natural Sciences back to the level of the previous two years, and Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) added that it was not a question of making any kind of addition to the budget, but merely of referring to the Budget Committee a recommendation which he hoped would be unanimously adopted. [8] Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) hoped that it would not be necessary to leave the budget for the Department of Natural Sciences at a figure below that for 1951, and that, if funds were available, they would be used to restore that budget to the 1951 level. [9] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) said that, in view of the reduction in the Natural Science budget by comparison with that for 1951, he would support the proposal for restoring the situation. [10] The Belgian delegation’s proposal was adopted by 29 votes to 1. Consideration of Draft Resolutions communi- cated by the Official and External Relations Commission (document 6C/OXR/2/Rev. 1, pp. 3 and 4). [11] The CHAIRMAN read out two draft resolu- tions adopted by the Meeting of Representatives of National Commissions, and submitted for the Com- mission’s approval by the Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission: [12] A. The General Conference, Considering the favourable reception by the Third Meeting of Representatives of National Commissions of the special project for the establishment of a world net- work of fundamental education centres, Requests the National Commissions: (a) To make this project widely known in their respective countries and to give it energetic support; (b) To facilitate the implementation and execution of the project hy all possible means. [13] The text was adopted without discussion. COMMISSION 17-7 [14] The General Conference, Considering the value of audio-visual methods, and in particular of films, as a means of achieving Unesco’s aims, and more especially of fostering international understanding and the dissemination of the ideas set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Recommends that the Director-General develop the programme of the Film Division in the Department of Mass Communication. [15] The text was adopted without discussion. Contribution of Unesco to the action of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies in Korea. Draft Resolution proposed by the Executive Board (document 6C/DR/83). [16] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the Executive Board had instructed a working party to prepare the draft, after a lengthy consultation with Mr. Kingsley, United Nations Agent-General for reconstruction in Korea. Unesco’s situation had not permitted the inclusion of any precise figure in the proposal, which took into account a resolution adopted by the Administrative Commission, enabling Unesco to use the Working Capital Fund to finance action on unexpected and urgent problems. The Director-General, maintaining that it was impossible to foresee the amount of aid that would be required, pointed out that it had been proposed to provide immediate co-operation by sending a cultural adviser to the spot. [17] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) added that it was only fitting to point out that Unesco’s gesture to help Korea as part of a concerted United Nations plan had been greatly appreciated. Unesco, in short, was not under- taking fo provide a given sum, but to help Korea by borrowing from the Working Capital Fund. Mr. Verniers concluded by asking the Commission to adopt a text which had met with the Board's approval. [18] The draft mously. resolution was adopted unani- Report to the Programme Commission by the Chairman of the Working Party on Economic and Social Rights (documents 6C/PRG/33 and
6C/PRG/18 with Addenda 1 and 2). [19] Mr. HABIB (India), Chairman of the Working Party, said that the Working Party had had no difficulty in recommending that the Commission should approve without reservation the action already taken by the Director-General to give effect to the various resolutions. It had, however, met with considerable difficulty in determining the     PROGRAMME procedure to be followed in regard to the Draft Covenant on Human Rights; the document before the meeting embodied the conclusions reached, which Mr. Habib recommended to the favourable attention of the Commission. [20] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the draft resolution in document 6C/PRG/33, which had been unanimously adopted by the Working Party on Economic and Social Rights, should be discussed paragraph by paragraph. [21] Agreed. [22] The preamble and the first two paragraphs of the draft resolution were adopted without comment. At the proposal of the DIRECTOR- GENERAL, the last part of the third paragraph was deleted, and the text was adopted in the following form: Considering that the Draft Covenant adopted by the Commission on Human Rights refers to matters of the utmost importance to Unesco. [23] A discussion then followed on the fourth paragraph. [24] Mr. CASTRO REBELLO (Brazil) had no objection to the draft resolution, since Brazil had already accepted the principle of including social and cultural rights in Human Rights. Mr. Castro Rebello hoped that all Member States would do the same. While he had agreed that the Working Party should not study in detail the suggestions submitted to it, owing to objections raised by certain delegations, he was anxious to express his complete agreement with all the suggestions that had been made. [25] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) proposed that the paragraph should be amended to read “Considering that the General Conference at ils present session had unfortunately not had sufficient time to study . . .”, the object of that change of wording being to avoid the undesirable implications of the text as formulated in the document. [26] Agreed. [27] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought it was not merely a question of wording. In his opinion, Unesco could not emphasize in the intro- duction to a resolution the fact that the Conference had not, as requested, studied the provisions adopted by the Human Rights Commission, especially as the paragraph in question served to introduce a number of recommended measures. Mr. Eustathiades there- fore proposed that the relevant part of the paragraph should be omitted.
384COMMISSION [28] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) proposed that the words “their principles” in the fourth line should be replaced by “the principles underlying these pro- visions”. [29] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) pointed out that the Working Party had not had sufficient time to read in committee the articles worked out by the Secretariat, and had therefore refused to study them, even very briefly. The terms of reference given by the Programme Commission to the Working Party had included a study of the Director-General’s work with the Human Rights Commission, and a study of the Director-General’s own specific proposals. The Working Party’s refusal related to that second matter. Mgr. Maroun concluded by emphasizing that the Working Party had approved the principles contained in the texts submitted by the Secretariat, but had considered it lacked time to study the specific provisions based on those principles. [30] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece), who had attended the last meeting of the Human Rights Commission, stated that the Director-General's draft, which did Unesco credit, had been discussed at length and, for the most part, adopted. He was therefore insistent that there should not appear in an official Unesco document a sentence which might indicate that the Organization had been negligent in studying a matter entrusted to it. [31] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained why it had been decided to include the paragraph in question. After learning the conclusions reached by the Human Rights Commission, which were partly based on proposals made by the various Specialized Agencies and by certain Governments, the Working Party had considered that it had not sufficient time for a serious study of the steps to be taken, in view of the specific points of law and terminology which had been raised. Bearing in mind the importance of the question, the Working Party had considered that it would be preferable, after unanimously adopting the principles set forth in the text submitted by the Secretariat, to make a longer and more far-reaching study of the problem as a whole, to be submitted later to the Executive Board. [32] The fourth paragraph of the introductory clauses was adopted, with the amendment proposed by Mr. Verniers, and with a further amendment to the wording of the French text, proposed by the Director-General. [33] The paragraphs following were adopted without discussion. Document 6C/PRG/33, as à whole, was adopted. [34] The DIRECTOR-GENERALexpressed his great
385 PROGRAMME appreciation of the excellent work done by the WorkingParty. [35] Mr. GROS (United Nations), although fully aware of the pressure on the Commission's time, was somewhat surprised at the speed with which a report on so complex and important a problem had been adopted. He pointed out that the Secretariat's comments would receive full attention from the General Assembly of the United Nations, but he did not know whether it would be possible for them to be submitted first to the Economic and Social Council, which was to meet before the General Assembly. Mr. Gros concluded by thanking the Commission for the time it had given to so impor- tant a matter, which he hoped would be re-sub- mitted to the appropriate bodies. [36] Mr. CATES (United States of America) under- stood from the report that the Unesco representative would not do anything more than communicate the text of the resolution to the Economic and Social Council. He thought that, since Ecosoc was working on Human Rights, the Director-General should refer to Unesco’s activities in that field and put forward some evidence of what the Organization was actually doing. [37] Agreed. General Resolution on the Establishment of a World Network of International Fundamental Education Centres. [38] Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) praised the draft, which had just been read out, but asked that it should either be distributed or read once again, so that members of the Commission could consider it in detail. [39] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) ex- pressed his full satisfaction with the text; its wording fully accorded with the spirit of the dis- cussions. He proposed that it should be discussed in detail, paragraph by paragraph. [40] Agreed. First PARAGRAPH. [41] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) pro- posed that, in future, the centres should be referred to, not as “Regional Centres”, but as “Fundamental Education Centres”, since it had emerged from the debate that they should be set up on the basis either of regions or of groups of States—and even, on occasion, that a single State, where conditions were peculiar, should have a centre of its own. COMMISSION IV-17 [42] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked Mr. de Berredo Carneiro whether he would agree to call them “International Centres”, thereby maintain- ing their international character. [43] The Brazilian delegate agreed to that sug- gestion, and the paragraph, as amended, was adopted. SECOND PARAGRAPH. [44] Mr. ATTAGARA (Thailand) asked for the name of Thailand to be inserted in the list of host countries. His Government would communicate with the Secretariat later on the matter of financial assistance. [45] Agreed. [46] Paragraph 2 was approved with that addition. [47] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) said that, for the sake of consistency, the word “region” should be removed. [48] Agreed. [49] Soliman HOZAYEN Bey (Egypt) pointed out, in connexion with paragraph 2 of the resolution, that his country had done more than express its desire to contribute to the establishment of a centre in Egypt; it had come forward with an offer of buildings and material assistance. [60] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) asked whether the fact that the Director-General had been author- ized to study with governments the setting up of fundamental education centres implied that no decision could be taken on setting up such a centre before the next session of the Conference. He asked whether the Director-General might not take such a decision before the meeting of the General Confer- ence in 1952. [61] The CHAIRMAN replied that the answer to that question was contained on page 2 of document
6C/PRG/29. [62] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) repeated that, in concrete terms, he wished to know whether the Director-General and the Executive Board could choose the site for setting up a centre, or whether they had, on the contrary, to wait until the next session of the General Conference. [63] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied to the second part of the question in the negative. In viewof the recommendation contained in the Work- ing Party’s report, as adopted, that a second centre     PROGRAMME should be set up in 1952, he also proposed that a paragraph 4 should be inserted after paragraph 3, in the following terms:
4. Authorizes the Executive Board, in the light of this preliminary research and on the basis of a report by the Director-General to decide on the place where a second International Centre shall be established in 1952. [54] The amendment, together with the document as a whole, was adopted. [66] The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Pro- gramme Commission had completed its work, requiring only one more meeting to adopt its report. Since he himself was compelled to leave Paris for Geneva to prepare for the Joint IBE-Unesco Conference and attend to his duties at the University, he was anxious, before leaving, to thank the mem- bers of the Commission for the speed and conciseness with which the discussions had been conducted, and to express his appreciation to all those who had helped him in his work—the officers of the Com- mission, the Rapporteur, the Working Parties, the - Director-General and the Secretariat. [66] The Chairman had some personal comments to make on the working methods of the Conference in general, and of the Programme Commission in particular. After 25 years’ experience of work in international organizations, he was bound to note regretfully how much more complicated inter- national life was becoming, quite apart from political and economic difficulties, because of the evolution of procedure and administration. He recalled the much more modest, but none the less fruitful work COMMISSION of the former International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, which had confined itself to issuing directives, leaving the detailed work to competent experts. The Conference was devoting three weeks to work which experts could easily do in one. The Chairman thought that was morally and intellectually a mistake; the dignity of Member States’ represen- tatives was at stake when they dealt hurriedly with details of the programme and budget—a study requiring both leisure and calm—while all too often the Conference adopted hastily conceived resolutions in a state of excitement. In conclusion, he expressed the hope that, sooner or later, the principle of biennial sessions and the acquisition of experience would lead to the adoption of simpler and more natural working methods. [57] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) thanked Mr. Piaget, in the name of all his colleagues, for the masterly way in which he had guided the Commission's discussions on many delicate points. [58] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America), Mr. PLAZA (Venezuela), Mr. LHÉRISSON (Haiti) and Hussein FAWZY Bey (Egypt) associated themselves with the tribute to Mr. Piaget. [59] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL also thanked the Chairman, in the name of the Secretariat, not only for his kindly direction of discussions which were often very tiresome, but also for having closed them on a note of hope. The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m. EIGHTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 10 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Examination of the Report of the Programme Commission to the General Conference. Introduction. [1] Mr. GABRIEL JEAN-FRANCOIS (Haiti) (Rap- porteur) read the introduction to his report (docu- ment 6C/PRG/34 - Introduction). He submitted the recommendations contained in the preamble, adding, in connexion with recommendation 2 on page 5, SHARIF (Pakistan) that it would be desirable for delegations to put forward amendments to resolutions and new resolu- tions in writing, a fortnight in advance, and for discussion not to be reopened on any resolution, once rejected by the Commission. [2] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) was much in favour of recommendation I, on page 5, as he believed that work would be facilitated by the fusion of documents 6C/5 (I) and 6C/5 (II): In that way