PLENARY M'EEYEUN GS EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 21 June 1951, at 8.46 p.m. President: Mr. Howranp SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission of new Members . ‎لألبجيوبكب Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the admission to the Sixth Session of observers from international non-governmental organizations A Decision on the seat of the Seventh Session of the General Conference on the Report of the Executive Board . Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation). Speeches by the delegates of Brazil and Belgium Consideration of the Recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the Admission of New Members. [1] Count JACINI (Italy), Chairman of the Ex- ecutive Board — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the Conference of the Executive Board’s deliberations concerning the admission to Unesco of the following States: Kingdom of Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Japan and the German Federal Republic. [2] - Application submitted by the Kingdom of Laos [doc. 6C/6 (I) Add. 1]. The Executive Board, at its twenty-sixth meeting, adopted the following Resolution: The Executive Board, Considering That on 7 December 1950 the Governmentof the King- dom of Laos submitted, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic, an application for membership of Unesco, That, in accordance with Article TI of the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations, the Director- General forwarded this application to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, That, at its Twelfth Session, the Economic and Social Council decided to inform Unesco that it had no objection to the admission of the Kingdom of Laos to the Organi- zation, Decides, in accordance with the provisions of Arti- cle II (2) of Unesco’s Constitution, to recommend to the Sixth Session of the General Conference that the Kingdom of Laos be admitted as a member of Unesco. [3] Application submitted by the Kingdom of Cam- bodia [dor. 6C/6 (II) Add. 1]. The Executive Board, at its twenty-sixth session, adopted the following Resolution: The Executive Board, Considering That on 12 December 1950 the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia submitted, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic, an application for membership of Unesco, That, in accordance with Article IT of the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations, the Director- General forwarded this application to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, That, at its Twelfth Session, the Economic and Social Council decided to inform Unesco that it had no objection to the admission of the Kingdom of Cambodia to the Organization, Decides, in accordance with the provisions of Arti- cle II (2) of Unesco's Constitution, to recommend to the Sixth Session of the General Conference that the Kingdom of Cambodia be admitted as a member of Unesco. [4] Application submitted by the State of Vietnam [doc. 6C/6 (III) Add. 1]. The Executive Board, at its twenty-sixth session, adopted the following Resolution: The Executive Board, Considering That on 14 October 1950 the Government of the State of Vietnam submitted, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic, an application for membership of Unesco, That, in accordance with Article II of the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations, the Director- General forwarded this application to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, That, at its Twelfth Session, the Economic and Social Council decided to inform Unesco that it had no objection to the admission of the State of Vietnam to the Organi- zation, Decides, in accordance with the provisions of Arti- cle II (2) of Unesco’s Constitution, to recommend to
11-8 PLENARY the Sixth Session of the General Conference that the State of Vietnam be admitted as a member of Unesco. [5] Application submitted by Japan [doc. 6C/6 (IV) Add. 1]. The Executive Board, at its twenty-sixth session, adopted the following Resolution: The Executive Board, Considering That on 15 December 1950 the Government of Japan submitted an application for admission to Unesco, approved on 10 December by the Supreme Command of the Allied Powers, That, in conformity with Article IT of the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations, the Director- General forwarded this application to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, That, at its Twelfth Session, the Economic and Social Council decided to inform Unesco that it had no objection to the admission of Japan to the Organization, Decides, in accordance with the provisions of Arti- cle II (2) of Unesco’s Constitution, to recommend to the Sixth Session of the General Conference that Japan be admitted as a member of Unesco. [6] Application submitted by the German Federal Republic [doc. 6C/6 (V) Add. 1]. The Executive Board, at its twenty-sixth session, adopted the following Resolution: The Executive Board, Considering That on 1 December 1950 the Government of the German Federal Republic submitted, through the Allied High Commission in Germany, an application for membership of Unesco, That, in accordance with Article II of the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations, the Director- General forwarded this application to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, That, at its Twelfth Session, the Economic and Social Council decided to inform Unesco that it had no objection to the admission of the German Federal Republic to the Organization, Decides, in accordance with the provisions of Arti- cle II (2) of Unesco's Constitution, to recommend to the Sixth Session of the General Conference that the German Federal Republic be admitted as a member of Unesco. [7] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board for his report. I will outline the procedure to follow in considering these five pro- posals for membership. We will take these proposals separately and in the order of the receipt of the applications in Unesco, which is the order in which the Chairman of the Executive Board has read the resolutions. The orderis therefore as follows: Laos, Cambodia, Nepal, Japan, and the German Federal Republic. In each instance, we will proceed to a discussion, if there are any who wish to speak on the Executive Board’s proposals or the individual country. MEETINGS 110 Subsequent to the discussion, I will read a General Conference proposed resolution which will follow, in its principal parts, the text of the resolutions of the Executive Board, and I will then ask for a roll call vote. I hope that procedure is clear to all of us. [8] I nowdeclare that the first recommendation of the Executive Boardis the consideration of the appli- cation for a membership in Unesco from the Govern- ment of Laos. I there anyone who wishes to speak to this proposal? I see no one; I therefore pass to a reading of a resolution which, if passed by the General Con- ference, would constitute the approval by the General Conference, of the admission of the Kingdom of Laos to membership in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The resolution is as follows: The General Conference, Whereas: the Government of Laos submitted, on
7 December 1950, an application for membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Whereas: in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, the King- dom of Laos has expressed its willingness to abide by the Constitution; ‘Whereas: in accordance with Article 2 of the Agree- ment between the United Nations and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, this application has been submitted to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. Whereas: the Economic and Social Council at its
12th session, decided to inform the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, that it had no objection to the admission of the Kingdomof Laos to the Organization; And whereas: in virtue of this decision, the Executive Board at its 26th session, decided to recommend to the General Conference that the Kingdom of Laos be admitted as a member of the Organization, Decides to admit the Kingdom of Laos to membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. [9] In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Denmark, Domi- A vote was taken by roll-call. nican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Liberia, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Salvador, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. Abstentions: Burma, India, Indonesia, Philippines, Yugoslavia. Absent: Afghanistan, Ceylon, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Guatemala, Hashemite Jordan, Hon- duras, Hungary, Iran, Korea, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Panama, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Syria. The resolution was adopted by 36 votes, with
5 abstentions and 17 absent.    PL'EN A 1 [10] The PRESIDENT — The count by the Secretary shows that the motion for the admission of the Kingdom of Laos has been adopted. At the conclusion of our proceedings, there will be an opportunity for representatives of Member States who have been admitted to speak if they so desire. I should like to proceed, in due order however, with the remaining proposals for membership. [11] The second proposal that you have heard from the Chairman of the Executive Board is for the admis- sion of the Kingdom of Cambodia to membership. Are there any who wish to speak to this proposal? I see no one. May I have the consent of the General Conference to dispense with the reading of the entire motion? The motion will be comparable in all respects to the motion which I read in entirety, with respect to the admission of the Kingdom of Laos, with only those changes which will apply, of course, to the Kingdom of Cambodia. If this is agreeable to you, we will save a little time. I will read only the introductory “whereas” clause and the final part, the decision of the General Conference. Whereas: the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia submitted on 12 December 1950, an application for membership of the United Nations Educational, Scien- tific and Cultural Organization, The General Conference, Decides to admit the Kingdom of Cambodia to membership of the United Nations Educational, Scien- tific and Cultural Organization. I will ask for a roll-call vote in the same manner as before on this proposal. [12] A vote was taken by roll-call. In favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Aus- tria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Salvador, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. Abstentions: Burma, India, Indonesia, Philippines, Yugoslavia. Absent: Ceylon, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Gua- temala, Hashemite Jordan, Honduras, Hungary, Iran, ‚Korea, Luxembourg, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Syria. The resolution was adopted by 40 votes, with
5 abstentions and 13 absent. [13] The PRESIDENT — The motion to admit the Kingdom of Cambodia to membership is adopted. [14] Following the same procedure we now come to the consideration of the proposal submitted to us by the Chairman of the Executive Board for the admission of the State of Vietnam to membership. Again reading only the opening and the deciding clauses: IlsMEETINGS Whereas: the Government of the State of Vietnam sub- mitted on 14 October 1950 an application for member- ship of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization; The General Conference, Decides to admit the State of Vietnam to membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to this pro- posal? 1 recognize the delegate of Yugoslavia. [15] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia). — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, I should like to explain my delegation’s vote. Yugoslavia considers that, as a general rule, the greatest possible number of countries should be admitted to Unesco; but, as the situation in that part of the world wherein lie the three countries which have applied for admis- sion—Laos, Cambodia, and above all, Vietnam—is at present insufficiently clear, we preferred to abstain from voting. [16] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Yugoslavia for his explanation of his delegation’s position. Are there others who wish to speak? If not, I shall request a call of the roll for voting on the resolution posing the admission of the State of Viet- nam to membership. [17] A vote was taken by roll-call. In favour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bel- gium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Den- mark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, Greece, Haiti, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakis- tan, Panama, Peru, Salvador, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Afrika, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Vene- zuela. Abstentions: Burma, India, Indonesia, Philippines, Yugoslavia. Absent: Argentina, Ceylon, Costa Rica, Czecho- slovakia, Guatemala, Hashemite Jordan, Honduras, Hungary, Iran, Korea, Luxembourg, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Syria. The resolution was adopted by 39 votes, with b abstentions and 14 absent. [18] The PRESIDENT — The proposal for the admission of Vietnam to membership in Unesco has been adopted. [19] We now come to report to the resolutions proposed to us by the Chairman of the Executive Board dealing with the admission of Japan. I will again read the opening and the final clauses: ‘Whereas: the Government of Japan submitted on
12 December 1950 an application for membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, The General Conference, Decides to admit Japan to membership of the United      “TES PSLSENN/ASRSY Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Is there anyone who wishes to speak to this proposal? I recognize the delegate of the Philippines. [20] Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, I deeply regret that I must oppose this resolution. In view of the feelings of the Philippine people and Government, the Philip- pine delegation is unable to vote in favour of the proposal. In 1949, in this same place, when the question of Japan was being discussed, I explained in detail the Philippine point of view. I do not consider it necessary to repeat what I said then. Last year, at our Florence Conference, when I again had the honour of presiding over the Philippine delegation, I repeated some of the arguments I addressed in 1949. Since then, my Government and my country have not changed their attitude. Up to the present, no treaty has been signed and no proof has been given that Japan is disposed to recognize its international obli- gations. I sincerely regret that I must oppose the present proposal. Japan and the Philippines are neighbours and I personally am disposed not only to forget, but also to pardon past events. Mr. President, as long as Japan does not recognize its obligations towards the Philippines as concerns the damage inflicted upon us, the Philippines dele- gation will be unable to vote in favour of such a resolution, and I request that this be mentioned in the records of the Conference. [21] The PRESIDENT — Are there any others who would speak to this motion? If not, the delegate of Panama has requested the parole. [22] Mr. Jorge ILLUECA (Panama) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, we have to respect the views expressed by the representative of the Philippine Government; but, gathered together at this Conference devoted to peace and international understanding, we have to promote the ideals of Unesco; that is to say, we must endeavour to implant in the minds and hearts of men the noble feelings of brotherhood and solidarity, which are indispensable to world peace. These feelings must be sown in the minds and hearts not only of the ordinary citizen but of those who are governing our respective countries. Precisely because that is Unesco’s task we must forget the horrors of war and banish all feelings of rancour as well as all desire for vengeance and endeavour to inculcate in each of those peoples, which in a moment of mad- ness wished to impose upon the world a system of oppression and evil, all the noble feelings to which we have referred. 1 therefore declare, on behalf of my Government, that I shall vote in favour of the admission of Japan to membership. [23] The PRESIDENT — I thank the honourable delegate of Panama. Are there others who wish to MEETINGS speak to this motion. I hear no proposals, I will then ask for a roll call vote on the motion for the admis- sion of Japan to membership. [24] A vote was taken by roll-call. In favour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Colom- bia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Sal- vador, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia. Against: Philippines. Absent: Argentina, Ceylon, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Hashemite Jor- dan, Honduras, Hungary, Korea, Luxembourg, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Syria. The resolution was adopted by 42 votes, with
1 against and 15 absent. [25] The PRESIDENT — The proposal for the admission of Japan to membership in Unesco is adopted. [26] We now pass to the first and final proposal submitted to us by the Chairman of the Executive Board. Again I will read you the opening and final clauses in the resolution. Whereas: the Government of the German Federal Republic submitted on 1 December 1950 an application for membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, The General Conference, Decides to admit the German Federal Republic to membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. T ask nowif there is any delegate who wishes to speak to this proposal. The delegate of Israel has requested the floor. [27] Mr. FISCHER (Israel) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, only a few years ago the fate suffered by 6,000,000 Jewish victims gave proof of the fact that education, science and culture can contribute to the progress of civilization onlyif they are applied in the service of universally valid moral principles. Today the question arises of admitting the German Federal Republic to Unesco. My dele- gation considers that Germany has not shown proof of having adopted those universal moral principles. Far be it from us to suggest that hatred or the spirit of revenge can have any redeeming influence upon those against whom they are directed. But the indulgence at present being shown towards collective crimes that were organized so recently is distressingly reminiscent of the shameful indifference shown by the civilized world at the time when those crimes were being perpetrated. There is a danger that this indulgence may encourage the repetition of horrors    l a — | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [
1 ART which have left on the twentieth century and on European civilization a stain which cannot just be wiped out at a stroke, as we pass on to the next item of the Agenda. [28] Despite the pain of our unhealed wounds, we do not preach hatred, we reject the very idea of collective guilt, comprising all Germans indis- criminately. We have a profound admiration for all those Germans who opposed the Nazi regime, sacri- ficing comfort, freedom and sometimes life itself in order to save their most precious possession—their conscience. But we cannot abandon the principle of collective responsibility, one of the foundations of all organized society. Moreover, the only Germans who attempt to evade that collective responsibility are those who approve of the crimes committed by the Hitler regime. No one can be a worthy member of a community unless his thought and action are influenced by the past history of that community. Ernst Wiechert, in his appeal to the youth of Ger- many, in 1945, expressed the matter thus: Our crime should teach us that we must undergo a long and harsh expiation, that we have no need of happiness, homes, peace of mind, since others, because of us, have lost their happiness, their homes and their peace of mind. Present-day Germany has not, alas, chosen the path that was pointed out to her by the most irre- proachable of her citizens. No German can be blamed for wishing to receive, as an individual, the consideration to which his past conduct entitles him. But he cannot be encouraged to suppose that this releases him from the moral obligation of con- demning the crimes formerly committed by the community of which he is a member, or from the obligation to take his share of the material com- pensation due to the surviving victims. That Ger- many which today seeks admission to Unesco does not give the impression of a community that has undergone the moral revolution without which no redemption is possible. [29] To receive Germany into Unesco today would be, in the opinion of my delegation, a disservice to mankind and to Germany itself. In assuming that Germany is fitted to undertake on her own territory, the conduct of activities whose ultimate purpose is peace and harmony among men, the Organization would commit the error of forgetting that certain essential moral guarantees which must accompany those activities have not been provided. It is for these reasons that my delegation will vote against the admission of Germany as a Member State of Unesco. [30] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Israel for the explanation of the position of his dele- gation on this vote: I recognize the delegate of Lebanon. MEETINGS 11-8 [81] Mr. Charles DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) — Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, speaking on behalf of the countries of the Arab League, and more particularly on behalf of the Lebanese delegation, I wish to associate myself with the condemnation of all the oppression and torture suffered by the Jewish people in Europe owing to Hitler's domination. We can well understand that they should today be opposed to Germany’s admission to Unesco, and that the memory of so muchsuffering should still be present in their minds. We could even have wished that memory were sufficiently vivid for the Arab refugees to have been spared their present martyrdom. But, while associating ourselves with the condemnation of every type of fanaticism, of racial theories and their consequences, we feel that not only our words but ouractions should today be animated by a spirit of harmony and tolerance. Unesco’s mission is essentially one of harmony, tolerance and, to some extent, forgetfulness. Unless we today set an example of forgetfulness—that forget- fulness which alone can restore peace to the minds of men—by our words and actions and, in this particular case (since we are here as delegations) by our votes, it seems to me that we can hardly claim to be acting in accordance with the ideals of Unesco. We hope that the recollection of all the oppression the Jewish people so recently suffered will not drive from your minds the present sufferings of the Arab refugees. [32] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the Lebanon for his remarks. Is there anyone else who has requested the floor at this time I see no one; I will then ask for a roll-call vote on the resolution which I read to you earlier on the admis- sion of the German Republic to membership of Unesco. [83] A vote was taken by roll-call. In favour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bel- gium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Salvador, Sweden, Switzer- land, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia. Against: Israel. Abstentions: Argentina, Burma, Philippines. Absent: Ceylon, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Hashemite Jordan, Honduras, Hungary, Korea, Luxembourg, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Syria. The resolution was adopted by 40 votes, with
1 against, 3 abstentions, and 14 absent. [34] The PRESIDENT — The proposal for the A R S ‏ ج د R S A S C E s ‏ و ج ج ي ه تبوسوو ا م - и e r a — em ‏
11-8 PLENARY admission of the German Federal Republic to membership to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is adopted. The delegate of Yugoslavia has requested the floor. [85] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, the Yugoslav dele- gation, thoughin favour of the admission of Germany to our Organization, wishes at the same time to express its regret that the decision we have just taken cannot, in present circumstances, -be applied to the German people as a whole. [36] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Yugoslavia. The delegate of the United Kingdom has requested the floor. [37] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) Mr. President and fellow delegates. I am well aware that we have a heavy agenda and that it is most undesirable that we should all of us make speeches at this point; but, on behalf of the United Kingdom, I am grateful to Mr. President for allowing me a very few words. As chairman of the Executive Board last year I had the privilege of proposing, on behalf of the Board, certain new members of Unesco and I remember the intense satisfaction which it gave me to move the various motions which Count Jacini has moved today. But now, as a humble delegate, I would like if T may, to say what I believe is in all our hearts, whatever our particular attitude may be to any one of the individual new members of our family which we have accepted, and that is “welcome” and in particular, on behalf of the United Kingdom, I would like to say a word of welcome to Germany. [38] Mr. Director-General you quoted to us some words of Flaubert that “history like the sea is beautiful for what it washes away” and you added with your customary genius that you only agreed with that if you could add “history is specially beautiful for what it confirms” and what we have just done I think is a historic act of faith in the possibility of washing away those hateful doctrines of racialism and war which will always be associated with the Nazis and in the possibility of confirming the genius of the German people as artists, as thinkers, as contributors to civilization and it is the spirit and the voice of Leibnitz and Goethe, and I would like to think the music of Beethoven which we have within our family, now that we have Germany as a member of Unesco. And I say on behalf of my delegation, and if I may venture to do so, I think on behalf of us all: to Laos, to Cambodia, to Vietnam, to Japan and to Germany: “welcome”. [39] The PRESIDENT — I recognize the Head of the delegation of the Kingdom of Cambodia. [40] Mr. Leng NGETH (Cambodia) — [Translation MEETINGS from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men it is with the greatest joy that the Kingdom of Cambodia hears the General Conference's decision to admit it as a Member State of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. [41] My colleague Chea Uom and I, as official representatives of the Cambodian Government, have the honour, to offer you, on behalf of our Government and of our country, our most cordial thanks for the kind and friendly welcome you have extended to us, and for your confidence in us. We shall do our utmost to prove worthy of that confidence, and of the place we now occupy beside you in this great House, where so many eminent statesmen, scientists and teachers are gathered together. [42] We should like to tender a special message of sincere thanks to the French authorities and to all our French friends who, whether close at hand or from a distance, have contributed to the success of our candidature by giving us effective help at every opportunity, and by acting as intermediaries in the correspondence between the office of the Director- General of Unesco, in Paris, and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers at Pnompenh—a correspond- ence which began on 12 December 1950, when Cambodia, through its Government, applied for admission to Unesco. We are also deeply grateful to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, for its decision in our favour. [43] You are doubtless aware, ladies and gentlemen, of our purpose in joining this great Institution. It is a purpose common to all those free nations which desire durable peace throughout the world, a peace founded on the intellectual and moral unity of mankind. In this connexion we should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Cambodians are a deeply religious people. Buddhism, which is practised in several Asiatic countries, is the official religion of Cambodia. Although liberty of conscience is laid down in our Constitution, and other forms of religion are recognized and permitted in our country, Buddhist thought is a bright beacon there, and the doctrines of Buddha are taught everwhere, from the royal palace to the humblest peasants’ huts. And Buddha’s teaching is based chiefly on one simple truth: ignorance, which gives birth to covetous desires, is the cause of suffering and poverty. So we must bring knowledge and wisdom, constant intel- lectual effort, education, science and culture to bear against ignorance, in order to escape suffering and poverty and attain Nirvana—that is, happiness and universal peace. That happiness for which all mankind yearns, to which all mankind is entitled—is not that the supreme goal of Unesco’s present efforts? [44] It is in this spirit, ladies and gentlemen, that our Government has sent us here to strive, to the best of our ability, to do our duty as representatives of a new Member State of this world Organization, and to take our full share in all its activities.    PLENARY [45] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the Kingdom of Cambodia, in particular for the spirit of the remarks which he has just addressed to us. I now recognize the Head of the Delegation of the State of Vietnam who has requested the floor. [46] Mr. NGUYRN THANH GIUNG (Vietnam) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the State of Vietnam, which 1 have the honour to represent, expresses its gratitude to France, which was good enough to forward its can- didature to the Economic Council of the United Nations and to Unesco which, by their opinions and recommendations, brought about its election. Viet- nam also expresses its gratitute to all the delegates of this Assembly, whose votes admitted our country to membership of Unesco. Education, science and culture have always been among the foremost con- cerns of the State of Vietnam, which is both proud and happyto be able henceforth to share in Unesco's work, together with distinguished men from every continent. Conscious of its duty to Unesco, it will take steps to ensure the implementation within its own frontiers of the Organization’s recommendations and resolutions. And it will spare no effort to make its modest but wholehearted contribution towards achieving Unesco’s essential aims: international peace and the prosperity of mankind as a whole. [47] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Head of the delegation of the State of Vietnam for his initial remarks to the General Conference of Unesco. I now recognize the Head of the delegation of Japan. [48] Mr. TAMON MAEDA (Japan) — Mr. President, honourable delegates, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Japanese people, I wish to express our gratitude and appreciation to the General Conference which has just approved Japan's application for membership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Our thanks are also due to the delegations who have been good enough to support our application. [49] In the midst of confusion, uncertainty and helplessness prevailing since the war, the crushed and humiliated minds of the Japanese have earnestly sought the remedy which might tend to give them hope and light, and in Unesco they have finally found what they were looking for. The Unesco spirit must be the guiding principle for the present-day Japan in her reconstruction as a democratic and peace-loving nation. For this reason, the Japanese people ardently desire to associate themselves with the cause of Unesco. Various activities regarding Unesco have already started in Japan since 1947 and numerous Unesco co-operative societies and student groups have been voluntarily inaugurated throughout the country. The Government offices devoted to Unesco affairs have also been established. [60] On this occasion, I feel bound to express my
11-8MEETINGS sincere gratitude on behalf of my country, for the invaluable help given us by Unesco in setting up its offices in Tokyo and furthering the Unesco pro- gramme vigourously and efficiently. Now the door has been opened and our long-cherished desire has been satisfied. I want to assure you, however, that the Japanese people will not merely feel elated by this privilege, but will rather feel their heavy responsibility in taking their humble part in the ful- filment of the lofty ideals for which Unesco stands. On this auspicious occasion of Japan's admission to Unesco, I wish to declare, in the name of my Govern- ment, their resolve to fulfil all obligations under its Constitution and to pledge their full and positive support and co-operation in order to further the activities and objectives of the Organization. And we are confident that further efforts will be made by Unesco to shed more light in the Far East where much help is obviously needed. [61] Japan is now entering upon a new life as a free nation. Her people are acquiring a broader vista of peace and freedom. They sincerely adhere to the conception of fundamental Human Rights and to the principle of international co-operation between the peace-loving countries. They are also eager to promote their cultural relations with other peoples of the world and particularly to integrate the Western and Eastern cultures. In this connexion, I hope I may be permitted to point out that one of my com- patriots, the late Dr. Inazo Nitobé, Under Secretary- General of the League of Nations, was largely respon- sible for setting up the International Committee on Intellectual Co-operation, which may be regarded as the forerunner of Unesco. He enjoyed high respect for his efforts to foster the “International mind” throughout the whole world. This good record created by my compatriot must be a source of great emulation for his followers such as ourselves. [62] Having discarded war and armaments in our Constitution, we, Japanese, are vitally interested in the question of world peace, particularly in view of the present disturbing situation prevailing in our neighbouring areas. The more difficult grows the defence of peace, the more firmly are we convinced of the absolute necessity of international co-operation through the United Nations and its Specialized Agen- cies, and, more especially, through the construction of the defences of peace in the minds of men. [63] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Head of the delegation of Japan for his moving information of the desire of his delegation, of his Government, and of his fellow countrymen to join us in the spirit of Unesco in our co-operation. I now call upon the Head of the delegation of the German Federal Republic. [64] Mr. HALLSTEIN (German Federal Republic) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been admitted to    PSL'EN A R"Y11-8 membership of Unesco and we take great pleasure in the fact—we, the Federal Government and the free sections of the whole German nation of which that Government is the spokesman. [55] My fellow-countrymen will hail this event as a further step towards the restoration of normal relations between ourselves and the rest of the world. What is the meaning of the word “normal”? It is normal—and we are happy to know that on this point we are in entire conformity with the guiding prin- ciple of Unesco—it is normal for a people to accept responsibility for its own destiny and to take its due share of the general responsibility incumbent upon all members of the community of nations. We are ready to assume that responsibility, particularly in the special field of Unesco, which is that of culture—and to accept it in an unselfish spirit and without reservations. [56] We are well prepared for this task. We share the fate of all Europeanpeoples, inasmuch as we belong to one single cultural universe. Our art, our science, and also, in the narrowest sense of the word, our education have been developed by a perpetual inter- change of question and answer, a perpetual discussion with other nations, so that our own civilization is merely a branchof the great tree of world civilization. This relationship has never been entirely lost. It even survived those yearsof totalitarian government which isolated our people by setting up a barrier between the outer world and ourselves. Even during that period, our consciousness of belonging to that com- mon civilization, our determination to live as mem- bers of it, and our connexion with it, never entirely perished. [67] To this must be added the further fact that, since the end of the second World War, Germany's cultural reabsorption into the family of nations has been undertaken with increasing vigour and on an increasing scale. In the first place, the occupying powers considered that this undertaking formed part of the very heavy responsibility which they had assumed in occupying Federal territory. They have discharged this rather delicate task, sometimes with a great deal of tact. I am glad to have this opportunity of expressing my gratitude for the great and valuable support given to us, in the form of material assistance, of exchanges between scientists and students, and of encouragement for and interest in our own efforts. [68] Furthermore we have from the very first received spontaneous assistance, both material and moral, from other countries. We thank them, too, wholeheartedly, and if on this occasion I mention only Switzerland, Italy and Sweden by name, it is because those countries come to my mind as examples of a particularly rapid re-establishment of cultural co-operation. [59] We ourselves did all that vigorous activity could achieve towards reviving normal cultural rela- tions with foreign countries, and our young people MEETINGS have shown an especially strong sense of world co- operation. [60] In these circumstances, it is not surprising that we should have set up connexions with Unesco and taken an interest in its work at a very early date. Here again, the impetus came as much from outside as from within our country. As you all know, Unesco has for several years been maintaining an office in Germany. I amdelighted at this opportunity of thanking Unesco and its various organs, the Director-General and his colleagues—in particular Mr. Thompson, Director of the German Office—for all they have already done to enlighten the German public about Unesco’s activities, and to enable us to participate in certain of its undertakings. Thus encouraged and assisted, representatives of all bran- ches of cultural work held a meeting in Germany
18 months ago, in order to found an organi- zation equivalent to the National Commissions of Member States. For more than a year now, the work of that Committee has been in full swing. It is not a Government institution, but was created spontaneous- ly by our cultural associations and administrative organizations, constituting a means of self-expression in the cultural field, and working in a fresh direction for the realization of that cultural autonomy, the tradition of which, exemplified in particular in our universities, has existed in our country since ancient times. All who take an active interest in cultural problems are fully represented on this Committee —University professors and Union spokesmen, schoolmasters and artists, representatives of the press, cinema and radio and of those State departments which handle cultural matters. I myself was the organizer of the Committee and its first chairman, and it is a great personal satisfaction to me to be entrusted today, in a different capacity, with the question of our accession to Unesco. [61] What does this accession imply for the future? It means, needless to say, that we are resolved to put at the service of that great mission for which Unesco was founded, the utmost that our national character and cultural traditions enable us to offer. But there is perhaps a further and a special aspect to this accession. For our nation is in a special situation. On the one hand, we all feel particularly bound to contribute, by our efforts in the field of culture, to the maintenance of peace—whose over- throw has in the past been so regrettably associated with the name of Germany. On the other hand, our people has lived through a disastrous period of to- talitarianism, waged a war which led to terrible destruction, and suffered a defeat seldom paralleled in the history of mankind. All this has left its after- math, material, physical, psychological and moral. And it all gives rise to special problems—lack of resources, over-population due chiefly to the influx of nine million refugees, à sceptical attitude towards ideological theories, to mention only a few. I do not mean to suggest that we occupy a place apart, or
117 PLENARY that our case is of any special interest. I only wish to point out that the problems to which Unesco chiefly devotes itself, because of their world-wide importance, are problems that exist in our country too, in an urgent form. They concern the imple- mentation, defence and extension of human rights, the question of tensions, of educational reform, reconstruction in the field of science, and cultural assistance to the expatriated. So that in striving to solve these problems, we feel we are doing something of interest to the whole world. That same destiny which has brought our nation face to face with these problems has made it fully aware of the indispensability of international co- operation. Our people, particularly our young people, are accessible to the idea of common re- sponsibility. Their eagerness to take their due place in Europe is the clearest proof of this. They are determined to strip themselves of national egotism, without replacing it by a wider—a European— egotism. In this spirit it may be said that the united Europe for which we hope would. represent a step forward on the path towards world co- operation. For we too are convinced that world peace is indivisible, and must therefore be founded on the union of all the spiritual forces of the world. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank you for the honour of our admission to membership of Unesco. [62] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Head of the delegation of the German Federal Republic for his remarks and I call to the attention of the General Conference that the States voted on are now members of Unesco, admitted this afternoon by action of the General Conference. I am sure you all agree with the genuine warm and moving welcome which was addressed to them with our full and consenting support by Sir John Maud, delegate of the United Kingdom. I hope that we shall all remember that we are no longer 59 Member States but that we are now 64. Consideration of the Recommendations of the Executive Board concerning the Admission of Observers from International Non-Govern- mental Organizations. [63] The PRESIDENT — I will now call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board for the presentation of the recommendation with respect to the admission - of observers of International non-governmental organizations to the Sixth Session of the General Conference of Unesco. [64] Count JACINI (Italy), Chairman of the Executive Board — [Translation from the French] I have the honour of submitting to you, on behalf of the Executive Board, and in accordance with Article IV, 14, of the Constitution and Rule 7 of the MEETINGS IT-8 Rules of Procedure, the Executive Board’s recommen- dations on this subject. These recommendations are embodied in document 6C/2, which has already been distributed to you. The Board suggests that in addition to the 94 organizations admitted to con- sultative status, which are automatically invited to send observers to the Conference, three other non- governmental organizations of international scope shall be authorized to send observers to the present Session of the General Conference. These are the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, the Rockefeller Foundation, and the Ford Foundation. There is no need for me to give you a detailed expla- nation of the Executive Board’s recommendation. We all know these three organizations and admire their work. The Carnegie Endowment and the Rockefeller Foundation have already been represented at our previous meetings. I feel sure the Confer- ence will be glad to welcome the Ford Foundation as well this year. TI therefore have the honour of proposing that all three organizations shall be authorized to send observers to the Sixth Session of the General Conference. [65] The PRESIDENT — You heard the recommen- dation made on behalf of the Executive Board by the Chairman of the Board. I would ask the members of the General Conference whether they wish to approve the recommendation for the admission of these observers. I would entertain a motion willing- ly from the floor for the approvals. [66] Do I hear the motion? The delegate of Brazil makes the motion. Is there a second? I hear a second from the delegate from the Philippines. Is there any discussion of this motion? not; 71 would like to have a show of hands. The motion is adopted. [67] I should like now to ask the General Confer- ence to consider a report which comes to you from the General Committee to complete the member- ship of the Committee of Reports of Member States. You will recall that at an earlier meeting it was agreed that we should have the chairmanship of the Philippines, the vice-chairmanship of Liberia, and a rapporteur from Greece. * We did not, however, complete the addition of the seven Member States which would bring the membership of the Com- mittee to the total of 10, which is the requirement. The General Committee, in its meeting this morning, now recommends to you that the following Member States should be added to the membership of this Committee to fill out the full complement of 10. I shall now read the names of the States recom- mended by the General Committee. They are: Australia, Belgium, the United States, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and Turkey and France. Those seven are the States recommended to you by the General Committee for membership on the Committee on Reports of Member States. I would welcome the views of the General Conference on this
11-8 PLENARY proposal. Do you accept? Unless I hear an objec- tion, I shall not trouble you with the formality of a vote on this. It is agreed and adopted. Decision on the Seat of the Seventh Sessicn of the General Conference on the Report of the Executive Board. [68] The PRESIDENT -— We now move to the item that I reported we would have on our agenda this afternoon: item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Executive Board on the place and date of the meeting of the Seventh General Conference of Unesco. I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board for his presentation. [69] Count JACINI (Italy), Chairman of the Ex- ecutive Board — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, at its Twenty- sixth Session the Executive Board considered the report put before it by the Director-General, con- cerning the place and date of the Seventh Session of the General Conference (document 26 EX/6). [70] In accordance with the provisions of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Executive Board has the honour to submit the following suggestion to the General Conference: The Executive Board, Having taken note of the communication, dated
18 January 1951, in which the Uruguayan Government expresses its readiness to receive the General Conference in Montevideo in 1952, and of the Director-General's report on the subject (26 EX/6), making it clear that, with the generous assistance of the Uruguayan Govern- ment, the General Conference will find in Montevideo conditions enabling it to carry out its work effectively and add to its prestige; Desirous, on the one hand, of adhering to the practice of holding meetings of the General Conference both on the territory of Member States situated in different parts of the world and at the Organization’s headquarters; Bearing in mind, on the other hand, the heavy financial burden that a meeting of the General Con- ference in Montevideo would impose on the Organi- zation; 5 Proposes that the General Conference accept with gra- titude the invitation of the Uruguayan Government, unless prevented from so doing by grave financial considerations; Proposes, otherwise, that the General Conference decide to hold its Seventh Session in Paris, and recommends that the General Conference, at its Seventh Session, decide to hold its Eighth Session in Montevideo. The Executive Board, and subsequently the Director- General, put forward the suggestion that the General Conference should decide to open its Seventh Session at the end of October or beginning of November
1952. [71] Ladies and gentlemen, I will add no comment upon the communication I have just read to you, MEETINGS 118 but I should like, on behalf of the Executive Board, to express the deep gratitude we all feel towards the Uruguayan Government, which has flung open to us the gates of its magnificent capital, and has so warmly invited us to visit it and continue our work there. Though this invitation cannot be immedi- ately accepted—and you are all acquainted with the imperative financial reasons which force us to post- pone its acceptance for a time—it nevertheless behoves the Conference to give unanimous, and in our opinion enthusiastic, expression to its definite determination that the next Conference shall take place elsewhere than at Unesco headquarters—in fact, at Montevideo, where we shall all meet to continue our work in that beautiful Latin American Republic. It is in this spirit, gentlemen, that I ask you to approve the decisions of the Executive Board. [72] Mr. ANDREWS (Union of South Africa) — Mr. President: It seems very appropriate that just at the moment that we have enlarged our family, it should be introduced to the subject of money troubles. All large families have their money troubles. Mr. President, it would have seemed to me, if I may say so with great respect, that this item might very well have been introduced before this Conference at a little later stage, when we had got a better idea of what the budgetary limitations were going to be for the 1952 Conference. But that matter of procedure apart, I do feel obliged on behalf of the South African delegation, to express our opposition to this motion to have the next Con- ference in Montevideo. [73] In doing that, Sir, I would like, as the Chair- man of the Executive Board has done, to join in the deep appreciation of the friendly attitude, of the gracious invitation that has been extended by Uruguay to this Organization. But, Mr. President, in all reality, we state in this resolution that it will impose heavy financial burdens on the Organization. We admit that, and then in the next breath say that we will accept the invitaion, provided that no grave financial considerations subsequently arise. That, to my mind, is entirely contradictory. I think that we should be more realistic. I say it with great respect. It is well known that Member States, in the face of great financial obligations they have to bear today, financial obligations that are in many cases making them reduce their contributions to their own educational, their own science posts in their various parliaments, are becoming embarrassed when they are asked to vote expenditures in this Organization which might well be avoided. [74] Surely the $400,000 which has been placed in the estimates which the Director-General has been obliged to make because of this very friendly invita- tion, surely, Sir, that $400,000 is something that is a grave financial consideration to us at this present time. I would submit, Sir, that for those reasons, the heavy financial burden that would be imposed— = . о
119 we | pres circ [75] the dele [76] very we fron our gent mai real Org awa pla star] able nex wel dec Ital the
15] ро! пес moj the inv hel   Fld
119 PLENARY we should take a straightforward resolution at this present time that, while welcoming the invitation, circumstances do not permit us to accept it. [75] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the Union of South Africa, and I recognize the delegate of the United Kingdom. [76] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. President and fellow delegates. I remember very well an occasion at the Beirut Conference when we were in receipt of a most alluring invitation from the Government of Italy to come to Italy for our next Conference and I very well remember the generosity and understanding which was then shown by the distinguished gentleman who is now Chair- man of the Executive Board. Count Jacini. realizing that it was perhaps in the interest of the Organization that the next Conference should not be away from home but should be in Paris, made it plain that his Government would perfectly under- stand if the General Conference was not at the time able to accept the invitation to come to Italy for the next Session, and he went on to indicate that if it were possible for their next Session held in Paris to decide that the next Session again should be in Italy, his Government would be delighted to renew the invitation to-the Conference to come to Italy. We were thus enabled at Beirut to take what, in looking back, I think was a wise decision from the point of view of Unesco, to save the disturbance that necessarily comes to the Secretariat whenever we move away from home for a Conference and to save the substantial number of dollars which are also involvedin any Conference away from Paris, and we held our Conference in Paris and then had the delight of being able last year, after all, to visit Florence for our Conference there. We had, in fact thanks to the generosity of Count Jacini and his Government, the best of both worlds. [77] Now I feel myself, and my delegation feels, that the Uruguayan Government has also put us doubly in their debt by the generosity and the ima- gination of the invitation which they have extended to us at this time. My understanding is that the Head of the Uruguayan delegation who has extended to us this almost irresistible invitation to Uruguay next year, would understand if this Conference felt that the grave financial considerations to which the Executive Board referred, must make us harden our hearts and decide not to go away from Paris for our next Session and that, moreover, if that were the decision, it might be possible for the Uruguayan Government to renew its invitation so that again we might have the best of both worlds, and if the Session of the General Conference next year were held in Paris and decided that the next Session should be held in Uruguay, that we might find that the Uruguayan Government was able to invite us to go there. MEETINGS 118 [78] Mr. President, my own conclusion is that the statesmanlike decision for us to make now is first— and on this we can be completely unanimous—to record our deep appreciation and gratitude to the Government of Uruguay for inviting us to come there. But, secondly, to note the wise words of the Executive Board, which has recommended that grave financial considerations may prevent us from accepting the invitation for the Seventh Session, that we should, with great regret I am sure on all our parts, agree that the very heavy expenses which would be involved for the Organization if we accepted this invitation for the next Session, must prevent us at this Conference from accepting it, and that we should therefore decide, as the Executive Board hinted, that our next Session should be here in Paris whereby we would save some $450,000 and that, furthermore, we should express formally and in a resolution of this Conference, the hope that the Seventh Session of the Conference, that is to say the next one, will be able to accept an invitation to hold its Eighth Session in Montevideo if the Govern- ment of Üruguay renews its generous invitation. And, Mr. President, in order to test the sense of this Conference I have drafted a resolution which, at the appropriate time, I would ask you to submit to this Conference for their consideration. It does, if my friend the delegate of the Union of South Africa agrees, cover what he had in mind, but it goes a little further and it would perhaps in one single resolution enable us both to accept the advice of the Fxecutive Board and express our deep gratitude to the Government of Uruguay and make it as likely as this Session of the Conference can make it, that we eventually have the best of both worlds. The fact is, fellow delegates, that our legs in Unesco are perhaps not quite strong enough to get us to Montevideo next year, but if we husband our resources and if our friends in Uruguay still want us, I, for one, very much hope that our legs will very soon be strong enoughto take us to Montevideo. [79] The PRESIDENT — 1 thank the delegate of the United Kingdom. I will recognize the delegate of Brazil and then the delegate of the United States of America. [80] Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President and delegates, the Uruguayan Government's invitation to hold the next Conference at Montevideo is of interest to the whole American continent. We have from the very first endorsed that gesture of friendly encouragement towards our Organization. We should like once again to assure the Uruguayan Republic of our deep gratitude for its offer, for the generous hospitality with which it intended to receive us all. Speaking as Americans, this event would have delighted our hearts, because you would have brought us the token of that intellectual and moral solidarity which you
11-8 PLENARY represent in the world. You would have enabled us, too, to show you the American conception of hospitality, which Uruguay would have exemplified on behalf of us all and with particular felicity, and we should have been proud for you to see the city of Montevideo, where free nations can speak freely. [81] It is no doubt true that our present financial ‘ circumstances constitute a difficulty, but in my opinion we ought not to refuse an invitation from a Member State on purely financial grounds. I am prepared to support the suggestion that our Montevideo meeting should be potsponed, but 1 would like to emphasize the fact that this is only because the Republic of Uruguay has itself agreed to withdraw its present invitation. But in my view it would be dangerous for us to allow material circumstances to decide our acceptance or refusal of invitations from Member States to hold our meetings on their territory. This is a duty specified in our Charter, a responsibility we have to accept and which, in our view, is as binding as any other in our programme. Subject to these reservations I therefore support the United Kingdom proposal, and I hope that in 1952 we shall all be here to remind this assembly that the Eighth Session of the General Conference is to be held at Montevideo. [82] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Brazil and I now recognize the delegate of the United States of America. [83] Mr. George D. STODDARD (United States of America) — Mr. Chairman, delegates. The dele- gation of the United States would like to associate itself also with the ‘ideas and I hope with the forth- coming amendment of the delegate of the United Kingdom. In saying this I would like to confirm from the standpoint of the Organization of American States and from the standpoint also of the United States, the fine sentiments expressed by Dr. Carneiro on behalf of Brazil. [84] Since we are talking about two continents, I think it is appropriate for one to accept these fine sentiments of the other and, while we cannot do it without prior discussion with our friends and neighbours, we know already through the Organi- zation of American States, through Unesco activities that cut across both continents, that this is not only feasible but completely and enthusiastically acceptable to us all. Now with respect to meeting next time in Paris, I think we in the United States delegation have nothing to add. We regret very much indeed this financial impasse, but we accept it because we like the idea of keeping Unesco solvent and we have not seen in our preliminary discussions on the status of the budget the necessary strength and resourcefulness for having this meeting so far away in the coming year. Nevertheless, two years later if that is the time, or perhaps one year later, it seems to us that we should be able to generate MEETINGS 120 the financial power to husband our resources and perhaps make the financial demands of going to Montevideo a kind of first demand on the budget, as has been said, that is what we did in going to Beirut. It would have been easy to have stayed away from Beirut, to have stayed away from that great Conference held at a most significant time and in a most significant place for financial reasons alone, but I think we all agree that it was a tour de force and a marvellous thing in the world. I would like to say on behalf of my delegation that we have similar sentiments with respect to going to Montevideo at the invitation of the Government of Uruguay and we hope that this Government does renew its invitation. In North America we cannot say that we are very close to it geographically but we feel that we are very close indeed particularly to Uruguay in its cultures and in its concepts of the freedom and dignity of persons. It is not only an intellectual proclaimer of freedom and liberty in the world today, it lives up to these worlds by being an extraordinary, enthusiastic and sincere welcomer of refugees in the intellectual world, it is indeed one of the great payments of the modern world and for these reasons especially we think that recognition on the part not only of Latin America, not only on the part of the two continents and of the organization of the States in those continents but on the part of this international organization would be especially appropriate. Therefore again, on behalf of the United States delegation, I would like to be associated with this proposed amendment of the United Kingdom. [85] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the United States and I am now going to call on the Director-General for a few words and I will then recognize the delegate of France. [86] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translated from the Spanish] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, for the first time I exercise the right to use Spanish as a working language in order to pay my respects to Dr. Zabala Muniz in his own tongue, and to explain to you how the present situation arose. It might have been an extremely delicate one if the Executive Board and the Directorate-General of Unesco had been unable to count on the under- standing and sympathy of the Uruguayan Govern- ment and its distinguished delegation, as well as of Dr. Zabala Muniz himself. Ladies and gentlemen, before adopting a resolution on this question, I feel that you should take into account certain facts which are important not only as regards the resolution concerned, but also as regards Unesco’s future work. [87] Firstly, the moral necessity to respect that tradition of Unesco according to which the Organi- zation, with its universality, should not remain shut up within any geographical circle and should not
121 PLENARY hold too many conferences at its headquarters in Paris. The Beirut Conference recognized a principle which, although it is not enshrined in the Constitu- tion, is one of Unesco’s traditions, namely, the principle that alternately a short business session of the General Conference shall be held in Paris and an ordinary General Conference shall be held in another country to which the Organization would be invited by one of its Member States. Uruguay invited Unesco to hold its Seventh General Confer- ence at Montevideo; moreover, it was the only country to issue such an invitation. If the Organization had not been confronted with delicate and serious financial problems, I am convinced that the Executive Board would have unanimously recommended that Unesco’s Seventh General Con- ference should be held at Montevideo. But the Executive Board, which shares with me the anxieties and preoccupations of executing the Pro- gramme for which it is responsible, is fully aware of the economic difficulties of the present and the financial obstacles of the future; that is why it recommended you, on the one hand, to accept grate- fully the Uruguayan invitation and, on the other hand, to consider whether the present financial situation makes it advisable to hold the Seventh General Conference at Montevideo. But (and I emphasize this point which seems to me to be funda- mental) the Executive Board added that, if the Con- ference considered that the Seventh General Confer- ence should not be held at Montevideo for working or financial reasons, it should express more than a simple hope that the Eighth General Conference be held at Montevideo. In my opinion, such a resolu- tion would be the most fruitful result of this after- noon’s discussions. [88] The people, government and intellectuals of Uruguay, according to what the distinguished head of the Uruguayan delegation has told me, would perfectly understand the reasons preventing Unesco from holding its Seventh General Conference at Montevideo; but the Uruguayan people would under- stand less readily our failure to show our sympathy for Uruguay by warmly recommending that the Eighth General Conference should be held there. After all, the only obstacle is a constitutional one, namely, that the present Conference cannot assume a responsibility which belongs to the Seventh General Conference. But there are the precedents of Beirut and Italy. The Conference, by its unanimous enthusiasm and applause, can show its desire that everything should be done to permit the Eighth General Conference to meet at Montevideo. morally bound to make this short speech, for it would have been deplorable should the attitude of the present meeting be misconstrued by the General Conference or by the Government and people of the country which has sent us such a cordial invitation. [89] The PRESIDENT — I know that we are all Tilt. MEETINGS 11-8 grateful to the Director-General for giving us the factual background of the discussions that have proceeded our discussions this afternoon. I now call upon the delegate of France. [90] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) — [Translated from the French] Mr. President and delegates, on behalf of the French delegation, I wish to express my entire agreement with the judicious and moving observa- tions of the previous speakers, especially those from the Latin American countries, whose words found an echo deep in our hearts. [91] On behalf of the French delegation, I wish to express our country’s gratitude to Uruguay. I do not need to remind that nation of the deep friendship that links us together, or the fraternal relationship between our respective cultures; because of these things, we are deeply and bitterly grieved that this visit is not to take place. We know that Uruguay is a country of boundless hospitality . . . we know it through our experts who went last year to the Conference on fundamental education, which, thanks to admirable organization by the Uruguayan nation, was a great success and, incidentally, bore witness in another form to the presence of Unesco in Latin America. On the present occasion our concern is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the reasons for postponement are such as the Uruguayan nation accepts, that the interests of Unesco’s work must be considered, and that Uruguay is with- drawing its request for the coming year. But we, who are honoured by having Unesco’s headquarters in our midst, wish to state our opinion that Unesco must by no means abandon the principle of periodical visits, which are an example and a lesson to the various nations; and for this reason we fervently hope that Uruguay will repeat its invitation next year. Thus, while supporting the British motion, we express the hope that in 1953 Latin America may be the scene of a meeting which cannot but do much to further the interests of the inter- national community. [92] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of France and I recognize the delegate of Colombia. Mr. Bernal JIMENEZ (Colombia) — [Transla- Mr. President, I merely wish to submit to the Conference the second sug- gestion which I will take the liberty of reading in Spanish: [Translated from the Spanish] [93] tion from the French] The General Conference decides to hold its Seventh Session in Paris and recommends strongly to that Con- ference that it accepts with deep gratitude the generous invitation of Uruguay to hold its Eighth Session in Montevideo. [94] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Colombia. The Chief of the delegation of Uruguay has requested the floor.
11-8 PLENARY [95] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) — [Trans- lation from the Spanish] Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply moved, not only by the opportunity of addressing this Assembly, but also by the generous references which have been made to my country; my feeling is strengthened by the generous applause with which you have received me. [96] It is not only the Uruguayan Government which has extended an invitation to Unesco; as its representative, I can assure this Assembly that not only the Executive Power of my country, but the entire Senate, in which all the political parties are represented, sent me to France to invite this dis- tinguished Assembly to Uruguay. The Uruguayan Parliament represents the will of the people, which is anxious that illustrious men from all countries should come to our shores and give us the benefit of their wisdom. But we are also desirous that they should live and work in Uruguay in order to contribute to our posterity and material greatness, and promote our ideals; they would form so many different colonies, owing to their different origins. The successive generations will build the Uruguay of the future, so that it will always be devoted to the cause of universal peace and brotherhood. We want these illustrious men to feel that Uruguay is just as muchtheir home as it is ours; this would be their due reward for their enthusiastic efforts in favour of democracy. We want them to hear the voice of the latter so that they will continue to believe, as we do, that it is still possible to establish universal peace and understanding. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the previous Government of my country invited Unesco to hold its next General Conference at Montevideo, and why the present Government ratified this invitation as soon as it was constituted after the elections last November. [97] I am convinced that I am interpreting the true feelings of my country by formally ratifying this invitation for 1954. I am well aware of the finan- cial difficulties confronting Unesco; Uruguay has great confidence in this Organization, because, I repeat, it universalizes the thoughts which reflect the traditions and hopes of this small country. That, too, is why we are anxious to contribute in some way to Unesco’s prosperity and, as we possess very few material treasures, we wish to contribute by means of the only treasure we have, namely, the spirit. [98] Before concluding, I wish to thank you deeply for your kind references to Uruguay and more particularly those made by our neighbour and distinguished friend Dr. Carneiro; not because we make any distinctions of peoples, races or religions, but because it is natural that we should have a more intense affection for those whose history is so closely related to our own. [99] In conclusion, Mr. President, I should like to assure youthat, if this Assembly is generous enough to adopt the motion which the Colombian delegation MEETINGS 122 has just proposed and if Uruguay feels that it is solely on account of financial difficulties that the Seventh General Conference is unable to be held at Montevideo, Uruguay, ‘which is contributing to Unesco’s work and which is deeply desirous that it shall prosper, will accept this motion and will be prepared in 1954 to welcome this Assembly, which proclaims, above all other things, the principles of world peace and the brotherhood of man. [100] The PRESIDENT Having heard the distinguished leader of the delegation of Uruguay, Senator Zabala Muniz, I think that all of us can understand that spirit of generous, hospitable and understanding recognition which he, his delegation and his Government have given to the problems of Unesco that we have been discussing here this afternoon. [101] Now, in order to advance the discussion, I am able to do this, we are in receipt of two proposals, and I should like to read the one which Sir John Maud, the delegate of the United Kingdom handed to the President of the Conference at the conclusion of his earlier remarks. I will then ask that the resolution put forward by the delegate of Colombia be read again. I think that this will serve to focus the discussion and perhaps bring the General Con- ference to a quicker decision on the way in which we should conclude our discussion of this issue. [102] With your permission, I shall now read the resolution put forward by the delegate of the United Kingdom. The General Conference, Having received the invitation of the Government of Uruguay to hold the Seventh Session of the General Conference of Unesco in Montevideo,
(1) Records its profound gratitude to the Government of Uruguay for its generous act in inviting Unesco to Montevideo,
(2) Notes that the Executive Board has recommended that the Seventh Session of the General Conference should be held in Montevideo, unless prevented from doing so by grave financial considerations,
(3) Considers with great regret that the heavy expense which the journey to Montevideo would entail for the Organization prevents this session of the General Con- ference from accepting the invitation of the Government of Uruguay for the Seventh Session,
(4) The General Conference Decides to hold its Seventh Session in Paris and
(5) Recommends strongly to that Conference that it accept with deep gratitude the generous invitation of Uruguay to hold its Eighth Session in Montevideo. [103] Now that is the resolution as put forward by the delegate of the United Kingdom. I find that the resolution put forward by the distinguished dele- gate from Colombia is the same in its sense as the fourth and fifth points of the motion put forward by the delegate of the United Kingdom. In other . words, the General Conference, in adopting the pro-
123 PLENA posal put forward by the delegate of the United Kingdom, would, I believe, be adopting the entire substance of the resolution put forward by the dele- gate of Colombia, and in addition would be express- ing the sentiments of gratitude and appreciation and a more detailed recognition of the reasons that prevent this General Conference from the acceptance of that invitation forthe year 1952. That would be the result, as I see it, of the adoption of the motion put forward by the United Kingdom. I wanted to give you this brief summary of the results of our discussion up to this point not in order to make any proposal to you but so that all of us would under- stand where our discussion has lead us up to this point. [104] TI herewith submit to you the text of a re- solution combining the suggestions of both the United Kingdom and Colombia. It reads as follows: The General Conference, Having received the invitation of the Government of Uruguay to hold the Seventh Session of the General Conference in Montevideo, Records its profound gratitude to the Government of Uruguay for its generous act in inviting Unesco to Montevideo, Notes that the Executive Board has recommended that the Seventh Session of the General Conference should be held in Montevideo unless prevented from doing so by grave financial considerations, Considers with great regret that the heavy expense which the journey to Montevideo would entail for the Organization prevents this session of the General Con- ference from accepting the invitation of the Government of Uruguay for the Seventh Session, Decides to hold its Seventh Session in Paris, and Recommends strongly to that Conference that it accepts with deep gratitude the generous invitation of Uruguay to hold its Eighth Session in Montevideo. [105] May I have the adoption of this resolution by acclamation? Adopted. [106] May I understand that this body approves that the opening date of the Seventh Session will be fixed in accordance with the recommendation of the Executive Board, for either towards the end of October 1952, or the beginning of November 1952, here in Paris? If there is no objection to this, I Will consider that it is adopted. It is adopted. [107] At this point we have reached the end of the items with which we interrupted the course of our discussion of the programme and of the Director- General’s report. I thank the General Conference for the logic and for the despatch with which they have come to decisions on these important items of our agenda which will enable the work of the Con- ference to go forward more smoothly at this time. Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation). [108] The PRESIDENT — We now resume the MEETINGS 11-8 discussion of the Director-General’s report and of the programme activities and I will call upon our first speaker, the delegate of Brazil, Professor Carneiro, and after him, upon Mr. van der Straten-Waillet, delegate of Belgium. [109] Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) [Translation from the French] Mr. President, Mr. Director- General, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in Novem- ber 1946 we all met here for the First Session of Unesco’s General Conference. Five years have gone by since then. Five years in the life of an organi- zation is a mere trifle, but five years in the life of man is something to look back upon. Five years of initiation, during which we have come to under- stand each other better, as a preliminary to teaching the various nations to understand each other better. There are some young faces among us today. The changing of the guard has begun. Unesco already sees in the new members of the Commissions re- presented here the heirs to our first efforts, those who will carry out in future the plans we drew up in 1946. [110] The path along which we have travelled during these five years—the path of salvation—has often been strewn with thorns; but Unesco’s world- wide scope has been definitely established. What- ever line of longitude or latitude we follow today in our journey round the world, we find traces of our Organization everywhere. A Unesco geography has grown up. It is superposed on the geography of freedom and of respect for the individual human being. Everywhere where Unesco is absent, because it is prevented from being present, human rights are in danger. [111] Our presence in the world is marked first and foremost by the Director-General. He has the gift of ubiquity which the Ancients attributed to the gods and to them alone. When we think he is in Paris he is in Ceylon, when we think he is in India he is at Patzcuaro. How many times has he been round the world? The world is grateful to him for watching over its fate. Then there are our co- operation offices, our regional centres, our missions, institutions, laboratories, schools, which bear bril- liant and increasingly successful testimony to the scope of our efforts. [112] I will not refer again here to what the Director-General has already told us in his report— the work done last year, and the plans drawn up for next year. We shall consider those at our leisure when the Programme Commission begins its meet- ings. I would merely like to point out that every- where Unesco is at work, the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies support it, second it, and share in its efforts. [113] The presence of the Secretary-General of the United Nations at the opening of the Conference which marks the completion of our first five years of existence, bears evident witness to this. Every-
11-8 PLENARY thing in his speech was worthy of note. What he said about Unesco’s share in the work of the United Nations and the United Nations’ share in that of Unesco was an admirable definition of our reciprocal duties. We are delighted to have heard it on this occasion and in this place. [114] The part played by Unesco in the community of the United Nations has often been hard to define, for it is both complex and subtle. Yet Unesco's field of activity—the human mind—directly indicates the methods it must employ in order to succeed in its task, and lays down the rules it must obey if it is not to go wide of the mark. Is there still a need to refer to our Charter, five years after it was signed, as a reminder of the duties we have to fulfil? Unesco’s Constitution is the master-work of our century, and we should remind ourselves of that fact as often as possible. All its precepts, so con- cisely expressed, combine to set forth the essential purpose of our Organization, which is “to con- tribute to peace and security by promoting collabo- ration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language or religion, by the Charter of the United Nations”. [115] So wherever justice, law, human rights and fundamental freedoms are violated, Unesco must raise its voice and its shield; it cannot accept without protest any infringement of the principles of its Charter, by which it stands or falls. It is committed, it can never withdraw into neutrality. [116] Its mission is difficult because it stands at the cross-roads of the spiritual and temporal forces by which society is led, at the shifting frontier be- tween counsel and command, between the priest's mission and the administrator's mandate. A great Lebanese poet, Khalil Gibran, in a poem in praise of married life, gives this advice to husband and wife: “Walk arm in arm, but let the air flow be- tween you; drink the same wine, but each in your own cup.” Only with this margin of independence is a really free communion possible. Unesco must keep constant watch to ensure that the balance be- tween the spiritual and temporal forces which enter simultaneously into its activities is never disturbed, for the success of its work depends entirely on the maintenance of that balance. [117] The problem we have to solve arises from the fact that social reforms cannot be both radical and immediate. It means that opinions and habits must be transformed before institutions can be re- modelled. [118] Mr. President, Brazil’s solidarity with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization was expressed once and for all by the signature of the Constitution, but the Government which has just taken over the leadership of the MEETINGS 124 country, as a result of the most democratic elections ever held there, wishes to give you renewed evi- dence of its fidelity towards our Organization. The Government of Brazil unreservedly endorses the de- claration made by the Executive Board when con- cluding its deliberations, and considers it a duty to recommend that the General Conference, having regard to the achievements shown in this report and to those promised from plans already set in motion, should furnish Unesco with sufficient funds to enable its work to be pursued and its influence maintained at least at the present level. The Government of my country would like Unesco to play an increasingly active and direct part in international affairs, and to take its position in the present-day world with no trace of hesitancy or abstentionism. [119] Brazil, by the extent of its territory and the size of its population, constitutes one half of Latin America. It has never flagged in its devoted and enthusiastic support of Unesco. May I be permitted to put before you, on behalf of my country, a request which is the expression of its most cherished hopes? This is no selfish demand, but a suggestion inspired by the desire to be of greater service to the Organi- zation itself. [120] The Director-General has many times re- minded us that half the human race is illiterate. This same proportion, Mr. President, is to be found among the 52 million inhabitants of my country. That half of the Brazilian population which, despite its admirable qualities of intelligence, energy and generosity, has so far been denied all the treasures of human culture, is deserving of all yoursolicitude. According to the spirit of our Charter, you have a sacred duty towards these people. [121] I therefore ask you to give your support here and now to a suggestion which T shall put before the Programme Commission in the near future, and Which concerns the establishment of a Regional Fundamental Education Centre in Brazil. We ask you to join us in this important task, to which we ourselves have already devoted six million dollars and four years of untiring effort. We should be grateful for your help in preparing the illiterate members of our population to play their part, intellectually and morally, in contemporary society. [122] Mr. President, that section of the Brazilian population which originally came from Europe and which, with each succeeding generation, has be- come more and more closely associated with the destiny of our country will not be alone in bene- fiting by this assistance; it will be valuable also to that noble and unfortunate contingent of the African race which was torn from its own continent
400 years ago, and to a great part of the native population of the New World. It is in the name of all these people that I ask Unesco to help us in our effort to make them due amends.    Ня
125 РЕНА [123] The future of the United Nations Edu- cational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is a matter which closely affects and concerns us. We consider that its programme needs to be drawn up with an increasingly wide outlook, and prepared in agreement with men of distinguished mind who devote themselves to thinking out, for mankind as a whole, the problems upon which its salvation depends. We must try henceforth to confine our work to long-term projects, carefully considered and co-ordinated by a body of experts. [124] We have reached the middle of the twen- tieth century. A painful and disappointing century it has been! So rich in extraordinary acquisitions and so void of moral sense! In some ways it recalls the terrors of the year 1000 which seemed to herald the" end of the world: Let us hope that the time wasted will be recovered, and that the era of our redemption will dawn as this century closes! Man, liberated from the anguish and terror which have so often beset him will then awaken to a con- sciousness of his destiny and strive, with all the means at his command, to ensure the preservation and to perfect the quality of our species. [125] Unesco was born, and must pursueits task, under the twofold sign of peace and truth. May it do so to the utmost, remembering St. Augustine's great admonition: in necessariis unitas, in dubiis libertas, in omnibus caritas. [126] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) — [Translation from the French] Mr. Presi- dent, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen. From the very inception of Unesco, Belgium has collaborated in its work, not only in a spirit of loyalty, but with genuine conviction and with deep faith in the ideal of drawing all mankind into closer union by means of education, science and culture. And I have no hesitation in saying that these feelings have been strengthened in us by the Secretary- General's splendid speech, which we were privileged to hear at the opening of this Session. They have been encouraged, too, by the many very noble speeches to which we have listened since the beginning of this Sixth Session—I am thinking particularly of the speech made by the delegate of Haiti, which was on a very high moral tone. I am thinking, too, of the speeches we have heard this morning . . . that in which the Indian delegate made his moving appeal to the Western peoples to show a better appreciation than they have done in the past of the Asiatic peoples’ contribution to the cultural heritage of mankind, and those we heard just now when admitting five new members to our midst: speeches which urged us, not to forget—I do not consider that the future should be based on forget- fulness—but to look towards the future—and I am firmly convinced that we must make up our minds to build, henceforth, on fresh foundations. It is in this spirit that the Belgian delegation, too, MEETINGS 7 IT-8 wishes to bring its stone, its contribution to the construction of that magnificent work, the union of all nations on the plane of culture, education and science. Unfortunately, gentlemen, we cannot rest content with generous declarations; we are men who must keep both feet always planted in reality, and we are constantly faced with difficulties and contingencies of a material nature. It is essential for us to consider, as did the Director-General in his statement, by what means we can better the results of that work of good will that we are asked to carry out. That is what I should like to attempt in the short space of time allocated to each delegation in this general discussion. [127] First of all, the Belgian delegation wishes to express its satisfaction at the encouraging results which have crowned the attempt at greater con- centration of the programme: Unesco’s sphere of action is so vast that a few years had necessarily to elapse before fundamental subjects could be ap- proached. This, I think, has now been done. In the first place, there is education, taken in its widest sense—pre-school education, school education ex- tending from the primary to the University level, adult education, fundamental education, and youth movements; and then there is science, more especially scientific co-operation, assistance to inter- national scientific unions, and the foundation of international laboratories. There are the social sciences, there are the cultural activities, and finally, there is technical assistance. [128] These results, though encouraging, are still incomplete. They are particularly so in the field of publications. The present profusion of publications seems to be excessive; it necessitates the employment at the Secretariat of a staff which is out of all proportion to the results achieved. There is the project for a scientific and cultural History of Mankind, which, if it is not to court failure, should be limited to fields in which it is already possible to sift the accumulated stores of erudition, and not attempt a premature summary of universal history. There are the meetings of experts, whose injudicious abundance opens the door to justifiable criticism. In any case, Unesco should apply its funds with strict economy. It should never undertake what can be done as well or better, and at less cost, by some other national or international institution. [129] These efforts to concentrate the programme will, we hope, be facilitated by the adoption of the suggested alteration in the periodicity of Sessions, the principle of which has already been accepted by Belgium. Biennial sessions will place increased re- sponsibility on the Executive Board. In this respect, the Belgian delegation supports the particularly wise remarks made by Professor Piaget. [130] It urges that any statutary modifications necessitated by that reform shall not be decided solely by the wish to maintain the balance of the     РОМАНУ Board’s membership from the geographical view- point. Considerations of regional representation should, no doubt, be kept in mind, but the most important thing is that the Board shall be well balanced from a functional point of view, whatever the nationality of its individual members. The Board should be a team, capable of assisting the Organization to advance towards its objectives in its different spheres of activity, during the interval be- tween Sessions of the Conference. If its member- ship were placed on a too strictly regional basis, and varied in accordance with the frequent changes in the composition of the national delegations, the Organization would run risk of being diverted from the undeviating pursuit of its mission. [131] From the budgetary standpoint, the con- centration of effort is inevitably leading to painful restrictions. International Organizations are bound, like Governments, by the general and stringent law of financial necessity. While the United Nations have been able to soften the effects of that law by adopting an extended programme of technical as- sistance, this resulted from a financial effort which it will hardly be possible to repeat. Those of us who live in the world of politics know what painful sacrifices all Governments are obliged to make every year, under the inescapable pressure of budgetary requirements. During the last legislative period, many Governments were obliged, owing to the state of international tension, to ask their Parliaments to postpone schemes for raising the cultural level of their population, urgent as these schemes may have been. Nevertheless, being well aware of the prime importance of education, science and culture in the struggle to maintain peace, they have agreed to each successive increase in their contributions to inter- national organizations, and in particular to Unesco. They have also made an extra effort, by contributing generously to the United Nations’ extended pro- gramme of technical assistance. [132] Can it, in these circumstances, be hoped that they will give their approval to any new special schemes, drawn up independently of the programme, for the benefit of specialized institutions which al- ready profit by the extended programme of the United Nations? We really do not feel that this is possible at the present moment. Other methods will have to be found, and a fresh choice will have to be made from among the projects submitted to us. [133] The Director-General’s moving appeal for international co-operation in the struggle against the ignorance that still overwhelms two-thirds of the human race was certainly one of the finest passages of his notable speech. Belgium, as a country of ancient culture, feels it her duty to participate in MEETING that struggle. She therefore feels a particular interest in the special project for the establishment of a world network of Centres of Fundamental Edu- cation. The Belgian delegation will take part in the discussion of this project later, when it comes before the Programme Commission. [134] But this particular point raises a general problem which should be considered in the course of this preliminary consideration of the programme in its main lines. That is, the problem of how to make the best use, on the international level, of existing national enterprises. The danger of under- taking international cultural action in a form which would be not merely superposed upon national activities, but even substituted for them, is by no means imaginary. It is so much easier to make a new start, to set up intellectual constructions which appear rational and perfect, but which may easily burst like soap-bubbles at their first contact with reality. Every continent, every political movement, the political parties, the youth movements, the workers’ organizations, the newspapers, and the hundreds of millions of families which make up the human race, all have their own particular cultural activity. It cannot be said too often that inter- national efforts to extend the blessings of culture must be based on these pre-existent factors. To ignore these natural ferments would be to work in a vacuum, denying ourselves the help most essential to any effective action in the scientific and edu- cational fields. This statement applies to Unesco's activity in regard to fundamental education, youth problems, general education, and science. [135] There is one final remark which the Bel- gian delegation would like to make at this juncture: we should be careful to avoid a tendency to pragma- tism which would limit our ambition to the pursuit of immediate results. To help the outcasts of this world to attain an adequate living standard is essen- tial and urgent, but it is not enough. Material pro- gress is doubtless a necessary condition of spiritual progress. Primum vivere, said a wise man of ancient times, deinde philosophari. But philosophy, too, is essential. The whole of mankind longs for the treasures of culture, for truth, beauty and justice. Ourtask is to safeguard that fundamental aspiration. The struggle against ignorance, sickness and poverty is only one aspect of our activity, one of the means we employ: its ultimate aim is to raise the status of man, in order to establish him in the dignity of a reasoning being and to establish in himthat primacy of the spirit which is his distinguishing feature and his patent of nobility. The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m. A V E T N a e e V O — í — = e o