401 О ОА А Е [67] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) and Mr. CATES (United States of America) associated themselves with Mr. Cummins’ remarks. Mr. Cates added that anything the Conference could do to re- cognize the importance of the National Commissions was in the best interests of Unesco. [68] Mr. BARALT (Cuba) supported the proposal put forward by the Australian representative. [69] At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, it was agreed that the Australian proposal should be circulated, for discussion at the Commission’s next meeting. [70] Mr. de the Commission'sBLONAY drew SECOND X/T/ERN'AL REL ATT PONS VI-2 attention to the final recommendations of the Meeting of Representatives of National Commissions (document 6C/OXR/2 rev. 1 pp. 4 and 5). Those recommendations had not been submitted for approval, but the Commission would wish to take them into account, especially in connexion with the work of the Regional Office in Havana, which would moreover come up for discussion at a later meeting of the Commission. [71]° On the CHAIRMAN's theproposal, Com- mission set up a drafting Committee, consisting of the representatives of France, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Uruguay. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. MEETING Thursday, 28 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. EF. G. Mamerr (Italy) Consideration of Recommendations Submitted to the General Conference by the Represen- tatives of National Commissions at their Third Meeting. (Item 10.4.1 of the Agenda.) [1] The SECRETARY resolution, as follows: read the Australian draft In view of the recommendations adopted at this Sixth Session of the General Conference to strengthen and support the work of National Commissions in Member States, the General Conference requests the Director- General to take particular note of these recommendations and to ensure that National Commissions are consulted onall possible occasions, including the selection or con- sultation of experts, and that, where possible, National Commissions are given the responsibility, which should progressively increase, of assisting directly in carrying out appropriate parts of Unesco's general programme. [2] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) assured the meeting that the Director- General would continue to consult the National Commissions on all possible occasions. The Secre- tariat had taken the necessary measures to promote the closest possible co-operation with those Com- missions, which had, that year, been entrusted with the execution of a number of projects. There was no denying, however, that, in view of the disparity between the National Commissions, they could not be made wholly responsible for the execution of projects; and the Director-General had, in some cases, to resort either to direct action by the Secre- tariat, or to the aid of non-governmental Organi- zations. [3] With regard to the methods employed for the selection of experts, Mr. de Blonay drew the Com- mission’s attention to item 11 in the Statement of Methods adopted by the Florence Conference (Records of the General Conference, Fifth Session, Resolutions, page 73), which he proceeded to read out. He said that the Secretariat had tried to adhere closely to that procedure, and would continue to do so. [4] The Australian resolution was adopted, and referred to the Drafting Committee to be put in final form. [6] Mr. CATES (United States of America) noted that in some countries National Commissions were not yet formed and in others they were not so active as might be desired. He therefore proposed that the resolutions should include a clause which would promote the creation of National Commissions where they did not yet exist and provide for the stimulation        =F VI:2 OEA AND of those whose degree of activity left something to be desired. He left the form of words to the discre- tion of the Drafting Committee. [6] Agreed. Collaboration with the United Nations with Respect to Educational Advancement in Non- Self-Governing Territories (Item 10.5.4 of the Agenda) (document 6C/OXR/7). [7] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Rela- tions Service) introduced the document as a progress report. Work under paragraph 6 of the resolution adopted by the United Nations General Assembly at its Fifth Session was going forward and good pro- gress was being made. The meeting of the General Assembly was to take place later in 1951 than in previous years, so that Unesco would have more time in which to prepare the two important reports to which reference was made on page 3, para- graph one. [8] Mr. HABIB (India) read the following state- ment: The Indian delegation cordially approves the resolution of the General Assembly and, as an Indian delegate —Mr. Shiwa Rao—was Chairman of the Special Sub-Com- mittee on Education in non-self-governing territories, our agreement with what is being done at the international level may be presumed. It is to be hoped that all metropolitan Powers will co-operate in putting this Special Committee on a permanent footing. I have before me a statement of Mr. Shiwa Rao to the effect that all discussions at this Education Sub-Committee took place in an atmosphere of goodwill. [9] However, education is primarily a task not for the United Nations bodies but for the metropolitan Powers, and the Indian delegation feels in duty bound to state that it is not at all satisfied with the pace at which education is progressing in colonial areas. The days have gone by when my countrymen spoke without a share of the responsibility. We are quite aware of the difficulties that the metropolitan Powers, and in particu- lar the United Kingdom, are facing in this field. Where the productive capacity of the people is low, the revenues will be small, and in a limited budget which is not increasing, little can be spared for education and other nation-building activities. Nevertheless, if the United Kingdom and the other metropolitan Powers adopt, in the problem of colonial education, the policy which Great Britain adopted in India during the twentieth century—a policy which has enabled it to extend political freedom to four important countries represented here (Pakistan, India, Ceylon and Burma)—the Indian delegation feels certain that all the colonial areas will be fitted to shoulder the responsibilities of self-governing states within a single generation. [10] The Indian delegation feels certain that the delegate of the United Kingdom and, in fact, all present will agree that the greatest tribute that can be paid by EXTERNAL world history to an imperial Power is that it found its subjects backward and uneducated and enabled them to reorganize themselves into a free and democratic State. It is only thus that the colonial system, which we all dislike, can be brought to an end. The solution of the problem lies primarily in the educational fields. The Indian delegation appeals to the United Kingdom, of whose sincerity our national experience does not leave us the slightest doubt, to hasten the good work. For, where the United Kingdom leads, the other metro- politan Powers are sure to follow. [11] Next, so far as the Unesco programme is concerned, the Indian delegation is happy to note that one con- ference of experts will be meeting in Paris in Novem- ber 1951 to consider the language question, while another in the same month will give special attention to the standardization of educational statistics. The Indian delegation earnestly hopes that non-metropolitan Powers and ex-colonial areas, such as Pakistan, India, Ceylon, Burma and Indonesia, will be adequately represented at these conferences. Of their cordial co-operation, there need be no doubt. [12] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) thanked the Indian delegate for his tribute and assured him that the United Kingdom would intensify its efforts to bring all grades of education to the peoples of the territories fornon-self-governing which it was responsible. [13] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) endorsed the tribute paid by the Indian delegate to the United Kingdom. He had received documentary evidence of the efforts made by the United Kingdom Govern- ment to bring education to the peoples of Africa, and he joined the Indian delegate in expressing the hope that other governments would follow the example of the United Kingdom Government, in order to bring the old colonial system to an end. [14] Mr. CATES (United States of America) drew attention to the fact that some members of the Commission might not have been aware that the Education Sub-Committee of the Special Committee on Education had called upon Unesco to study the problem of indigenous languages. He hoped that the reports of the conferences would be circulated. [15] The meeting would be interested to learn that Unesco, in collaboration with the South Pacific Commission, had conducted a survey of methods for eradicating illiteracy in that area and of the problem of teaching in the vernacular. The United States had greatly appreciated the progress made and hoped that the collaboration with Unesco would continue to be effective. [16] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that his Govern- ment had set up an expert advisory Panel of Funda- mental Education in Papua which came within the region to which the United States delegate had re- ferred. Australia, as a member of the South Pacific   RELATIONS 402 A M E : E E с т И е н е е е е у е е н и е е е т о и и е т L F { F S O I SN,E E E F F ح ي س ج ج ح ‎ F I A | A DeeAEa
403 Com ехрг| [17] terrif ofc schod ami catio staff. to tl then the $ The genu cepti Euro tions socie [18] deleg ficial with past Gene [19] the four Unes Africd the r leave Arabi count [20] by th ment Genel to tal whic [21] missi and d Speci [22] Colla (Iten OXR/ [23] Relati set of    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [ | | i | í í
403 TELCEL AND Commission, joined the United States delegate in expressing appreciation of Unesco's participation. [17] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) said that, in the territories under Belgium's jurisdiction, 50 per cent of children of school age were attending primary school. Pupils selected by a process of stiff ex- amination then went on to receive a thorough edu- cation designed to fit them to form a native teaching staff. The authorities were paying special attention to the position of women, with the object of giving them the education necessary to release them from the slavery in which too many of them still lived. The Belgian authorities were striving to build a genuine native civilization in which the moral con- ceptions and scientific and technical progress of Europe would combine with the characteristic tradi- tions and customs of the native races to produce a society based on the harmonyof interests and ideals. [18] Mr. LUCET (France) said that the French delegation was satisfied with the useful and bene- ficial work accomplished by Unesco, in co-operation with the United Nations, in that sphere during the past few months. He proposed that the Director- General's report should be adopted. [19] Mr. SALEH (Iraq) had noted a reference in the Journal for 25 June 1951, to a telegram from four Moroccan political parties requesting that Unesco help in the eradication of illiteracy in North Africa. Owing to the political phraseology in which the request was drawn up, it had been decided to leave the matter aside. He felt that the use of Arabic for teaching in North Africa and other Arab countries should be examined. [20] Mr. LUCET (France) thought the point raised by the delegate of Iraq concerned the French Govern- ment only. He reminded the meeting that the General Committee of the Conference had decided to take note of the telegram received on the subject, which meant that the question was closed. [21] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Com- mission should approve the Director-General’s report, and express its satisfaction with the work of the Special Committee. [22] That proposal was unanimously approved. Collaboration with the Trusteeship Council (Item 10.5.5 of the Agenda) (document 6C/ OXR/8). [23] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Relations Service) said that copies of the most recent set of Unesco’s comments on the annual reports on EXT EER NAT RELATIONS VI-2 the administration of Trust Territories were available to any delegates interested. That set of comments included information on the experiments in Mexico on the use of the mother tongue in education. The Trusteeship Council had shown interest in that matter. [24] Mr. HABIB (India) considered the use of the mother tongue essential in primary education. A modern nation could be formed, however, only on the basis of a Western language. It was, therefore, important ‘that a Western language (English or French) should be used in higher education. [25] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Executive Board), referring to Annex II of the docu- ment, said that, if the experiment had taken place earlier, much hardship would have been avoided. [26] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) agreed with the Indian delegate on the question of the languages used in teaching. That method had incidentally been adopted by the Belgian authorities. Mr. Maquet thanked the Mexican delegation for having supplied information about the first results secured in the sphere of education; their report would be very valuable to all Governments facing similar problems. [27] Mr. SILLER (Mexico) acknowledged the complimentary remarks made on the subject of the use of the mother tongue in Mexico, and offered to place at Unesco’s disposal all the information on the subject available in his country. [28] In reply to the Mexican delegate, Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that his Government was intending to produce the information in question. [29] The report was approved. Steps Taken by Unesco to Co-ordinate its Activities with those of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies (Item 10.5.3 of the Agenda) (document 6C/OXR/6). [30] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Relations Service) said that the document dealt with only part of the efforts made to co-ordinate activities. The four headings in the document were matters on which Unesco had spontaneously taken action to avoid overlapping or gaps in the programme. [31] Mr. Berkeley pointed to an interesting devel- opment in the machinery for co-ordination which had grown up under the United Nations Adminis- trative Committee on Co-ordination. The responsi- bility for co-ordination was devolving more and more onto the Specialized Agency most concerned, the responsibility being shared on a subject basis.    VI-2 ОК НТО А АТ [32] Thus, while the International Labour Organi- zation had been made responsible for co-ordination in matters of migration and manpower, fundamental education had been entrusted to Unesco. [33] Mr. GROS (United Nations) said that the United Nations’ Secretariat had been pleased to note the progress made in co-ordination, and in particular the progress reported by Mr. Berkeley. He reminded the meeting that the chief responsibility for inter- national co-ordination of all work undertaken in the economic and social field still rested with the Economic and Social Council. [34] Mr. STONE (Australia) understood that reso- lution 318 (XI) of the Economic and Social Council invited Unesco to submit plans for the creation of an International Computation Centre, whereas from the Conference documents it appeared that Unesco was preparing to create a Centre to be financed out of the Working Capital Fund. If Mr. Stone’s inter- pretation of the Conference documents was correct, his Government would take exception to the project, because it considered that the creation of such a Centre was a matter for the Economic and Social Council. [35] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Relations Service) reassured the Australian delegate that plans only were being submitted to the Eco- nomic and Social Council but that, for reasons of timing, it was necessary that some more definite provision should be made in Unesco’s 1952 pro- gramme by the General Conference, at its Sixth Session, before the Economic and Social Council had considered the plans at its session in July 1951. The Australian delegate could rest assured that the Director-General would give the most careful atten- tion to any suggestions made by the Council at its July session. [36] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) pointed out that the Commission could not study the question of the procedure to be adopted for the establishment of international laboratories until the Programme Com- mission had approved the principle. For the moment, he thought that the Commission could only approve the report contained in document 6C/ OXR/6. [37] Mr. STONE (Australia) was not satisfied with the explanation given. He considered that any ten- dency for Unesco to assume the responsibility for creating a Centre would constitute an encroachment on the competence of the Economic and Social Council. [38] Mr. CATES (United States of America), who had been present when the Economic and Social EXTERNAL RELATIONS Council had passed the resolution in question, ex- plained that, in so doing, the Council's intention had been to obtain more precise information than had been forthcoming in the past. He supported the Australian view and expressed the hope that Unesco would: confine itself to the task assigned to it. [39] In the first part of the resolution, the Eco- nomic and Social Council had asked for “an appraisal in an order of priority of the outstanding problems of scientific research”, because, although a com- mittee had met on two occasions, no specific order had been fixed. In that connexion, it might be appropriate for the Director-General to emphasize the reasons for which the Ecosoc resolution had been formulated and to draw the attention of any meet- ing on the subject to the actual points on which the Council required information. [40] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Relations Service) explained that nothing more than a plan was to be set before Ecosoc at its 1951 session. If the plan received the Council's approval, some more definite provision would be required in Unesco's
1952 programme. [41] Ecosoc had suggested that a survey be made of the many international research laboratories concerned with both the natural sciences and the social sciences. The survey was not yet completed. The plans for the International Computation Centre had been given priority by Ecosocitself and for that reason had been placed outside the survey. It was for that reason that Unesco had gone ahead and prepared plans which would be submitted to Ecosoc at its forthcoming session. [42] The report was approved. [43] In reply to a further question from Mr. CATES (United States of America), Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Relations Service) said that resolution 318 (XI) B had been brought before every appropriate body of the Conference; he would verify that it appeared in the documentation of the Pro- gramme Commission. Criteria for the Establishment of Priorities in the Programmeof the United Nations and of the Specialized Agencies (Item 10.5.1 of the Agenda) (document 6C/PRG/2). [44] As the Programme Commission had not completed its discussion of the document, Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Relations Service) thought that it would be difficult for the Commission to do useful work on it. Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) pointed out that[45]    — z e e L E s m
405 CERA AND EN AE RECLAMOS VI-2 the Programme Commission had started to consider document 6C/PRG/2, but that, on the proposal of the United States delegation, it had been decided that the document should be discussed in connexion with the question of programme priorities, which was to be dealt with by the Programme Commission that very day. He thought, therefore, that it would be better for no decision to be taken by the Official and External Relations Commission until the Pro- gramme Commission had made a pronouncement on the subject. [46] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that he would like to see the matter postponed until the Programme Commission had finished discussing the document. [47] Mr. CATES (United States of America) opposed the postponement of the discussion, since he felt that the Official and External Relations Commission could only note the United Nations action, express the hope that Unesco would itself take action on the substance of the Ecosoc resolution, and approve the Secretariat’s decision to refer the matter to the Programme Commission for substantive action. [48] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Relations Service) said that, as the criteria were part of the elaborate machinery which would enable the General Assembly to assess and integrate the pro- grammes of the Specialized Agencies, and as related questions appeared lower down on the Commission’s agenda, the Secretariat considered that the criteria should remain on the agenda. [49] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) observed that document 6C/PRG/2 was based on the principles established by the Economic and Social Council, which had already been accepted; there was, there- fore, no need to discuss them again, but simply to indicate that the Commission was in agreement regarding their application. [60] At the request of the CHAIRMAN, the United States delegate supported the proposal of the Belgian delegation, and it was decided to postpone consider- ation of document 6C/PRG/2 until the Programme Commission had taken a formal decision on the subject. Consideration of the Director-General's Report on the Functioning of Unesco’s Regional Office m the Western Hemisphere (Item 10.4.2 of the Agenda) (documents 6C/OXR/3 and 6C/DR/30). [61] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) commented on the report contained in docu- ment 6C/OXR/3. He drew the attention of the Commission to the difficulties which the Havana Office had had to overcome in order to carry out its very onerous work with limited resources and staff. He said, however, that those difficulties had been slightly lessened by the co-operation of the Field Science Co-operation Office at Montevideo, which had collaborated in all Unesco’s activities. With regard to the budget for that Office in 1952, Mr. de Blonay said that the Director-General con- sidered it impossible, for the moment, to increase the credits to any appreciable extent, except for the appointment of two programme specialists, one for the library and bibliography section, the other for the exchange of persons, with a view to the im- plementation of a recommendation issued by the Regional Conference in Havana. [52] Mr. de Blonay emphasized the excellent results already obtained, notably the accession of new Member States, the establishment of National Com- missions, and the improvement of machinery for collaboration by the countries of the Western Hemi- sphere in Unesco’s work. The experiment had already achieved considerable success, and gave grounds for high hopes. [53] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Executive Board) said that the Executive Board had examined the Cuban proposal (document 6C/DR/30) and recommended that the Commission should take account of its advantages and also of its budgetary implications in connexion with the question of the decentralization of the Organization. [64] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) said that the work of the Office in the Western Hemisphere should be considered in combination with the examination of the Director-General’s report on decentralization (item 10.4.3 of the Commission’s agenda). [55] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) thought Mr. Verniers’ remark was parti- cularly apt in relation to document 6C/DR/30; that document contained a draft resolution calling for an extension of the activities of the Office, which might well be considered as part of the general plan for the decentralization of Unesco’s work. As for document 6C/OXR/3, however, Mr. de Blonay thought that, since it was only a survey of the past work of the Office and contained no precise proposals for the future, the Commission might approve that document immediately, so that it might serve as a guide in discussion of the general question of de- centralization later. [56] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) appreciated the com- ments of the Director-General’s representative on the successful results of the Regional Conference at Havana. The delegation of Cuba warmly approved the recommendation of the Executive Board that the proposal put forward by the Cuban Government should be given sympathetic consideration. He reminded the meeting that the proposal in question       VI-2 OFFICIAL AND EXTERNAL urged that the Office should be provided with adequate resources to fulfil its functions, and that the resolutions approved by the 20 National Com- missions of the Western Hemisphere at Havana should be implemented. [67] Mr. Chediak thought that items 10.4.1,
10.4.2 and 10.4.4 should be considered together, and item 10.4.3 separately. The reason was very simple: the first three referred to questions concern- ing an Office already in existence; while the last referred to the possibility of setting up new offices in other regions. The Cuban delegation was of the opinion that those separate questions should not be taken together. The question was whether the Official and External Relations Commission approved the Director-General’s suggestion, the recommen- dation of the Executive Board, and the resolution adopted by the 20 National Commissions of the Western Hemisphere. [68] Mr. STONE (Australia) stated that his Government opposed any extension of the system of regional offices, and so, while recognizing the value of the work done by the Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere, it would consider that any report linking the increase of funds for such an office with decentralization involved the principle of item 10.4.3 of the agenda. [69] Mr. CATES (United States of America) con- sidered that the Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere might be taken as a pilot project; as such it would militate in favour of decentralization in the Organization. He paid tribute to the great success of the First Regional Conference of National Commissions of the Western Hemisphere and said that his Government would welcome a second. He therefore, supported the Belgian suggestion. [60] Mr. MORISSEAU LEROY (Haiti) warmly supported the Cuban delegation’s draft resolution. He said that the Director of the Havana Regional Office had visited Haiti, with the most encouraging results. In his opinion, that Office was more than merely a pilot project; it was the outpost of Unesco in the Western Hemisphere. [61] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) also supported the Cuban delegation’s draft resolution. He stressed the importance attached to the establishment of similar regional offices by the under-developed countries. Paraphrasing a famous saying: “Chacun en a sa part et tous l’ont en entier”, Mr. Ammoun recommended Unesco to divide its efforts in order to make its presence felt everywhere all the time. [62] Mr. CARRERE SAPRIZA (Uruguay) said that the work carried out by the Regional Office in Cuba, with the help of the Government of that country, deserved general approval. In view of the REUTATTONS 406 results obtained it would be expedient similarly to extend the activities of the Science Co-operation Office at Montevideo, and to adopt a definite policy for disseminating the ideas of Unesco. In con- clusion, he said that he would support the proposal of the Cuban delegation. [63] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the Belgian suggestion, because the experience gained in the Havana Office would be important when deciding whether or not to create other regional offices. [64] In that connexion, Mr. Cowell urged the need for the utmost caution. The Havana Office had been set up in comparatively recent times and it was, in his opinion, early to consider an increase in staff which would have budgetary implications —unstated in document 6C/OXR/3. [65] Mr. Cowell drew attention to the danger of creating a misunderstanding of the nature of Unesco by referring to the “decentralization” of the Organi- zation: Unesco was not a Secretariat only but an organism which could be kept alive only by the efforts of Member States and National Commissions. If regional offices would contribute to that end, he would favour them. Although he would not wish to vote against the Cuban proposal at that stage, nor to cast doubt on the value of the Havana Office, he felt that the greatest care should be taken in advancing upon the lines indicated, in view of the danger of diminishing the spontaneous efforts of Member States. In conclusion, he requested information on the budgetary increase required for the appointment of the two additional experts, and asked whether the Commission considered that the Havana experience was sufficient to justify the creation of other similar offices. [66] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said that it was clear from the discussion that questions concerning the Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere were closely linked with the report forming item 10.4.3 of the agenda for the next meeting. He suggested that discussion of documents 6C/OXR/3 and 6C/DR/30 should be resumed in conjunction with the debate to be held the following day ón the question of decentralization as a whole, which was dealt within document 6C/ OXR/4. The Commission could then consider concrete, practical questions such as the budget for the Havana Office for 1952, and the general policy it should follow. [67] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) supported that suggestion, which would enable the delegations to make a more detailed study of the problem as a whole. [68] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) accepted the suggestion   gic rec he: sta iza bec adc the [3] Off ow to for Off cor   OER AN AND EX TER NAT RELATIONS of the Director-General’s representative to defer discussion until the following day; he expressed his satisfaction that the Regional Conference at Havana had provided Unesco with a basis for the possible establishment of other regional offices. [69] It was decided to consider item 10.4.2, to- gether with item 10.4.3 of the agenda for the meet- ing on 29 June. The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m. THIRD MEETING Friday, 29 June 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameri (Italy) Report of the Director-General on the Means and Degree of Decentralization Deemed most Advisable in the Field of the Organization’s Activities (5C/Resolutions, 9.92) (continuation). [1] The CHAIRMAN stated that, together with the report on decentralization (item 10.4.3, document
6C/OXR/4), the Commission would have to discuss items 10.4.2 (document 6C/OXR/3) and 10.4.4 (document 6C/OXR/15) relating to Unesco’s Re- gional Office in the Western Hemisphere and to the recommendations of the Havana Conference, as well as the draft resolution presented by the Cuban dele- gation (document 6C/DR/30). [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated in the first place that he would favour, not so much “decentral- ization”—an inappropriate term for an organization whose activities were world-wide—but rather the adaptation of the whole programme to the special needs of the various regions of the world, without thereby in any way implying a change in the general programme or structure of the Organization's head- quarters. Contrary to what certain Member States might have thought, such a policy could not lead to a reduction in the numberof experts required at headquarters. There should be no misunder- standing on that point. The so-called decentral- ization policy was bound to be costly in practice, because the headquarters staff would have to do additional work in order to control the activities of the regional offices. [3] With regard to the Field Science Co-operation Offices, the report was perhaps not sufficiently clear, owing to the fact that the Executive Board’s decision to present it had been taken belatedly. It would be for the Programme Commission, together with the Official and External Relations Commission, to consider whether the Science Co-operation Offices should be converted into the future regional offices or not. [4] If the Commission were to decide, in principle, that regional offices should be set up, it would be difficult, for financial reasons, to give effect to such a decision during the current year, and, if those offices were not to remain a pious hope, a con- siderable increase in the Organization’s budget would have to be expected at the next session of the General Conference. [6] Once the financial question had been settled, there would remain the problem of defining the regions. Expressions such as the “Middle East”, “South-East Asia” or the “Far East” had become out of date, and the Programme Commission was in receipt of proposals to replace them by listing in each region those countries with similar cultural, social and economic conditions. It seemed useful to set up a joint committee of the two Commissions to re-group the various States. [6] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) also thought that the term “decentralization” was inappropriate to Unesco's world-wide coverage. It might be better to speak of adapting Unesco's work to the specific needs of certain regions of the world. As for the definition of regions, the Belgian delegate entirely agreed with the Director-General. The whole problem was, incidentally, governed by financial considerations and, in view of the figures given on pages 21 and following of the report (document
6C/OXR/4), it “might well be asked whether it would be possible, at that stage, to put the project for the establishment of regional offices into effect. [7] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) agreed with the Director-General on the question of terminology. Unesco's work wanted, not “decentralizing”, but rather extending and stimulating. Admittedly the o o — ‏ م ت ت C E L e В е Е я о о о д е