263 СЕМЕНА СОМ МЕ : TIT-11 ELEVENTH MEETING Tuesday, 10 July 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. HowzLanp SARGEANT (United States of America) [1] The CHAIRMAN read a telegram from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, announcing that the Government of Laos had signed Unesco’s Constitution on 9 June and had deposited the instruments of acceptance on 9 July. [2] Consequently, as from 9 June 1951, Laos had become a Member State of Unesco with full voting powers. Organization of the Work of the Last Plenary Meetings. [3] The CHATRMAN communicated the agenda of the last plenary meetings to members of the General Committee; the last meetings would be taken up by the presentation of reports of Commissions and Committees; Other Questions, expressions of gra- titude and closing speeches. [4] At the meeting at 3 p.m. on 10 July, it was anticipated that reports would be presented by the Committee on Reports of Member States, the Official and External Relations Commission and the Adminis- trative Commission; there was also to be a speech by the representative of the Vatican. With regard to the latter speech, the Chairman would prefer it to be delivered at the beginning of a meeting at 3 p.m. on
10 July, or at the morning meeting on 11 July. [6] At the meeting at 10.30 a.m. on 11 July, the Programme Commission, the Procedure Committee and the Budget Committee would present their’ re- ports. If the Conference finished its consideration of those reports fairly early, it would also consider docu- ments 6C/10 (Celebration of the fifth centenary of Christopher Columbus) and 6C/DR/86 (Tribute to the City of Paris: resolution presented by the dele- gations of Haiti and Lebanon); it would hear a brief statement by Mr. Lhérisson; and the Head of the delegation of Laos, who had not had an opportunity of speaking when his country was admitted to Unesco, would also be invited to say a few words. [6] If it took longer than the morning meeting to consider the three reports of the Commission and Committees, there would be a short meeting in the afternoon to consider the latter items on the agenda. [7] The Chairman next made a few suggestions regarding the procedure to be followed in presenting the reports of Commissions and Committees. At the Florence Session of the Conference, it had become clearthat it was not desirable to allow long discussions to take place, at the last plenary meetings, on ques- tions dealt with in the reports; it had been decided to accept the viewthat all such questions had already been thoroughly discussed and that any further debate would add nothing to the conclusions reached. The Chairman thought that the same procedure should be adopted at the end of the Sixth Session: the Rapporteurs should be allowed all the time they needed to present their reports, with any comments which they wished to make; delegates who had no objections to make would be requested notto ask to speak; those who wished to offer any criticisms would be allowed to do so briefly and to receive a reply from the Rapporteur concerned; a vote would then be taken without further discussion. The above procedure had proved successful af the Florence Ses- sion of the Conference. [8] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that he was entirely satisfied with the procedure mentioned and also with the results which it had produced. [9] Count Jacini was anxious, however, that the Rapporteurs should be asked to present their reports on the work of their Commission or Committee as simply as possible, without adding too manyof their own personal views, which might lead to a re- opening of the debate. [10] Returning to the agenda of meetings, the Chairman of the Executive Board announced his intention of saying a few words on the celebration of the fifth centenary of Christopher Columbus, after Mr. de Berredo Carneiro had introduced the subject. He hoped that the President would allow him, as an Italian, to speak on that subject. [11] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that both Count Jacini’s suggestions were excellent. With regard to the presentation of reports, he recalled that the personal views expressed by certain Rapporteurs at the 1949 Session of the Conference had given rise to long discussions, and such a danger should be avoided in future. Further, he considered that Count Jacini should be allowed to speak after Mr. de Ber- redo Carneiro, not only as an Italian, but also as Chairman of the Executive Board. He wondered, however, whether other delegates would not wish to speak on the same subject and, in order to avoid too many speeches, he suggested that speakers on   I-11 GENERAL the celebration of the fifth centenary of Christopher Columbus should be limited to three, or even two. Mr. de Berredo Carneiro would speak first, then Count Jacini, and the President of the Conference might add a few words, explaining that there would be no further speakers on that subject. suggested[12] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) that the third speaker should be the Director-General, speaking on behalf of the General Committee. [18] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that he had no right to represent the General Committee of the Conference. He thought that the President of the Conference might speak on behalf of the General Committee, after Mr. de Berredo Carneiro and Count Jacini. [14] Agreed. [15] Mrs. PECSON (Chairman of the Committee on Reports of Member States) wondered whether it would not be expedient, in order to shorten the presentation of the reports of Commissions and Com- mittees, to request the Rapporteurs not to read their reports, but simply to comment thereon. [16] The proposal was adopted. Letter to the Director-General from the Czechoslovak Chargé d’Affaires in Paris. [17] Returning to a matter which had been dis- cussed by the General Committee at its previous meet- ing, the CHAIRMAN stated that a draft reply to the Chargé d’Affaires of the Czechoslovak Embassy had been communicated to him, that he had studied the part of the letter which concerned the General Com- mittee, noting that it took account of the suggestions made during the debate, and that the draft reply had then been transmitted to the Executive Board for approval of the part concerning it. [18] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive COMMITTEE Board) announced that the Working Party appointed by the Executive Board to study the matter had not | yet drafted its report. Request from the Representative of the League of Red Cross Societies to Speak at a Plenary Meeting. [19] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) announced that he had received a request from the representative of the League of Red Cross Societies, who was unable to attend that day’s meeting of the Programme Commission and therefore wished to be allowed, as a special favour, to speak at a plenary meeting, when the Programme Commission’s report was presented. [20] Mr. Montagnier recalled that, under Rule 68 of the Rules of Precedure, the General Committee of the Conference could, exceptionally, authorize represen- tatives of international non-governmental and semi- governmental organizations to address the Conference in plenary meeting. [21] The CHAIRMAN feared that to grant the re- quest would create a dangerous precedent, opening the door to a large number of similar applications. [22] The request of the representative of the League of Red Cross Societies was rejected. [23] Before closing the meeting, the CHAIRMAN wished to say how much he had enjoyed working in such perfect harmony with the members of the Gen- eral Committee, who had formed an excellent team and had applied themselves to their task with great competence and loyalty. He thanked them. [24] Mr. MONTEL (France) observed that it was chiefly owing to the Chairman that the General Com- mittee had been able to accomplish its task in an unfailingly friendly atmosphere. On behalf of all his colleagues, he congratulated and thanked the Chairman. The meeting rose at 10.15 a.m.