GENERAL THIRD COMMITTEE MEETING Saturday, 23 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Request by Mr. Hans Gottfurcht, Represen- tative of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, to Address the General Conference (document 6C/8). [1] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the represen- tative of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions should be authorized to address the Programme Commission, as being the appropriate body to deal with the matter which he wished to raise. That solution would be in conformity with precedents. [2] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) said that perhaps the address could be given at a plenary meeting, between the end of the general discussion and the Director-General's reply; it should be limited to 5 or 10 minutes. [3] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL warned the Com- mittee that a great many non-governmental organi- zations might take such a decision as a precedent. He thought it would be better if Mr. Gottfurcht made a short address before the Programme Commission, at the end of its work. [4] The CHAIRMAN expressed the hope that the matter would not give rise to discussion. [5] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) proposed that the representative of the International Con- federation of Free Trade Unions should be given a hearing by the Programme Commission. [6] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it might be better, to avoid wounding the susceptibilities of the non-governmental organization in question, to leave it to the organization itself to arrange, in consultation with the Programme Commission, the time when the speech should be given, bearing in mind that it should not last more than 10 minutes. [7] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) agreed to arrange for a short speech to be given at the beginning of his Commission's work. [8] The motion was adopted. Mr. HOowLAND SARGEANT (United States of America) Telegram sent from Tangiers, on 18 June 1951, by the Heads of Four Moroccan Political Parties. [9] The CHAIRMAN communicated the text of the telegram as follows: Learnt with interest inclusion India equatorial Africa among zones centres propagation culture and campaign against illiteracy. Peoples North Africa who meet all sorts difficulties in their fight against illiteracy due popular efforts constantly exposed attacks by French colonial administration ask your Organization to adopt North Africa as centre of fight against illiteracy. The independent parties signing this message have honour propose Unesco take Tangiers as seat of organization fight against illiteracy in North Africa. These same parties protest with all the strength of united desire of Moroccan people for culture against the steps taken by pasha of Marrakesh acting under orders of French man- date and French central administration. (Signed) For the Parties: Independance A. Fassi, Unité independance A. Nacmri, Réformes nationales A. Torres, Démocrate independance A. BENSUDA. [10] The Chairman noted that, in the past, the General Committee had not put requests of that kind on the agenda of the General Conference and that, as the persons signing the telegram did not represent a MemberState, they had no standing in that body. It was usual, in such cases, for the President of the Conference to acknowledge receipt of the request. [11] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) considered that the second part of the telegram was hostile to a Member State of Unesco. He proposed that the Committee should note the telegram, but that no action should be taken on it. [12] Agreed. Organization of the Work of the Session (con- tinuation). (a) Report of the Chairman of the Administrative Commission. [13] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair: man of the Administrative Commission) said that one working party had already begun studying two questions: the scale of MemberStates’ contributions,      E E T P | e e —   а . ok . A R , ‏ م ح م . ب
245 GENERAL and the currencies in which they should be paid. He stated that the Administrative Commission was about to consider the financing of the 1952 Budget and, if there was time, the questions of the adminis- tration of the Working Capital Fund and the recovery of arrears. [14] The CHAIRMAN considered that, as discussion of the method of financing the programme would take up most of the day, the plenary meeting of the General Conference scheduled for the Sadurday afternoon should be postponed until the morning of Monday, 25 June 1951. The Executive Board would then be able to meet on the Saturday afternoon. [15] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed that the General Committee should meet on Monday «morning,
25 June, to hear the Chairman of the Administrative Commission's report on that point. [16] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) said that a plenary meeting of the General Conference would be able to discuss the budget only when the Ad- ministrative Commission had determined what pro- portion of the “x” million dollar total budget figure could in fact be spent in 1952. He hoped that the postponement of the plenary meeting would allow the Administrative Commission time enough to give at least a provisional indication. He suggested that, if necessary, the Administrative Commission should suspend consideration of other items of its agenda in order to be able to supply the information required in time for a plenary meeting on Monday, 25 June. [17] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) thought he would be able to report on the Monday morning on the utilizing of the unexpended balance of preceding years in the 1952 Budget, but he was not sure that he would be able to give a decision on other matters, in particular, that of arrears. [18] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked Sir John for his proposal and asked him whether the figure “x” to which he had referred meant the Budget Estimates submitted for the Conference’s approval. If that were so, it would be necessary to take into account, a figure “y” to be fixed by the Adminis- trative Commission, based on arrears, surpluses and any other moneys which might be allotted to the financing of the 1952 Programme. The General Conference would consider those figures and the draft Programme when the time came for it to decide on the ceiling for the 1952 Budget. [19] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) asked whether it might not be possible for a short report containing the advice of the Administrative Com- mission to be in the hands of all delegates on the morning of Monday, 25 June 1951. COMMITTEE 1113 [20] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured the Com- mittee that the Secretariat would meet Sir John's request. [21] It was then decided that: (a) A short report on the resources available for financing the 1952 programme should be delivered to all delegates on the morning of Monday, 25 June; and (b) A plenary meeting of the General Conference should be held on the morning of that day, at which the Director-General would submit the budget estimates for 1952. (b) Report of the Chairman of the Programme Commission. [22] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) said that, at its first meeting, the Commission had formed working parties: one party of eight would study youth problems; another of
16 would concern itself with questions relating to science laboratories and the arid zone. A third, with
10 members, would study questions connected with Human Rights. Mr. Piaget said that two other groups had been considered, the first, consisting of
30 members, to deal with fundamental education questions, and the second, of 29 members, with cultural activities. Although there would not appear to be any material obstacle to the constitution of those two working parties, Mr. Piaget was afraid that too many delegations would be represented in them, and wondered if the parties could not be cut out or the membership reduced to about 10 by a system of election. [23] Mr. Piaget said that he had suggested that the Programme Commission should adopt without dis- cussion document 6C/PRG/2, which defined the criteria for establishing priorities, as the starting- point for the discussion of the draft programme. However, the Commission had decided to examine that document first, and Mr. Piaget thought there might be a meeting for that purpose on Monday morning, 25 June, even though the budget ceiling would not then have been fixed. [24] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the meeting that the splitting up of the work between several large sub-committees had in the past led to dispersal of effort in the programme, which attempts were now being made to avoid. The Executive Board had thought that that difficulty would not arise if the Commissions set up small working parties to deal with specially defined tasks that called for a more thorough study than the Commissions could give them. The Director-General therefore suggested asking the Programme Commission to reconsiderits decisions on the setting up of the working parties, and itself to discuss all programme items, reserving the right to set up small groups later for the study E R ‏| ب ج ج ح ب ا ج د
1-3 GENERAL of matters which it had been impossible to examine at length in the general debate. [25] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) agreed with the Director-General. Too many delegations wished to sit on all the committees and working parties; he proposed that the latter should be small and should try to avoid purely academic discussion. [26] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) proposed that the working parties on fundamental education and cultural activities should be eliminated, and set up later only if the general discussion showed them to be necessary. He did, however, wish to continue with the working parties on youth problems and the duties of the State in relation to Human Rights, as they were small and had well-defined tasks. [27] Mr. MONTEL (France) supported the views of the Director-General and Mr. Piaget; to avoid splitting up the Commissions into compartments, it would be best to have only small working parties dealing with clearly defined questions. [28] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) also sup- ported those views. He proposed that working parties should be set up only where needed, and that their members should be limited to nine, though they should, at their discretion, be able to avail themselves of the advise of other delegations and representatives of non-governmental organizations. [29] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed with the Chairman of the Administrative Com- mission, and suggested:
(1) That the General Committee should re- commend that working parties should be composed of between 10 and 12 members, 12 being the maxi- mum;
(2) That each working party should be given precise terms of reference; and
(3) That working parties should be set up as early as possible in order to report to the Programme Commission in good time. [30] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought Sir John's proposal a very good one. He suggested 12 as the maximum number for a working party, so as to take account of geographical distribution. [31] Regarding the working party on questions relating to Human Rights, the Director-General observed that that problem was the very basis of Unesco’s programme and that the working party might, for that reason, have to examine all the sections of the programme. He asked the Chairman of the Programme Commission if he would keep in being only the working parties on youth problems COMMITTEE 246 and on science laboratories and the arid zone, and consider Sir John’s proposal on the other activities. [32] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) agreed with the Director-General. John[33] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) seconded Sir Maud’s proposal. [34] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administration Commission) thought
10 should be the maximum number of members for a working party, but the DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that, if it were fixed at 12, it would be easier to secure agreement and, in some cases, the number would probably be less. [85] The Committee recommended that the Pro- gramme Commission should retain the working parties on science laboratories and the arid zone and on youth problems only. [36] It further decided to adopt Sir John Maud's suggestions, and to recommend that they should apply to all working parties. [37] In reply to Mr. MAMELI (Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission), the CHAIRMAN said that, with the exception of the two working parties of the Programme Commission, working parties would be set up, in the course of a Commission’s or Committee’s work, when the need became apparent rather than at the beginning of the session. [38] Agreed. (e) Report of the Chairman of the Procedure Committee. [39] Mr. SAGLAM (Chairman of the Procedure Committee) said that his Committee’s work was well advanced. The question of biennial sessions of the Conference would be opened that afternoon and the Committee’s work would probably be completed without exceeding the number of meetings foreseen. The CHAIRMAN congratulated the Chairman of the Procedure Committee on the progress made. [40] [41] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) asked whether the Procedure Committee could not meet during the afternoon of 23 June in order to conclude at the earliest possible moment the business arising out of the change in the frequency of sessions of the General Conference. [42] Mr. MANACH (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) recalled that a resolution submitted by the Cuban delegation was to be circulated. Until
247 GENERAL delegates had received the text of that resolution, no useful purpose would be served by convening a meeting of the Procedure Committee. [43] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) reminded the meeting that the Executive Board was to meet that day, Saturday, 23 June. [44] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) said that the working party on science laboratories would start its work that afternoon at
3 p.m. [45] Replying to Mr. MONTEL (France), Mr. PIAGET specified that the working party of
16 members would be split up into three small groups, each studying a part of the question it had to consider. [46] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) was aware of the point raised by the Chairman of the Executive Board but, in view of the fact that the Procedure Committee was behind schedule and that the meeting contemplated would coincide with other important meetings if left until 25 June, he felt that the Procedure Committee should meet on the after- noon of 23 June. He considered that the two resolu- tions could be circulated in time for such a meeting. [47] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) foresaw some difficulty in calling a meeting of the Procedure Committee at that time. The Executive Board had so far dealt with only 12 or 14 of the
38 resolutions before it. Any further delay in the Board’s work would interfere with the progress of the Programme Commission. [48] Mr. MANACH (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) thought that at least one of the two resolutions before the Procedure Committee would be adopted and that a short meeting only would be required for that purpose. [49] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) recalled that, as it had been unable to reach agreement, the Procedure Committee had resolved to defer a decision until its next meeting on Monday, 25 June. If that meeting took place that Saturday afternoon, many dele- gations might not be represented and would regret that no opportunity had been given them to study the question. [50] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) agreed with Mr. Seydoux. [51] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) withdrew his proposal. [62] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the meeting of the Procedure Committee should take place on the afternoon of 25 June 1951 in order to avoid COM MI TT KE 111-3 coinciding with the plenary meeting of the General Conference. [53] Agreed. [54] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) feared that it might not be possible to hold a meeting at that time, as it was unlikely, in his opinion, that the plenary meeting would terminate its business in the morning. Reference to the Commissions and Committees of the 38 Draft Resolutions Presented by Dele- gations. [55] The CHAIRMAN said that it was proposed to refer the resolutions as follows: (1) document
6C/DR/1 to the Administrative Commission;
(2) documents 6C/DR/2 to 6C/DR/29 and 6C/DR/
31 to 6C/DR/38 to the Programme Commission; and
(3) document 6C/DR/30 to the Official and Ex- ternal Relations Commission. [66] That would not, of course, relieve the Budget Committee of its duty of examining the financial implications of the resolutions in question. [57] Replying to Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Committee), the CHAIRMAN said that, in view of the Budget Committee’s terms of reference and the Executive Board's schedule of work, it would be preferable for the Budget Committee to consider the resolutions before they were discussed in the Programme Commission. [58] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) pointed out that, as the Secretariat had made estimates for each resolution, those estimates might serve as a guide to the Commissions in discussing the resolutions. The Budget Committee might there- fore prefer to consider only those resolutions which were referred to it by the Commissions. [59] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) enquired whether the end of the following week would be early enough for the Budget Com- mittee to communicate its advice. [60] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) reminded the meeting that his Com- mission had decided to discuss the directives before examining the draft Programme. The new resolu- tions would be discussed as they appeared in the Programme, and those which had been approved would be sent straight to the Budget Committee so that it could return them as soon as possible. [61] At the suggestion of Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Committee), it was agreed that he should consult privately with the Chairman of the Programme Commission with a view to a satisfactory arrangement.          ¡NES CEN ERAT [62] In reply to Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission), the CHAIRMAN said that the Programme Commission would meet on the morning of 26 June 1951. Letter from the Head of the Korean Delegation. [63] The CHAIRMAN read the following letter received from the Head of the Korean delegation. Next Monday, 25 June, will mark the first anniversary of armed aggression in Korea, and of United Nations action to repell that aggression and to uphold the cause of collective security. I would therefore request the privilege of addressing briefly on that day, the plenary session of the General Conference, in order to point out the fundamental signi- ficance of the step taken for the first time in the history of the world to punish armed aggression by collective force; and also to note the great task undertaken by Unesco, in accordance with the resolution approved by the Executive Board (23 EX/Decisions, Item 4), to aid in the educational reconstruction of my country and to promote understanding and support among the people of the world, of the efforts of the United Nations to assure collective security to all nations. Korea will be very grateful for this opportunity to bring before Unesco’s General Conference the meaning of these actions which involve the peace and welfare of all people. Signed: Kyu Hone CrYUN, Chief Delegate of Korea. [64] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) was prepared to accede to the request. He remarked that the Executive Board had paid tribute to the sacrifices of the United Nations troops by observing a minute’s silence. [65] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) thought the request had a political character. [66] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) felt that, in a short business conference such as the Unesco General Conference, such request should be reduced to a minimum. He suggested that the matter should be left to the President of the Conference. In any case, there should be no discussion as a result of any speech by the Korean delegate. [67] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) agreed. [68] The CHAIRMAN appealed for the Committee's guidance on the form which the commemoration should take. If he received no further indications from the Committee, he would allow the Korean delegate to speak, another delegate to reply, and would then ask the Conference to observe one minute's silence. [69] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme COMMITTEE 248 Commission) shared the views of the United King- dom delegate. [70] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) proposed that the President of the Conference should draw attention to the anniversary and invite the Conference to stand in silence in memory of the sacrifices of the United Nations” troops lost in the Korean campaigns. There should be no speeches. [71] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) seconded that proposal. [72] The CHAIRMAN considered that some form of commemoration was necessary, as the United Nations would observe the anniversary. He warned the Committee of the danger to Unesco's reputation of refusing the legitimate request of a Member State on a day of that significance. [73] Mr. MONTEL (France) proposed that a decision should be deferred until the Committee met on Monday, 26 June, so that its members could consult their delegations. [74] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) considered that the members of the General Committee sat as representatives of the Conference's organs and not as representatives of their delegations. He did not see why the Com- mittee should not adopt Sir John’s proposal at once: it seemed to him to underline Unesco’s solidarity with the United Nations, but would not lead to a discussion, which would unavoidably take on a political aspect. [75] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) said that it would be unfortunate if the Korean delegate were left without an answer to his request until 25 June. He therefore modified his motion to invite the President of the Conference to inform the Korean delegate that the General Committee would in all probability recommend the observance of one minute’s silence in commemoration of the anniver- sary. A final decision would be taken by the Com- mittee at the meeting on the morning of 25 June. That procedure, if adopted, would have the twofold advantage of giving the Korean delegate a reply and allowing members of the General Committee more time to consider the matter. [76] Mr. MAMELI (Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission) thought that the Committee should accede to the Korean request. [77] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) gave notice of his intention to abstain from any vote, on the grounds that the proposal had political implications. [78] Mr. MANACH (Chairman of the Nominations        e n A . ‏ ن و ب س ي ح م e e — do m —   n n Я Р
249 GENERAL Committee) thought that no reply should be given to the Korean delegate until the Committee was able to communicate a firm decision. [79] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that a question of substance and a question of procedure were involved. As to the first, he supported Sir John Maud’s proposal, and, as to the second, that of Mr. Mañach, for it appeared undesirable to risk reaching a conclusion, at the next meeting, which might contradict a reply already given to the South Korean delegate. [80] Mr. MONTEL (France) thought that, in view of the political implications which the Committee’s decision might have, it would be preferable to consult the delegations and not to reply to the Korean delegate until a final decision had been taken. [81] Mr. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Committee) called for an immediate decision, because postponement would carry with it the disadvantages to which the United Kingdom delegate had referred. [82] Mr. Stone supported the view expressed by the Chairman. Unesco participated, together with the United Nations and other organizations, in pro- grammes for collective security, and so some form of commemoration would be required. He wished to associate himself with the suggestion of the United Kingdom delegate. [83] Mr. SIASSI (Iran) said that the Korean dele- gate could not take exception to not having an immediate reply, since the item was not on the COMMITTEE 111-4 agenda of the current meeting. Mr. Siassi supported Mr. Montel’s proposal for holding over a decision till the next meeting. [84] In reply to Sir John MAUD (United King- dom), the CHAIRMAN said that the French motion, seconded by Iran, was “that the General Committee resolves to take no decision at this meeting on the response to be made to the request of the delegate of Korea to address the General Conference’; the decision to be made on 25 June 1951. [85] The motion was adopted by 7 votes to 4, with 2 abstentions. [86] Mr. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Committee) proposed that the President of the Con- ference should be invited to stress the collective security aspect of the anniversary and to call upon the General Conference to observe one minute's silence. [87] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), seconding the motion, pointed out that its adoption at the current meeting would give the Korean delegate an opportunity to withdraw his request to address the General Conference. If he did so, the meeting would not be faced on 25 June with the dangerous decision to which the Chairman had referred. [88] Mr. Stone’s motion was put to the vote and adopted by 8 votes to 0, with 3 abstentions. The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Monday, 25 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. HOowLAND SARGEANT (United States of America) Commemoration of the First Anniversary of the Outbreak of War in Korea. [1] In reply to Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), the CHAIRMAN recalled that at its third meeting the General Committee had decided:
(1) To postpone until the fourth meeting a decision whether or not to accede to the Korean delegate’s request to speak on the occasion of the anniversary; and
(2) That the President of the Conference should make a brief speech recalling the principles for which the war was being fought, that address to be followed by one minute’s silence. [2] Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India) agreed that the form of commemoration indicated would be the best. He would propose that permission should not be given to the Korean delegate to address the Con- ference, owing to the danger of his making bellicose