673 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE IX-3 THIRD MEETING Wednesday, 4 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Joree MañacH (Cuba) Nomination of Candidates for Vacancies on the Executive Board. [1] The CHAIRMAN explained that the object of the meeting was to reach agreement on the six can- didates to be nominated to the General Conference to fill the seats falling vacant that year on the Executive Board of Unesco. If the General Conference accepted the nominations, the six persons elected would be- come members of the Executive Board at the close of the current session of the General Conference. [2] The Chairman went on to read out the names and nationalities of the six members of the Executive Board whose term of office expired in the current year: (1) Mr. Louis Verniers (Belgium); (2): Mr. Alex Photiades (Greece); (3) Mr. Victor Doré (Canada); (4) Shafik Ghorbal Bey (Egypt); (5) Count Stefano Jacini (Italy); (6) Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan (India). [3] Of those six members, only one—Count Stefano Jacini (Italy)—was re-eligible, since the Constitution stated that no member might serve on the Board for more than two consecutive terms. The remain- ing five outgoing members were not eligible for re- election, since they had already been elected in 1946 and re-elected in 1948. The Chairman pointed out that, in submitting its nominations for the six vacancies, the Committee had, under Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure, to take account of the principles laid down in Article V.A.2 of the Constitution, stating that: “not more than one national of any Member State shall serve on the Board at any one time, the President of the Conference excepted”. [4] The Chairman read out the names of the 12 members of the Board who were continuing in office, as follows: Until 1952: Mr. Luther Evans (United States of America); Mr. P. de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil) ; Mr. C. Parra Pérez (Venezuela); Mr. Roger Seydoux (France); Mr. Alf Sommerfelt (Norway); Mr. Ahmet Kutsi Tecer (Turkey). Until 1953: Sir Ronald Adam (United Kingdom); Mr. Rafael Bernal Jiménez (Colombia); Mr. Antonio Castro Teal (Mexico); Mgr. Jean Maroun (Lebanon); Mrs. Gerónima Pecson (Philippines); Mr. Jean Pia- get (Switzerland). [5] That meant that no members from the follow- mg countries could be elected: Brazil, Colombia, France, Lebanon, Mexico, Norway, Philippines, Swit- zerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela. [6] The Chairman reminded the meeting that, under the terms of Article V.A.1 of the Constitution, the persons nominated had to be selected from amongst the delegates attending the current session of the General Conference; moreover Article V.A.2 stated that, in electing members of the Executive Board, “diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical distribution” had to be taken into account. He added that although Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure sti- pulated that election of members of the Executive Board in the General Conference should be by secret ballot, there were no specific regulations concern- ing the method of voting in the Nominations Com- mittee. In the past, the vote had been taken by secret ballot and, in accordance with Rule 87, para- graph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, he proposed that the same method should be adopted, unless any dele- gate objected. [7] The chairman then read out the written pro- posals which he had received. The United Kingdom delegation had proposed the names of Mr. Bender (Netherlands) and Mr. Sharif (Pakistan). The Greek delegation had proposed Mr. Ribnikar (Yugoslavia). The United States delegation had seconded the nomination of Mr. Sharif (Pakistan) and had pro- posed the name of Sir Arcot L. Mudaliar (India). Mr. Constantin Zurayk (Syria) had been nominated both by the delegation of France and by that of Egypt. [8] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) wished to support the nomination of Mr. Ribnikar, which he had himself proposed. Mr. Ribnikar possessed invaluable cul- tural and administrative qualities; Mr. Photiades reminded the meeting that the Head of the Yugoslav delegation was also Vice-Chairman of the Scientific and Cultural Council of the Yugoslav Government; a Member of Parliament and of the Parliamentary Commission. on Foreign Affairs; a member of the Yugoslav Peace Bureau, and Vice-Chairman of the Yugoslav United Nations Association. He was also director of one of the most important news papers in his country. [9] Mr. Photiades recalled that Mr. Ribnikar had been known in Unesco since 1946. He felt sure that as a member of the Executive Board he would make an invaluable contribution to Unesco’s work.               IX-3 [10] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) sup- ported the nomination of Mr. Ribnikar. [11] The CHAIRMAN informed the Committee that he had received a proposal nominating Count Jacini, and asked Sir John Maud whether he wished to speak. [12] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) thought that no one had a better claim than Count Jacini to be re-elected to the Board, over which he had presided with such distinction during the past year. [13] Sir John also supported the nomination of Mr. Sharif, who, although a relative newcomer, had made an excellent impression. In his position as Educational Adviser to the Government of Pakistan, Mr. Sharif was among the most distinguished edu- cationalists attending the Conference. [14] Sir John Maud warmly seconded the United States nomination of Sir Arcot L. Mudaliar, as well as that of Mr. Bender, who had won distinction both as a philosopher and as a chemist and physician and was known to all as a “Unescan”, having been present at Unesco’s foundation in 1946 and having attended five sessions of the General Conference. Sir John also heartily seconded the nomination of Mr. Rib- nikar and of Mr. Zurayk. He had himself intended to propose the former’s name. [15] Mr. MONTEL (France) said that the French delegation supported the British delegation’s proposal for the re-election of Count Jacini, an outstanding product of the Italy which had been the cradle of so many civilizations, and which had had so profound an influence on the mind of the modérn world. He thought that, by re-electing Count Jacini, Unesco would be showing its gratitude to the distinguished personality who had presided with such tact and devotion over the Florence Conference and the Ex- ecutive Board. [16] Recalling the speech made that morning by the delegate of the United States of America, hailing France as a country of ancient liberties, Mr. Montel, who had been deeply touched by those words, re- called that Count Jacini also had fought for freedom; robbed by the Fascist régime of his seat in Parlia- ment, he had turned to historical research and published seven volumes on the Risorgimento. Then, as soon as he was able, in 1943, he had assumed the leadership of the Italian resistance movement. In renewing his appointment, Unesco would be honour- ing a champion ofall the moral and intellectual values dear to the Organization. [17] The French delegation also supported the nomination of Mr. Zurayk, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Damascus, an eminent historian and a man familiar with all the activities of the United Nations. Mr. Zurayk had represented Syria at the first extraordinary session of the United Nations. Since then, he had divided his time between diplo- NOMINATIONS GOOM M TITI EE macy and history; he was a member of the com- mittee set up to prepare the Cultural History of Man- kind, and Mr. Montel was sure that the would perform invaluable service as a member of the Executive Board. [18] The French delegation welcomed the nomina- tions of Mr. Bender, who had been so efficient a Chairman of the Budget Committee; and Mr. Rib- nikar, whose rousing speech in 1946 at the first Con- ference of Unesco was still remembered. [19] Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) stated that his delegation enthusiastically and unconditionally sup- ported the proposal forthe re-election of Count Jacini to the Executive Board, and hoped that the Con- ference would pay him the tribute of re-electing him unanimously. [20] Mr. Sebastián also supported the nominations of Mr. Sharif, Mr. Bender, andSir Arcot L. Mudaliar (who, in his delegation’s opinion, would be the best person to carry on the fine tradition of Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan) as well as those of Mr. Ribnikar and Mr. Zurayk. 3 [21] The CHAIRMANstated tha: the Chair had no knowledge of any proposal submitted by the dele- gation of Liberia. He asked the Liberian represen- tative if the copy of the speech which had been handed up was to be taken as a formal proposal. [22] The Chairman accepted the request of the representative of Liberia, and stated that Mr. Mas- saquoi would be included in the list of nominations. [23] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought it unnecessary to extol the merits of Count Jacini, who had won universal admiration by that tact and wit which were characteristic of the Italian genius. He paid tribute to the wisdom and goodwill with which that statesman and historian had organized the work of the Executive Board, and he hoped the Commitee would be unanimous in asking him to continue in office. [24] The Brazilian delegation also supported the nomination of Mr. Zurayk, and pointed out that the proposal had come from the Head of the Egyptian delegation, Taha Hussein Pasha, who would himself have gained universal support, had he stood for elec- tion. In appointing Mr. Zurayk to serve on the Executive Board, Unesco would be ensuring repren- tation of the Orthodox element in the Middle Eastern countries, the Catholic element being already brilliantly represented by Mgr. Maroun. The Moslem world would soon be represented by Mr. Sharif, whose nomination would be supported by the Brazt- lian delegation. [25] Mr. de Berredo Carneiro was also pleased to note the nomination of Sir Arcot L. Mudaliar, who had represented his country in the World Health Organization, and whose organizing experience would be valuable to Unesco. Mr. de Berredo      -
675 NOMINATIONS Carneiro would support the nomination of Mr. Ben- der, who came from a Benelux country, and who was therefore a suitable successor to the representative of Belgium. He was confident that Mr. Bender would render the Board services as valuable as those for- merly rendered by his compatriot, Mr. Kruyt. [26] Finally, Mr. de Berredo Carneiro would sup- port the nomination of Mr. Ribnikar, whose presence on the Executive Board would constitute proof of the spiritual kinship linking Yugoslavia with the Western world. [27] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) said that the United States delegation had proposed the name of Sir Arcot L. Mudaliar in the belief that he would carry on that high tradition set by Sir Sarve- palli Radhakrishnan and make a significant contribu- tion to Unesco’s work. - Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras and a distinguished physiologist, Sir Arcot L. Mudaliar had great experience of the work of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies. He had been Chairman of the Executive Board of the World Health Organization in 1949 and 1950. [28] The United States delegation also supported the nomination of Mr. Sharif, who was closely asso- ciated with the Fullbright Programme and was de- voted to the ideals proclaimed in Unesco’s Constitu- tion, which he endeavoured to further in his own country. Mr. Sargeant desired too to join in recommending the nomination of Mr. Bender, Mr. Ribnikar, Mr. Zurayk and Count Jacini. [29] Mr. MILTON (Liberia) explained that his dele- gation had misunderstood the procedure for the election of members of the Executive Board and had therefore unfortunately not submitted a nomination in writing before the meeting. Mr. Milton wished to put forward the name of Mr. Massaquoi, Head of the Liberian delegation. Mr. Massaquoi, who had had Wide experience in cultural and educational activi- ties both in his own country and abroad, and was at the moment Director of the Permanent Secretariat of the Liberian Department of State, fulfilled the requirements for membership of the Executive Board as laid down in the Constitution. By reason both of his educational achievements and of his competence in education, the arts, the humanities, the sciences and the diffusion of ideas, he was very well equipped to discharge the administrative and executive duties of a member of the Board. Moreover, as, with the retirement of Shafik Ghorbal Bey of Egypt, the .Con- tinent of Africa would cease to have a representative on the Board, it would be only right, in the interest of equitable geographical distribution, that a re- presentative of Africa should join the representatives of the Near, Middle and Far East on the Board. [30] Mr. PARRA PÉREZ (Venezuela) associated himself with the preceding delegates in paying tribute to the merits to Count Jacini, whose nomination he COMMITTEE X53 warmly supported; he also supported those of Mr. Ribnikar, of the representative of the Netherlands and of all the other candidates mentioned. [31] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that the Norwegian delegation had always been in favour of the re-election of members of the Board, because the Organization’s work was complicated and it took a long time to understand all the intricacies of the programme. He therefore seconded the nomination of Count Jacini for that reason as well as for the personal reasons expounded by other delegates. [32] Furthermore, the Norwegian delegation, while believing it necessary that certain large States should always be represented on the Executive Board, was of the opinion that all other Member States should have their turn. His delegation was therefore very glad to see that Mr. Bender had been proposed to replace Mr. Verniers of Belgium. He also supported the nomination of Mr. Ribnikar of Yugoslavia. [33] Although the Northern countries always tried to avoid competition among themselves and never presented more than one candidate for their area, the Norwegian delegation felt that the principle could not be applied mechanically to: a vast region like India and Pakistan. He therefore supported the nominations of Sir Arcot L. Mudaliar and Mr. Sharif. He also seconded the nomination of Mr. Zurayk. [34] Mr. FISCHER (Israel) thought that a regular system of geographical distribution should be instituted for nominations to the Executive Board, with automatic rotation within each area, so that each country in turn would be represented on the Board. There was not a single country which could not nominate a candidate possesing all the required qualifications, but many delegations were hesitant to subject a candidate of theirs to the chances of a ballot. Mr. Fischer thought an effort ought to be made to adhere to certain principles of equality, which were, moreover, laid down in the Unesco Constitution. He thought it unfair that some geo- graphical or cultural regions should have several representatives on the Board; the number of seats was too small for that. [35] Whilst it was perfectly fair that India, which had so far been magnificently represented, should keep its seat on the Executive Board, it seemed unnecessary to add a representative of another State in the Indian peninsula, especially in view of the eclectic composition of the Indian delegation. [36] Similarly, Mr. Fischer saw no reason for both Syria and Lebanon to serve on the Board, since those two adjacent countries represented the same cultural group. [37] Mr. Fischer thought that, in order to fill a serious gap, a post on the Board should go to Mr. Massaquoi, who would represent the interests of an entire continent, the peoples of which merited Unesco's special attention. Mr. Fischer hoped that — a aОнОя ee.
1X4 NQMINATIONS many delegations would support Mr. Massaquoi’s nomination thus affirming their sympathy with the peoples of equatorial Africa, who had an undisputed right to be represented on the Board. [38] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) associated himself with the tributes paid to Count Jacini, and sup- ported the candidates nominated. [39] Mr. Illueca congratulated the United States of Amercia and the Philippines, which were that day celebrating the anniversary of their independence. [40] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) also paid tribute to Count Jacini, and announced his support of the candidate nominated. [41] Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) said that his delegation warmly supported the nominations of Count Jacini, Mr. Bender and Mr. Ribnikar. [42] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) reminded the Com- mittee that their choice should be guided by two principles: the personal qualities of the candidates; and fair geographical distribution. [43] Mr. Piaget had been much moved by the speech of the Liberian delegate, and he thought it would be unjust not to pay due attention to Africa— not only equatorial Africa, so important a field for Unesco’s work in fundamental education, but Africa as a whole—which should be represented on the Executive Board. He would therefore support the nomination of Mr. Massaquoi. FOURTH MEETING Monday, 9 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jorce Mafacu (Cuba) [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that there were three items on the agenda: firstly, nominations for the 1952 Budget Committee; secondly, nominations for the 1952 Committee on Reports from Member States; and thirdly, a new item, the nomination of three additional members of the Headquarters Committee. [2] In all three cases, the Chairman would wel- ٠‎ come any verbal proposals which delegates might care to make. Failing any such he would himself make tentative suggestions. He wished to remind the Committee that all nominations which it might approve under the three items he had mentioned COMMITTEE 676 [44] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) pointed out that Mr. Bender belonged to the Benelux group, to which his own country also belonged, and was thus a very suitable person to succeed him on the Board. In addition to the qualifications mentioned by Sir John Maud, Mr. Bender was also an expert on the very important question of budget procedure, and as such would be competent to succeed two of the outgoing members, Mr. Photiades and Mr. Doré, who were also specialists on that subject. [45] The CHAIRMAN proposed that, since no one else wished to speak, the vote should be taken. He asked delegates to write on their voting papers not more than six names, together with the country of the nominee. [46] The Chairman called on Mr. Holguin (Colom- bia) and Mr. Skaff (Lebanon) to act as tellers. [47] The result of the vote was as follows: (1) Mr. Bender, 50 votes; (2) Mr. Sharif, 47 votes; (3) Count Jacini, 46 votes; (4) Mr. Ribnikar, 44 votes;
42 votes; (7) Mr. Massaquoi, 19 votes. [48] The CHAIRMAN congratulated the delegates nominated, and reminded the Committee that the plenary meeting of the General Conference would be held immediately. < The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m. would be entirely tentative and subject to modifica- tion by the Plenary Conference. Further, the pro- posals to increase the membership of the Budget Committee and the Headquarters Committee were in themselves subject to the approval of the Plenary Conference, so that any proposals made by the Nominations Committee in those two cases would be doubly tentative. [3] With regard to procedure, the Chairman pro- posed that, if the number of countries suggested for each Committee did not exceed the number of countries to be nominated, the Nominations Com- mittee should vote on the lists by a show of hands.    а
15 enc nur [8] cipl of mai offi equ larg [9] abo gest Fra Kin [10 of L for ence