OFFTCI AL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS [44] The Director-General thought that, instead of postponing the extension of regional offices to better times, the General Conference might ask the Ex- ecutive Board, when preparing the draft programme and budget for 1953-1954, to provide for increased contributions from Member States, to enable the plan to be put into effect, as that seemed to be the wish of most members of the Commission. [45] Mr. COSTA DU RELS (Bolivia) said that Unesco's main objective was to imbue the minds of men with the collective ideal of peace and concord. From that point of view, the establishment of regional offices would do untold good. Like Uru- guay, Bolivia was using every endeavour to maintain cultural contacts with other South American coun- tries, and was most gratified at its relationship with the Havana Regional Office. Nevertheless a reduc- tion in the sphere of influence of the regional offices was undoubtedly desirable, so as to make them more effective. [46] The Bolivian delegation thought it would be useful to take the Belgian proposal as a basis for drawing up a resolution. [47] Further discussion was adjourned to the next meeting. The meeting rose at 17 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Saturday, 30 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameui (Italy) Consideration of the Director-General’s Report on the Functioning of Unesco’s Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere (Item 10.4.2) (document 6C/OXR/3). Report by the Director-General on the Means and Degree of Decentralization Deemed most advisable in the Field of the Organization’s Activities (5C/Resolutions, 9.92) (Items 10.4.3) (document 6C/OXR/4). Consideration of the Recommendations sub- mitted to Unesco by the Representatives of the National Commissions of the Western Hemi- sphere at their First Meeting at Havana: Item proposed by Cuba (Item 10.4.4) (document
6C/DR/30). [1] Continuing the discussion of the three items (which were taken together), Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) said that there was general agreement on the principle of adaptation to the needs of the various regions; the only obstacle was the financial burden involved. Although it appeared from document 6C/ OXR/4 (pages 21 to 23) that an additional $69,000 would be required in 1952 and some $100,000 more m each of the subsequent biennial periods, the cost was not high, considering the advantages to be gained. The Field Science Co-operation Offices were already regarded as Unesco branch offices and were consequently unable to concentrate effectively on their purel; scientific work; it was therefore essential to strengthen them so as to make them true Unesco regional offices. Furthermore, there would be notable economies on headquarter’s expenditure, more particularly in items such as travel. Mr. Chan- diramani therefore wished to submit a resolution defining the functions of regional centres, approving the creation of two new posts for the Havana office, recommending the recruitment of staff during 1952 for an office in South-East Asia, and authorizing the Director-General to devote up to $100,000 a year towards the establishment of an efficient network of co-operation offices. [2] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) reverted to the Belgian draft resolution (document 6C/DR/72). He considered that the time was not appropriate to continue with the expansion of the schemeof regional offices, but that any funds which might become avail- able should be devoted to strengthening the Havana Office. He wished to delete paragraph (3) of the Belgian resolution on the ground that, while the Field Science Co-operation Offices should certainly continue in existence, it was unwise to have parallel organizations in any single region. With regard to   E E R R o S     VI-4 OMF IGN ZAND terminology, Mr. Mason considered that the wording used was not particularly important, but that it would be desirable for a working party, meeting jointly with representatives of the Programme Commission, to prepare a list of Member States falling within any area which it might be decided to treat as a “region”. In order to express those views in a formal manner, he moved an amendment to paragraph (2) of the Belgian resolution, to the effect that the Commission recommended continued support for existing offices, but the postponement of any further expansion. [3] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) observed that four pro- posals were before the Commission—the draft reso- lution of the Belgian delegation, the Director- General’s proposals, the proposals of the Indian delegation, and the amendment of the New Zealand delegation—all of which concerned in principle but differed in regard to practical application. Whereas the Unesco proposal was to maintain the programme approved, the others recommended that a choice should be made among the means of execution available to Unesco. [4] Feeling that the Commission was not yet in a position to take a final decision, Mr. Toscano pro- posed an amendment to paragraph (2) of the draft resolution submitted by the Belgian delegation (document 6C/DR/72); the amendment consisted in referring the Director-General’s report to a Joint Working Party for consideration, with particular reference to its budgetary implications. The Work- ing Party would have to confer with all the Com- missions concerned, in order to be able, with a full knowledge of the facts, to draw up a list of the problems involved, in order of their importance, so that the Commission might know which to select. The Working Party shouldalso reply to the comments made by the United States delegation regarding the possibility of making certain savings (problem of the structure of the regional offices and their rela- tions with the Secretariat). Mr. Toscano handed in his written proposal, which was to be distributed. (United Kingdom) felt that the recommendations before [5] Mr. COWELL Commission had so many it that it might be better to entrust the task of harmonizing them to the Secretariat. The Com- mission could then consider a new paper at the next meeting. If, however, more rapid action were desired, Mr. Cowell proposed that the work should be entrusted to a joint Working Party composed of members of the Official and External Relations Com- mission and the Programme Commission. [6] Mr. STONE (Australia) believed that there was general agreement on the part to be played by National Commissions in the task of decentralization EXTERNAL RETR TT ONES 412 and on the need to strengthen National Commissions accordingly. Nor was there any dispute about the great success of the specialized regional ventures already undertaken. The cost of establishing a complete network of regional offices would, how- ever, clearly be prohibitive. The Commission should, therefore, first review the position in order to ascertain: (1) what type of activity Member States within a region wished to develop further; (2) what organizational machinery was available within the regions, in order to discover how much further machinery would be required; and (3) howfar Member States would be prepared to contribute financially to specific activities within their region. He emphasized that symmetry of organization was valueless; on the contrary, the whole advantage of decentralization was to provide greater flexibility. He therefore proposed that the Director-General should be requested to ascertain the views of Member States on those three points and to report to the next session. The Australian delegation considered the Havana Office of the greatest importance as a pilot project in the field of decentralization; he would therefore submit a draft resolution proposing the allocation of additional funds to that office. [7] Mr. SELFE (Union of South Africa) said that the financial difficulties encountered by the Havana Office led him to the view that any available funds should be devoted to that Office rather than to the establishment of new ones. He therefore wished to amend paragraph (2) of the Belgian resolution in a sense similar to that proposed by the New Zealand delegate. [8] Hussein HOSNI Pasha (Egypt) insisted that any delay in carrying out the recommendations of docu- ment 6C/OXR/4 would be incompatible with the ful- filment of Unesco’s task. If Member States were consulted, he was certain that the financial problems would be solved. [9] Mr. CHELOUCHE (Israel) and Mr. QUDRAT- E-KHUDA (Pakistan) endorsed the Australian pro- posal. The Pakistan delegate, however, wished to delete paragraph (2) of the Belgian resolution as being too restrictive. MANACH (Cuba) pointed out that the current discussion tended to confuse the issues. [01 Mr: [11] Recalling that the afternoon programme in- cluded a meeting of the Joint Working Party of the Programme Commission and the Official and Ex- ternal Relations Commission, which was to discuss the question of the definition of regions, the Cuban representative said that, in his opinion, it was im- possible to discuss inteiligently the means and degree of decentralization of Unesco’s activities unless it    | | | | | | | | | | | | ض ض | | | | | ( | | | | ( | ( EET OTN AND were known which countries would eventually form part of the different regions. Consequently, he put forward the motion that the discussions should be postponed until the Commission had received the report of the Joint Working Party responsible for considering the definition of regions and until the Commission had appointed another working party to study, in conjunction with the Joint Working Party, the different proposals and amendments which had already be presented, with a view to their co- ordination. [12] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) recalled that the position of the Lebanese delegation with regard to decentralization had not changed for three years and still remained the same. [13] Commenting on the various points in the Belgian proposal, Mgr. Maroun thought that there should be an addition under paragraph (1), indicat- ing not only that agreement had been reached in principle, but also that it was urgently necessary for Unesco to adapt its work to the various regions where it had undertaken activities; those activities could not be effective and of lasting value unless Unesco were decentralized; he was thinking parti- cularly of technical assistance, fundamental edu- cation, etc. [14] Referring next to paragraph (2), Mgr. Maroun recognized that the budgetary difficulties mentioned were very real, but did not believe that they warranted a postponement of the execution of the project until easier times. There would always be both budgetary and political difficulties and Unesco should make up its mind to face them. [15] With regard to paragraph (3), Mgr. Maroun recalled that the Director-General hadsaid that there were not several Unescos, one for each Department, but a single Unesco; it was for the Secretariat to study the problem of connecting all the different parts of Unesco’s programme, and Mgr. Maroun hoped that the possibility of having a single regional office, representing all Unesco’s activities, would be considered. [16] Referring to paragraph (4), Mgr. Maroun thought that there was general agreement on the need to find some more satisfactory wording. [17] Mgr. Maroun concluded by seconding the proposal for the establishment of a small committee to study the different aspects of the problem and report back to the Commission. [18] Mr. ZEREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) agreed with the delegate of Cuba that the final conclusions of the current debate would depend upon the deci- sions reached by the Joint Working Party of the Programme and Official and External Relations Commissions. EXTERNAL BER LIA TIO Ne VI-4 [19] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) said that he would prefer the debate to continue. [20] After some discussion on the question of pro- cedure, the Cuban motion for the closure of the debate was adopted by 19 votes to 15, with 1 absten- tion. [21] The Commission then proceededto the appoint- ment of the Working Party which was to meet the representatives of the Programme Commission during the afternoon. On the proposal of the CHAIRMAN, the delegates of Belgium, Cuba, Uru- guay, Australia and Italy were nominated and (on the proposal of the Australian delegate) the delegate of Israel. [22] Summing up the discussion, the CHAIRMAN recalled that the Commission, after considering items 10.4.2, 10.4.3 and 10.4.4 of its Agenda, had discussed a draft resolution, presented by the Belgian delegation, on which a number of amendments and proposals had been made. It had finally been pro- posed that a Joint Working Party (Programme and Official and External Relations Commissions) should be established to consider all the questions raised and the amendments presented. ‘ [23] The above proposal was put to the vote and adopted unanimously. [24] In answer to Mr. STONE (Australia), Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) explained that the Working Party would first agree with the representatives of the Programme Com- mission on the delimitation of regions and on the principles governing the working of regional offices; thereafter, it would try to agree upon a single text summarizing the opinions expressed in the debate, and would vote on that text. If the Working Party failed to reach unanimity, it would produce altern- ative paragraphs. \ [25] "Mr. "CATES (United States’ ‘of America) pointed out that the Commission had apparently entrusted its Working Party with functions far beyond the terms of reference agreed with the Pro- gramme Commission. [26] On the proposal of Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium), it was agreed that the Chairman should get into touch with the Chairman of the Programme Com- mission, in order to ensure that the representatives of that Commission should be empowered to under- take the wider discussions.      OFFICIAL ANDVI-4 Consideration of Formal Agreements Concluded with Certain Inter-Governmental Organizations (Item 10.6.1) (document 6C/OXR/9 and Adden- dum). [27] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) introduced the working document and re- called that, under Article XI, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, relations with inter-governmental or- ganizations came within the competency of the Executive Board. [28] Document 6C/OXR/9 gave a list of agreements in force with inter-governmental organizations. They were: 5 A. International Bureau of Education. The Agree- ment with the above Organization was renewed from year to year and had been amended during the current year by common consent of the two Organi- zations. At its Twenty-sixth Session, the Executive Board had considered and approved the amendment to Article 9 of the Agreement proposed by the Joint Unesco/IBE Committee (document 6C/OXR/9— Addendum). Mr. de Blonay stressed the importance for Unesco of close collaboration with IBE. B. International Committee of Weights and Meas- ures. In that case also, Mr. de Blonay believed that the Commission would wish to recommend renewal of the Agreement, prolonged bythe Director-General, at the suggestion of the Executive Board (Twenty- fourth Session) until 81 December 1951. C. Organization of American States. Mr. de Blonay recalled the history of the Agreement, which had been approved by the Executive Board, signed on
8 December 1950 at Havana, and entered into force immediately. [29] It was for the Commission to say whether it was desirable to renew the three Agreements. [80] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) suggested that the Agreements should be considered one by one. He formally moved the renewal of the Agreement with the International Bureau of Education. [31] The motion, seconded by the delegates of India and the United Kingdom, was adopted unanimously. [32] The Commission approved the renewal of the Agreement with the International Committee of Weights and Measures. [33] Seconding the Uruguayan proposal to renew the agreement with the Organization of American States, Mr. CATES (United States of America) ex- pressed his Government's particular satisfaction not only at the conclusion of the Agreement but also with the manner in whichthe negotiations had been EXTERNAL RELATT IONS handled. Referring to the preamble, he hoped that the document would point the way for consultation between Unesco and other specialized regional or- ganizations. [34] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) associated himself with those views. [35] The agreement was approved. Relations between the Secretariat of the Council of Europe and Unesco (Item 10.6.2) (document 6C/OXR/10). [36] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Executive Board) explained that the document had been examined by the Executive Board, which had adopted the resolution set out in Addendum I. [37] Mr. CATES (United States of America) ex- pressed his Government’s interest in the working out of that further contribution to regional co-operation. No departure should be made from the basic prin- ciple that Unesco should seek to enter into agreement with all organizations showing an awareness of the value of education, science and culture, and prepared to assist in forwarding the work of the Organization. [88] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) and Mr. van de KERCHOVE d’HALLEBAST (Belgium) also spoke warmly in favour of adopting the Executive Board's resolution. [39] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) drew the Commission’s attention to section III B (Legal form of the arrangements for co-operation), and observed that the Executive Board was in favour of concluding an agreement, since paragraph 1 of Article XI of the Constitution laid down that the Organization could co-operate with other specialized inter-governmental organizations and agencies whose interests and activities were related to its purposes. The Conference, consider- ing that Article XI of the Constitution justified the conclusion of such an agreement, had expressed a favourable opinion; co-operation would, however, have to be limited to educational, scientific and cultural matters in which the interests and activities of the two Organizations were related, and the two Organizations would co-operate through their appro- priate organs. [40] In conclusion, Mr. de Blonay hoped that, subject to the above considerations, the Commission would be prepared to recommend the conclusion of an agreement with the Council of Europe. [41] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) proposed that
415 OMT CE AL NEY the Conference should instruct the Director-General to take the action recommended in the resolution which the Executive Board had adopted at its Twenty-sixth Session (document 6C/OXR/10—Ad- dendum). [42] The proposal was seconded by the delegations EXTERNAL } RELATIONS VI-5 of Belgium, Italy, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. [43] It was adopted by 20 votes in favour and
1 abstention (Indonesia). The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 11 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameri (Italy) Consideration of the Recommendations of the Executive Board regarding Requests for Admission to Consultative Status Received from International Non-Governmental Organi- zations (Item 10.7.1 of the Agenda) (document
6C/OXR/11 and Addenda I-II). [1] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) read out the Executive Board’s recom- mendation contained in AddendumTI to document
6X/OXR/11. He explained that the principle was to accord consultative status only to the central federation of affiliated bodies and not to the com- ponent organizations. The result of granting con- sultative status to the Union of International Engi- neering Organizations would therefore be to withdraw that status from the World Power Conference, the International Conference on Large Electric Systems and the International Society of Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering which at the moment enjoyed it. With regard to the International Federa- tion of Free Journalists of Central and Fastern Europe and of the Baltic and Balkan Countries, the Executive Board had recommended registration for informal relations. [2] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) proposed that the Executive Board’s recommendations regarding requests for admission to consultative status received from different international non-governmental organi- zations should be considered one by one. [3] The proposed procedure was adopted. [4] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) announced his intention of commenting in due course on the case of the International Federation of Free Jour- nalists of Central and Eastern Europe of the Baltic and Balkan Countries, which the Executive Board had recommended for registration among the organi- zations with which Unesco had informal relations. Childhood International Catholic Office. [5] Approved. Consultative Council of Jewish Organizations. [6] Mr. CATES (United States of America) wished his Government’s support for the Council to be noted. It had done useful work both in the pursuit of Human Rights and in connexion with the Economic and Social Council. [7] Mr. SALEH (Iraq) protested against the admis- sion of that body. [8] Approved. International Association of Art Critics. [9] Approved. International Council on Archives. [10] Approved. International Federation of Workers’ Travel Asso- ciations. [11] Approved. International Music Council. [12] Mr. CATES (United States of America) wished to place on record his Government’s objection to the granting of consultative status to the Council, on the  RPHEaaAos—rp]PP.ت‏ ت ؤ ا ' _ ك ج ت ج ت ئ ك ك ت ت ت ت ن ن ت س ي ل ت ح : ْ ” ْ ْ T T T