C o   A XIT-4 REPORTS où [70] If the second question was answered in the affirmative, the following points would have to be considered; (a) Should the existing plan be improved? (b) Should a certain amount of latitude be allowed with regard to Part I of the report? (¢) Should the account the National Commission was required to give of its work be included in the report? Where? And how? (d) Should the length of the report be stipulated? (e) Should there continue to be a deadline for the sending in of reports, and should Member States be required to observe it strictly? [71] It might perhaps be well if the General Con- MEMBER ST ATES 760 ference, before the end ofits session, were to appoint the Committee which would have to study Member States’ reports at the Seventh Session. [72] In conclusion, the representative of the Director-General, reverting to a suggestion put forward by the French delegate, hoped that the Committee would obtain a definition of its task and be told whether it had merely to examine the form of the reports sent in, or whether it was also expected to assess the work of Member States in general and submit a report thereon to the General Conference. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mrs. GERÓNIMA Pecson (Philippines) Discussion on the Reports of Member States (continuation). [1] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) proposed that, before considering the suggestions made by the representative of the Director-General, the Com- mittee should express some general views on the reports which had been submitted at the previous meeting. [2] Mr. McNICOL (Australia) was not in favour of Mr. Brandt's suggestion. He considered that the Chairman, the Rapporteur and the representative of the Director-General might compare views, using the Chairman’s notes as a guide. In that way some precise conclusions could be drawn, [3] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece), Rapporteur, advised the Committee to determine the chief factors in the problem, as shown by the reports submitted at the previous meeting, and then to con- sider the suggestions made by the representative of the Director-General in the light of that information. [4] Mr. DARD (Head, Division for Relations with Governments and National Commissions), represen- tative of the Director-General, hoped that, to assist the Secretariat in its work, the Committee would issue precise recommendations to serve as a basis for the drafting of resolutions; the draft resolutions could be handed to all members at the end of the week, and the final text, taking account of any observations made, would be submitted for approval the following Thursday. [6] The CHAIRMAN thought that suggestion would meet Mr. Brandt's point. In the course of the discussion, the general opinion of the reports presented at the previous meeting would become clear. If members wished to propose changes in the reports they would be quite free to do so, and the modifications would be noted. [6] Enche OTHMAN (United Kingdom) supported the view expressed by the Australian delegate at the previous meeting that a small Working Party should be formed, consisting perhaps of the Chairman, the Rapporteur and the representative of the Director- General, to draw general conclusions from the reports of the Working Parties and the Director- General's observations. Those conclusions would then be submitted to the Committee for discussion. [7] The Working Party might also follow up the statement on page 3 of document 6C/4 Introduction that “certain reports might be suggested as models”. In his opinion, the reports sent in by Australia, Turkey and Belgium might be so considered. [8] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) thought that, to conform with the democratic spirit of Unesco, certain conclusions of a general nature should be drawn from the five reports submitted. He did not think that a small drafting committee could be entrusted with so onerous a task, and he hoped that ры   — — m . Г | | | | | | | | | | | | | ges Re Re; Que GL, [14 mer on thar [15] circ prev dire fore issue imp: have since Curr previ [16] his ¢ plan take. [17] detail all St dispa
761 REPORTS Or the Committee would, in plenary meeting, draw up certain positive conclusions on the basis of those reports, for presentation to the General Conference. [9] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) considered that the two courses of action could be reconciled and that the Committee might draw general conclusions from the reports made at the previous meeting while reviewing the plan circulated by the Director-General (document CL/421), or vice versa. [10] Mr. BRANDT Mr. Fayat’s proposal. (Switzerland) supported [11] Mr. DARD pointed out that the Committee was to hold only one more meeting, and that a sub- committee would not have time to complete its work. He thought the Committee could reach definite conclusions in plenary meeting. [12] Mrs. TAFT DOUGLAS (United States of America) and Mr. LUCET (France) associated themselves with Mr. Dard’s views. [13] It was agreed to follow Mr. Dard’s gestions. sug- Recommendations on the Presentation of Future Reports. Question of the Necessity for a Plan (document CL/421). [14] The CHAIRMAN sought the opinion of members on the question whether the reports based on the Director-General’s plan were more valuable than those not so constructed. [15] Mr. DARD reminded the meeting that the circular letter which the Director-General had previously sent to Member States contained few directives. The question to be decided was there- fore whether the detailed plan which had been issued in the current year had led to any noticeable improvement in the reports. He personally would have no hesitation in replying in the affirmative, since there was no doubt that, on the whole, the current reports were an improvement on those for previous years. [16] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) recommended his colleagues to say also whether they thought a plan was necessary and, if so, what form it should take. [17] Mr. NOUSS (Syria) thought the plan was too detailed. It was, in his opinion, unsuitable to ask all States the same questions, since there was a great disparity in their educational, scientific and cultural MEMBER STATES XII-4 levels. Though he did not deny the usefulness of a short, precise plan, designed to bring out a number of basic points, he thought any such plan should leave Member States free to refrain from answering some of the questions asked. [18] The CHAIRMAN, referring to Article VIII of the Constitution, said that details were necessary if the Organization was to be in a position to estimate how far Member Sates were implementing the resolutions of the General Conference. If any accurate judgment were to be formed of the progress achieved, precise information was required on the implementation of resolutions relating to the col- laboration of Member States with Unesco and on the application of those specifically requiring action on the part of Member States. The Com- mittee’s task was to improve the comparability of the reports and make it possible to form such a judgment. [19] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) agreed with Mr. Nouss. He thought it would be difficult to apply the same formula to old and new Member States alike. Whilst conforming to the provisions of the Constitution and to the recommendations of the Florence Conference, the plan should be confined to issuing certain general directives and specifying the maximum length of the reports. [20] Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) pointed out that the only purpose of the details enumerated in the plan drawn up by the Director-General was to help Member States. Many of the reports were very substantial, and the inadequacy of others might be attributed to the fact that the directives had not always been sufficiently closely followed. [21] Mrs. TAFT DOUGLAS (United States of America) felt that Part IT of the plan should give rise to the fewest objections. It was essential to know what the Member States were doing in the various fields in which Unesco had recommended action. [22] At first, Mrs. Taft Douglas had regarded Part I with some mistrust, on the grounds that States with highly developed activities would find it impossible to make a complete survey, but she had changed her opinion after reading the reports of Member States. She considered, nevertheless, that if Member States could be allowed more freedom in answering Part I, Part IT would cease to give rise to objections. [23] Mr. LUCET (France) was in favour of a precise plan, provided that it was neither too rigid nor too uniform. He drew the attention of the Committee to the need to distinguish between the obligations imposed upon Member States by the terms of the Florence resolutions (Resolutions      XII-4 REPORTS 0
30.2111 and 30.2114), which he read out, and the optional action desired on certain other questions. He thought the first part of the plan might stand, provided that every State were allowed a certain amount of freedom in drawing up its reply. [24] Mr. McNICOL (Australia) thought that an improvement would result if more freedom were allowed in answering Part I, and if Part II were set out under fewer headings. [25] Enche OTHMAN (United Kingdom) was strongly in favour of a plan. Referring to Mr. Brandt's suggestion, he thought that the reports of the less developed countries would be more satisfactory if they answered only the questions on which they had information to submit. He agreed with Mr. Brandt that the plan should be made as flexible as possible, especially in Part I. He there- fore associated himself with the Australian delegate's suggestions. [26] The Committee agreed that a plan was neces- sary for the drawing up of the reports of Member States. Form of the Plan (document CL/421). [27] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) suggested that the variations in the Reports of Member States noted at the previous meeting were due rather to varying interpretations of the plan than to the plan itself. They were, therefore, inevitable in the early stages. [28] Mr. Fayat considered that there was a dif- ficulty inherent in the interpretation of Article VIII of the Constitution, given in Resolution 30.2 of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. Whereas the Constitution asked for information on “laws, regulations and statistics relating to educational, scientific and cultural life and institutions”, and “action taken upon the recommendations and con- ventions referred to in Article 1V, paragraph 4”, the resolution asked for information on “the most important changes”. The question whether or not that interpretation was correct needed fo be answered before any decision could be taken on the form of the plan. Mr. Fayat assumed that the interpretation was correct and that the reports from Member States should be progress reports. [29] Mr. Fayat suggested that the Committee should first decide on the form of Part II and then decide whether or not Part I was necessary and, if so, what form it should take. [30] With reference to Part II, Mr. Fayat thought it essential that some indication should be given in answer to each question, so that the report should not create the impression that some questions had been forgotten. It was for the Committee to decide what points in the existing circular letter could be MEMBER
7 SI AT ES 762 omitted in future, what points should be made more precise and what points should be added. [31] to discuss Part II first. The Committee agreed [32] Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) emphasized that the quality of the reports depended, in the last analysis, on the achievements of the National Commission of every Member State; no plan, however good, could produce interesting replies unless the National Com- mission had been able to carry out work under the various headings. [33] Mr. DARD pointed out that the Director- General's plan, contained in the Annex to document CL/421, was merely a memorandum intended to clarify Resolutions 30.211 to 30.214 adopted at Florence, which were themselves a repetition of the resolutions of previous sessions of the Conference and of Article VIII of the Constitution. In support of that statement, he compared each resolution with each of the items 1 to 6 in Part II of the Annex to document CL/421. Mr. Dard pointed out that only one State had expressed a desire to follow its own plan, and that many cases where the Director- General's plan had not been followed were probably attributable merely to the fact that the authors had not borne the directives in mind when drawing up their reports. It would therefore be wrong to suppose that the plan had not been followed simply because certain States regarded it as unsatisfactory. {34] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) thought that a certain amount of freedom should be allowed in the application of the Florence resolutions; over scrupulous adherence to those resolutions might, he thought, give rise to certain difficulties, the results of which were already evident in the reluctance shown by many States (only 20 reports had been received by the date fixed). [35] . In his opinion, the most important point was to receive as many answers as possible on a small number of basic questions; for the first part of the plan, he hoped the maximum freedom would be allowed. [36] The CHAIRMAN noted the encouraging improvement in the number of reports submitted (document 6C/4 Introduction, page 2, paragraph 3). [37] -Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) had noted the following facts, which emerged from the con: clusions drawn by the five Working Parties set up to study the reports of MemberStates:
(1) Reports did not always reflect the action taken by the Member States concerned to advance international co-operation in the fields of education, science and culture;    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | КЕ РОК те oir
(2) Certain very advanced States had found the Director-General’s plan too narrow;
(3). Some governments thought there duplication between the two parts of the plan;
(4) Greater flexibility was desirable in drafting of future reports;
(5) There had been a certain amount of confusion on whether some points should be included in the first part or the second. [38] Mr. Eustathiades admitted that the Director- General's plan was in conformity with the provisions of the Florence resolutions, with the exception, however, of the following points: The plan did not give a precise interpretation of the last part of Resolution 30.2113: “. . . and in more general ways, to assist the development of education, science and culture in the furtherance of the aims of Unesco”. The directives appearing under item 6 of Part II of the plan did not follow naturally from the Flor- ence resolutions. [39] The question was, therefore, whether the Committee should request the General Conference to amend the Florence resolutions, or whether it should ask merely for more freedom in the application of those resolutions, leaving States more latitude in drawing up their reports. Mr. Eusta- thiades suggested that item 6 in the Director- General’s plan should be worded in more general terms, so as to cover the second part of Resolution
30.2113 and to leave Governments free to include under that heading any information not given elsewhere—such, for example, as important regional activities. It might thus even be possible to eliminate the first part of the plan. [40] With regard to item 4 in Part II, Mr. Eusta- thiades suggested that the various points of detail, some of which appeared to have caused embar- rassment to certain governments, might be contained in an annex. was the [41] Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) suggested that both the Director-General’s plan and all other related documents should appear at the beginning of the volume containing the Member States’ reports. [42] Mr. DARD said that the Secretariat would consider the matter. [43] Mr. LUCET (France) thought there might be a difficulty in connexion with item 4; the replies of some Member States on that point might be very lengthyif they had to give detailed answers for each resolution. He said that the French Government had concentrated chiefly, in its report for 1950, on cultural activities (libraries), and, in its report for 1951, on fundamental education, with particular reference to the expansion of education in the territories of the French Union. Mr. Lucet thought that States should be free, when drawing up their ME MBE ВТА ве XIT-4 reports, to emphasize those questions which they considered most important. [44] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) noted that, although there had been many suggestions for the improve- ment of Part II, there had been none for the deletion of any of the existing questions. [45] Mr. Fayat asked whether the Rapporteur would give an opinion on the question whether Unesco should ask for information about regional activities or activities in territories dependent upon Member States. Information given about activities in dependent territories should not overlap with that given in reports to the United Nations Trusteeship Council but should be confined to the implementation of Unesco resolutions, giving the essentials only. [46] If Member States wished to stress any particular aspect of their activities in the report, a statement to that effect, giving the reasons for the procedure followed, should be included. [47] Mr. LUCET (France) observed that the remarks made by Mr. Eustathiades tended to modify the Director-General's plan. He also asked the Belgian delegate to state whether he thought the question of education in overseas territories should be mentioned every year; in his opinion, there should be no compulsion in that respect. [48] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) explained that it was the information submitted by France about activities in dependent territories that had prompted his suggestion. He had not intended to imply that the provision of that information should be compulsory. [49] Enche OTHMAN (United Kingdom) suggested that a new heading—“General’—might be intro- duced, under which the point raised by the Rapporteur, the information on dependent territories, and reasons for any change of emphasis, might be included. [50] Mr. NOUSS (Syria) thought the Committee should recommend the Director-General to state that the headings contained in the plan were intended merely for guidance, leaving States free to concentrate on any questions they regarded as being of special importance. [51] The CHAIRMAN considered that a drafting committee should be appointed to deal with the observations made. The full Committee would then be able to consider a text. The first draft would be confidential and for the eyes of the Committee only. [62] Mr. DARD suggested that the Member States concerned should be left free to include in Part I, in a style suitable for the general public, either a        XII-5 REPORTS 071 survey of their main activities, or an account of one special activity. Part II should, however, contain the precise and detailed information required by the Organization, and specifically called for both by Unesco’s Constitution and by every session of the General Conference up to date. [53] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) thought the meeting should first take a decision on Part II, and then consider the form in which Part I, or the annex, should be cast. [54] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) reminded the meeting that the Committee had to decide whether to recommend greater freedom in the application of the Florence resolutions. The Committee had also to take a decision on the usefulness of Part I. [65] In reply to a question from the delegate of Belgium, the CHAIRMAN said that the discussion of Part II was closed, the points raised by the Rapporteur being separable. [66] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) said that he would be satisfied if his proposed addition to Part II were mentioned in the Committee’s report. [57] Enche OTHMAN (United attention to his suggestion. Kingdom) drew MEMBER SETE 764 [58] The CHAIRMAN ruled the discussion on Part II closed. A small drafting commiitee would deal with suggestions left pending. The agenda for the following day would consist of discussion of Part I and matters left over from the meeting in progress. [69] Mr. LUCET (France) thought that the Com- mittee's report should mention that some dele- gations, whilst agreeing that the Director-General's suggestions should be followed, were of opinion that Member States should be allowed a certain latitude in drawing up their reports. [60] Mr. DARD suggested that Mr. Lucet, with the assistance of two or three other delegates, should draw up a recommendation on the subject. [61] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) suggested that the drafting committee should prepare a text providing for flexibility in the interpretation of the Director- General's directives; that text would be inserted in the Committee’s report. [62] The Committee appointed a drafting com- mittee composed of the following members: Mr. Fayat (Belgium), Mr. Lucet (France) and Mr. Nouss (Syria). The meeting rose at 7 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Wednesday, 27 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Massaquor (Liberia) later: Mrs. GERÓNIMA Pecson (Philippines) Recommendations on the Presentation of Future Reports (continuation). [1] The CHAIRMANsaid that a draft outline for the establishment of the Committee's report had been drawn up by the Director-General’s representative and was open for discussion by the Committee. It read as follows: [2] I. Study of reports submitted for 1950. A. Questions of fact: (a) Number of reports; (b) Date of receipt; (c) Form tof reports: followed or not followed; plan (document CL/421) (d) Activities of Member States as reflected in the reports. B. Evaluation: (a) Very marked progress under four headings above. (b) The Committee emphasizes that: (1) All Member States should draw up reports as required by the pro- visions of the Constitution; (2) the date fixed by the Executive Board should be adhered to, in order to permit reports to be distributed and studied; (3) reports should contain all the information asked for by the Organization, and should adhere to a given plan to ensure that they are complete and comparable; (4) it is desirable that the activities of all Member States in execution of the annual programme should be expanded. Does the Committee approve the observations of the Director-General ?