CHAPTER VIT Ta JOINT MEETINGS OF BUDGET COMMITTEE AND FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION WORKING PARTY FIRST MEETING Saturday, 30 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Antonio Castro LEAL (Mexico) Special Project for the Establishment of a World Network of Regional Fundamental Education Centres (document 6C/PRG/3) and Proposals of the United States Delegation (docu- ment 6C/DR/20 and working papers of 29 and
30 June 1951). [1] The CHAIRMAN stated that the Fundamental Education Working Party, at its meeting the previous day, had already begun to discuss the problems involved in the financing of the special project for the establishment of a world network of funda- mental education centres. [2] Mr BENITEZ (United States of America) drew the Committee’s attention to a document of 30 June, issued by the United States delegation, which read as follows: The U.S. proposal (document 6C/DR/20) presupposes financing the whole of the special project out of:
(1) Unesco’s ordinary budget; (2) Contribution by the Organization of American States; (3) Technical assistance funds now feasible within existing rules as we understand Unesco’s Secretariat interprets them; (4) Ad- ditional technical assistance funds under either present rules more liberally interpreted or new rules; (5) En- dowments from foundations; (6) Regional contri- butions; (7) Other government or non-governmental contributions. Items 1, 2 and 3 are what we may call the certain assured items. Items 4, 5, 6 and 7 are what we may call the potential or the expectation items. The estimates concerning potential items vary with each item. This is natural, since here we are dealing with events to happen in the future and to a large extent, outside of our control. The United States delegation believes that: (a) A very substantial part of the total budget in the overall picture will come from these potential items. (b) It further believes that, unless substantial con- tributions are forthcoming from such sources, the special Programme as envisaged cannot be adequately financed. (¢) The United States delegation holds specifically that technical assistance funds can be tapped for substantial additional resources. (a) It further believes that foundation funds will be more readily available to assist in a working programme than to underwrite a paper scheme. For the sake of this presentation, the United States delegation will keep its figures within items 1, 2 and 3, bearing in mind all the time that, as items 4, 5, 6 and 7 become available, the additional funds can be used to strengthen and develop the existing centre in Mexico, the new proposed centre, and the Paris Central Staff project. If this method of operation is accepted, it would be possible to carry out the projected surveys, to continue the operation of the Mexico Centre, as presently financed, permitting the establishment of a new centre on a budgetary level similar to the Mexico Centre, and to establish a proposed central staff in Paris at an additional cost to Unesco’s regular budget of $115,000. [3] Mr. Benitez explained that the foregoing pro- posals were to be regarded merely as a means of raising the minimum funds essential for carrying out the project. There was every reason to expect that funds from other sources could be used at a later stage to finance the project on the basis sug- gested in document 6C/PRG/3. [4] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Chairman of the Budget Committee) pointed out that the General Committee of the Conference had thought the scheme to be so important that it had given in- structions for its consideration by the Joint Budget and Fundamental Education Committee. [5] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) thought it better not to discuss certain questions of principle. If the number of centres it was intended to set up were left indefinite, instead of being limited to six, as proposed, serious financial consequences might be entailed. [6] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) considered the proposals presented by the
653 BEDE TE TN DAME NTA United States delegation practicable. However, in his opinion, they raised several problems:
(1) A problem of general policy with regard to the additional contribution of $115,000 to be pro- vided from Unesco’s budget. The Director of the Education Department questioned the wisdom of charging such a sum to the Organization’s budget.
(2) A problem of efficiency. If a second centre were set up immediately and organized on the same basis as the Mexico centre, the funds set aside for the latter would be proportionately reduced. The question arose whether it would be more ad- vantageous to allow the existing centre the widest possible scope or to distribute funds between two less developed centres.
(3) A problem of the utilization of available funds. The United States proposal provided for a sum of $34,000 under the heading “Student travel”. To date, student travel had been financed from the Unesco fellowship funds. The Organization hoped to obtain 50 additional travel fellowships from Member States. Only two had so far been offered. If Unesco had to finance the travel expenses of students, the funds for that purpose should presumably be shown in the Technical Assistance budget. [7] Mr. Elvin pointed out that the sum of $178,000 suggested by the United States delegation for the implementation of its proposal was lower than the sum of $200,000 mentioned in the general plan. Furthermore, in addition to the three reliable sources of funds through which it had been possible to reach that figure, the United States proposal mentioned four probable sources of funds for the development of the project. In his opinion, that proposal was financially sound. [8] Soliman HOZAYEN Bey (Egypt) thought that the United States proposal marked a step forward in the practical work of the Committee. If the sum of $115,000 to be provided from the Unesco budget were allocated, and if the Technical Assistance Fund also made its contribution, he thought it desirable to plan for the operation of two centres, to be or- ganized at first on a modest basis and subsequently extended. It remained to find a government willing to provide a home for the second centre. [9] In that connexion, the Egyptian delegate said that his country had long served as an educational centre for students from all parts of the world, particularly from South East Asia, East Africa and certain parts of North Africa, and that the Egyptian Government was quite prepared to receive the pro- posed centre. For that purpose it would set aside
40,000 Egyptian pounds from its annual budget, provided that the sum could be paid in pounds and spent in the same currency. [10] The CHAIRMAN thought that the Egyptian EDUCATION УШа-1COMMITTEE Government’s proposal was most valuable and should be carefully considered. [11] Mr. SENGHOR (France) had a few remarks to make with regard to the United States delegation’s second amendment to its original proposal.
(1) The substance of the proposal had both advantages and drawbacks. On the one hand, it might be desirable to develop the Mexican centre to the maximum before thinking of setting up another centre elsewhere, as a more comprehensive ex- periment could thus be carried out. On the other hand, private organizations were apparently more willing to finance schemes that rapidly took shape. The proposal for establishing a second centre there- fore appeared acceptable.
(2) The form of the American proposal also appeared acceptable, subject to certain amendments. [12] Firstly, France was not in favour of provid- ing a further $115,000 from Unesco's regular budget, as that arrangement would mean dropping other activities. The funds would therefore have to be raised from other sources. [13] Secondly, as Mr. Elvin had pointed out, governments sending their nationals abroad were themselves responsible for the travel expenses of those students. The saving thus made in the budget proposed by the United States of America would cover part of the $115,000 which it was proposed to set aside from the Unesco budget. The rest could be raised from the funds which, according to the Executive Board’s plan, were to be supplied from the Technical Assistance Fund within 12 years, one part of which could be immediately released for the establishment of a second centre. [14] Lastly, according to the plans drawn up, the second centre was to comprise special services, such as a cinema. The French delegate thought it suf- ficient to set up an ordinary centre involving less expense. [15] Subject to the foregoing reservations, Mr. Senghor considered the United States proposal acceptable. [16] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) explained, in reply to the French delegate:
(1) that the travel expenses of students were the responsibility not of governments but of Unesco; it was the maintenance expenses of students that were paid by Member States; the United States proposal provided for travel expenses to be borne not by governments but by the Technical Assistance Fund;
(2) that the United States delegation advocated the establishment of a purely ordinary centre. [17] The CHAIRMAN called upon Mr. Lucas Ortiz, Director of the Fundamental Education Centre in Mexico, to describe the progress made at that centre.            УШа-1 BUDGET -FUNDAMENTAL [18] Mr. ORTIZ (Director of the Fundamental Education Centre at Patzcuaro) recalled that the real expenditure of the Mexico Centre amounted to $203,500. That sum represented a minimum budget; it made no provision for the introduction of research into the Centre’s programme, although that was an important matter; nor did it include the cost of direct field observations to be made by teams sent out from the Centre. [19] To begin with, arrangements had been made for a first group of 50 students to take a 10-months’ training course. Experience had shown the ad- visability of extending that course to two years, and, as 100 new students were to arrive in 1952, it was clear that funds were needed. Excellent teachers would finally be available, but their hands would be tied unless they could be provided with the necessary equipment. [20] Mr. Ortiz thought that the existing system, whereby the students’ travelling expenses were paid by their respective governments, whilst the students themselves received fellowship grants, should be maintained. In support of his contention, he ex- plained that, before the Mexico Centre was set up, he had visited the nine countries from which the first group of students had been drawn. He had had conversations with the autorities concerned, and the conditions had been laid down, as follows: [21] Firstly, the students would be chosen from among teachers engaged in fundamental education; secondly, the candidates selected would continue to receive their regular salaries; thirdly, the govern- ments would pay the travelling expenses; and fourthly, the students concerned would accustom themselves to team work. [22] It had happened, however, that one govern- ment had not paid the travelling expenses, which were equivalent to more than half a year’s regular salary of the candidates concerned. Another govern- ment had selected unmarried students, so that their posts could remain vacant and there would be no need to continue paying an allowance to their families. A third government had failed to pay the full salaries to its students. The Fundamental Edu- cation Bureau had therefore been asked to request the issue of a document guaranteeing that the students concerned would receive from their govern- ments the above-mentioned benefits. Whether the Committee decided that the respective countries should pay, or that the expenses should be borne by the Technical Assistance Service, consideration should be given to the possible constitution of a guarantee fund to avoid the occurrence of serious difficulties. [23] With regard to the information requested by the delegate of Egypt, Mr. Ortiz gave some data on the probable cost of a centre similar to the Mexico Centre, and explained that the sum of $150,000 con- tributed by the Mexican Government did not include buildings. The latter were a gift from General EDUCATION COMMITTEE Cardenas, and to meet further needs private houses had been leased. The Mexican Government’s con- tribution had been used for the construction of a dormitory for the students and for making alter- ations to the existing buildings. [24] In conclusion, Mr. Ortiz said that he was at the Committee’s disposal for any further information it might require with regard to the Patzcuaro Centre. [25] Mr. RAADI (Iran) asked for details on the utilization of the funds in the Mexico Centre, more particularly the contributions made by the Mexican and United States Governments. [26] Mr. BOWERS (Head, Fundamental Edu- cation Division) explained that the Mexico Centre was to operate in 1951 on a total budget of $203,000, of which $100,000 was to be supplied from Unesco's regular budget, $40,000 was to be contributed by the United States of America, $15,000 was to cover the salaries of the Director and Administrative Officer of the Centre, and the rest was the balance of funds not expended the previous year. That budget did not include the contribution of the Mexican Government, which had placed premises at the disposal of the Centre and was responsible for their maintenance and for all material services required for the operation of the Centre. In addition to the $203,000 mentioned, there were the salaries of five senior officials, one of whom belonged to the World Health Organization, three to the Food and Agriculture Organization and one to the Inter- national Labour Organization. [27] Mr. JAUME (France) desired particulars re- garding the teaching staff of the Patzcuaro Centre. In reply, Mr. BOWERS (Head, Fundamental Edu- cation Division) requested delegates to refer for such information to the report drawn up by Mr. Lucas Ortiz. [28] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said he would like to have more detailed explanations from Mr. Lucas Ortiz regarding the extension of the training course from the 10 months originally proposed to a period of two years. The Cuban delegate pointed out that the change was bound to have had financial reper- cussions, since it meant twice as long a study period for students, while there were not enough teachers to train two groups. [29] Mr. BENITEZ (United States of America) enquired whether the sum of $40,000 supplied by the Mexican Government was a recurring source of revenue or a single contribution. [30] Mr. BOWERS (Head, Fundamental Edu- cation Division) explained that, under the agreement concluded between Unesco and the Mexican  вы
655 BUDGET-FUNDANENTAT Government, the latter undertook to supply premises and furniture and to provide for their upkeep, and also to bear any local transport expenses and pay the salaries of the service and dispensary staff. Such an obligation represented heavy expenditure for the first years, but the cost would subsequently decrease. [31] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) considered a period of two years not long enough to judge the results of an experiment such as that being carried out in Mexico. According to information he had been able to obtain (especially as the result of edu- cational work carried out by the Netherlands in Indonesia), four to five years were needed to train teachers. [32] Mr. Bender added that the Netherlands Govern- ment was favourable to the United States proposal. [33] Mr. ORTIZ (Director of the Patzcuaro Centre) stated that, to account for the extension of the training period of students to two years, a very detailed explanation of the various aspects of the work being carried out in the Centre would be required. There was a proposal to extend the train- ing of the same 50 students and to enable the Centre at the same time to admit a second group. Both groups would be trained simultaneously. [34] Mr. Ortiz drew the Committee’s attention to the fact that it was nat a matter of training teachers, since the students were already trained teachers, but of giving them instruction in fundamental education. [35] Mr. Ortiz thanked the Committee for the attention he had received, and withdrew. [36] Soliman HOZAYEN Bey (Egypt) mentioned that the accommodation of an education centre was no new problem for Egypt. Three years previously, his country had set up a school for the training of teachers and, one year before, in conjunction with Unesco, it had carried out, under the leadership of a Netherlands expert, an experiment in wich two Egyptians, two Iranians, a Lebanese and a Syrian had taken part. The results had been somewhat different from those described by the Director of the Mexico Centre. The Egyptian delegate thought it might be expedient to arrange for a member of the Mexico Centre’s staff to assist in the estab- lishment of the new Centre proposed by the United States delegation. [37] Soliman Hozayen Bey further explained that the figure of 40,000 pounds offered by his Govern- ment for the establishment of a centre in Egypt was calculated to be equivalent to $115,000, but the figure might possibly be modified. [38] Mr. RAADI (Iran) reverted to his previous question. He wished to obtain particulars of the financing of the Mexico Centre and of the respective parts played by the Mexican and the United States Governments, and enquired whether the principles EDUCATION COMMITTEE УШа-1 on which that system of financing had been based would hold good for future centres. [39] The CHAIRMAN said that any delegates who so desired could find all the necessary particulars on the operation and financing of the Mexico Centre in the documents supplied by Mr. Ortiz. [40] The Chairman asked the meeting to resume consideration of the figures suggested by the United States delegation. The anticipated expenditure of the Mexico Centre amounted to $170,000, whereas the real expenditure amounted to $203,000. The difference of $33,000 would be met from the balance to be transferred from the 1951 budget to the 1952 budget. [41] The figure of $180,000 suggested by the United States delegation for the establishment of the new Centre should be considered adequate, since account had also to be taken of the fact that the Centre would not be operating from the beginning of the year and that meant a reduction in expenditure. [42] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) hoped that the Committee would return to a consideration of the proposals drawn up by the Executive Board (docu- ment 6C/PRG/3), which he found acceptable. [43] In his opinion, the proposals put forward by the American delegation advocated more limited action and could not be accepted jointly with the Board’s proposals. The Committee was responsible for deciding whether Unesco would work on a limited scale or undertake the more extensive activity envisaged by the Executive Board. The Liberian delegate personally favoured the second proposal. [44] Mr. Massaquoi thought that the United States proposal made allowance for only experimental work in the immediate future, and such work would undoubtedly be inadequate. [45] As for the different sources of revenue sug- gested in the United States proposal forthe financing of the centres, he thought that the fourth (additional funds to be supplied from the Technical Assistance Fund) and the seventh (contributions from Govern- ments or non-governmental organizations) could hardly be taken into account. [46] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) pointed out that the experiment being carried out through the estab- lishment of the Patzcuaro Centre could not yet pro- vide a solution for all the problems arising in that field, for the Centre was of too recent date. He hoped that proposals for the establishment of further centres would be given careful thought. He reminded members that the experts who had prepared document 6C/PRG/3 had considered it advisable to gain experience from the first centres before setting up others. [47] Mr. Maquet had no objection to the American proposal, but supported the views put forward by the      BUD CET LE UND AMEN TALVIIIa-1 delegate of France in connexion with the financing of the centres; he, too, thought there should be no question of raising the additional $115,000 from the Organization’s regular Budget. [48] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) hoped that the re- striction which was envisaged in the Director- General’s proposals, and the Executive Board's re- commendations for the establishment of only six regional centres, could be avoided. The programme for regional centres was a long-term one, and although it might be proposed to start with one or two and to increase the programmelater, in accord- ance with the availability of personnel and money, he thought no restriction should be placed on the programme in advance. [49] The word “region” was difficult to define. What criteria should be adopted? Were they to be numbers, population, languages or culture? Mr. Sharif thought the true criterion was the magnitude of a particular country's problem, and the extent to which that country proposed to co- operate with Unesco in the pursuit of their common aims. [60] Mr. Sharif had supported the Egyptian request for the establishment of a centre and would support similar requests from other regions, but preferred the programme to be applied by nations, not by regions. To take the case of Pakistan, since that country’s establishment as an independent State, the education programme had been speeded up from
95 to 10 years, during the course of which it was planned to abolish the prevalent appalling illiteracy. It was not possible in such a case to wait for years before undertaking the training of personnel. In due course, Pakistan hoped to set up a centre of its own and to train large numbers of people for the pursuit of its own scheme. The Unesco project should be sufficiently flexible to take in national schemes where necessary. [61] The difficulties in connexion with the centre outlined by the Egyptian delegate revealed that the same enthusiasm was not shown where it was a case of neighbouring States. It was desirable to extend the work by means of national centres. Where three or four countries agreed to pool resources for the establishment of a centre, it should be of their own free choice. [62] The United States proposal to set up two centres during the coming year was only a piecemeal solution, though it was a step in the right direction. The proposal to divert money from the Technical Assistance programme would deprive other States of definite benefits. In Pakistan, technical assistance had been given for the development of broadcasting and also for geophysical programmes. In addition to being of unbounded utility to his country, it constituted some of the best publicity that Unesco could have had and aroused great enthusiasm for the Organization. He did not consider that money EDUCATION COMMITTEE should be diverted from the general budget. The fundamental education centres should be financed from other sources, such as extra contributions from States, or as provided for under the Colombo plan. [63] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) considered that the Liberian delegate had rendered the Com- mittee a service in reminding it that it was still faced with the choice between the proposals of the United States and those of the Executive Board. However, he felt bound to disagree with the Liberian delegate’s intention that the United States proposal meant limiting Unesco’s scheme to two centres instead of six. His own viewof that proposal was that it con- templated establishing two centres in 1952, as a first stage in the programme, and voting a certain sum of money for that purpose. Neither did he under- stand the grounds on which the Liberian delegate claimed that the proposal contemplated establishing centres on an experimental basis, to be expanded later. [54] The Belgian delegate had mentioned dif ficulties in connexion with the establishment of the Mexican centre. Difficulties of that kind were only to be expected and experience alone would help in their solution. It was not advisable to go too fast. Pakistan, however, had stressed the urgency of the situation. Unesco was, therefore, faced with a dilemma and had to find a middle way. [55] The Pakistan delegate had said that the numberof centres should not be limited to six. But the proposal under consideration constituted, so to speak, only a first instalment. The Pakistan dele- gate had very rightly argued that the programme should be flexible. The centres would not be all of the same type, as the needs of the various localities varied. In some cases the prime need was for the training of teachers; in others, film-strips and literacy charts were needed; in yet others, research into techniques. Another important point men- tioned by the Pakistan delegate was that the plan should not exclude the possibility of extending as- sistance to national centres. [56] Mr. Rackham supported the United States proposal, which constituted, in his view, the first stage of the plan. [57] Mr. BENITEZ (United States of America) said that there was no conflict between the attitude of the United States with regard to the special project, and that of the Secretariat. His delegation had maintained throughout that it would favour the full expansion of the general programme. The only problem was the modus operandi, and his dele- gation’s proposal was intended to relate the modus operandi to the existing resources. The Secretariat might be asked for an opinion whether his dele- gation’s proposal in any way reduced the scope of its own programme. The view stated by the Pakistan delegate fitted in perfectly both with the    BUDGET-FUNDA MENTAL proposal of the United States delegation and with that of the Secretariat. Moreover, the financial forecast contained in the United States proposal was not final, but was subject to modification; it was merely presented as a guide to the deliberations of the Working Party. His delegation found no fault with the special project, but was simply endeavour- ing to advance the time schedule. That would, no doubt, cost money, but when the necessary funds were received they would immediately be allocated appropriately. [58] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Chairman of the Budget Committee) urged the need for coming to grips with the problemof financing the programme. If the United States proposal were accepted—and for his part he considered that it was not in contradic- tion with the Secretariat’s programme—then it had to be decided how the funds from the Technical Assistance programme were to be applied. If extra funds were necessary, where were they to come from? Cuts had already been made everywhere in the budget, and it was difficult to find more money without damaging other projects in Unesco’s -pro- gramme. [69] Mr. Bender asked whether the $40,000 from the Organization of American States could be counted on. If so, and if an additional $115,000 and $178,000 were also available, then the plan could be accepted. One thing was essential—to provide for the maintenance of the Mexico Centre. After that, a second centre could be started. However, the Committee needed to have the financial facts before it before taking a decision. [60] Mr. ADISESHIAH (Head, Technical As- sistance Service) said that some delegates seemed to consider that the Technical Assistance Service had taken a negative stand. He assured them that the project had been planned as a whole and that whatever resources were at the disposal of the Service would be applied to the implementation of the scheme, [61] In the first place, the statement of the United States delegation, dated 29 June, showed the ex- penses which would be incurred for the project in the budget of the Technical Assistance Service in
1952. The United States delegate had already stated that those figures were given merely as an indication, but they did, as a matter of fact, conform to the principles of the Technical Assistance Programme in accordance with Resolution 222 (IX) of the Eco- nomic and Social Council, dealing with Technical Assistance. EDUCATION COMMITTEE УШа-1 [62] In the second place, the question was whether $178,000 or $200,000 would be available in 1952. At a previous meeting, Mr. Adiseshiah had mentioned certain assumptions that had been made for the continuance of the programme and the possibility of a slight expansion of the funds which would be made available for Technical Assistance projects. He placed before the Working Party certain tentative figures which differed from the overall budget and which had been submitted to the Board. Those figures could not be confirmed until after the session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, which was to be held towards the end of the year. [63] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation), in reply to the question whether the United States proposal meant a curtailment of the Ex- eculive Board's programme, stated that the figure proposed by the United States of America, was $463,000. In the budget plan the figure was $843,635. The United States amendment, however, proposed to go ahead in 1952 with a lower ex- penditure, and was based on two assumptions: first, that no extra contributions from Member States in addition to the normal contributions would reasonably be expected; and, secondly, that it would be unwise to count on the accrual of any large sums from the efforts of Member States. He did not think that the United States proposal meant any serious reduction in the funds likely to be avail- able: given those facts, the proposal seemed to be the best way of harmonizing the necessity for doing something real in 1952 and for bringing the project into full development later, if assistance could be obtained from one or more philanthropic institutions. [64] The project would have to be considered in
1953 in the light of developments. The $40,000 budgeted from the Organization of American States could be regarded as assured. There remained the question of how to obtain an additional $115,000 from the regular budget. A cut of 9 per cent was already being voted on all chapters, but it was possible that the Director-General might be obliged to apply a further cut, up to 11.38 per cent. In order to obtain the additional $115,000, a cut of up to
13 per cent would have to be applied. The question was whether cuts in other activities would be accepted in order to carry through the project. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.