PROGRAMME should be set up in 1952, he also proposed that a paragraph 4 should be inserted after paragraph 3, in the following terms:
4. Authorizes the Executive Board, in the light of this preliminary research and on the basis of a report by the Director-General to decide on the place where a second International Centre shall be established in 1952. [54] The amendment, together with the document as a whole, was adopted. [66] The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Pro- gramme Commission had completed its work, requiring only one more meeting to adopt its report. Since he himself was compelled to leave Paris for Geneva to prepare for the Joint IBE-Unesco Conference and attend to his duties at the University, he was anxious, before leaving, to thank the mem- bers of the Commission for the speed and conciseness with which the discussions had been conducted, and to express his appreciation to all those who had helped him in his work—the officers of the Com- mission, the Rapporteur, the Working Parties, the - Director-General and the Secretariat. [66] The Chairman had some personal comments to make on the working methods of the Conference in general, and of the Programme Commission in particular. After 25 years’ experience of work in international organizations, he was bound to note regretfully how much more complicated inter- national life was becoming, quite apart from political and economic difficulties, because of the evolution of procedure and administration. He recalled the much more modest, but none the less fruitful work COMMISSION of the former International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, which had confined itself to issuing directives, leaving the detailed work to competent experts. The Conference was devoting three weeks to work which experts could easily do in one. The Chairman thought that was morally and intellectually a mistake; the dignity of Member States’ represen- tatives was at stake when they dealt hurriedly with details of the programme and budget—a study requiring both leisure and calm—while all too often the Conference adopted hastily conceived resolutions in a state of excitement. In conclusion, he expressed the hope that, sooner or later, the principle of biennial sessions and the acquisition of experience would lead to the adoption of simpler and more natural working methods. [57] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) thanked Mr. Piaget, in the name of all his colleagues, for the masterly way in which he had guided the Commission's discussions on many delicate points. [58] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America), Mr. PLAZA (Venezuela), Mr. LHÉRISSON (Haiti) and Hussein FAWZY Bey (Egypt) associated themselves with the tribute to Mr. Piaget. [59] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL also thanked the Chairman, in the name of the Secretariat, not only for his kindly direction of discussions which were often very tiresome, but also for having closed them on a note of hope. The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m. EIGHTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 10 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Examination of the Report of the Programme Commission to the General Conference. Introduction. [1] Mr. GABRIEL JEAN-FRANCOIS (Haiti) (Rap- porteur) read the introduction to his report (docu- ment 6C/PRG/34 - Introduction). He submitted the recommendations contained in the preamble, adding, in connexion with recommendation 2 on page 5, SHARIF (Pakistan) that it would be desirable for delegations to put forward amendments to resolutions and new resolu- tions in writing, a fortnight in advance, and for discussion not to be reopened on any resolution, once rejected by the Commission. [2] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) was much in favour of recommendation I, on page 5, as he believed that work would be facilitated by the fusion of documents 6C/5 (I) and 6C/5 (II): In that way     e e e ‏ — — — — — — ك س ا ل م خ م ا ب ي هجر
387 PROGRAMME the programme and the detailed budget proposals would appear side by side, and it would be easier to give full consideration to the points at issue. [3] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that a logical and useful recommendation. He could not, however, undertake to carry it out immediately, as it would be necessary to prepare a programme and budget covering two years. If it proved possible to adopt the recommendation for a biennial pro- gramme, he would willingly do so. [4] The introduction to the report, and the recom- mendations were adopted. Discussion of the Report (document 6C/PRG/34, Part I). [6] The Commission then examined the resolutions adopted on the report of the Programme Commission and of the Joint Commission—Programme and Official and External Relations (document 6C/PRG/
1. EDUCATION. Item 1. [6] Item 1.1 was adopted. Item 1.11. [7] Mr. VITO (Italy) introduced a proposal to associate the International Association of University Professors and Lecturers with the International Asociation of Universities in the contract for a subvention of $2,000, already approved by the Pro- gramme Commission. The Board of IAUPL had found, during its recent meeting, that its programme contained much in common with that of TAU. It was clear that, in due course, the International Association of University Professors and Lecturers would undertake responsibilities different from those assumed by the International Association of Universities; it would, however, be advantageous to associate the two bodies in their contacts with Unesco. [8]: The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that, at the late stage reached, it might be preferable to modify the work plan rather than to introduce a new resolution, as a means of attaining the end desired by the Italian delegate. [9] Mr. VITO (Italy) accepted that proposal. [10] Item 1.11 was adopted. Items 1.12 to 1.844. [11] Items 1.12 to 1.344 were adopted. COMMISSION : : IV-18
2. NATURAL SCIENCES. Items 2.1 to 2.41. [12] Adopted without comment.
3. SOCIAL SCIENCES. Items 8.1 to 3.121. [13] Adopted without comment. Item 8.18. [14] Adopted, with an amendment to the French text proposed by Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium). Items 8.14 to 8.42. [16] Adopted without comment.
4. CULTURAL ACTIVITIES. Items 4.1 tot 4.23. [16] Adopted without comment. Item 4.24. [17] Mr. PILOTTI (Italy) submitted the following amendment [document 6C/DR/87 (rev.)], which proposed re-wording the resolution as followed: The Director-General is requested: To submit to the General Conference at its Seventh Session, after consulting all the Member States of Unesco and all non-Member States, the text of an international convention for the protection of monuments, collections and other cultural property in case of armed conflicts. To that end, the Director-General is authorized: To convene, when he has received a sufficient number of satisfactory replies on this subject, a special committee of governmental experts appointed by the Member States of Unesco or by such non-Member States as the Executive Board may invite to be represented upon it, this special committee to have the task of preparing the final draft of the convention. [18] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL warmly approved of the text, which was in accordance with the procedure followed for the preparation of conventions and had no budgetary implication, since it involved only the appointment of government experts. [19] Mr. CAIN (France) and Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded the Italian amendment which was adopted, item 4.24 being also adopted in its amended form. Items 4.26 to 4.43. [20] Adopted without comment.       IV-18 PROGRAMME Item 4.481. [21] Mrs. SEN (India) wished to insert in the new text of item 4.431 the words “and Indian languages”, in order to ensure that Unesco should take its part in making the ancient Indian classics available to the world. The languages concerned would be Sans- krit and those of Dravidian origin, more particularly Tamil. It was impossible to obtain a proper apprecia- tion of Oriental culture without a study of the classics in those languages. The Indian delegation did not wish, at that stage, to ask for any budgetary increase; nevertheless the Director-General should be author- ized to enter into discussion with the Indian Govern- ment on the matter, while any saving which might accrue under the resolution should be used for transla- tions from the Indian languages. If it was im- possible to accept the amendment at the juncture reached, the Indian delegation was most anxious that the Director-General and the Executive Board should take note of the proposal for future action. [22] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had of course always realized the value to Unesco of introducing into the translations project a selection of classical and contemporary works in the Indian languages, but the annual programme was closely governed by the Basic Programme, and budgetary resources were at the moment so restricted that it had been necessary, for the time being, to keep to works in Arabic and Persian, to Italian literature and to the literature of the Latin American countries. He could, however, give an assurance that the possibility of extending the translation programme to include masterpieces of Indian literature would be studied for the 1953-1954 programme. [23] Mr. CHEN (China) expresed a similar desire with regard to Chinese literature. [24] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL undertook to bear in mind the translation of a selection of classical and contemporary works of Indian and Chinese literature in preparing the next programme. He had always thought that Unesco should intensify its activities in connexion with great foreign literature. [25] Mr. BERNAL JIMÉNEZ (Colombia) considered that the Spanish translation of one expression in the French text was too literal. He suggested certain modifications in the Spanish text wherever the same wording was used. [26] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the drafting committee should be responsible for dealing . with Mr. Bernal Jiménez’s proposal by replacing too literal translation with a wording more in keeping with the spirit of the Spanish language. [27] Mr. CAIN (France) said that the French dele- COMMISSION gation, which had submitted a draft resolution on the problem of translation, knew of the Director- General’s interest in the matter. His delegation was convinced that that activity, which was of prime importance, would develop quickly under the Director-General's leadership. [28] Item 4.431 was adopted. Items 4.44 to 4.68. [29] Adopted without comment.
5. EXCHANGE OF PERSONS. [30] The proposal contained in the Report was adopted without comment.
6. Mass COMMUNICATION. [81] The proposals contained in the Report were adopted without comment.
7. REHABILITATION [32] The proposals contained in the Report were adopted without comment.
8. GENERAL RESOLUTIONS. Items 8.1 to 8.3 [33] Adopted without comment. Item 8.4: print.) (Production and Distribution of News- [34] Mr. McGREER (Canada) reminded the Com- mission that, on the occasion when the resolution had been discussed, he had had to reserve his deci- ; sion pending the receipt of instructions from his | Government. He was happy to be able to inform the Commision that the Canadian Government had accepted the resolution as it stood.
0  [35] Mr. TERROU (France) thanked the Canadian delegate for accepting the resolution without reserva- tion. It should result in concrete action, the urgency of which was becoming daily more apparent. [36] Items 8.5 to 8.61. [37] Adopted without comment. Item 8.611. | | | | Item 8.4 was adopted. | | | | f >
2 [38] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) proposed altering the text of the second half of the sentence to read: |
389 PROGRAMME “invites the Director-General to bring about the greatest possible co-operation among the various divisions of Unesco, with a view to preparing a unified long-range programme in this field and mak- ing it still more effective.” [39] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL feared that it would be difficult, if not impossible, at that stage, to ask the Executive Board to prepare a unified programme on Human Rights. The programme was already drawn up. To implement it, it was only necessary to connect Unesco’s various activities. If the amend- ment were adopted, it would run counter to the principle of concentrating activities, and would involve impracticable alterations of structure. He therefore asked the Lebanese delegate not to press his amendment. [40] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) said that his delegation had taken considerable trouble with the wording of the resolution and would be loath to see it altered. He believed that the inten- tion of the Lebanese delegate would be better achieved by co-ordinating the work of the various divisions of Unesco than by instructing the Executive Board to produce a ready-made programme in that field. He would therefore support the Director-General’s attitude. [41] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) wished to point out that he had not intended in any way to suggest pre- paring an abstract, didactic and independent pro- COMMISSION TV-18 gramme on teaching about Human Rights, for such a study clearly depended on close co-operation be- tween Unesco’s various Departments. He had thought of a unified programme in which the dif- ferent activities would be co-ordinated, but with more precise reference to education and cultural activities. [42] Ttem 8.611 was adopted. Items 8.612 to 8.7. [43] Adopted without comment.
9. ACTIVITIES IN GERMANY AND JAPAN. [44] Items 9.1 to 9.222 were adopted without com- ment.
10. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF UNDER-DEVELOPED COUNTRIES. [45] Items 1.1 to 1.34 were adopted without com- ment. Part II. Model Declaration on the Protection of Cultural Property in the course of Armed Conflict. [46] [47] The report as a whole was adopted. Articles 1 to 12 were adopted without comment. The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.