CHAPTER 1V PROGRAMME COMMISSION FIRST MEETING Friday, 22 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Piaget (Switzerland) Opening of the Session and Election of the Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteur. [1] The CHAIRMAN declared the Sixth Session of the Programme Commission open, and called upon the meeting to consider the first item on the agenda: election of the Vice-Chairmen and Rap- porteur. [2] He recalled that Pakistan and Mexico had been nominated for the two Vice-Chairmanships, and Haiti for the office of Rapporteur. Mr. Sharif (Pakistan) and Mr. Castro Leal (Mexico) were elected Vice-Chairmen; Mr. Gabriel Jean-François (Haiti) Rapporteur. Adoption of the Agenda. [3] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the work of the Programme Commission that year would be facilitated by the introduction of three new factors: the budget ceiling was to be fixed before the opening of the discussion of the draft programme; the Budget Committee, which had begun its work a week earlier, was submitting proposals concerning the appropriations for each project; and, finally, working parties were to be formed for the purpose of preparing for discussion of certain special points. [4] He asked that the Commission’s agenda as contained in document 6C/1 rev. should be adopted; but suggested that the special reports mentioned under items 8.7 et seq. should be considered during the discussion of the items of the programme to which they referred. [5] The agenda, thus amended, was adopted. Organization of Work. [6] The CHAIRMAN next proposed that a drafting Committee should be formed, to draw up certain resolutions the substance of which had already been approved by the Commission. [7] Mr. Cowell (United Kingdom), Mrs. Potter Russell (United States of America), Mr. François (France), and Mr. Castro Leal (Mexico) were ap- pointed to serve on the Committee, together with the Rapporteur of the Commission. [8] The CHAIRMAN asked the opinion of the Com- mission on the subject of setting up working parties to prepare for the discussion of certain special points in the programme. He recalled that a similar working party had been set up, at the preceding Ses- sion of the General Conference, to consider the question of copyright. He suggested that a working party should be formed to consider item 8.7.2 of the agenda (Natural Sciences), which was clearly of à technical nature, and called upon those delegations which had specialists on the subject to volunteer to serve on the working party. The following dele- gations offered their services: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Egypt, France, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Pakistan, Switzerland, Thailand, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America. [9] It was also decided to set up a working party to study item 8.6 of the agenda : Discussion of the project for the establishment of a World Network of Regional Fundamental Education Centres. The following delegations would serve on that working party: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Canada, China, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, India, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan, Phi- lippines, Thailand, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela and Yugoslavia. [10] The Commission decided to set up a working party to study items 8.7.7.1 and 8.7.7.2: (a) Report on the establishment of a committee to prepare a Charter of the duties of the State in regard to edu-     IV-1 PROGRAMME cation, science, and culture; (b) Report concerning the measures taken for placing economic and social rights on an international basis. The delegations of Austria, Belgium, France, India, Italy, Pakistan, United Kingdom, United States of America, and Yugoslavia would be represented on that working party. [11] The following delegations would participate in the work of a group set up to study a proposal from the United Kingdom regarding cultural activi- ties (document 6C/DR/3) (item 8.5.4 of the agenda) and the question of a cultural history of mankind: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Cambodia, China, Den- mark, Egypt, France, German Federal Republic, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philip- pines, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia. [12] The CHAIRMAN proposed the establishment of a working party to study item 8.7.1.2 of the agenda: Report on ways and means of associating young people with Unesco's programme. [13] Mr. CAIN (France) warned the Commission against the danger of splitting up its work too much. He was afraid that the formation of too many committees or working parties might cause difficulties for delegations with only a limited num- ber of representatives. Although he was not opposed in principle to setting up a working party to study the contribution of young people, he pointed out that, as it was an important question affecting various cultural and educational activities, it should be discussed by the Commission as a whole. [14] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) drew attention to the difficulties of the smaller delegations in the face of a multiplicity of working parties. Such delegations would find it impossible to send a delegate to all those in which they were interested. His delegation had initially favoured the formation of working parties, on the understanding that there were to be two or three only on subjects of major importance. If there were to be more, as appeared to be the case, his delegation would be obliged to reconsider its position on the principle. [15] Mer. MAROUN (Lebanon) was sorry to note that, under the decisions just taken, each part of COMMISSION the programme waslikely to be studied by a separate working party. If that was so, he did not see why the same decision should not apply to the question of young people, the importance of which had been stressed frequently, and, in particular, by the Bel- gian delegation. Mgr. Maroun was in favour of setting up a working party to study that question in collaboration with the representatives of youth movements. [16] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) thought that the formation of working parties would facilitate and accelerate the Commission’s work and he suggested that, to avoid certain practical difficulties, the working parties should meet one after another, in the order laid down for the discussion of the pro- gramme. He suggested that the working party set up to study the association of young people with Unesco’s work should be composed of a few highly qualified delegates, plus the representatives of those non-governmental organizations which dealt with youth questions. [17] That proposal was adopted by 26 votes to 1, with 6 abstentions. [18] The CHAIRMAN invited delegations to submit to the Secretariat the names of the representatives appointed to serve on each of the working parties which had been set up. Criteria Adopted by the Economic and Social Council for the Establishment of Priorities in the Programmes of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies. Item 8.4 of the Agenda. [19] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commis- sion should accept those criteria, as enumerated in document 6C/PRG/2, as a guide in consideration of the programme. [20] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) said that his delegation did not regard document
6C/PRG/2 as final, and proposed that it should be held over for discussion by the Commission at some future meeting. [21] Agreed. The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m.