755 Ero RTE o'r Session (5C/Resolutions, Annex 1, page 118). [30] The Chairman stressed the Committee's responsibility for ensuring that the reports of Member States were in the best possible form, and asked whether the meeting agreed that the structure of its final report should be on the lines of that of the Special Committee. Section V, [31] With regard to the form of the report, Mr. LUCET (France) thought that the Committee could have complete confidence in the Rapporteur who, besides being familiar with Unesco’s work, was also a distinguished legal expert. [32] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) was deeply touched bythat expression of confidence, but thought it better, all the same, that the Committee should, at the conclusion of the discussion, consider what form the report should take. [33] Mr. DARD thought it difficult for the Com- mittee to proceed any further before having read the reports submitted to it. [34] Mr. Dard suggested that the Committee should ask the General Conference, before dispersing, to appoint the members of the Committee which would be meeting during the next session to examine the reports of Member States; the delegations interested would then be able to study those reports before the Conference opened. [35] Mr. SMITH (United States of America), replying to the Chairman, suggested that in order that all the reports should be read (including those not yet printed), it would be necessary for the Com- MEMBER ST XIT-3 mittee to divide into teams. He proposed six criteria by which the reports should be judged, viz.:
(1) The degree to which each report conformed to the requirements set out by the Director-General.
(2) The extent to which emphasis was placed on the work of the National Commission, or on the general cultural activities of the Member State.
(3) The readability of Part I (intended for the public).
(4) Length.
(5) Date of submission.
(6) The extent to which the MemberState appeared to have been carrying out the resolutions of the Florence Conference (either recommending specific action to Member States or providing opportunities for co-operation with Unesco). [36] The last criterion, however, raised questions of content, as it involved an evaluation of the work accomplished by Member States. [37] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) accepted that proposal, but pointed out that there was a technical difficulty—that of translation. The Committee had before it a certain number of reports which had not been translated; and those drawn up in Spanish, in particular, would be difficult for certain members of the Committee to examine. [38] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the members of the Committee should divide into small groups, according to language. [39] Five groups were formed, and the reports were divided up. The meeting rose at 6 p.m. THIRD MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mrs. GERÓNIMA PECSON (Philippines) Examination of the Reports of Member States. [1] The CHAIRMAN declared the discussion open, asking delegates to bear in mind the criteria drawn up at the previous meeting for the study of the Reports of Member States. [2] Mr. LUCET (France) pointed out that the working party composed of the delegates of France, Greece and Syria had been puzzled about the meaning of the sixth criterion adopted for the study of the reports, concerning the implementation by Member States of the resolutions of the General Conference. The working party wondered whether the Committee was expected to pass judgment on the form or on the contents of the report, to estimate the value of the report as a statement, or of the activity it described. In view of the uncertainty on that point,        E E E T T = = = c s
7|i XII-3 REPORTS OT MENDER STATES the group had prepared its reply so as to meet both possible interpretations. : [3] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) mentioned that, since the working parties had been improvised, there werelikely to be differences of opinion within each. He therefore suggested that one member of each group should make an objective statement, without attempting an assessment, whilst another should state how far, in his view, the country in question had conformed with the recommendations of the General Conference. [4] In reply to a question from Enche OTHMAN (United Kingdom), the CHAIRMAN said that, after hearing the observations of the working parties, the Committee would adjourn while the Chairman and Rapporteur, assisted by the Secretary, co-ordinated the reports and prepared a draft for the approval of the Committee. [6] Mr. DARD (Head of the Division of Relations with Governments and National Commissions) thought the method suggested by the Chairman very wise. The Committee was to devote three more meetings to examining the reports, after which it would adjourn for a week, meeting again on 5 July. The best method would therefore be for each working party to set out its conclusions, which would form the “grounds” in a preamble. During the discussions which might take place during the period between the meetings, those “grounds” would be suitably arranged, after which the Committee would be able to formulate conclusions and resolutions to be pre- sented for general approval at the final meeting on
5 July. [6] Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought it would be better, in the general conclusions, to adhere to the criteria proposed by the United States delegation, which seemed to be very sound. [7] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) agreed. The working parties having based their study of the reports on those criteria, their observations should also be made on the same basis—which did not mean, however, that delegates desiring to do so might not make individual comments. The Committee would thus have a general idea of the observations its report would have to cover; it might amend certain points in the criteria later, if it deemed desirable. [8] The CHAIRMAN requested Mr. Fayat to submit the observations of the first working party. [9] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) said that, following the suggestion made by the Turkish delegate and accepted by the Committee, he would try to follow as closely as possible the criteria established by the United States delegation: [10] (1) The degree to which Reports conformed to the requirements set forth by the Director-General. The eight reports studied by his working party were on the whole, not very satisfactory. Four had been drawn up with some sense of the required order. Certain of the reports did not distinguish sufficiently between what was new and what had existed in the past. Therefore it was impossible to see what pro- gress had been made under the Unesco programme. Some of the reports gave statistics which were not clearly intelligible to the reader. It would seem that certain essential background material should be given in the future, in order to make it possible to follow reports. One of the reports gave some account of the difficulties encountered in complying with the questionnaire—for instance, when legislation on educational matters was not exclusively the concern of the central government, but also of provinces, or, in the case of federal constitutions, of states. [11] Mr. Fayat commended the frankness shown in replying to the questionnaire. Two governments had indicated the reasons why they were unable to make progress, and what their difficulties were. One had also stated that it feared it might be obliged to lower its standards. Governments should be required to reply to the questionnaire very fully and accurately, in their own interest and in that of the Organization; for instance, in the event of an applica- tion for technical assistance, their requests might be considered according to the report submitted. [12] (2) The extent to which emphasis was placed on the work of the National Commission or on the general educational, scientific and cultural activities of the Member State? Two of the reports gave information on the National Commissions; four made unsatisfactory reference to them: and two made no reference at all. [13] (3) Readability of Part I. None of the eight reports really complied with the Director-General’s requirements regarding Part 1. That problem should be tackled by the Committee, and more definite indications should be given in future on what was really required under Part L [14] (4) 77Length. The reports were very unequal in length. Some of them were very extensive, and two of them went into too many non-essential details. Mr. Fayat's working party considered that the Committee's final report should contain a passage specifying the details to be given. [15] (5) Date of submission. The eight reports considered by his working party had been received late. The Committee should emphatically state that in future it would not be possible to consider late reports. It was very difficult to study adequately reports which had not been translated. [16] (6) Extent to which Member States were carrying out the resolutions of the General Con- ference in Florence: (a) specifically requiring action      - —   E s . г т е т ь т т т у ل إ س ب د ‎
757 REPORTS or on the part of the Member States; (b) offering opportunities for Member States to co-operate actively with Unesco. Owing to lack of order, and perhaps as a conse- quence of the fact that governments had not adhered closely to the Director-General’s schedule, no clear picture emerged as to the action of governments in implementing the Conference resolutions. [17] The general conclusion reached by Mr. Fayat's working party was that the Committee should discuss whether the Director-General's schedule was accept- able, or whether it should be changed, so that, with the authority of the General Conference, governments might be asked to keep as closely as possible to the schedule in order to make comparison easier. [18] The CHAIRMAN thanked the rapporteur of the first working party. She emphasized that the reports constituted a rich source of information regarding conditions in the countries which had sent them. Although the form was sometimes confused, they revealed the efforts that were being made towards the implementation of Unesco’s resolutions. But in some cases the advances made in the field of edu- cation, science and culture did not come under the Unesco programme, and therefore had no place in the reports submitted. [19] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) said that, judging by the remarks of the Belgian delegate and the Chairman on the eight reports in question, none of them appeared to be satisfactory. That raised a very serious problem, since some of those eight States played a very important part in the Organi- zation. None of them had been actually named, but it might be guessed which they were. [20] The Greek delegate wondered whether all those reports really merited such severe criticism. [21] The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee’s task was to judge and compare the reports within the framework of the schedule laid down. From that point of view the reports were unsatisfactory, but the information contained in them was most useful, even if it did not alway lend itself to a synthesized account. [22] Mr. DARD said that, since he was probably the only person attending the Committee who had read all 40 ‘reports, he was in a position to say something about the distribution of the reports between the working parties. They had not been fairly divided, he thought, as regarded quality. Some batches were excellent, others less so. The batch allocated to the Philippines-Belgium party was not one of the best, although two or three of the reports contained in it were reasonably good. Thus, when the Committee had heard the criticisms of the other parties, the unfavourable impression created by the first observations would be mitigated. ME DL STATE XII-3 [23] The inadequacy of the information on National Commissions given in the reports was due to the fact that those Commissions had been asked, under Resolution 30.125 of the Fifth Session, to draw up a special report on their activities, and that information was therefore not included in the reports of the Member States concerned. The plan for Member States’ reports simply asked for information on the measures taken to establish, develop or assist the National Commission. It would perhaps be well, in future, to ask also for details on the work of the Commission. It was for the Committee to discuss that subject, and to formulate any observations it might have to make. [24] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) wondered whether criticism of reports, and plans for drawing up future reports, should not be deferred until the Committee had reached the end of its proceedings and had heard the observations of all the working parties. : [25] Moreover, having listened to Mr. Fayat’s very impartial but rather severe statement, he thought that the work of Member States should not be judged solely on the reports they sent in. Some of the reports were very brief and did not, perhaps, give an entirely accurate picture of the work; whilst others were fuller and gave too rosy a picture. [26] The Committee should try to distinguish the positive factors in each report, in order, when drawing up its conclusions, to find a common deno- minator whereby the true value of the reports could be assessed. [27] It would also be well to emphasize and quote the best parts of the reports of certain countries which had done particularly good work. [28] The CHAIRMAN asked the second working party to submit its report. [29] Enche OTHMAN (United Kingdom) said that his working party had considered eight reports, four of which had been submitted in time for printing. Four had been received later and were only available in roneographed form. [30] The following were the conclusions reached with regard to the four reports which had been sub- mitted before 15 March:
(1) Three reports were prepared in accordance with Article VIII of the Constitution, and met the requirements of the Director-General’s schedule. One did not follow the plan. [31] (2) One report dealt fully with the work of the National Commission. One dealt with the Na- tional Commission, but also with a great number of general cultural activities. Another stated that no National Commission had yet been established but gave a description of matters directly related to Unesco in the field of general cultural activities. The fourth report described the setting up of the National Commission.         XIL-3 REPORTS HF [32] (3) No distinction was made between Parts 1 and II in one of the reports. Part I in two of the reports was very readable; one report was sometimes dull and gave too many lists. [33] (4) The reports ran, respectively, to nine, nine and a half, nine and a half and two printed pages. [34] (5) All the before 15 March. [35] (6) (a) and (b) Three Member States were carrying out the resolutions of the General Con- ference; the fourth did not supply much information under those headings. [36] The United Kingdom delegate then gave the following data with regard to the four reports which had been received late:
(1) One report followed the plan very closely, another in general, another only partially, and the fourth not at all. [37] (2) Two reports dealt fully with the Na- tional Commission; in one the National Commission was mentioned; and in the last it was mentioned and an account was given of general cultural activities. [38] (3) In one report three sections were included in Part I (a) and (b) were readable; (c) was too detailed. In another there was no division into Part I and Part II. In the third report there was no Part I, but the report was readable. The fourth report was readable and interesting. [39] The general impression of the reports was that highly developed States had difficulty in com- pressing the volume of information available within the framework of the Director-General’s schedule. The less developed States showed a tendency to write up educational and cultural activities under headings which did not directly relate to the work of Unesco. Tt was desirable that reports should be in a standard form, and the existing framework seemed to con- stitute a fairly satisfactory compromise. Even where resources were obviously meagre, a serious attempt seemed to have been made to co-operate with Unesco. Effort was needed to secure co-operation and reports from those States which had not so far reported. reports had been submitted [40] The CHAIRMAN called upon the third working party to present its observations. [41] Mr. McNICOL (Australia) submitted the following statement on behalf of himself and the United States delegate:
(1) In most cases the reports either ignored Part I, gave the requisite information very briefly, or let Part I merge with Part II. Some of the sections marked Part TI answered the questions in Part I, and conversely there were no answers to the concrete enquiries made in Part II. One report, however, gave a voluminous reply to Part I. [42] Tt appeared that most States found that the two sections duplicated each other or were un- MEMBER STATES 758 necessary, and there might well be morelatitude in the framing of Part I of the questionnaire. [43] The reports under Part II conformed generally to the plan (with the exception of the minority already mentioned), and contributed specific and valuable information. In one case, the section, while not conforming to the suggested headings, never- theless gave the required information clearly and precisely. [44] (2) There again there was wide diversity. In most States, the National Commissions were new bodies and had not yet learnt to work effectively. In several cases, the National Commission was closely identified with the Government, while one State reported very persuasively that its traditions corresponded so closely with the ideals of Unesco that co-operation was easy and close. Some of the reports of the smaller States were quite general with respect to educational, scientific and cultural acti- vities, without indicating the role played by the National Commission. [45] (3) Since the majority of reports did not conform clearly to the prescribed division, the third question was hard to answer, especially as, in one of the most readable reports, the information was classified as Part II. That perhaps suggested the need of more flexibility in the questionnaire. [46] One report was far too long and general in tone to be effective, while in many the impact of Unesco was obscure. [47] (4) Seven of the eight reports ran to three to eight pages; one had 47 pages. [48] (5) Four reports had arrived in time for inclusion in the printed document 6C/4. One had been received a month late, one six weeks, and a third three months late; one had arrived in two sections: (a) Part I, two weeks late; (b) Part II, seven weeks late. [49] (6) The degree of activity depended on the strength of the National Commission, but that very strength was also dependent on the cultural climate of the different countries. Where education, science and the arts were highly developed, the National Commissions were usually strong and co-operation under 6 (a) and (b) was relatively good. In other States, where illiteracy was the norm, co-operation was only beginning. [50] It could be seen that everywhere the intellec- tual ferment was at work, and there were signs of progress and of appreciation of the Unesco pro- gramme. [51] Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) communicated to the Committee the observations of the working party composed of himself and the Swiss delegate. [52] (1) Five reports corresponded to the plan proposed by the Director-General; three had dis regarded it. [53] (2) In five of the reports, the work of the
759 REron Te oy ene e Ry STAATES XIT-3 I National Commission was not well enough brought out, the main emphasis being on Governmental ac- tivities in the fields of education, science and culture. Three of the reports gave a particularly interesting account of the activities of the National Commission. [54] (3) Four of the reports contained no Part I; in the other four Part I was excellent. [55] (4) The length of the reports varied; were too short, the others were satisfactory. [56] (5) Four of the reports had been sent in before the deadline, and three after it. One Member [62] (4) One of the reports consisted of 25 pages; | three others of from 9 to 10 pages, which the Work- | ing Party regarded as the ideal length; while the ; | other four reports were too brief. 2H [63] (5) Five of the reports had been sent in by И the deadline; three others, which were simply || roneographed, had arrived late, on the dates indi- 1 cated in the list drawn up by the Secretariat. | [64] (6) As Mr. Lucet had already pointed out, 1 the working party had been puzzled over the sixth {| point, not knowing whether its opinion should be i two     m . n m m
1 = State had sent Part II in time, but Part I late. [67] (6) According to three of the reports, the resolutions of the Florence Conference appeared to have been implemented in part. Four reports revealed remarkable activity, and supplied the information asked for. Ome report stated that the National Commission had been set up so recently that its activities were not yet sufficiently developed. [68] Mr. LUCET (France) presented the observa- tions of the working party formed by himself and the delegates of Greece and Syria. The eight reports examined by the group—which were, on the whole, satisfactory—gave evidence of a genuine desire to participate in Unesco’s work and to apply the prin- ciples on which that work was based. [69] Taking the criteria adopted by the Committee one by one, he summed up the observations of his group as followed:
(1) Two States had not observed the plan drawn up by the Director-General, in that their reports con- tained no Part I; in the report of a third State, Part I existed, but was too lengthy and too general, constituting a kind of introduction not apparently designed expressly for the general public. Two other reports conformed, in general, with the plan, though ignoring certain of the headings; the other three followed it scrupulously. [60] (2) All the eight States concerned either had, or were about to, set up a National Commission; three of them already had one, and five were in the process of establishing one. Two of the reports placed the emphasis on the activities of the National Commission, which appeared to play an important part in the countries concerned; a third report con- centrated on the work of the Government rather than on that of the National Commission; a fourth indicated that the Government played the main part, though with the co-operation of various groups or organizations; and finally, the last report indicated that the Government had succeeded in establishing a happy balance between its own work and that of the National Commission. [61] (3) Part I of the report was missing in two cases; in a third case, it was readable but did not conform with the Director-General’s instructions. In the other five reports, Part I was interesting, clear and readable. expressed on the form or the content of the reports. IH With regard to the form, three of the Member States concerned had returned accurate replies, and appeared scrupulously to have carried out the resolu- tions of the Florence Conference. The replies of the five others, though less clear, indicated a general desire to apply the resolutions of the Florence Con- ference. As far as the content of the reports was concerned, all eight gave evidence of the desire of the States concerned to implement the resolutions of the Florence Conference and to carry out Unesco’s programme; but whereas that desire was expressed in some cases in a very specific way, in others, it took the form of vague promises. [65] In conclusion, Mr. Lucet made the following remarks: (a) Some Member States had great difficulty in adhering to the Director-General’s instructions when drawing up their reports. Some appeared to find it inconvenient to have to divide their reports into two parts; others seemed at a loss to know in which part of the report to deal with this or that question. Instructions on that point should in future be more definite. [66] (b) It might be dangerous to judge the work of a Member State on the basis of the answers given to the questions contained in the plan for reports. [67] (€) Would it not be in the Committee's interests to obtain a specific definition of its task? In the opinion of the working party, the Committee might confine itself to establishing whether or not the reports corresponded to a fairly flexible plan drawn up in advance. There was no point in pro- nouncing a definite verdict on the documents; the Committee might confine itself to making sugges- tions, leaving the States themselves to decide how their reports could be improved. [68] Mr. DARD thanked the Committee and the working parties for the care and understanding they had brought to the study of the reports. [69] Mr. Dard suggested that the Committee should, at its next meeting, consider (1) whether the fact that a detailed plan had been proposed had, gener- ally speaking, led to an improvement in that year’s reports; (2) whether the reports that had adhered to the plan were, on the whole, better and more useful to the Organization than those that had not.            C o   A XIT-4 REPORTS où [70] If the second question was answered in the affirmative, the following points would have to be considered; (a) Should the existing plan be improved? (b) Should a certain amount of latitude be allowed with regard to Part I of the report? (¢) Should the account the National Commission was required to give of its work be included in the report? Where? And how? (d) Should the length of the report be stipulated? (e) Should there continue to be a deadline for the sending in of reports, and should Member States be required to observe it strictly? [71] It might perhaps be well if the General Con- MEMBER ST ATES 760 ference, before the end ofits session, were to appoint the Committee which would have to study Member States’ reports at the Seventh Session. [72] In conclusion, the representative of the Director-General, reverting to a suggestion put forward by the French delegate, hoped that the Committee would obtain a definition of its task and be told whether it had merely to examine the form of the reports sent in, or whether it was also expected to assess the work of Member States in general and submit a report thereon to the General Conference. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mrs. GERÓNIMA Pecson (Philippines) Discussion on the Reports of Member States (continuation). [1] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) proposed that, before considering the suggestions made by the representative of the Director-General, the Com- mittee should express some general views on the reports which had been submitted at the previous meeting. [2] Mr. McNICOL (Australia) was not in favour of Mr. Brandt's suggestion. He considered that the Chairman, the Rapporteur and the representative of the Director-General might compare views, using the Chairman’s notes as a guide. In that way some precise conclusions could be drawn, [3] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece), Rapporteur, advised the Committee to determine the chief factors in the problem, as shown by the reports submitted at the previous meeting, and then to con- sider the suggestions made by the representative of the Director-General in the light of that information. [4] Mr. DARD (Head, Division for Relations with Governments and National Commissions), represen- tative of the Director-General, hoped that, to assist the Secretariat in its work, the Committee would issue precise recommendations to serve as a basis for the drafting of resolutions; the draft resolutions could be handed to all members at the end of the week, and the final text, taking account of any observations made, would be submitted for approval the following Thursday. [6] The CHAIRMAN thought that suggestion would meet Mr. Brandt's point. In the course of the discussion, the general opinion of the reports presented at the previous meeting would become clear. If members wished to propose changes in the reports they would be quite free to do so, and the modifications would be noted. [6] Enche OTHMAN (United Kingdom) supported the view expressed by the Australian delegate at the previous meeting that a small Working Party should be formed, consisting perhaps of the Chairman, the Rapporteur and the representative of the Director- General, to draw general conclusions from the reports of the Working Parties and the Director- General's observations. Those conclusions would then be submitted to the Committee for discussion. [7] The Working Party might also follow up the statement on page 3 of document 6C/4 Introduction that “certain reports might be suggested as models”. In his opinion, the reports sent in by Australia, Turkey and Belgium might be so considered. [8] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) thought that, to conform with the democratic spirit of Unesco, certain conclusions of a general nature should be drawn from the five reports submitted. He did not think that a small drafting committee could be entrusted with so onerous a task, and he hoped that ры   — — m . Г | | | | | | | | | | | | | ges Re Re; Que GL, [14 mer on thar [15] circ prev dire fore issue imp: have since Curr previ [16] his ¢ plan take. [17] detail all St dispa