HEE ADO UIAT RIT ERTS COMMITTEE SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 4 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. C. A. THomson (United States of America) Discussion of the Draft Report and Resolution. [1] Mr. DAVIES (Australia) (Rapporteur) pre- sented, with brief comments, his draft report to the Administrative Commission, together with a resolu- tion prompted by the suggestions made during the discussion. [2] Mr. Davies drew special attention to a point mentioned in the Director-General's report: the loan offered by the French Government was quoted in French francs, and it was consequently in that currency that it would have to be repaid. The French Government was agreeable to postponing the first payment of the annual instalments until the Secretariat had taken over its new premises. [3] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether, following on information given at the pre- ceding meeting, it should not be mentioned that the French Government might consider erecting an international conference building on the unused part of thesite. [4] Mr. DAVIES (Rapporteur) replied that that point was mentioned in the Director-General's report. = [5] Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) wanted that particular passage in the Annex altered: it was an exaggeration to say that “a scheme for building an international conference hall was at present under consideration”. It would be more correct to say that the French Government reserved the right to build, on the unused part of the site, an edifice which would harmonize with Unesco’s, adding in brackets: (for example, an international conference building). In any case, nothing had been decided. The site was State property, and it and the adjoining area could be used only for administrative services. [6] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) remarked that, if the French Government constructed a confer- ence hall, Unesco’s building expenses might possibly be reduced. [7] The CHAIRMAN agreed, but thought it diffi- cult, in the circumstances, to do more than take note of Mr. de Lacharrière’s statements. [8] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pressed his point: such an important detail should not be left so vague. [9] Mr. DAVIES (Rapporteur) also thought that the report should include a paragraph enabling the Director-General to open negotiations on the matter with the French Government. [10] Speaking as an Australian representative, he believed that his Government would be favourably influenced if the French Government could give definite information about the building of a confer- ence hall, to be put at Unesco’s disposal for sessions of the General Conference. [11] Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) answered that his Government could not commit itself on that as yet indefinite project. The Headquarters Com- mission would make a tactical error if it linked the possible carrying out of a still hypothetical national project to an objective and detailed international plan. All that could be said was that the con- struction, by the French Government, of a confer- ence buiding, would modify the existing estimates. Unesco would then be able to do without building a conference hall or, in the contrary case, could rent to various international organizations the hall it would have had built. He emphasized that he had instanced the project only as the kind of admini- strative building that the French Government would consider to be in harmony with Unesco’s head- quarters and aims. [12] The CHAIRMAN noted that there was no question of anything but a hypothetical scheme. Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) pointed out that the saving to be made through the building of a conference hall on Unesco’s site was difficult to [13] estimate. Given the most favourable hypothesis—if the French Government built a large assembly hall, and two others with a capacity of from two to three hundred persons, and a hundred or so offices, and also undertook the technical equipment of the conference rooms—the saving might be as much as 300 million francs, but would be only 100 million if a large assembly room alone were constructed.      ‏READانهامطداقد00ددقلم776 | | q XII-2 > [14] Mr. van de KERCHOVE d'HALLEBAST (Bel- gium) felt obliged to say that it was impossible to reach an exact figure so long as there was no information on thelittle likelihood of carrying out the French project. [15] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) could only repeat that the example given was a hypothetical one, the execution of the scheme being uncertain. [16] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) assumed that, if Unesco decided not to count on the confer- ence hall's being built by the French Government, it would have to face the expense of an enormous hall to contain at least 70 delegations, as well as experts, observers, representatives of Specialized Agencies, National Commissions, international non- governmental organizations, etc. The chances of the French Government's constructing a confer- ence building would then become even more doubtful. [17] The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission had two alternatives before it: either to propose that Unesco should construct its building without count- ing on the French plan—a hypothetical one—being carried out; or to put off the construction of the Unesco building until the French Government was able to give more detailed information. [18] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) did not . think that his Government could give exact infor- mation on an idea which had not reached the stage of a project. The Unesco architects, when making their estimates, would, of course, take account of any contiguous building which might reduce Unesco’s expenses. [19] The CHAIRMAN asked whether it might not be expedient to round off the resolution by giving the Director-General instructions, when drawing up the final plans for Unesco’s Headquarters, to consider the saving which might be effected if the French Government should decide to build an international conference centre. [20] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was afraid that anything of the kind might result in the French Government's deferring its plan. He thought it would be better not to mention such an uncertain possibility. [21] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) also thought that no account should be taken of a mere hypo- thesis, put forward only as an example of what might be a suitable use of the site. [22] Mr. DAVIES (Rapporteur), leaving on one side the hypothesis of the French Government’s undertaking to build, asked what proportion of the estimates for Unesco’s headquarters would be absorbed by the enormous conference hall needed only for the sessions of the General Conferences held in Paris. The principle of biennial sessions had been approved; furthermore, the Director-General had told the Executive Board that he wished to adhere as far as possible to the tradition of holding conferences on the territory of different Member States. That being so, how often in the next few years would the General Conference meet in Paris, if it met there at all? [23] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) replied that it was impossible to make an exact forecast. However, as the decision concerning the seventh and eighth sessions revealed the importance, from a budgetary point of view, of holding certain sessions of the General Conference at Unesco’s headquarters, it might be expected that at least one session every four years would be held in Paris. [24] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) pointed out to Mr. Cowell that the fact that Unesco might build a conference hall in Paris would not in any way render it less necessary for the French Government to construct a conference building, probably outside the centre of the city. Once again, there were two problems, in relation to different requirements. [26] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) observed that Unesco was acting more and more cautiously regarding the renting of its conference hall and was only considering renting it to organizations whose aims were akin to its own. [26] Mr. van de KERCHOVE d’HALLEBAST (Bel: gium) thought that the building of a conference hall at Unesco headquarters might militate against the principle of holding sessions of the Conference in the capital cities of Member States. [27] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether it was absolutely necessary that Unesco's conference hall should be in the building itself. [28] The CHAIRMAN replied that a decision on that point would be taken later. The question at issue was whether the report should mention the possibility of the French Government's itself build- ing a conference hall. [29] As for Unesco’s building programme, his impression was that an enormous hall was not essential, even for plenary meetings, as it would be used only for inaugural meetings and certain cere- monies. That was a question of principle which ought to be settled immediately.     n n — . z — s — A L L A | th co en thd to sul thd [34 giu bel gro per [33 sho con inc] dre) [34 wou whi conf Pred wou [35] ence) miss to Td ence line years miss at th [36] the its te plan [37] refer seem ence. [38]     TTT [30] Mr. van de KERCHOVE d’HALLEBAST (Bel- gium) thought that the Committee might draw up a building plan excluding the conference hall and comprising a number of variants. [31] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) believed that the Commission might go even further, and re- consider the decisions taken at the Florence Confer- ence by abolishing the plans for some hundred offices. At the moment, Unesco had 640 offices; the Florence proposals would increase the number to 1000. That figure could be reduced to 800, re- sulting in a saving of about 200 million francs on the existing estimates. [32] Mr. van de KERCHOVE d’HALLEBAST (Bel- gium) was prepared to support that idea, as he believed that Unesco was a dynamic organization, growing all the time, and that it was logical that its permises should increase by stages. [33] The CHAIRMAN asked a further question: should a similar list to that drawn up at Florence, comprising all the details of the building plan, be included in the report, or should an overall plan only be given, to be altered as and when the architects drew up their plans? [34] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) thought it would be best to annex to the report an estimate which would not provide for the building of a large conference hall and the 150 offices for delegations. Precise details on the various extensions envisaged would be added to the estimate. [35] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) asked the Com- mission to add a paragraphto its report, enabling it to revise the estimates made by the Florence Confer- ence so that the first stage of the work would be in line with Unesco’s activities during the first two years following on the building work. The Com- mission and the Secretariat had enough information at their disposal to make a detailed estimate. [36] Mr. COWELL(United Kingdom) thought that the Commission should make sure beforehand that its terms of reference entitled it to present a detailed plan to the Administrative Commission. [37] The SECRETARY replied that the terms of reference were not explicit on the point, but it would seem to have been accepted by the Florence Confer- ence. [38] The CHAIRMAN noted that the meeting was HEAD QUART ERTS COMMITTEE XHI-2 in agreement on the principle of a restricted plan, providing for successive extensions, and proposed that a sub-paragraph (a) should be added to para- graph 3 of the draft resolution, in the following terms: “It will define the Organization’s needs during the first ten years with regard to offices and special services.” [39] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought the sentence should be completed by the phrase: “with special reference to the possible need of providing accommodation for the General Conference of Unesco.” [40] Mr. DAVIES (Rapporteur) prepare a resolution accordingly. said he would [41] Following a suggestion by the CHAIRMAN, Mr. DAVIES said that he would add a sentence to his report stipulating that the repayment of the loan should be postponed until the Secretariat was installed in the new building. Financing of the Fees and Expenses of the Five Architects of International Standing Referred to in Paragraph 2(b) of the Draft Resolution. [42] The CHAIRMAN, replying to a question from Mr. COWELL, thought that sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 2 of the resolution should state that the five architects should be selected by the Director- General with the approval of the Headquarters Com- mission. [43] After a brief exchange of views, the Com- mission decided to add a new paragraph “c” to the resolution, in the following terms: (c) to expend, with the prior approval of the Head- quarters Commission, the sums required for the fees and expenses of the five architects of international standing. Proposal, put forward by Mr. de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil), to Invite Member States to Collaborate in the Interior Decoration of the New Building. [44] The CHAIRMAN, suggesting the advisability of avoiding certain gifts which would be difficult to use, proposed that Mr. de Berredo Carneiro’s pro- posal should not be embodied in a new paragraph in the draft resolution, inviting each Member State to contribute, in the form of gifts in kind, to the interior decoration of the new building. It would be       XIII-3 enough to say that the Commission proposed to examine the possibility of accepting gifts from Member States, which could be used in the interior decoration of the new building. [45] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE adding “in the construction and the interior decoration”. [46] The proposal, as amended, was adopted. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. THIRD MEETING Thursday, 5 July 1951, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Mr. C. A. THomson (United States of America) Consideration of the Draft Report of the Head- quarters Commission to the General Conference. [1] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) considered that the building of a conference hall and delegation offices should not go forward, and accordingly pro- posed the deletion of the word “perhaps” in the second sentence of the third paragraph. [2] Mr. DAVIES (Australia), Rapporteur, pointed out that, whether or not the paragraph were adopted in its existing form, the Headquarters Commission would have to decide, under paragraph 3 (a) of the resolution, which parts of the building were to be put in hand first. [3] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) said that the French Government wished a decision on the build- ing of a headquarters to be taken during the General Conference’s Sixth Session. That decision should cover the question whether or not to build a con- ference hall and delegation offices, because the arguments that had clinched the offer of the interest- free loan were: (1) that Unesco should be in a posi- tion to hold conferences in Paris; and (2) that the conference hall would be used for other purposes be- tween sessions of the General Conference. It was important, in order to maintain the case for the interest-free loan, that those two arguments should not be weakened in any way. The French Govern- ment desired a decision on the whole proposal because it feared that, otherwise, the entire loan might be spent on the Secretariat building and a further loan be required later to build a conference hall and dele- gation offices. [4] Mr. de Lacharriére therefore proposed:
(1) that the third paragraph of the report, first sentence, should read: In examining the various aspects of the question, the Headquarters Commission has reached the conclusion that the plans for the permanent Headquarters should be drawn up in such a way that, while covering the whole of the building, including accommodation needed for sessions of the General Conference, they would allow construction to proceed by stages, according to the urgency of requirements.
(2) that the second sentence of the same paragraph should read: In particular, the Commission considers that there is perhaps no need at present to proceed with the construc- tion of the Conference Hall and delegations’ offices. The rest of the paragraph to be deleted. [6] Mr. van de KERCHOVE d’HALLEBAST (Bel- gium) supported the French proposal, because he felt that financial complications would follow from any failure to take a decision on the whole scheme at the onset. [6] favoured Mr. de Lacharridre’s motion, since any other decision would imperil the homogeneous design of the building and might involve additional expense if the building were planned in portions. [7] The Commission approved the first French amendment, subject to any necessary drafting changes, and agreed that the remainder of the para- graph should be deleted. [8] At the suggestion of Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), the Commission agreed that the fifth para- graph of the report should be amended to read: In the light of these considerations, the Headquarters Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) also | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |