VIII-2 BUDGET do TT TER 510 instead of requesting an entire new document at the stage reached. [52] After further discussion as to the exact type of additional information required from the Secre- tariat, it was agreed that the delegates concerned (those of Iran, the United States of America, and France) should come to an arrangement in private discussion with Mr. Hodson. The required infor- mation could then be prepared for circulation to the Committee. [63] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), summing up the results of the discussion, concluded by saying that if members of the Committee would submit to the Secretariat, in writing, a list of the information they required, the proceedings would be expedited. [64] The CHAIRMAN shared his view and sug- gested that that procedure should be adopted for all future questions. The meeting rose at 12.46 p.m. SECOND MEETING Monday, 11 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. BenDEr (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (11) ]. Education (Part III.1). PROGRAMME Cosrs (III.1.A) (pages 82 and 83). [1] Mr. WYNES (Australia) noted the amount of $3,500, provided for travel on official business, under Programme Costs and enquired the reason for the increase over 1951. [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the 1951 figure had been based on the 1950 obligation, during which period the post of the Department had been occupied for only eight months. [3] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked why there was a difference in the grade of the various Administrative Officers shown in the Budget (e.g., a Grade 14 in the Department of Education as compared with a Grade 10 or 12 in other Departments). [4] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the change reflected a new conception of the post, under which the Administrative Officer in the Department of Education was to assume heavier administrative responsibility. Since the time of drafting, the advisability of such a change had been challenged, but the Committee could be sure that the Secre- tariat would reconsider the matter before the change was finally effected. [6] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) said that he wished to revert to the question later when the budget for General Administration was under dis- cussion. [6] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether, under the proposed reorganization, it was intended to modify the procedure whereby there were ad- ministrative officers in each Department. [7] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that there was no intention of abolishing the post of Administrative Liaison Officer in each department, the presence of such officers being indispensable. [8] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, asked what was the position regarding the two posts of Programme Specialists (Grade 14) for German Liaison, to be abolished in 1952. Were their activities to cease? [9] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa tion) replied that those specialists were initiating a Unesco Youth Institute and an Education Institute and that their activities were to continue until
31 December 1951. The posts were at Headquarters and not in the field. [10] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether it was the policy of Unesco to appoint new        FUDGET COMMITTEE VIII-2 staff to initiate projects of that kind or whether staff already engaged were seconded to such posts. Were the two posts in question filled? [11] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the two posts were on the Headquarters staff and that one was already occupied, while a specialist had been nominated to the second and would take up his duties on
1 July 1951. [12] Mr. Elvin further indicated, in reply to the CHAIRMAN, that, difficult though it was to give a stimulus to such projects in so short a period as six months, the specialists appointed would be able to make an effective contribution to the creation of the institutes because they had been previously employed in the External Relations Service and were already well acquainted with the work. [13] Miss LAISE (United States of America) requested the Secretariat to give some indication of the methods used in initiating projects such as the German Institutes. [14] Were the two Programme Specialists to be paid from the Unesco budget until 31 December 1951, when the budgetary obligation would be transferred to the budgets of the Institutes? [15] Miss Laise enquired how Unesco would be able to supervise the development of the Institutes during
1952. [16] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) said that it was assumed that Germany would become a Member of Unesco during the Sixth General Con- ference, whereupon special programmes for Germany would come to an end and Unesco’s relations with Germany would be conducted in the normal way by the External Relations Service or the department in charge of the subject concerned. Unesco would con- tinue to have control over the development of the programme of the Institutes, since the Director- General appointed the Board of Directors of the Institutes and was also represented on the Board. [17] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) added that a meeting of the Board was expected to take place between 6 and 15 June. The Board was to be composed of seven non-German members, including a representative of the Director- General of Unesco, and six German members. [18] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General), in reply to a question from Mr. WYNES (Australia), said that the Increase in personnel costs shown on page 87 was mainly due to within-grade increments paid to staff members for length of Service. [19] The tables of Programme Costs were approved. IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATION THROUGH EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION (III.1.B) (pages 84-88). Clearing House: Collaboration with International Organizations. (a) International Association of Universities. [20] Mr. KIRPAL (India) asked what were the Association’s sources of income. [21] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) gave a short history of the Association, indicating that it was financed by the subscriptions of members, of which there were already between
30 and 40. Members were assessed according to a scale, the maximum contribution being $300. As the number of members was expected to increase, the Secretariat was proposing a diminishing grant. It was estimated that $40,000 per would be required to finance the Association. [22] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, asked whether the $18,000 proposed for the Association was included in the $34,600 for subventions shown on page 88 of the document. [23] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) replied that that was so and that the 1952 subvention to the International Association of Uni- versities would be $5,000 lower than that offered in 1951. [24] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that Unesco would receive from the Association an account of the use made of the subvention, but that there was no regulation which would oblige the Association to submit its entire budget to Unesco. (b) International Bureau of Education and Inter- national Teachers’ Organizations (page 85). [25] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked for an explanation of the phrase “professional teachers’ organizations” appearing in programme resolution 1.12. [26] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that five international teachers’ organiza- tions were in relationship with Unesco. None of them was universal in character. The organizations represented secondary and primary school teachers but not university professors. [27] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) enquired whether subventions were to be paid to the five organizations. coI R AA S e m e O A L
2 l e y N g s e r a     VIII-2 BUDGET [28] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) replied that the relations with teachers’ organ- izations involved contracts and not subventions. The number of organizations concerned had been left unstated in the Budget Estimates because the number would not exceed five but might in fact be smaller. [29] Miss LAISE (United States of America) expressed approval of the principle adopted through- out Part II.1.B of the Budget Estimates, to the effect that organizations receiving subventions should make a return in services. [30] Her Government was concerned at the pos- sibility of overlapping between the International Bureau of Education and the Clearing House. Was not the Clearing House over-staffed in view of the existence of the International Bureau and having regard to the workload? [31] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that Unesco constantly derived great benefit from its co-operation with IBE, which was an experienced organization. IBE had also chosen for its conferences (now held jointly with Unesco) subjects that were related to the Unesco Programme. Furthermore, IBE had been of particularly valuable assistance to Unesco in 1950 by making a library of reference books available for the Montevideo Joint Seminar. On other occasions it had con- tributed school textbooks to exhibitions sponsored by Unesco. [32] Although there was no rigid line of demarca- tion between the province of IBE and that of the Clearing House, it was generally understood that IBE should conduct world-wide surveys using gov- ernmental sources (as had been the case with the study of free and compulsory schooling), whereas the Clearing House should study particular but representative countries. [33] In reply to a question from Mr. WYNES (Australia), Mr. Elvin added that the subvention to IBE for the current year been $14,500. Although the Secretariat had proposed $16,500 in 1952, there was no increase but merely a proposal to restore the position to the same estimate as had been submitted to the Fifth Session of the General Conference. [34] With regard to the contracts with inter- national teachers’ organizations for the preparation of a bilingual world directory of educational journals, that work could not be entrusted to Nation- al Commissions with any certainty of success. Clearing House: Studies and Enquiries; Documen- tation Service. [35] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that his Government was somewhat disturbed by the ever- increasing travel expenses allowed for members of CEO MIMI ET TIRE the personnel on official business. Could some detail be given on that subject? [36] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that the $6,000 for travel under the heading “Clearing House: Studies and Enquiries” was intended to cover two trips outside Europe lasting
20 days each, and five within Europe lasting 13 days each. As far as possible, persons on official missions were given more than one task. The supplement to the Handbook of Educational Organization and Statistics was to appear in 1952 and any official travelling would bear in mind the section of the work with which he was concerned. He would further pursue his personal studies as a representative of the Organization and would be required to collect information for other departments. [37] Under the “Documentation Service” travel budget, it was intended to send a specialist on documentation to visit the Patzcuaro library and other centres. [38] In view of the importance of such travel to the work of the Organization, he felt that the increase under that head in the 1952 budget was very modest. [39] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked for information on the collaboration between the Clearing House and the Statistical Service. [40] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that such collaboration had proved indispensable for the interpretation of statistics, which were misleading to persons other than statisticians and often not comparable from country to country. Care was, however, taken to see that the Clearing House dealt with the educational substance while the Statistical Service confined itself to matters of statistical interest. [41] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) gave notice of his intention to bring up the question of the frequency of publication of the Handbook on Educational Statistics when the Committee came to discuss publications. Publications (pages 86 and 88). [42] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, enquired whether the large increase in the estimate for contractual printing (from $26,000 to $55,200) was not due to the plan to publish a supplement to the Handbook: and, if so, whether it was wise to issue a supplement so soon after the publication of the Handbook. [43] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa tion) thought that, as a rule, the case for the early publication of a supplement was strong, because a continuous flow of information had been set up and      ss BUDGET information continued to come in after the first edition had gone to press. Nevertheless, he felt some doubt about the advisability of publishing a supplement as early as 1952. [44] The costs of contractual printing would not be affected to a sensational degree, because the increase requested for 1952 already reflected a general rise in the cost of printing. Experience in 1951 had already shown that even to complete a reduced programme of publications, $41,000 would be needed instead of the $26,000 provided in the 1951 estimates. He was, therefore, of opinion that, even if the supplement were not published, $55,200 would not prove too high an estimate. [45] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) added that, since the preparation of the 1951 estimates in 1949, the cost of printing had risen by
80 per cent. Part of that increase was reflected in the Director-General’s addition to the overall budget. [46] The Committee agreed to return to the question of the supplement when discussing Publi- cations in general. [47] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) had two observa- tions to make on the section entitled Publications (page 86). [48] The previous year the Australian representative on the Budget Committee had asked that consider- ation should be given to the possibility of printing certain documents by the “offset” process, to avoid excessively high printing costs. Would it not be useful to take up that suggestion again? [49] Apart from that, the contractual printing estimate for the Quarterly Bulletin of Fundamental and Adult Education was $8,000. Would it not be desirable to divide the bulletin into two separate parts, which would involve less printing as a whole, since the recipients of each part would not neces- sarily be the same? [50] Mr. Guignolet pointed out, in that connexion, that Table X (List of Proposed Publications for 1952, page 310) showed that 10,000 copies of the Bulletin were to be printed at an estimated cost of $8,000. [51] The corresponding figures for the 1 financial year were 20,000 copies at a cost of $6,000. The increase involved, 160 per cent, was thus a large one. [52] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that the decision to print any publication was taken in each individual case on the merits of the manuscript. It was arguable whether the pub- lication of the Quarterly Bulletin of Fundamental and Adult Education in two separate parts would result in an economy, while the persons consulted on the question had agreed that it was to the advantage of readers to have the two sections together, COMMITTEE a
71113 [63] He would look into the matter of the number of copies published and verify the costs. [64] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) felt he was bound to point out that, if a comparison were made between the figures in Table XI of the 1951 Budget Estimates and those in Table X of the 1952 Estimates, it would be found that the price of a copy of the Bulletin had risen from 30 to 80 cents, a really considerable increase. ExTENSION OF EDUCATION (III.1.C) (pages 89-101). Fundamental Education. [55] Replying to a question from Miss LAISE (United States of America) on the subject of the dovetailing of Unesco’s programme with the Technical Assistance Programme, Mr. ELVIN (Di- rector, Department of Education) explained that Unesco's proposed policy was the following: As the programme of Unesco under the plan of Technical Assistance for Economic Development makes provision for the attachment of experts to assist Member States in developing projects of fundamental education associated with economic development, it is proposed to concentrate the more limited resources of the ordinary budget upon providing technical aid for pioneer research which will develop and test new methods and media for education and evaluate methods and media already developed [document 6C/5 (I), page 25]. [56] Furthermore, there was in the Department of Education a technical assistance officer who took care to see that no overlapping occurred between the two programmes. [67] Miss LAISE (United States of America) suggested that it might be possible to combine direct assistance with the programme for Regional Centres. [68] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) thought that at a later stage that might be so but that at the moment it was inadvisable, because the Organization should be able to provide assistance for a continually increasing number of associated projects. [69] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom), noting that Assistance to Member States accounted for more than half the budget for extension of education, apart from personnel costs (page 101), wished to know what were the results of funds obligated under that object of expenditure. [60] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that the figure covered one of Unesco’s most important functions—the provision of missions. [61] In reply to a further question from Sir Frank HARBY, Mr. Elvin said that unless the staffing policy for Unesco underwent drastic changes it was = —   a e |
1 E     VIII-2 BUDGET not possible to provide experts from the Secretariat. In any case, there would be subjects which could not be covered in that way. [62] If members wished to have more documenta- tion on missions than was already provided, the Secretariat would supply it. [63] A breakdown of the purpose and amounts under the heading “Assistance to Member States” would also be provided for the members of the Com- mittee. [64] Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought it would be desir- able to record, in the statement on assistance to Member States, to what extent the States concerned had contributed to the implementation of the assistance programme. [65] When drawing up a programme, it would likewise be desirable, and equitable, to have regard to the real needs of each country, rather than to the means at the disposal of each country for submitting those needs to Unesco. Tt would not do to wait until the baby cried before going to its help. [66] Moreover, Unesco was obliged to observe the rule with regard to the sharing of expenses, under which a recipient country had to make a con- tribution of its own. Some countries were not in a position to fulfil that obligation. The Iranian delegate therefore asked that, when future pro- grammes were drawn up, account should be taken of the special position of certain countries whose needs were great and pressing but who were unable to contribute to the cost of the assistance involved. In some cases it would certainly be right not to exclude them from assistance for that reason. [67] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that in previous years the Committee had been strongly of the opinion that the receiving country should pay at least the living expenses of experts supplied. [68] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) added that until 1950 the receiving country had paid the living expenses of members of missions but not of experts. In 1950 that distinction had been obliterated. He agreed that the expense to the receiving country might cause hesitation in forward- ing a request for missions or experts. The Secre- tariat did all it could to discover where a need was felt by consulting representatives of National Com- missions when they visited Unesco. It remained a principle that the request should come from the country concerned. [69] Mr. WYNES (Australia) made the following suggestions: firstly that 32 experts were unlikely to be available; secondly, that Unesco might have dif- ficulty in supervising such assistance; and thirdly, that the following reductions should be made: (a) only one team of fundamental education experts, COMMITTEE instead of two, should be sent to Member States; (b) the visits to the Mexican Centre should be abandoned and the business conducted by cor- respondence; and (c) the 12-day meeting to be convened at the Regional Centre for Latin America should consist of four experts only. [70] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) thought that fewer experts would in fact be needed, since not all would be occupied for long periods and some might be used twice. Unesco had a senior official dealing with associated projects and so no strain would be placed on the Secretariat in supervising projects. It was difficult to envisage any reduction in the assistance provided when there were so many requests still pending. [71] With regard to the reduction suggested under “Consultation of Outside Experts” (page 93), parts of the fundamental education programme would suffer if Unesco were not able to send consultants to Mexico in order to derive the maximum benefit from the experience gained there. [72] Any reduction in the number of experts attending the meeting to be held at the Regional Centre for Latin America, would make it impossible to cover the various regions of the whole world. [73] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) expressed concern at the number of temporary posts required (page 100). Would it not be more economical to provide permanent posts? [74] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) thought that permanent posts resulted in an economy only where expenditure was very high. In his opinion the increase from $98,500 in 1951 to
113,461 in 1952 (excluding local help) was not great in view of the number of projects. The provision of permanent posts would offer the further dis- advantage that it would be impossible to provide a sufficient number of experts in the various fields. [75] On the proposal of Miss LAISE (United States of America), who wished to revert to that point in other connexions, it was agreed to complete examina- tion of the section before going further into the matter. Studies on the Use in Education of Vernacular and Second Languages. [76] Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt that the system indicated under that heading entailed undue proliferation of meetings. Moreover she doubted whether, after a few weeks, a consultant was in a position to express a more authoritative opinion than the Secretariat. [77] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) considered that the system of a general survey followed by report, then study in depth (i.e., Africa, whe by rd som a pr had had Unite study gove [78] the regio) rever discu [79] ques propd docu As it an a draw simp [80] tion) of v thord little could [81] that justif COStS| [82] tion) wort tab repro [83] ica), put b style. work an ex in Ord appli the e autho [84] whet Tech [85] tion) but t
6C/5 |    BUDGET COMMITTEE VIII-2 where English was the dominant language) followed by reports on the regions concerned, at a cost of only some $10,000 was the best method of dealing with a problem which would take years of work. Africa had been chosen for special study because Unesco had so far done little work there and because the United Nations had asked Unesco to devote special study to the problem of illiteracy in non self- governing territories. [78] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) felt that the work might be better performed by staffs of regional centres and indicated his intention of reverting to the question of experts later on when discussing Regional Centres. [79] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said it was a question, mainly, of preparatory work. Yet what was proposed was to print 10,000 copies of a 500-page document at a cost of $11,500 (Table X, page 311). As it was not to be a final report, it would seem that an appreciable saving could well be effected by drawing up a provisional document which would simply be roneoed. [80] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that the report to be published on the use of vernacular languages was intended to be a thorough and authoritative work in a field where little had been done, and not a provisional one which could merely be reproduced in multigraph form. [81] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) felt he must insist that the preparatory nature of the work did not justify such wide circulation and such high printing costs. [82] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that, if the report were not found worthy of printing, the Secretariat would not print it but would adopt some alternative method of reproduction. [83] In reply to Miss LAISE (United States of Amer- ica), Mr. ELVIN indicated that new ideas could not be put before illiterate peoples in an unfamiliar cultural style. That had been one of the great lessons of the work done in China. It was therefore necessary for an expert who had worked in China to visit Mexico in order to see how far the same methods could be applied to Mexico. In view of his work in China, the expert concerned would be able to express an authoritative opinion after a very short time. [84] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether the Haiti project had been transferred to Technical Assistance. [85] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-' tion) said that the Haiti project had been transferred, but that had not been the case when document
6C/5 (IT) had been prepared. [86] Because the Technical Assistance Programme for Haiti covered much more than the Unesco Haiti project, and the Government of Haiti was unable to make an increased contribution, he felt that Unesco should continue financial assistance to Haiti. [87] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. ELVIN said that 52 students were training at Patzcuaro of whom
50 held Unesco scholarships. [88] An economy of $8,000 could, however, be made in the Haiti project as a result of its transfer to Technical Assistance, i. e., owing to the abolition of the post of Director. In order, however, to obviate any falling off in the Education Project started by Unesco, the latter would have to continue its financial assistance, at any rate on a reduced scale. [89] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) asked what use would be made of the $20,000 if voted for Haiti. He found the term “Assistance to Member States” insufficiently explicit. [90] It was agreed that a more explicit phrase should be found for future budgets. [91] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the $20,000 for Haiti would go to the local expenses of the work which were not covered by Technical Assistance. The Government of Haiti was contributing an equal amount. [92] Mr. RAADI (Iran) noted that Unesco proposed to make a payment of $120,000 to the Fundamental Education Centre for Latin America, whose head- quarters were in Mexico. In the 1951 financial year, the corresponding payment, though substantial, was
20 per cent less. What was the amount contributed by the Latin-American States in that year? [93] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that in the case of the Regional Centre $40,000 came from the Organization of American States; the contribution of the Government of Mexico exceeded that of Unesco and the States from which the students came provided travelling expenses. [94] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked how far different nationalities were to be represented among the fellowships-holders attending the Centre in 1952. [95] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that a Co-ordinating Committee, on which Unesco, the Organization of American States, the Government concerned and the Director of the Centre were represented, had decided that students were to attend in teams of five, homogeneity being the criterion. Eight countries were represented. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. E Z E s E D E e s ا — . Е