583 BUDGET [55] Miss LAISE (United States of America) assured Mr. de Blonay that delegations were acutely aware of the amount of documents which had to be pre- pared, since they were after all the recipients of them all. She asked for information concerning the Division for relations with Governments and National Commissions, where there were 16 staff members. The contacts in question were made at the highest level, as was also emphasized in the Director-General’s Report, and it seemed clear that they should continue at that level. She therefore wondered what remained to be done by 16 people at the working level. If it was only to handle correspondence, were so many staff really justified? [66] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said he was mainly concerned with the problem of co-ordination within the Secretariat. It had been stated that, in each department, some officials were already responsible for external contacts. Did that not cause some over- lapping with the External Relations Service? He himself hoped that the Service might be a real Unesco “Ministry of Foreign Affairs”, and that it would comprise officers whose competence extended to several spheres, so that they could carry out their work with the utmost success. He recalled that, in the previous year, the Budget Committee had re- commended a more rational use of the Secretariat staff, and had asked that the travel of staff on official business should coincide so far as possible with the home leave of the officials involved. [67] Further Mr. Guignolet would like an account of the way in which Unesco’s Official Bulletin was published. [68] Mr. Guignolet did not think that the Com- mittee could make a recommendation on the lines of the Cuban delegate’s statement so far as the Havana Regional Office was concerned. Nevertheless the Committee might mention Mr. Brull’s views in its report. [69] The CHAIRMAN asked the representative of Cuba whether he did not think that the question he had raised could be better dealt with by the External Relations Commission. [60] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that the represen- tative of France shared his view that the External Relations Service should be reinforced. In addition, travel by experts, technicians, advisers, etc. should be undertaken under the direction of the External Relations Service, so that a real planned saving could be effected—not a saving on the cost of travel itself, but a reduction in the number of journeys under- taken. That, in his view, was the main point. [61] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) considered it most important to have offi- cials in his Service from the various regions in which Unesco’s projects were carried out. The Latin C'OMMIT TEE VIII-13 American section for instance, had played a large part in organizing the Havana Regional Office, and in arranging the Regional Conference of National Commissions in the Western Hemisphere. Similarly, the South-East Asia and Far East section was under- taking preparations for the coming Regional Con- ference in Bangkok. The Europe and English- Speaking Countries section was responsible for liaison with the countries whose National Commissions were most actives. Mr. de Blonay emphasized, however, that Mr. Guignolet’s suggestion with regard to the External Relations Service would impose too heavy a burden of work upon it. Moreover, the help of specialists was essential in some highly technical fields, and officials of the External Relations Service could not act as substitutes in that respect, no matter how competent they might be. [62] The recommendations for rationalizing the organization of missions had twice been put into effect. The Official Bulletin appeared six times a year, and not twice a month, as erroneously stated in the French text of Table X. [63] The CHAIRMAN thought that further details should be raised in the Administrative Commission. [64] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sup- ported Mr. de Blonay, and wished to emphasize that each region had its own problems. While it was easy for Mr. Guignolet, living in Paris, to make direct contact with the Secretariat, the problem was much greater for National Commissions which were more distant, and it was realized that a liaison officer was quite unable to meet all the technical requirements of a satisfactory relationship. On the other hand, Governments were being asked to send represen- tatives to Unesco in Paris to facilitate contacts, and she believed that, if that were done, the proposal for high-level staff to deal with Governments would have to be seriously reviewed. [65] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) assured Mr. Guignolet that all travel was co-ordinated in the Office of the Director-General, with the special object of avoiding overlapping and duplication. [66] Mr. WYNES (Australia) asked how many Secretaries of National Commissions were to visit Paris under the item “Consultants” at the bottom of page 241, and how frequently. [67] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said that visits from 15 to 20 Secretaries of National Commissions were expected, and that the Secretariat was trying to distribute invitations fairly amongst the different regions of the world. [68] Mr. RAADI (Iran) asked whether savings could not be effected by inviting the Secretaries of      VIII-13 EUD GET National Commissions to visit Unesco House, at the expense of their Commissions, during sessions of the General Conference held in Paris. [69] The CHAIRMAN proposed to include in the Committee's report a statement that it was believed that savings might be effected by timing the meet- ings of Secretaries of National Commissions to coin- cide as far as possible with other meetings at which they would be present in any case. [70] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) pointed out that the Secretaries of National Commissions did not always attend sessions of Unesco’s General Conference. Moreover, the visits arranged during the year were much more beneficial, and afforded the Secretaries a better opportunity to learn about the work of the various Departments. [71] Mr. RAADI (Iran) explained that he was thinking chiefly of official visits which might take place immediately after a General Conference. LIAISON WITH GERMANY AND JAPAN (III.8.B) (pages 251-
253). [72] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked to what extent that part of the budget would be changed if the applications of Germany and Japan for mem- bership of Unesco were accepted by the Official and External Relations Commission. [73] Mr. DÜRING (Sweden), who had intended to put the same question, thought it would be wiser to leave discussion of the chapter until after hearing the views of the General Conference, or at least of the Programme Commission. [74] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said that the situation would be entirely changed if Germany and Japan were admitted to membership of Unesco. He pointed out, however, that the three institutes which would be functioning in Germany in 1952 would have to maintain conti- nuous contact with Unesco during that year. [75] It was resolved to postpone discussion of the chapter, as proposed by Mr. Düring. [76] Mr. RAADI (Iran) asked for an explanation of the raising to “unclassified” status of the Heads of Unesco’s New York and Havana Offices. [77] Mr. Raadi also asked for an explanation of the fact that the salary of the Head of the Havana Office, fixed at $8,750 in 1951 (Grade 17), would be increased to $10,300 (unclassified) in 1952, involving an increase of $1,550. If that increase was due to the conversion of the post to an “unclassified” one, it should be noted by way of comparison that the COMME TEE Head of the New York office, who as things stood held a higher grade (18) and received a larger salary ($9,700), was obtaining an increase of only $300 through the reclassification. [78] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said experience had shown that it was difficult to recruit fully qualified officers within the Secretariat’s rigid grading system. It had therefore been necessary to offer candidates for those very important posts salaries in keeping with their status and responsibilities. Common Service Costs (Part IV) (pages 279 et seq.). [79] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked for some information on Addendum II to the draft budget [document 6C/5 (II) Addendum II] which con- tained additional estimates, and particularly on item 2 (Building Rents, Utilities and Maintenance). [80] Mr. WERMIEL (Bureau of Conference Plan- ning and General Services) explained that the 5 per cent increase in the cost of living index in France would entail an increase of $900 in the rental for the Annex, but the additional cost would be only $225 in 1952, as only the last quarter would be involved. COMMUNICATIONS (IV.A) [page 281, document 6C/5 (11) and document 6C/5(11) Addendum II]. [81] No comment. BuiLDING Rents, UTILITIES AND MAINTENANCE OF BuiDIne (IV.B) [page 283, document 6C/5 (II) and document 6C/5 (TT) Addendum TI]. [82] No comment. SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS (IV.C) [page 285, docu- ment 6C/5 (IT) and document 6C/5 (IT) Adden- dum TI]. [83] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that the breakdown was given in the Addendum by objects of expenditure and not by chapters of the budget. Miss LAISE (United States of America) stated that her delegation would not support the purchase of paper out of the Working Capital Fund. [84] [85] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed outthat the proposal was merely to use the Working Capital Fund for advance buying but that, as the purchases were made, they were charged to the budget of the year in which they were made.    BUDGET RENTAL, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT (IV.D) (page 286). [86] No comment. Starr WELFARE ACTIVITIES (IV.E) (page 287). [87] In reply to a question from Mr. WYNES (Australia), Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Per- sonnel and Management) said that, during the five years that Unesco had been established in Paris, the housing situation had unfortunately not improved. It was therefore necessary, in order to obtain suit- able recruits still needed by the Organization, to provide them with some kind of help in finding themselves accommodation. [88] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) agreed with Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) that $500 was indeed a very small sum to allow for advertising. PERMANENT EQUIPMENT (IV.F) (page 288). [89] Mr. WYNES (Australia) asked whether, in view of past expenditure, it was really necessary to spend so much on furniture and equipment in 1952. [90] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- COMMIT TEE   VIII-14 ference Planning and General Services) explained that it had been necessary to renew the furniture found at Unesco headquarters when the Secretariat was installed; some of the furniture had also had to be returned to the French Government. That accounted for the high figure for the purchase of office furniture and equipment. There were still about 60 offices needing newfurniture. Expenditure had been reduced to a minimum on the purchase of metal filing cabinets and would be further cut by the decision to entrust the filing of every Depart- ment's documents to the Archives Service. A large number of typewriters had been bought, and at the moment it was not proposed to renew any before
1955-56. Mr. Montagnier reminded the meeting that, at first, Unesco had been obliged to buy second-hand typewriters which rapidly wore out, and that lately the needs of the services producing documents in Spanish had had to be met. The number of type- writers exceeded the number of secretary-typists because a certain number of other officials used the machines; a saving in the number of secretarial staff was thus possible. Miscerraneous Common Costs (IV.G) (page 289). [91] No comments. The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.   FOURTEENTH MEETING Monday, 18 June 1951, at 11.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. E. BEnDEr (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con-a would develop. There had been two major changestinuation) [document 6C/5 (IT) ]. since the drafting of the budget. The Service had, in the first place, been concentrating on the intro- duction of the Gift Coupon Scheme and it was only very recently that ‘certain major countries had signified their intention to co-operate. Secondly, there had been very considerable changes in the work of the Service in the Middle East. Relief Assistance Services (Part III.7).
(1] The CHAIRMAN explained that that section of the Budget Estimates had very recently been rewritten and members should therefore consult the multigraphed text before them [document 6C/5 (II)Corr, IV]. [3] Replying to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr. Barger explained that the reduction in estimates from $321,619 in 1951 to $254,731 in 1952 (Table, page 10) was due not to a decline in the activity of the Service but to a cut in the sums allocated as direct aid from $188,000 to $115,000. The number of posts remained at 27; one post which had been [2] Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) pointed out that the budget for his Service had been drawn up the previous October and thatit was impos- sible to know a year ahead howthe work of the Service      VIII-14 BUDGET open the previous year had not been filled, while two temporary posts had become permanent. [4] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that, as might be seen from the table of “Other Objects of Expenditure”, direct aid could be considered to come under three headings : Grants for Emergency Aid, Grants for Special Projects and Assistance to Member States. The major difference between the printed text [document 6C/5 (II)] and the multi- graphed text was the reduction of Grants for Special Projects from $40,000 to $25,000. [5] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that, for the purpose of drawing up his report, he was satisfied with the statements made by the Secretariat. He pointed out, however, that it was necessary for delegations to have the multigraphed document which had just been produced, and which should be carefully studied, in view of the important changes proposed for the whole Department. [6] Mr. Guignolet would wait to express his views, as a delegate, until the new document had been translated. Assistance in Reconstruction in Areas of United Nations Action (page 229). [7] Refugees in the Middle East. No comments. [8] Miss LAISE (United States of America) doubted whether any useful purpose would be served by Unesco’s contribution of $90,000 to Middle East Relief, when there were already other funds adminis- tered by United Nations organizations amounting to some $37,000,000. While it might be proper to expand refugee services in general, it was open to doubt whether Unesco’s contribution should take the form suggested. Although it was undoubtedly right for Unesco to provide emergency assistance, where an overall plan was already in existence, Miss Laise believed that Unesco should work for the United Nations on a reimbursement basis. [9] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) said that he understood that the principle had been established that Unesco should be wholly responsible for the schemes it administered. In that case, however, Unesco was sharing responsibility with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency. It would, he suggested, be better to transfer the whole scheme to the Agency. [10] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that the subvention in question was for a cause deserving the sympathy of all. In view of the remarks made by the represen- tative of the United States of America, however, he COMMITTEE thought that the activity should be taken over by some other agency more specialized in that field. The subvention should be maintained, and Unesco should therefore arrange with the United Nations for the transfer of the aid in question to the appropriate agency. [11] The CHAIRMAN agreed with Miss Laise that it would be useful if the matter could be discussed with a representative of the United Nations. [12] It was agreed that, while the matter was one for the Programme Commission to decide, the Budget Committee would prefer the activity to be taken over by some other agency. Gift Coupon Programme. [13] Miss LAISE (United States of America) doubted whether the sum allocated to Granis for Special Projects ($25,000) was being used to the best advantage. In the experience of her Gov- ernment, gifts of comparatively small sums by inter- national organizations did not stimulate voluntary organizations to come forward with donations. She believed that the money could be better spent in making certain that the materials and information on essential needs were directed to the organizations interested. [14] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) enquired whether the stimulation of voluntary contributions came within Unesco’s functions. He considered that it was positively dangerous for government- supported organizations to make voluntary contribu- tions in the hope of encouraging others to do likewise. [15] Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) explained that authority for the stimulation of voluntary contributions was contained in the Basic Programme, which had been designed to give effect to the Constitution. Moreover, during 1952, his Service intended to abandon the general stimulation of contributions and to concentrate on the far more concrete Gift Coupon Scheme, which was not merely a method of raising money, but also a means of | bringing people into touch with Unesco’s Programme as a whole. With regard to the Special Projects, experience had shown that it was essential for Unesco | to have the means of giving initial aid, in orderlo encourage voluntary organizationsto follow suit. The sum allotted for 1952 would be used forfive projects at the most, chosen as being those where a Unesco contribution was likely to have the most stimulating effect. As the Gift Coupon Scheme was only about to start in three countries, he was unable at the moment to give any estimate of the ratio of the Unesco initial gift to total donations. It was | | | a
587 BUDGET however, very important for Unesco to be able to prove that it had made some direct contribution. [16] Miss LAISE (United States of America) con- sidered that it was unrealistic to expect initial gifts from Unesco to attract large voluntary contributions. With the present high level of taxation and the great competition between voluntary organizations for the limited private charity still available, voluntary organizations were likely to divert their efforts to projects not supported by governmental bodies. [17] The CHAIRMAN remarked that criticism of the principle of the stimulation of voluntary con- tributions was the prerogative of the Programme Commission. He agreed with Miss Laise, however, that the Committee might report that, in its view, the method of stimulation envisaged under the heading “Grants for Special Projects” was wasteful of the Organization’s funds. [18] Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) explained that his Service was acting under pro- gramme Resolution 7.1 (b) (page 3 of amended bud- get text). There were occasions when it was essential for Unesco to have a fund available with which to complement the sums received for specific projects from voluntary organizations. Moreover, the $15,000 spent by Unesco from the Emergency Aid Fund in the Middle East, before the organization of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, had attracted voluntary contributions amounting to $90,000. It was the experience of his Service that voluntary organizations preferred to associate themselves with activities already in progress rather than to be asked to undertake an entirely new task. [19] It was agreed to report that the Budget Com- mittee doubted the efficacy of the grants for special projects as a means of stimulating voluntary contributions. Unesco Sale Coupon Scheme. [20] No comments. Staff [21] No comments. Statistical Service (Part II1.10) (pages 272-278). [22] Referring to the table of Personnel Costs, the CHAIRMAN observed that provision was made for two additional staff members. [23] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) explained that the Service had been inaugurated only during the past year, and that the Florence Conference had been asked to authorize the engagement of staff on COMMITTEE 7111-4 a conservative basis. Departments were now demanding an ever-increasing volume of statistics and it was clear that more staff would be needed. Provision had therefore been made for one additional statistician and one secretary. [24] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) drew attention to a detail which might mislead readers. The budget for the Statistical Service appeared as $49,866 for
1950, with 10 posts; as $62,271 for1951, still with
10 posts, and as $87,053 for 1952, with 12 posts. The budget presented at the Florence Conference gave the same figure of $62,271 for 1951, but for eight posts only. It thus seemed that the appropria- tions had allowed of an increase in personnel. Mr. Guignolet added that, knowing the labour entailed. by statistics, he was not opposed to an increase, but he wished to point out that four people, instead of two, more than were proposed at Florence, were to be engaged. [25] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that, in previous years, the budget estimates had shown the number of posts authorized. In the current year, however, in conformity with the desires forcefully expressed by the Budget Committee in Florence, the estimates showed the number of posts actually filled at February 1951. The financial figures shown in the column for 1951 were those submitted to the Florence Conference. The financial comparisons were therefore correct. He considered that it would be valuable if the Budget Committee were to give in some detail its views on the method of presentation of future estimates. [26] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), while accepting that explanation, expressed surprise that it had been thought advisable to change the number of posts shown for 1950, but not the salaries, so that the 1950 estimates were almost doubled in 1952, yet covered the cost of only two more staff members’ salaries. [27] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the figures in the 1950 column were for money actually spent, while those in the 1951 column were the estimates presented at the Florence Conference. [28] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, who remarked that, nevertheless, the 1952 figures were nearly double those for 1950, with an increase of only two staff members, Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) explained that the Service had been established only on 1 April 1950 and that staff had been recruited at intervals throughout the year. Had the Service been at full strength throughout 1950, expenditure would have been very much closer to that shown for 1951. [29] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) won-         VIII-15 BUDGET Ze dered whether the Programme Commission was aware that suggestions involving increases in staff in one of the Departments had further repercussions in the same direction in the Administrative Services. [30] Mr. MOORE (Australia) enquired how far the Director-General was empowered to increase the numberof posts in a service beyond that authorized by the General Conference. He was disturbed to discover that actual expenditure under any heading could be ascertained only when studying the Budget Estimates for two years later. [31] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) replied that the estimates were the best possible, and that the Director-General was empowered (although often only with the consent of the Executive Board) to alter the number of posts, when necessary. When new services were established, it was only possible to make reasonable guesses at the cost, and the figures had consequently to be modified in the light of experience. The creation of additional posts in established services was very strictly con- OMMITTEE 588 trolled. The General Conference had appointed the Director-General as the administrator of the Organi- zation and should allow himto act as he thought fit. [32] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that in Part III of the Budget the Director-General was empowered to make transfers between the objects of expenditure within a single appropriation; in Part II he was empowered to transfer expenditure not only within individual appropriations but also between appropria- tions. Any transfer between appropriations in Part III had to be approved initially by the Executive Board. [33] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that, while she did not wish to comment on that particular point, she would later wish to discuss the administrative question raised by the Australian representative. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. FIFTEENTH MEETING Monday, 18 June 1951, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) later: Miss CAROL LAISE Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II)]. Statistical Service (continuation) (Part III.10). Collection, Analysis and Publication of Statistics (page 274). [1] No comment. Compilation of Statistical Data relating to Unesco’s Programme (page 275). [2] Mr. MOORE (Australia) requested an explana- tion of the functions of the consultants whom it was proposed to engage. In view of the addition of two posts to the permanent staff of the unit, the services of consultants should not be necessary. [3] The CHAIRMAN agreed with that view [4] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) explained (United States of America) that consultants would be required to assist in the compilation of working papers for the proposed con- ference on educational statistics. The Secretariat would prepare the basic documents, but these would require revision, from the point of view of content and method of presentation, by specialized con- sultants. The limited size and geographical represen- tation of the Secretariat made such outside advice both necessary and valuable. [5] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) regretted that the Secretariat seemed to lack confidence in its permanent statistical staff, and wondered whether it would not be preferable to reduce the established posts in the Statistical Service and call in officials of wider experience. [6] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) sought an assurance that by 1952 the Secretariat’s work would be sufficiently advanced to enable it to make good use of the services of consultants, even if Its   sci ра! сот
10 latt wa [10 sut pla mi tha Un eve, adr acc to atte [11 mit the to t Imp [12 info for [13] brea Stat item Terr ecut; mitt $30(