CHAPTER 'X PROCEDURE COMMITTEE FIRST MEETING Tuesday, 19 June 1951, at 6 p.m. Chairman: Mr. TEvrix SAGLAM (Turkey) Election of the Vice-Chairman and the Rappor- teur. [1] The CHAIRMAN put before the Committee the proposals of the Nominations Committee, suggesting that the delegates of Iraq and Venezuela should be elected Vice-Chairmen, and the delegate of Thailand, Rapporteur. The proposals were adopted. [2] Mr. Zérega Fombona (Venezuela) was elected Vice-Chairman, and Mr. Bhunihin Attagara (Thai- land), Rapporteur. Adoption of the Agenda. [3] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) reminded the meeting of the Executive Board’s recommendations concerning the work of the Procedure Committee, which had a fairly heavy agenda awaiting it. [4] It included two important questions (1) the alteration of the frequency of the General Confer- ence’s sessions and (2) the question of Associate Membership, which might lead to changes in the Constitution. The Executive Board had suggested that there should be nine meetings during the early part of the Conference, and that a small working party or sub-committee might be set up. [5] The remaining questions, such as those con- cerning draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure, would not require such ‘lengthy discussion. It therefore seemed advisable to consider them first and then pass to the consideration of the more important problems. [6] Mr. Saba also said that the Budget Committee had asked for the consideration of the item of the Agenda which concerned it to be postponed. [7] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) agreed with Mr. Saba regarding the order of the Committee’s work, for he thought that questions calling for important decisions should be discussed by the delegates among themselves, before being considered at a meeting. [8] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) agreed with all that Mr. Saba had said, except for one small point: if consideration of the questions of biennial sessions of the General Conference and Associate Membership were postponed until nearly the end of the session, and if the working party or sub-committee were not appointed until then, it would not have time to study the questions thoroughly. [9] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that it would be for the Committee to decide whether a working party would be needed. The Executive Board had suggested nine meetings, at the rate of two a day, at the beginning of the Conference, so that the Committee might be able to draw up reports on the most important questions, and afterwards resume its meetings in order to consider those reports. [10] The CHAIRMAN put the Agenda to the vote. [11] Adopted. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.