691 PROCEDURE \ Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East had accepted a group of five territories, including Malaya, as a single Associate Member. There had been no repercussions upon the individual status of the five States in question. [32] The suggestion of group membership had been made in order to minimize the difficulties of the smaller territories, some of which felt that they would not, by themselves, be able satisfactorily to participate in or contribute to the work of Unesco. [33] Referring to the suggestion put forward by the United States of America (pages 11 and 12 of docu- ment 6C/PRO/6), Mr. Ward said that he would welcome the provision of a preamble to the draft resolution, defining the rights and obligations of Associate Members of Unesco in the words indicated. [34] Mr. Ward noted the expression of policy announced by the United States Government (page 7, paragraph 2 of the document above-mentioned) and fully agreed with it in principle, He saw some difficulty, however, in elaborating a legal formula providing for the selection of representatives of the indigenous populations, owing to the difficulty of defining the indigenous populations of territories with plural societies, such as Mauritius, Malaya, Fiji and Kenya. Such a formula might have unexpected repercussions among Member States themselves where the “indigenous” population was no longer the domi- СОМ М ттт xX nant one, as indeed was the case in the United Kingdom. [35] There would be no question of the represen- tatives of Associate Members being selected by any other authorities than those of the territory which they were to represent. The financial obligations incurred by the territory in sending a representative would have to be approved by the appropriate legislative council of the territory. That council would have the power of the purse and would be able to prevent the choice of any person unsuited for the post. Mr. Ward considered that, when agree- ment had been reached on the principle, the choice of the representative should beleft to the government of the territory, on the understanding that the best person should be chosen, irrespective of creed, colour, caste, race, religion, sex or any other factor. [36] In conclusion, Mr. Ward reaffirmed his con- viction that the “non-self-governing” territories would not only receive help from Unesco but would make a valuable and enriching contribution. He therefore urged the Committee to approve the United Kingdom proposal and thus offer those peoples an opportunity of participating more fully in the work of the Organization. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Thursday, 21 June 1951, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Mr. TEvrix SAGLam (Turkey) Report on the Enquiry into the Forms which. Co-operation in the Work of Unesco by Certain States or Non-Self-Governing Territories Might Take. Item 6.6 of the Agenda (5C/Resolutions,
40.7) (continuation). [1] The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to resume consideration of document 6C/PRO/6. [2] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that the Yugoslav delegation was sympathetically inclined towards the draft amendment to Article IT of the Constitution, submitted by the United Kingdom, but had two observations to make on questions of principle, and wished to put before the Committee а counter-proposal differing, on two points, fromthe United Kingdom's proposal. [3] His delegation thought it was essential to make a clear distinction between non-self-governing terri- tories and trust territories, as was done in the United Nations Charter, Chapters XI and XII of which laid down different provisions for each of those two categories. [4] With regard to non-self-governing territories, Yugoslavia shared the view of the United Kingdom, but considered that the trust territories were on the way towards complete independence, and that iden- tical treatment for the two categories would not meet the case. Yugoslavia’s proposal therefore con- tained a paragraph under which it might be possible for trust territories to be admitted as full Members. [5] While not suggesting that the favour could be granted to all trust territories, the Yugoslav dele- gation considered that each case should be examined      X-4 PROCETURE separately, and that Unesco should make a gesture to expedite the granting of full political equality to territories that were about to achieve full indepen- dence. Yugoslavia also felt that all territories not responsible for the conduct of their own international relations should be permitted to submit their own requests for Membership or Associate Membership of Unesco; that would not be incompatible with the authority of the administering country, which might be given the right to veto the request. [6] Mr. Celebonovié therefore submitted, on behalf of his delegation, the following draft amendment, inténded as a substitute for that put forward by the United Kingdom delegation: (a) Between paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article II insert the following paragraphs:
3. Non-self-governing territories or groups of territories may be admitted as Associate Members by the General Conference by a two-thirds majority of Members present and voting, upon application made by the indigenous authorities of such territories with the approval of the Member State having responsibility for their international relations. The nature and extent of the rights and obligations of Associate Members shall be determined by the General Conference.
4. Trust territories may be admitted as Associate Members or as Ordinary Members enjoying the same rights and obligations as full Members, by a decision of the General Conference by a two-thirds majority of Mem- bers present and voting, upon application made by the competent indigenous authorities of such territories and subsequently approved by the State having responsibility for their administration. (b) Renumber existing paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of Article II as 5, 6 and 7. [7] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) reminded the meet- ing that, under Article XIII of the Unesco Consti- tution, proposals for amendments to that Constitution had to be communicated by the Director-General to the MemberStates six months before being submitted to the General Conference. The Yugoslav suggestion could not, therefore, be considered at the Sixth Session. Tt would, should the Yugoslav delegation so request, be submitted to the General Conference at its next Session. [8] Mr. STONE (Australia) fully agreed with the Legal Adviser’s observations. The only effect which the Yugoslav amendment could have at the moment would be to postpone consideration of the United Kingdom amendment. [9] Mr. CELEBONOVIÉ (Yugoslavia) said that his suggestion should not be regarded as valid for the next session of the General Conference; it might be necessary to revise it before the date of that session. If the terms of the Constitution made its immediate consideration impossible, the Yugoslav delegation
692COMMITTEE would withdraw it, reserving the right to re- submit it later if it appeared necessary. [10] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) said that, in answer to the Director-General's enquiry, Belgium had described the solutions it had adopted to ensure the representation of territories administered under its supervision. [11] Those territories had no separate delegation, but were represented by advisers included in the Belgian delegation. Belgium also invited dis- tinguished individuals from overseas territories to join its National Commission. It considered that such a system was calculated to ensure a maximum degree of co-operation in Unesco’s work by the terri- tories so administered. Tt realized that the question of an increasing degree of participation should be kept in view, but felt that the great diversity of status prevailing among non-self-governing territories precluded the adoption of a uniform solution, and that if the United Kingdom suggestion was accepted it should be sufficiently flexible to allow of the admission of Associate Members, while leaving the responsible State to take the initiative of any appli- cation for admission. Each Member State should be left to decide the question of the admission of terri- tories for which it was responsible on the inter- national level. The suggestion put forward by the United States seemed dangerous; the imposition of a system which in manycases would be ineffective would militate against the co-operation desired. [12] Mr. MILTON (Liberia), while appreciating the spirit of fair play expressed in the United King- dom amendment, was unable to support the pro- posal. Territories or colonies that might be admitted as Associate Members should be allowed full partici- pation in Unesco’s activities on the same footing as the other nations. It might be difficult to define the words “indigenous”, but he considered that the representation of Associate Members should be direct, that was to say, no one born in Britain should be designated to represent say, the Gold Coast, Nigeria or the West Indies. The basic aim of Unesco was educative, regardless of race, colour or creed, and therefore all non-self-governing territories should be able to participate in the work of the Organization through their individual representatives, and not by group representation. Moreover, territories which differed from one another in status and culture could not be represented in the same group. [13] Mr. SELFE (Union of South Africa) said that the proposed amendment would establish a new principle in Unesco. That principle had been adopted in 1947 by one other Specialized Agency, the World Health Organization, which had since admitted only one Associate Member: Southern    PROCEDURE Rhodesia, a fully self-governing territory. Thus, it was evident that WHO was proceeding cautiously in the application of the new rule, and Mr. Selfe sug- gested that Unesco should exercise the same circum- spection and await the outcome of the experiment initiated by WHO, especially as Unesco itself was also in the experimental stage. Mr. Selfe’s remarks were offered not in a spirit of obstruction but solely on grounds of caution. [14] Mr. CATES (United States of America) said that his delegation’s aim might be briefly described as being that the territories in question should be represented if they so desired. The United State’s position with regard to representation by members of the native population was made clear in the Secre- tariat documentation. There were problems of principle and method; a problem was involved in the amendment of the Constitution as well as in the method by which the General Conference would determine the form to be taken by the participation of Associate Members. [15] Mr. Cates suggested that the discussion should be divided so as to deal separately with the two points: firstly, the principle of the amendment; and, secondly, the methods to be adopted by the Conference to define participation. With regard to the second point, the United States position was clear, but even if the representation question was not spelled out, Mr. Cates believed in practice that, if certain countries were found to be abusing the power of designating representatives for Associate Members (say, by sending someone from Whitehall to re- present the Gold Coast) the General Conference would certainly raise objections. Moreover, it was probably true that, in practice, no metropolitan Power of experience would consider so misrepresent- ing the peoples under its mandate. [16] Mr. SALEH (Iraq) thought there were two major issues involved. The first, which had been raised in the Yugoslav amendment, involved the necessity for differentiating between non-self- governing and trust territories. The second was the idea put forward in the United States amendment (document 6C/PRO/6, p. 14). In that connexion, Mr. Saleh was opposed to “indigenous” peoples being represented by the administering Government. [17] Mr. LEBRAS (France) said the French dele- gation had given very sympathetic consideration to the draft amendment submitted by the United King- dom, and appreciated the broad-minded attitude which inspired it. [18] Mr. Lebras explained that France's position With regard to the problem resembled that of Belgium and the Union of South Africa. Certain States belonging to the French Union (Cambodia, COMMITTEE X-4 Laos and Viet-Nam) would probably become Members of Unesco during the current session, and it was therefore unnecessary to speak of them. As for the overseasterritories which had become Depart- ments of France, they formed part of the Republic, and independent representation might impair the unity of the State. Protectorates were represented by France on the international leve]. [19] While not dissociating itself from the United Kingdom's proposal, the French Government did not, therefore, feel able to give it unreserved ap- proval. The French Government considered that the following measures would serve to increase co- operation in Unesco’s work on the part of non-self- governing territories: (1) decentralization of National Commissions, so as to make them representative of all the countries administered; (2) participation by non-self-governing territories in Unesco’s Regional Conferences; (3) inclusion of representatives of such territories in the national delegations (France had already applied that principle at previous sessions of the General Conference); (4) increased co-operation between Unesco and countries not yet enjoying complete independence, especially in regard to funda- mental education, adult education, libraries, museums, and travelling exhibitions; (5) partici- pation by those countries in the Technical Assistance scheme. [20] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the United States delegation had asked the Committee to begin by considering the principle of the admission of Associate Members and, if that principle were accepted, to proceed to discuss the means of apply- ing it. [21] The Chairman also mentioned that a re- presentative of WHO was present at the meeting, and suggested that it might be useful to ask him for some details of the experiments made by that Organi- zation with regard to the co-operation of Associate Members. [22] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that, as certain delegations had advocated methods other than the admission of Associate Members for ensur- ing co-operation by non-self-governing territories in the work of Unesco, the Committee would first have to take a decision regarding the United Kingdom delegation’s draft amendment to Article IT of the Constitution, as that was a definite suggestion. If the draft were adopted, the Committee could after- wards discuss methods of implementing it, and could consider the second part of the United Kingdom delegation’s proposal. [23] Mr. STONE (Australia) thought that the only course open to the Committee was to take a vote on the amendment to introduce Associate Membership.    PROCEDURE [24] Mr. CATES (United States of America) said that his interpretation of the term “non-self-govern- ing territories” included trusteeship countries. The amendment required that the General Conference should determine the conditions under which Associate Members would participate. A decision should first be taken as to whether the principle of Associate Membership should be introduced. The Committee could then proceed to discuss methods. [25] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that since, for reasons of procedure, the Yugoslav dele- gation could not pursue the suggestion it had made, it would give full support to the United Kingdom delegation’s proposal. [26] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) reminded the meet- ing that, under Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, a two-thirds majority was required for the adoption of an amendment to the Constitution. That prin- ciple was binding on all Commissions and Com- mittees, as well as on the General Conference, and would have to be applied if the Committee was to take a decision on the first part of the United King- dom proposal. [27] Mr. LEBRAS (France) thought it might be preferable first to vote on a somewhat more general formula, under which the existing system would be maintained but Member States would be invited to bring the territories they administered into the closest possible association with the work of Unesco. [28] Mr. VEDOVATO (Italy) did not think it would be possible to adopt one and the same formula for non-self-governing territories and trust territories, the administration of which varied very greatly according to the country concerned. Supporting the Belgian delegate’s proposal, he recommended a system under which each case could be considered separately. [29] Mr. CATES (United States of America) questioned whether the two-thirds rule was applic- able to sub-committees. With regard to the United Kingdom amendment, he asked whether the word “authority” was not meant to be the administering authority of the trust territory as defined in Article 81 of the Charter of the United Nations? [30] In reply to the point raised by the Italian delegate, Mr. Cates pointed out that the admission of each territory had to be voted on individually by the General Conference, when degrees of status could be taken into consideration. The amendment had the character of an enabling clause, permitting Associate Membership, but recognizing that each case had to be decided on its own merits. [31] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) reminded the GCOMMT TT EE meeting that some delegations did not seem to care for the idea of an amendment to the Constitution. France, Belgium and Italy had recommended a more general formula, and would perhaps wish to submit definite suggestions. The Committee there- fore had to decide, in the first place, whether to take an immediate vote on the amendment proposed by the United Kingdom delegation. [32] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) thought there seemed to be a substantial measure of agreement that Unesco should bring about a closer association with the Governments of the non-self-governing territories. There was, however, some disagreement on the methods by which the closer association might be brought about. The United Kingdom amendment had been deemed rash and incautious, but Mr. Ward preferred to say that it was one which expressed the greatest measure of trust in the non- self-governing territories. His delegation was pre- pared to accept the proposal of the United States delegate that the vote on the draft amendment to the Constitution should be taken separately from the subsequent vote on the measures of implementation. With regard to the question of trust territories, he observed that if, for instance, the Gold Coast were admitted to the status of Associate Membership as a non-self-governing territory, but Togoland, being a trust territory, could not be admitted, the status of trust territory would prove to be a disadvantage. He could not therefore acceptthe distinction between non-self-governing territories and trust territories. He urged Unesco to have the courage to trust the peoples of non-self-governing territories and not to shut the door in their faces. [33] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) asked the French delegation whether it wished to define its position more precisely. He pointed out that, if the Com- mittee voted on the principle of adopting an amend- ment to the Constitution, it would be an ordinary majority vote. [34] Mr. LEBRAS (France) said the French dele- gation advocated a formula which would leave each government free to examine the best methods of associating the countries under its administration with the work of Unesco, and later, in the light of experience, to study the question afresh. i [35] The CHAIRMAN called fora vote on the prin- ciple of adopting an amendment. [36] The principle was adopted by 20 votes to 2 [37] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the amendment to Article II of the Constitution, pro: posed by the Government of the United Kingdom.       PROCEDURE [38] In reply to a question from Mr. BOUCHARD (France), Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said he did not think it would be possible to take separate votes on the various points of the United Kingdom amend- ment. [39] The amendment was adopted by 19 votes to 3. [40] The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to take a decision on the second part of the United Kingdom proposal, i.e. the draft resolution concerning the rights and obligations of Associate Members of Unesco (6C/PRO/6, page 10). [41] Mr. CATES (United States of America) withdrew his proposal to change the form of the United Kingdom amendment to the Constitution and was prepared to accept it as it stood. The word “indigenous” might present difficulties in clearcut definition, and he thought its interpretation might be left to the administering powers which would make application for the admission of Associate Members. [42] Mr. SALEH (Iraq) thought that the issue of representation was the core of the problem. He realized that any attempt to define terms too pre- cisely would complicate the matter. The indigenous people of any territory were those people who where rooted in the soil. If no definition at all were given, the problem would be left almost in its original state. The Committee had a great opportunity to give indigenous peoples the right to participate fully and freely, instead of having their delegations ap- pointed by the Powers responsible for the conduct of their international affairs. [43] Enche OTHMAN (United Kingdom), speaking for the people of his own country, Malaya, where the population consisted of the Malays (the original inhabitants), Chinese and Indians, said that it Malaya were admitted as an Associate Member, its representatives would be appointed not by the Colonial Office in London, but by the Council of the Territory. If, however, the delegation were restricted to indigenous peoples, it would be deprived of the technical advice of officers of English, American or other nationality; nevertheless, that did not mean that the indigenous peoples would not furnish the leader of the delegation. [44] Mr. STONE (Australia) thought that any attempt to give a restrictive definition of the status of non-self-governing territories would be unwise and unnecessary at the stage reached. It was quite clear that, as the participation of non-self-governing territories became a normal part of the work of Unesco, any Government applying for the admission of one of its non-self-governing territories would be COMMITTEE X-4 subject to the moral pressure of public opinion in other territories. The provisions should therefore be left flexible. Under the amendment, the country in charge of the territory would be responsible for initiating the application for admission to Associate Membership. It was to be assumed that no Member State would take that initiative if it were not prepared to face the implications of such a step. [45] Mr. CATES (United States of America) stated that the Iraqi delegate had expressed the point which his own delegation had been anxious to safeguard. He proposed that, in any event, a vote should be taken first on the principle of whether there should be a clause to define the status of the representatives. [46] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) intervened on a point of order. He had understood the United States delegate to ask whether the Committee desired that a restrictive clause should be inserted in the amendment. [47] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the pro- posal by the United States delegate that a restrictive clause should be inserted in the resolution. [48] That proposal was rejected by 13 votes to b. [49] Mr. STEPHENS (Canada) explained that, while he sympathized with the intentions of the United States delegation, he could not agree to the original reference to “indigenous populations”, and found it difficult to approve, even in principle, a clause that had not yet been drafted. [60] The CHAIRMAN asked the delegates to decide whether the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the United Kingdom should be taken immediately, or postponed until the next meeting. [61] By 13 votes to 5, the Committee decided that the vote should be taken immediately. [62] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) reminded the Com- mittee that the United States delegation had asked that a preamble should be added to the resolution; he would like to know whether the United Kingdom delegate accepted that amendment. [63] Mr. STONE (Australia) asked whether Asso- ciate Members would be eligible for the chair- manship of committees and other similar offices. If they were, a situation might arise where the delegate of an Associate Member might preside over a committee which found itself compelled to criti- cize the Member State in charge of the affairs of the Associate Member. He gave, as a hypothetical case, that of the Committee on Reports of Member       Х-5 PFROCEDURE States. Such a state of affairs would not be con- ducive to harmony, either within Unesco or in the relations between the administering Member State and the Associate Member territory. [54] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) agreed that that was a point which had escaped consideration, but his delegation would be glad to examine it. He suggested that it might perhaps be left to the discretion of the Committee. [55] Mr. CATES (United States of America) thought that the point might be left to the General Conference. It was not possible to guard against every contingency. [56] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that a reference to page 7 of the Annex to document 6C/ PRO/6 would show the similarity between the United Kingdom draft resolution and the resolution on the same subject adopted by the World Health Organization. [57] Mr. STONE (Australia) proposed that, in sub-paragraph (a) (ii) of the United Kingdom amendment (fourth line), the words “its Com- missions” should be omitted and replaced by the following: “and such of its Commissions as the General Conference may, from time to time, indicate”. COM MIT TEE [58] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) accepted that proposal. [59] Mr. CATES (United States of America) asked whether it was the Australian delegate’s intention that the General Conference might restrict the list of Commissions in which the representatives of Associate Members might take office. [60] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that the point which he had in mind was that the General Confer- ence might, from time to time, vary the list of Commissions in which they might take full part. [61] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) asked that, in para- graph (a) (ii) of the draft resolution, the words “and Committees” should be inserted after “Com- missions”. [62] The suggested amendment having been approved by the United Kingdom delegate, the CHAIRMANcalled for a vote on the whole resolution, including the preamble proposed by the United States delegation and the amendment suggested by the Australian delegate. [63] The resolution, thus amended, was adopted by 17 votes to 0, with 4 abstentions. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Friday, 22 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Tevrik Sacram (Turkey) Report by the Director-General on the Change in Periodicity of Sessions of the General Con- ference (Item 6.7 of the Agenda) (5C/Reso- lutions, 40.8) (document 6C/PRO/7). [1] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on document 6C/PRO/7. [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL made a rapid survey of the problem before the meeting. The United tates delegation had submitted to the Florence Con- ference a proposal for changing the intervals between sessions of the General Conference, whereby the latter would meet every two years instead of annually. After a discussion on the question, the Conference had instructed the Director-General to consult Mem- ber States and to communicate the results of that consultation to the Executive Board, to enable the Board to formulate its opinion at the Sixth Session of the General Conference. [3] The majority of Member States had agreed that it would be desirable to adopt the principle of bien- nial sessions. [4] The altered system would have the following advantages: [6] (1) It would enable MemberStates to increase > | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |