VIII-5 BUDGET [105] It was agreed that the suggested reductions should be indicated in the report. Regional Conference on Education and Technical Progress and Social Change in Latin America (page 97). [106] Mr. WYNES (Australia) considered the post of the expert responsible for preliminary work unnecessary. [107] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) did not see the need for sending members of the Secretariat to the headquarters of the United Nations and of the region- al Organizations concerned for the purpose of co-ordinating technical preparations. [108] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that most careful preparation was neces- sary, since the matter concerned other agencies. Without such preparation the administrative effi- ciency and even the’ ultimate success of the con- ference might be seriously compromised. [109] Mr. RAADI (Iran) pointed out that is was essentially a question of preparatory work. Would it be possible to form some idea as to the cost of the conference planned for 1953, which would fall on ‚the 1953 budget? Mr. Raadi wondered whether the Budget Committee should not state, in its report, that no priority should be given to the proposed preparations for the general conference. G'OM MIT TEE [110] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that the cost would be borne by the 1953 budget but that the cost of a similar conference in
1952 was some $39,000. The provision should be made for the sake of continuity. Tables of Expenditure on Education (pages 99, 100,
101). [111] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a represen- tative of the Netherlands, enquired what was the nature of the “common services”, costing $15,000 (page 101). [112] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Bud- get, Office of the Director-General) explained that the sum covered board and lodging of persons attending seminars. [113] The Committee agreed that a more explicit definition of the objects of expenditure should be given in future. [114] In reply to the representative of Australia, Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) indicated that, as a result of the transfer of the Haiti project, the post of Direc- tor (page 99) was no longer a Unesco liability and that a further reduction of approximately $8,000 could be made. The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Wednesday, 13 June 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II) ]. Education (continuation) (Part 1.1). EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING (III. ED). National or Regional Seminars in Education for International Understanding (page 104). [1] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) did not understand why a sum of $1,400 had been allocated for “fees for authors of working papers”; he had always imagined it was the Secretariat's duty to prepare such doc uments. [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) pointed out that as the seminars were concerned with the study of special academic disciplines, highly specialized papers were required. It was thus often necessary to engage experts outside the Secretariat for the preparation of documents. At times it Was also necessary to prepare certain working papers 11 a language other than one of the working languages of the Organization, or in a specialized form. That, again, was work which could not always be under- taken by a memberofthe Secretariat.   | | | | || | | ( | ||
529 [3] firm not was it w the to indi esse Res Chil [4] had wor Esti gran state the the prog take in vol sugg that and [5] the writ the men IIT.1 alre regi Ast docu regi dup shou [6] nece Farl its v ques Unes proj [7] feren train did (Reg healt [8] tion) state passé] оп Ц         Е — — о A , — —
0 о с т S E D = “529 BUDGET [3] Replying to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. Elvin con- firmed that the exact location of the seminars was not yet known, but that as the current year’s seminar was to be held in Sèvres, near Unesco’s Headquarters, it was anticipated that the experts chosen to diffuse the results and experience of that seminar would have to travel long distances. The sum of $2,500 indicated in the work programme was considered essential. Research and Experiments in Education of Young Children for International Understanding (page 104). [4] Mr. THOMPSON (Alternate, United Kingdom) had three points to raise: firstly, he felt that the work plan outlined on page 104 of the Budget Estimates did not correspond to the objectives of pro- gramme Resolution 1.313 on page 102. The latter stated that Unesco was to “stimulate and encourage the efforts of Member States to improve . . .”’ whereas the work plan appeared to outline a fairly extensive programme of research and experiment to be under- taken by Unesco itself. In view of the expense involved in any type of research work, he would suggest that National Commissions should undertake that task, Unesco’s role being to stimulate, correlate, and diffuse their efforts. [6] Secondly, with regard to the last sentence of the first paragraph of the work plan “. . . and the writing of reports to be used as working papers at the Regional conferences on education in relation to mental health and technical progress mentioned in IIL.1.C.” (page 104)—he noted that experts were already being retained to write reports for those regional conferences under the estimates for II1.1.C. As there was, in any case, a limit to the number of documents which could be absorbed by any one regional conference, he felt that there was a certain duplication and a waste of effort and money which should be avoided. [6] Thirdly, Mr. Thompson did not understand the necessity for a contract with the World Council on Early Childhood Education. That organization, by its very nature, should undertake the type of work in question as a normal activity, and should not require Unesco funds to ensure its participation in the project. [7] The CHAIRMAN asked also whether the re- ference to: “. . . the study of mental health in teacher training institutions” in the work plan for the project did not overlap with the activities under III.1.C. (Regional Conference on education and the mental health of children in Europe, page 96). [8] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion), in reply to Mr. Thompson's three points, stated: firstly, the programme resolution had been passed by the General Conference at its Fifth Session, on the proposal of the United States delegation. It COMMITTEE УШ-5 had been agreed that the Secretariat should prepare a programme, the effect of which would be to stimulate activity by Member States, but to do that the Secretariat had itself to play an active part. With regard to the second point, Mr. Elvin said that the working papers to be prepared in connexion with the project under consideration were in fact quite different, and covered entirely different fields, from those to be prepared under item III.1.C. Both were considered essential to the complete success of the regional conferences. As for the third point, the World Council on Early Childhood Education would not be able to undertake the comparative enquiry without Unesco aid. In the past Unesco had given the organization a straight grant but, in the case at issue, the proposal was for a contract whereby payment would be made for specific services rendered. [9] Dealing with the point raised by the Chairman, Mr. Elvin said that there was indeed a connexion between the two projects on mental health, but there was also a clear distinction in their final aims. [10] Replying to a further request from the CHAIRMAN for more details as to the number and nature of “studies and experiments” for which the sum of $10,000 was requested, Mr. Elvin said that it was not possible to be really specific until the programme resolution had actually been approved by the General Conference and further discussions had. taken place. The Secretariat had already indicated in the work plan the four fields of study it proposed to tackle. [11] The CHAIRMAN then asked if the project would be seriously affected if the provision for fees were reduced by one-half (i.e., from $10,000 to $5,000). [12] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) felt that it would be so, since the effect would be to curtail expenditure on research and to con- centrate on the less expensive, and less useful activity of producing reports. [13] Mr. THOMPSON (Alternate, United Kingdom) was not entirely satisfied with the explanations given and felt obliged to stress his three previous points. He urged that direct Unesco action should be reduced and that National Commissions should be requested to undertake a large part of the work involved in the project. He agreed with the Chairman that there was a serious danger of an excess of docu- mentation for the regional conferences if the proposals shown under the item, and those on page 96 of the Estimates were both carried out. With regard to Mr. Elvin’s explanation that the World Council on Early Childhood Education would not, in the normal course of events, be undertaking the required research, he asked what that organiza- tion’s activities were, and whether it had any و ل ل ش ش ل ش ا ل ف ل an i   VIII-5 BUDGET resources outside Unesco. He felt that Unesco should require a certain degree of self-support and initiative on the part of any non-governmental organization to which it offered a grant for contractual services. [14] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the World Council had originally been established with a Unesco grant, and under Unesco’s auspices, as a result of a seminar held in 1949. Tt wasstill engaged on the work of setting up branches and establishing itself financially, and could not yet undertake such research unaided. [15] With regard to the excess of documentation on mental health which was feared, he felt that confusion had arisen as a result of the use of the term “mental health” by the Secretariat in the project under discussion (page 104). It would perhaps have been wiser to omit that reference, since the project was concerned with the education of young children for international understanding, and was entirely distinct from the regional conference on the education and mental health of children in Europe outlined on page 96 of the Estimates. [16] In reply to a further question from Mr. THOMPSON, Mr. Elvin said that a smaller grant to the World Council on Early Childhood Education would result in a reduction of the services to be rendered. The same amount of work could not be accomplished for less money. [17] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) wanted to know whether the organization mentioned was the World Council on Early Childhood Education, which had its headquarters in Paris, and which was to hold a conference in Mexico City in 1952. 1f so, he pointed out that the organization dealt chiefly with early childhood education in the home, and not exclusively with education for international understanding. [18] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) confirmed that the organization mentioned was indeed the World Council on Early Childhood Education; it had held a meeting at Vienna in 1949. [19] In reply to Miss LAISE (United States of Amer- ica), Mr. Elvin confirmed that Unesco itself was not equipped to carry out the “research and experiments” referred to. Its role would be to stimulate such research, and compile and publish reports describing the existing situation and outlining the research being undertaken by various bodies. [20] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) noted that a sum of nearly $15,000 had been allocated for experts’ fees in connexion with the project on the education of young children for international understanding. It might perhaps be preferable slightly to reduce the funds earmarked for that purpose, and to spend part of the sum on promoting international under- COM MIT TEE standing amongst adults, especially since any im- provement in that sphere would naturally redound to the advantage of the children as well. [21] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the problem was rather complicated, with budgetary implications. Unesco’s programme had originally been confined to war- handicapped children, and later to handicapped children in general. A resolution on very broad lines had, however, been passed by the General Con- ference at its Fifth Session, requesting the Secre- tariat to prepare a long-term plan on the education of all children for international understanding. The Secretariat had requested the sum of $200,000 for that purpose, but it had been cut by the Executive Board to about $50,000, and almost entirely eliminated by the Budget Committee at the Fifth Session. Later, however, on strong represen- tations from certain Member States—notably the United States and France—the amount shown for 1951 had been reinserted. The Secretariat was thus aware that the matter was controversial; but had attempted to follow out the instructions given with the funds available. [22] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said that his Gov- ernment was concerned at the gradual increases in Unesco’s budget year by year and felt that the time had come to establish certain priorities. The contract with the World Council on Early Childhood Education did not appear to be of vital importance, and he would propose its deletion, should it be necessary to make reductions in the Chapter. [23] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) explained that what he was proposing was not to eliminate all work amongst children, but simply to reduce the fees for reports, which he found too high, and to encourage instead direct contacts between children of different countries—which he thought more important—by subsidizing international agencies specializing in such work. [24] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee should note in its report that, if Member States and National Commissions were more closely associated with the project, a reduction could be effected in the provision for fees. [25] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) was of the opinion that the whole question of the education of children for international understanding should be dropped: children’s attention should not even be drawn to the matter, since understanding between children of all races and colours existed naturally. [26] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) pointed out that the question under discussion Was essentially a programme matter, and the CHAIRMAN
531 BUDGET proposed that Mr. El Diwany should raise it again at a meeting of the Programme Commission. Teaching of Living Languages in Relation to Inter- national Understanding (page 105). [27] Mr. WYNES (Australia) proposed once more that National Commissions should be called upon to do more. [28] The CHAIRMAN said that his comment would be noted in the report as a general remark. Improvement of Textbooks and Teaching Materials (page 105). : [29] In reply to Miss LAISE (United States of America), Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) said that the languages in which it was proposed to publish the study of systems of mutual textbook revision were English and French in 1952 and German and Spanish in 1953. [30] In reply to Mr. WYNES (Australia), Mr. Elvin said that the Secretariat felt that the importance of the book of suggestions on the teaching of history warranted its publication in a more permanent form than by roneo or offset. It would not, therefore, be possible to economize by making National Com- missions responsible for the reproduction of that document. [31] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) enquired
(1) Which textbooks would be selected for use in connexion with the proposed travelling exhibitions.
(2) How many national committees for the im- provement of school textbooks were already in existence. [32] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that the Department of Education already had an embryonic exhibition of textbooks, forwarded from certain Member States and the International Bureau of Education. He could not guarantee that every textbook sent by a publisher would be exhibited, but the Department would try to make a represen- tative selection. [33] Replying to Mr. Guignolet’s second question, Mr. Elvin said that there were but five such com- mittees in existence, but that other Member States bad already taken preliminary steps in the matter. [34] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought it un- necessary to allocate $1,000 for the purchase of textbooks, in view of the fact that copies were sent both by Member States and by publishers; exhibitions of the kind in question had a certain publicity value, both for the States and for the publishers. [35] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that, unfortunately, not all publishers sent Unesco copies of new textbooks. The Oxford University Press, for instance, did not, and it was, COMMITTEE VIIT-5 therefore, necessary to have a small sum for the purchase of such textbooks to complete any con- templated exhibition. [36] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) wondered how far the exhibitions in question, and all the expenses incurred thereby, were justified. That was, of course, a question affecting the programme, but it could, he thought, be dealt with at the current meeting, since several members of the Programme Commission were present. Mr. El Diwany reminded the meeting that the International Bureau of Educa- tion had set aside several rooms in its premises at Geneva for exhibiting textbooks received from all States; he suggested that, since the IBE, with which Unesco had an agreement, already possessed a nucleus for the proposed exhibition, it would be better if Unesco relegated the whole question to the IBE. [37] Mr. El Diwany was very doubtful, moreover, whether members of the Secretariat would be able in any way to influence the ideas of writers of history and geography textbooks in the countries to which they were sent. To illustrate his point, he reminded the meeting that the interparliamentary Conference, held in Nice two or three years previously, having noted that the Scandinavian countries had reached an agreement to expurgate from their textbooks anything susceptible of harming regional understanding, had wished the same procedure to be extended to all countries. When the question was put to the vote however, the Scandinavian countries themselves opposed the sug- gestion, saying they wanted to be free to teach their history as they thought fit. [38] In conclusion, Mr. El Diwany thought the estimates should be revised, and the item itself re-examined. [39] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the IBE exhibition in Geneva was permanent, although incomplete, but that IBE was willing to lend books to Unesco occasionally. He felt strongly that the sum for the purchase of new textbooks should be retained, since it would be better to have no exhibition at all than one which was incomplete and open to criticism on that score. With regard to the amount allocated for travel ($2,000), it was useful for Unesco officials to visit authors and publishers in Member States, and past experience showed that interest in the improvement of textbooks had been aroused in many countries by such visits. [40] The CHAIRMANsaid that the general remarks and suggestions of delegates would be included in the Committee's report on the project. Assistance to Member States on Teaching about the United Nations (page 105). [41] The CHAIRMAN asked what was meant by the    НЙ
7111-5 BUDGET COMMITTEE   | | |, | : | - phrase “suitable documentation” used in the work had a definite role to play in teaching about collective [51 Е plan. From the experience of his own National security. Mr. Cohen, Assistant Secretary-General of the Commission in the Netherlands, he would say that the United Nations, had been present and had | $4, it would be more useful to reduce the allocation for approved the decisions taken. There had also been € $50 | travel, and to spend more on producing more and high-level co-ordination with the United Nations on | хр | better documentation for the use of Member States. the exact task of Unesco in that field, and Mr. Elvin tota His own country had experienced great difficulty in felt that the United Nations would not accept tasks | = procuring adequate documentation forits programme which had been clearly assigned to Unesco. In any [ [52 on teaching about the United Nations. case, the economy made in Unesco would result in % firm an increase in the publications budget of the United | 2 b [42] Mr. DURING (Sweden) and Mr. WYNES Nations, and Member States would not save in the Nati (Australia), on behalf of their respective countries, long run. 1 pro supported that view; Mr. Düring also requested [48] The experts to be engaged would be experts f ег further information about the four national or оп hoth teaching and the United Nations. hon regional seminars to which it was proposed to send | и Unesco experts. [49] Mr. WYNES (Australia) felt that the second | ol : of the three projects (Suggestions for Teaching about £ [53 [43] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- the United Nations) could be given a low priority. | that tion) explained that “suitable documentation” re- He again emphasized the desirability of stimulating те, ferred to any useful pamphlets or documents National Commissions to play a more important part Har available at Headquarters. In the matter of travel, jp teaching about the United Nations. The Australian frot he would point out that Unesco was continually National Commission had already prepared a book diss receiving strong requests to send an expert to on the subject, and he believed that the same thing ( Aufl seminars on teaching about the United Nations. was being done in the United Kingdom. He felt e and Four outstanding requests included one from Canada, Unesco should stimulate other National Commissions >. two from the World Federation of United Nations to similar action, and later, produce its own publi- mal Associations (regarding Beirut and India respec- cation correlating the suggestions put forward by and tively), and one from India, where a national the National Commissions. | seminar was to be organized as a follow-up to | [54 MEGA sogions) ‎هوة [50] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) referring to the | tor ; ; ; aragraph on publications for use in teaching about y [44] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sue 6 United Fi and, in particular, to the aa sug; gested that Unesco might advise the United Nations pamphlets on WHO and the Universal Postal Union, groi on ihe type of publications required for teaching pointed out that the estimate for fees was $500, care about the United Nations. The Public Information while the sum allocated for contractual printing E [55 service in New York had recently been under criti- vas $6,650, and for travel on official business fron cism on the quality of its output and was now being $1,400. He mentioned that, in the case of the 6017 reorganized. It might be possible later for it to Postal Union, which was an old-established organ- of | reproduce some of the publication: prepared. by ization, complete documents already existed; and muc | Unesco in far greater Quantities She wondered that a 95-page pamphlet on WHO had already been @ cons | whether Unesco had discussed the problem with published in France, by the Service Francais de | proc | the United Nations. Documentation, at much less expense. That seemed ( ада] | [45] Miss Laise also asked whether the experts Id ; : 1 | : : to indicate that Unesco’s work should be confined ! Ц | referred to were to be experts in teaching, or experts AE ; == E | : ; to co-ordinating and adapting for children the data f que | on the United Nations. ; = i mis: | furnished by those organizations—work which could у ' | Mol The: CHAMNMAN mad Gat Mos Lajas “e he done on ie epa 11300106 Е | E ; travelling expenses. Mr. Guignolet thought that the | | remarks also affected the following items and it was у Len have 0 on t | decided to take the next two items jointly with that pamphlets prepared by Unesco might t en a Mr. | under consideration. be modified slightly, in each country, in order to dam | make a special appeal to the children, on the basis sche | Preparation of Suggestions for Teaching about the pf whut ey already knowin the pamphiet a A | United Nations and Publications and ArioVisual. WAO, fainstance, the French version might Seliger | Materials for use in Teaching about the United special mention of Pasteur and the English versio poss | * Nations (pages 105 and 106). of Sir Alexander Fleming. That did not, however, Г corr || alter the fact that Unesco could prepare the pamphlets é — trav | [47] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- on the spot, and then circulate them to National | jeop | tion) explained that, at the time the Korea campaign Commissions, which would undertake the necessary | began, the Executive Board had decided that Unesco national adaptation. [57]     BUDGET [51] In conclusion, Mr. Guignolet proposed that the costs of contractual printing should be cut by $4,650, to a total of $2,000; and that the $500 for fees and the $1,400 allocated for travelling expenses should be eliminated altogether, making a total saving of $6,550. [52] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) con- firmed that his National Commission was preparing a book of suggestions on teaching about the United Nations. Since other Member States were very probably doing the same thing, he felt that the sum of $6,000 proposed for contracts with international non-governmental organizations for the preparation of suggestions was unnecessary, and he proposed its deletion. [53] Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt that, if it was possible to make either or both the reductions proposed by Mr. Guignolet and Sir Frank Harby, the money saved should not be deducted from the project but should be used for the wider dissemination—i.e., translation into more languages and increased reproduction—of the material collected and published by Unesco. Her Government consi- dered that teaching about the United Nations could make an important contributionto collective security and would not like to see the appropriation cut. [54] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) pointed out, with regard to the cut proposed by Sir Frank Harby, that the new plan to obtain suggestions for teaching children of different age groups about the United Nations had been most carefully considered and was felt to be of value. [55] As for the proposal to seek information direct from National Commissions, instead of using the services of experts, he pointed out that the majority of National Commissions were too small to handle much more work effectively. They were already considerably overburdened, being required to re- produce and distribute many Unesco documents, adapting them to their own purposes (i.e., trans- lating, etc.), and co-operate in many other ways. Except perhaps for the four or five bigger Com- missions, they could not be asked to bear further physical or financial strain. [56] Regarding the suggestion to reduce expenditure on the pamphlets about selected Specialized Agencies, Mr. Elvin said that the time was felt to be ripe for launching a campaign on the Specialized Agencies in schools. Since it was a purely educational project, it was clearly within the field of Unesco, rather than of any other Specialized Agency. It would be possible to try carrying out the project purely by correspondence and without any allowance for travel, but the results might thereby be gravely jeopardized. [57] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, as it was COMMITTEE VIII-5 likely that the General Conference would reduce the budget ceiling proposed by the Director-General, the Committee should be realistic and note areas where possible cuts could be made, or projects where econ- omies would result from a change in the work plan. He asked whether, if the Committee recommended the reduction proposed by Sir Frank Harby, the Secretariat felt that the project could be carried out with the co-operation of the larger National Com- missions, other Member States contributing to the best of their ability. [58] Mr. EL DIWANY(Egypt) concurred. [59] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that the Secretariat obviously could not co-operate in reducing the Budget Estimates when it was not even known whether such reductions would be necessary. The estimates had been most carefully drawn up and were felt to be both reasonable and accurate. He could only say that reductions in any section would result either in less work, or in work of a poorer quality. : [60] That view was confirmed by Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General). [61] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that the work plan for Programme Resolution 1.322 did not seem best designed to fulfil the objects of the resolution. She wondered whether it would be possible to achieve the broad objectives outlined in the resolution without an increased budgetary provision in 1952. [62] After the CHAIRMAN had summed up the various suggestions made, it was agreed to note them in the Committee's report, together with the pro- posals for economies through changes in the plan. about Human RightsSeminar on Education (page 106). [63] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked that the Secretariat should prepare a document giving full budgetary data concerning the seminar on Education about Human Rights, and stating, in particular, the number of experts and their precise duties. It would then be possible to avoid overlapping—of experts and group-leaders, for instance—such as had occured in the past. [64] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked why, in the second part of the project, three out- standing historians were considered necessary to provide the basic information required. [65] Mr. WYNES(Australia) said that his delegation felt that the second part of the project (printing of a book of basic documents on Human Rights) should      VIII-5 BUDGET be given a low priority. It was felt to be merely a duplication of much of the work contained in the United Nations Handbook on Human Rights. In any case, he agreed with Sir Frank Harby that the required information could surely be obtained without the employment of three outstanding historians. [66] The same view was supported by Mr. DÜRING (Sweden), who also questioned the usefulness of three publications on the subject in a period of two years, 1951 and 1952. [67] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) stressed the Director-General’s view that Human Rights was one of the Central themes of Unesco’s programme; it would be found that great emphasis was placed on the project throughout the proposed Programme and Budget. The Executive Board had supported the Director-General in that view. [68] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that one of the proposed publications for 1952 was a wall chart requiring detailed and specialized preparation by experts. It was to ensure that the chart would be prepared in the best academic manner with respect to all areas of the world that it was proposed to engage three eminent historians from different continents. [69] Attention had been paid to the danger of overlapping with the United Nations Handbook on Human Rights, but it had been agreed that Unesco’s publication would be different. It would contain expert commentaries on the basic Human Rights documents, which would be of great importance in promoting real understanding of such documents. [70] In reply to the CHAIRMAN and Mr. GUIGNO- LET (France), Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) gave the following breakdown of the seminar expenses: Fees: $20,035—of which $15,535 was for direct fees and $4,500 for travel. That sum would cover the employment of one Director, one Administrator, one Social Director, one librarian, four study group leaders, threee interpreters, two translators, four shorthand-typists, and other necessary office staff. A further sum of $1,200 was included for four experts ($400 each), making a total of $21,235 for fees. The breakdown for the Common Services, $15,350 was: $12,000 for board and lodging for seminar parti- cipants; $1,560 for travel of three staff members to the seminar; $550 for a small meeting of study group leaders in Paris five months before opening of the seminar; $200 for the purchase of a limited quantity of books for the seminar. [71] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) said that the COMMITTEE fixing of the location could not make much dif- ference to the estimates, since the only item which would be affected was the travel of the three staff members. [72] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) said that the Committee would be receiving documents based on the Executive Board's Finance Committee's discussions on the Budget Estimates. On the question of the seminar, the Board had suggested that the appointment of “informal” experts might enable the study group leaders to be dispensed with, but had taken no decision on the matter. [73] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that, as a general principle affecting the whole organization, her delegation was concerned with the relationship between the permanent personnel of Unesco and the staff engaged on a fee basis. In spite of the annual increase in permanent personnel, the amount requested for fee contracts was also increas- ingly high. In the particular case in question she presumed that the three staff members attending the seminar would be present in a purely administrative capacity. [74] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) agreed that those staff members would attend the seminar in a purely administrative and advisory capacity. [75] The CHAIRMAN said that Miss Laise’s observation on the question of principle would be noted in the Committee’s report. [76] Mr. RAADI (Iran) had some remarks to make, but would leave them until the consideration of the section was completed, since they were applicable to several of the projects in the chapter on Educa- tion. [77] M. GUIGNOLET (France) thanked Mr. Hodson for the details he had supplied on the budget for the seminar; he asked that the Secretariat should communicate those details to the Committee in a typed document. Training Course for Youth Leaders in South-East Asia (page 107). [78] Mr. KIRPAL (India) pointed out that it was proposed to hold a seminar on Youth Welfare in India at the end of 1951, underthe joint auspices of the Social Activities Division of the United Nations and the Government of India. He hoped that Unesco would be able to make use of the experience С О и и
9     BUDGET535 to be gained at that seminar to facilitate the proposed project. [79] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) remarked that that was yet one more example of the requests received by his Department to send a representative. It explained why it was impossible to reduce travel costs. co VIII-6MM IT TEE Promotion of Educational Activities Organizations (page 107). of Youth [80] The CHAIRMAN noted that the project was to be carried out in the normal course of the Secre- tariat’s work. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. SIXTH MEETING Wednesday, 13 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (IT) J. Education (continuation) (Part III.1). EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING (con- tinuation) (III.1.D). Services to Work Camps (page 107). [1] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, noted that the sum of $6,000 was proposed for the purchase of books, and asked whether any information was available about the number of calls made for such books. [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) said that the sum was provided rather as part of the effort to impart an educational bias to the work camps than to meet specific demands. Particular emphasis was laid on education for international understanding. [3] The books provided for travelling libraries were on loan and remained the property of Unesco. [4] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) enquired whether the International Federation of Children’s Communities [document 6C/5 (I), draft Resolution
1.343, page 48] had enough affiliated communities to be of real help to Unesco in producing a report. [5] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) said that the International Federation was an organ- ization sponsored by Unesco and was particularly strong in France, Italy and Greece. In all, 80 com- munities were affiliated to the Federation, which had done good work on a small budget. The children's villages were proving valuable as communities in which educational methods could be tested. [6] In reply to a question from Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom), Mr. Elvin informed the meeting that other countries were represented in the Fed- eration, although the latter was stronger in the three mentioned than in others. [7] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, noted a discrepancy in the figures. That indicated for draft programme resolu- tion 1.343 in document 6C/5 (II) was $12,200 for the heading under discussion so that the total expenditure under the resolution should be $33,900 instead of $35,900 as shown in document 6C/5 (I). [8] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of thé Director-General) explained that the difference was due to an error in document 6C/5 (IT) in which the $2,000 provided forfees should be $4,000, bringing the total for the paragraph to $14,200. [9] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked whether it might not be possible to bring draft Resolutions 1.343 and 1.344 together, providing some $50,000 for a unified youth programme. [10] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) thought that such a solution would be possible but, if adopted, would require the addition of the $20,400 proposed for draft Resolution 1.342. Services to Youth Groups in General (page 107). [11] No comments.