643 EUD GET actually on the current Conference agenda. It had then been found possible to reduce that figure to five or six questions. Each country would be represented by one or two delegates who, in many cases, would be officials of Embassies established in Paris. The Conference would thus be attended by, at most, 60 to 120 persons. It would last 10 days, during four of which two committees would be working simultaneously. To save time, inter- pretation would be simultaneous. Costs would be limited to the upkeep of premises, and the hiring of simultaneous interpretation apparatus. Since no extra staff should be needed, the figure of $7,000 he had quoted before was a well-founded estimate of costs. The suggested procedure appeared to be more economical than convening special sessions of the Executive Board. It gave Member States a sounder guarantee, as well as meeting criticisms to the effect that the Executive Board, on which not all Member States were represented, was insuf- ficiently democratic. The procedure, moreover, would make it possible to give consideration to various questions cropping up between ordinary sessions of the General Conference, which would in future meet only at two-year intervals. [20] The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee was very fortunate in having had its work with the Procedure Committee so much facilitated by its Rapporteur. She suggested that Sir Frank Harby's proposal to adopt the document as a whole should be accepted. [21] Agreed. [22] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, COMM LT TEE VIII-26 Office of the Director-General) said that the Procedure Committee had wondered, since the report of the Budget Committee called only for the insertion of the four words “and the Budget Com- mittee” in one of the Rules of Procedure, whether it was necessary for all the members of that Committee to be present, or whether it would not suffice for the Rapporteur to represent them. [23] Agreed. [24] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked when the sections relating to Documents and Publications would be discussed. [25] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) replied that the Committee had already had an opportunity to discuss those sections in connexion with the other items of the programme. The total allocation of the Documents and Publications Service would, of course, be cut by one per cent in common with the other Departments, and there would also be a cut of $29,660 for Common Service Costs. [26] It was agreed that the Committee should meet on Monday, 9 July, to discuss the form and content of the budget for future years and the final report of the Committee. No final decision would be taken until Tuesday, since Sir Frank Harby would be unable to be present at the meeting on Monday. The Tuesday meeting would approve the final report to the Conference and the appropriation table. The meeting rose at 5.05 p.m. TWENTY-SIXTH MEETING Monday, 9 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) Programme of Work. [1] The CHAIRMAN referred to the decision taken at the Committee’s previous meeting to discuss sug- gestions regarding the form of the budget for future presentation as an entirely seperate subject. The report of the Working Party of the Procedure Com- mittee on the question of biennal sessions (document
6C/PRO/12) would merely be noted by the Com- mittee, since its terms were too general to permit detailed discussion on the form of the budget. [2] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that the Budget Committee had to examine sub-paragraph (5) on page 2 of the Procedure Committee's report (document 6C/PRO/12), with regard to the pos- sibility of holding a limited session of the General Conference every two years to deal with financial    VIII-26 BUDGET questions. If a discussion of the paragraph would take a very long time he thought the Committee should not stop to examine it, but, in that case, he would bring it up again at a plenary meeting and in the Procedure Committee, not in his capacity as Rapporteur of the Budget Committee, but on behalf of the French delegation. Proposal of the Cuban Delegation for a Re- ception Office. [3] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) again mentioned the ques- tion of a Reception Office, and Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that, to his mind, the record of the last meeting dealing with that matter did not give a true impression of the discussions, which, indeed, were somewhat confused. Although a decision had already been taken, the French delegate considered the Committee should again examine the draft resolu- tion contained in document 6C/DR/1, which the Programme Commission had referred back with the recommendation that one official was sufficient to man the Reception Office. He proposed that, after a second consideration, the Committee should submit the following suggestions to the Administrative Com- mission, with a view to expanding the embryo re- ception service already in existence. [4] The staff of the Reception Office should consist of the members of the existing service—i.e. (1) a Grade 10 official belonging to the Department of Mass Communi- cation; (2) a Grade 8 official belonging to the Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services. The Reception Office should be attached to one of those two Departments, which would accordingly receive a transfer of appropriations from the second Department. The fusion of the two elements would allow the rational development in 1952 of work connected with the recep- tion of delegates, without incurring additional expen- diture. [6] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that he had no desire to open a discussion but wished to make some re- marks concerning a previous decision by the Com- mittee. Discussion had been re-opened upon a pro- posal which had already been accepted, and which had been rejected by the Committee by only about
10 votes, whereas in one Commission where all the Member States were represented there was a big majority in favour of the proposal. A very dangerous precedent might be established, if the decisions of a Commission could be nullified by a Committee of less authority. [6] The proposal of the Rapporteur would preserve what was essential, and in that sense was acceptable. But it had to be realized that the Cuban proposal aimed at enabling Unesco to issue authoritative in- formation by centralizing that function in a special office. The proposal for the setting up of that office ВКاا‏ 644 or reception centre had been approved by the Pro- gramme Commission by 23 votes to 14, with
10 abstentions. [7] The CHAIRMAN intervened to say that the Rapporteur was obliged to leave the meeting in order to attend that of the Procedure Committee, where discussion was taking place on the future mem. bership and functions of the Budget Committee (document 6C/BUD/3). The Rapporteur would report that the Budget Committee had noted that document and that, while it made no comment at the moment, one or two points might require further study. [8] The Chairman suggested that the discussion on document 6C/DR/1 should be re-opened, if necessary, only when the Rapporteur had returned from the meeting of the Procedure Committe. Meanwhile, the Budget Committee should proceed with the numerous items of important business still awaiting attention. [9] According to Mr. BRULL (Cuba) it had already been established, during previous discussions and in the records of those discussions, that no extra expense would be involved in assigning two staff members to the Reception Office. The Cuban dele- gate nevertheless hoped that it was quite clear that one of the posts transferred to the Reception Office would be one already existing in the Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services. [10] Mr. Brull brought up a question of order, calling attention to the fact that, in accordance with the resolutions adopted in Florence concerning the Budget Committee, the Committee should: Examine the Budget Estimates presented by the Director-General with a view to determining whether the estimates were reasonable and accurate. It shall consider the report and recommendations of the Executive Board. It shall submit, as soon as possible after the opening date of the Conference, a report making such recommen- dations as are necessary. The Committee shall examine new proposals, draft resolutions and amendments pre- sented by Member States, having budgetary implications. It shall be consulted by all bodies of the Conference before they make decisions or present resolutions having budgetary implications. [11] Mr. Brull stated that the procedure followed in the case in point had not been clear. The Com- mittee might guard its own prerogatives jealously, but it should not reverse decisions already taken by other competent Commissions. [12] The CHAIRMAN emphasized that the Com: mittee had only given its opinion on the financial consequences of the resolution, such action being not only within its competence, but, in fact, one of its duties.    т и о A N , P U N N N A N N E
645 EUD GTT Draft Appropriation Resolution for 1952. [13] The CHAIRMAN asked the Secretariat to pre- sent the draft Appropriation Resolution for 1952. [14] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) read the draft resolu- tion on page 16 of document 6C/5 (II), together with the proposed additional paragraph IV con- tained in document 6C/5 (II) Addendum I. The only alteration was in the total budget figure mentioned in paragraph I, which should, in view of the ceiling voted by the General Conference, read $8,718,000. It would be noted that the resolution followed the form adopted in previous years. The Secretariat would suggest that a sentence indicating that “this resolution shall apply in 1951 as well as in 1952” should be added to paragraph IV, since the illustra- tion given in document 6C/5 (IT) Addendum I also applied to 1951. [15] Paragraph IV, with the sentence proposed by the Secretariat, was approved. [16] The amended draft Appropriation Resolution for 1952 was then adopted. Form of Presentation of the Budget Estimates. [17] The CHAIRMAN called for suggestions on the form of the budget for future presentation. He referred to the proposal already made that the draft Programme and the Budget Estimates (and the Director-General's report) should be combined in one document, in view of the difficulty experienced in dealing with them in separate documents. That argument had been given special force in the current year, owing to the fact that the total appropriation for each project had been indicated in the draft Programme, but not in the Budget Estimates. [18] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) agreed with the Chairman’s remarks, but had several further points to raise. [19] (1) Clearer indication should be given of the progress achieved on continuing programme items. An attempt had been made to do so in the draft Programme, and Mr. Thompson felt amalgama- tion of that document with the Budget Estimates would assist the Budget Committee in evaluating progress made and the point which it was expected a project would reach by the end of the year. [20] (2) Each project should include an indication of the number of staff members to be employed in its implementation during the year. [21] (3) An information annex outlining the Tech- nical Assistance programme in fields of interest to Unesco should be included. Mr. Thompson agreed that it was not for the General Conference of COMMITTEE VIII-26 Unesco to study the administration of the Technical Assistance programme, but he felt that such an’ information annex would enable delegates to see a full picture of the work in any particular field of concern to Unesco. [22] (4) A decision should be taken on the posi- tion within the budget of special projects affecting the whole of the Organization. In his opinion, it would be wiser to maintain such projects as separate items in the budget instead of attaching themto any one programme Department. [23] (5) Greater consistency should be achieved in drawing up the various work plans and estimates so as to facilitate comparison between projects. [24] Finally, Mr. Thompson suggested the adop- tion of a tabular form of presentation. [25] The CHAIRMAN requested other members to add any suggestions they wished to make on the subject. The Secretariat could then comment on their feasibility, and the appropriate recommendations could be made. [26] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the Secre- tariat would, in any case, prefer such suggestions to be made in the form of recommendations rather than as resolutions of the General Conference. Thelatter represented legislation which was binding upon the Secretariat, whereas a series of recommendations permitted a certain flexibility. That was of particular value to the Secretariat in attempting to formulate and implement new proposals, such as those made with regard to the form of the budget. [27] Mr. RAADI (Iran) agreed with the suggestions put forward by other delegates for combining the basic General Conference documents in a single volume and mentioning the previous year’s appro- priation for the same items when giving the budget estimates for each Department. [28] Referring, by way of example, to the tables appearing on pages 68 and 69 of document 6C/5 (II), he noted that, opposite the appropriations requested, the grade of the official in each of the posts proposed for 1952 was given, but not the grade for the previous year, so that delegates had to refer to the 1951 Budget if they were to compare them. The same observation applied to the appropriation for each post, and he hoped that in future the missing data would be supplied. [29] In agreement with the United Kingdom dele- gate, Mr. BRULL (Cuba) believed that it would be very desirable to examine the estimates in the light of results obtained and results expected from the implementation of certain resolutions; a simul- taneous examination of the programme and the Budget estimates should therefore be arranged.                 VIII-26 BUDGET [30] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sup- ported the views expressed by the delegates of the United Kingdom, Iran and Cuba. Furthermore, she felt that it was particularly important to incorporate those new suggestions in the presentation of the Budget Estimates to the Conference af its Seventh Session, which was to be held in November instead of May, so that it would be easier to evaluate the activities of the Organization for the whole year. [31] Mr. WYNES (Australia) supported the sugges- tions put forward by previous speakers. He further proposed that the Director-General should indicate the priorities which he attached to the various pro- jects already suggested, as in the report on the implementation of the principle of biennial sessions (document 6C/PRO/12). That information would be of value to the Budget Committee, since it might be preferable, if cuts had to be made, to recommend the complete elimination of a priority 3 project rather than to make a general reduction on all projects. [32] The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Executive Board had any comments to offer on the proposals that had been made, especially with regard to the amalgamation of the documents mentioned. [33] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) pointed out that the main objection was connected with the time factor. The Executive Board first prepared the draft Programme and then studied the Director-General’s Budget Estimates. Sir Ronald feared time would not permit the amalgamation and printing of those papers as one document if the same dead-lines for distribution to Member States were to be kept. [34] Miss LAISE (United States of America) wondered whether the Committee was competent to recommend a change in the Executive Board's method of work so that the Budget Estimates might be studied in conjunction with the draft Programme. [35] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) stressed the publication problem involved in producing one large document for dis- tribution to Member States. That problem, already outlined by the Head of the Documents and Publica- tions Service, would arise with special acuity in the year ahead, in view of the additional problem of preparing a programme and budget for a two-year period. [36] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the Secre- tariat was, of course, prepared to try any procedure recommended by the General Conference. It might be possible to present the draft Programme and the Budget Estimates simultaneously to the Executive Board, revise the latter as changes were made in the СКОМ СМ ВР 646 former, and finally present the whole in one docu- ment for approval before despatch to Member States. It would, however, take some time to work out the details of such a procedure, and it was for that reason that Mr. Hodson had requested a series of recom- mendations, permitting some degree of flexibility, rather than a firm resolution. It might also happen that adoption of the new procedure would delay despatch of the final document to Member States a few days beyond the deadline fixed. He asked whether, should that be the case, the Committee con- sidered that the new procedure should nevertheless be followed. The Secretariat would appreciate a few days” grace for the despatch of the draft Programme and Budget Estimates to Member States, if it were required to attempt their amalgamation into one document in the following year. [37] Referring to the United Kingdom delegate's second suggestion, Mr. Hodson explained that there might be some difficulty in the definition of a “pro- ject”. For instance, on pp. 138-143 of document
6C/5 (IT), under item III.3.B. (1) [Aid to Inter- national Scientific Co-operation], work plans were given for six projects, but only five staff members were employed on the activities described under that heading. It would be impossible to estimate the amount of a staff member's time which would be taken up on any specific sub-heading under the main project. If the major headings only were to be defined as projects, he felt the required information was already shown in the organization charts for each Department. [38] Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought, like Sir Ronald Adam, that the time factor should be considered in the matter of publishing the Programme and the Budget Estimates in one volume. [39] Mr. Raadi believed, however, that the Ex- ecutive Board could continue to examine two separate documents, as in the past, and that the revised docu: ments should simply be published in one volumefor Conference delegates. In that connexion, it had to be mentioned that, though some governments or National Commissions might wish to examine the programme and the Budget Estimates before the Conference, the majority of Member Statesleft that task to be done by their delegations during the Conference. [40] Reverting to Mr. Hodson’s remark on the difficulty of comparing the estimates for two con- secutive years, due to alterations in some of the projects, the Iranian delegate expressed the opinion that those remarks were not relevant in every case and for every project. He reminded the Committee that the Budget Estimates for 1952 showed a varl ation of about 20 per cent on those for 1951. He wondered whether it would not be feasible to make an 80 per cent comparison, remembering that, for the rest, exact comparison was impossible because of changes and reorganization in projects.    BUD: CENT [41] The Iranian delegate also thought it essential to distinguish between the administration and execu- tion of a project, and the staff provided for it. Apart from exceptional cases, the comparative figures required were those for staff. [42] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) felt that, in the existing situation, where the difficulty of preparing a programme and budget to cover a two-year period had to be faced, it would be better to note the suggestion as being highly desirable, and to leave the Executive Board to find the best possible solution as the problem became clearer. [43] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) under- stood the difficulties of the Secretariat in estimating the number of staff to be employed on a particular project, but stressed the problem encountered by delegates in attempting to connect the organization charts with the projects outlined. He thought that the Secretariat might find it possible to give some further information on that point, using its discre- tion in cases where staff members were employed on several projects. [44] Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought that the discussion had brought out one of the basic problems of the General Conference, that of the proper co-ordination of the budget and the programme. [45] Her delegation attached great importance to the fact that the Executive Board should prepare the draft Programme in conjunction with the Budget Estimates. It did not even understand how the programme could be prepared by the Board without any knowledge of the budgetary consequences. It was a practice of the General Conference not to approve any new programme resolution without being fully aware of its budgetary implications. The United States Government was most anxious to have the benefit or the Executive Board’s comments on the budgetary consequences of its proposed programme and could not see any difficulty in the way of simultaneous consideration of the two points. [46] Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) wondered whether the assignment of strictly fixed duties to each staff member would not make the administrative system too rigid. Some projects might be of longer duration and more difficult than others to carry out, and might therefore need the co-operation of a larger number of officials for a certain time. It was there- fore desirable to leave sufficient freedom to each of the Department heads to divide up the work among their subordinates according to the needs of the moment. The French delegate mentioned that his country found fault with Unesco in a general way for dividing officials’ work too much into watertight compartments. COM MIT IT EE VIII-26 [47] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) entirely agreed with the French delegate’s view. He felt, however, that the latter had in mind the actual implementation of the programme, whereas his own previous remarks had been concerned with the pre- sentation of the Budget Estimates. In the latter case, it was necessary to give precise and detailed information, it being understood that the Secre- tariat had to have a certain flexibility of action in the implementation of the programme. [48] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) asked whether the United Kingdom delegate’s suggestion was that the Budget Estimates should in future contain informa- tion as to which projects in the work plan were to be undertaken by the various staff-groups in the organi- zation chart: in other words, that the appropriate staff organization chart should be attached to the work plan for each project. [49] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) replied that that would meet his point, at least in part. During discussion on the Rehabilitation Service, much time had been wasted in obtaining informa- tion not available in the work plans, about the actual duties carried out by staff members in a certain Division. [50] Miss LAISE (United States of America) added that the Budget Estimates, as presented, made it impossible to ascertain the actual duties of staff members. What was required was data about the work being carried out by the different organizational units as a general justification of the staffing pattern. [51] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the Secre- tariat could indicate the projects to be carried out by each organizational group of staff members, pro- vided that a certain latitude was left to permit the transfer of personnel from project to project, as and when necessary, in the implementation of the pro- gramme. [52] Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought that such a solution would supply part of the information requested. The total justification would really have to go further and indicate more precisely the actual workload for each project, and why, for instance, five staff members were required instead of four, or 10. [63] Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) agreed that it was essential to obtain precise data on the different posts. He also wondered whether it would not be necessary to add such information as would justify the grade of each post. [54] Mr. WYNES (Australia) stressed his Govern-         VIII-27 BUDGET ment's feeling that the new procedure whereby the Budget Committee met in advance of each session should not be used to relieve the Executive Board of the necessity for detailed study of the Budget Estimates. He agreed with the United States delegate that the Board should consider the budgetary implica- tions of each part of the programme as it was drawn up. [55] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) pointed out that the Board did in fact know the total budget ceiling before beginning its general draft of the programme. The general draft was then passed to the Finance Committee, which was responsible for examining it in detail, together with the budgetary proposals framed by the Director- General. [66] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) agreed with the general line followed by the discussion, and especially with the views expressed by the delegation of the United States of America. He had also been greatly impressed by the arguments of the French represen- tative regarding the grades of Unesco officials. [57] Mr. Brull wondered what were the factors governing the grading, since it had been frequently noted that officials holding grades 14 or 16 were exercising purely administrative functions, whereas others, holding grades 10 or 8, were doing work of an intellectual character. The United Kingdom dele- gate had recently referred to the fact that a grade 16 post had been provided for in the German Liaison Office, whereas the Regional Office in Havana, which was considerably more important, had been allotted a grade 17 for its Head, with very low grades for the other officials. [58] It would therefore, be of great interest to COMMITTEE as a means of justifying the varying salaries paid to officials of the Organization. [59] The CHAIRMAN felt that the discussion had been valuable, and suggested setting up a small committee to draft concrete proposals based on the suggestions made. He proposed that the delegates of the United Kingdom and the United States of America, and the Rapporteur, might be asked to serve on the committee, which would report to the next meeting of the full Committee. The Secretary would be at their disposal with notes of the discus- sion which had just taken place. [60] The Chairman’s suggestion was adopted. Consideration of the Draft Appropriation Table for 1952. [61] The CHAIRMAN observed that the total given was that of the budget ceiling voted by the General Conference, $8,718,000. It would be noted that certain appropriations were higher than those ap: proved by the Committee, but that was due to the Secretariat’s action—previously explained to and approved by the Committee—in distributing the adjustment for rising costs throughout the budget. [62] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sug- gested that members should study the Table and raise any questions thereon at the Committee’s next meeting, when the final report and Appropriation Table could be adopted. [63] Agreed. discuss the basis on which grades were determined, The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m TWENTY-SEVENTH MEETING Tuesday, 10 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) Consideration of the Final Report of the Budget Committee and of the Appropriation Table. [1] The CHAIRMANsaid that, at the current meet- ing, the Commitee had to approve its final Report and the Appropriation Table. The Report would consist of document 6C/BUD/3 (the word “Draft” being omitted in the title), with the report of the Drafting Committee on the form of the Budget added as section D. The Appropriation Table had already been distributed for study, and would be- come section E of the final Report. [2] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget,  can o