Х-5 PFROCEDURE States. Such a state of affairs would not be con- ducive to harmony, either within Unesco or in the relations between the administering Member State and the Associate Member territory. [54] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) agreed that that was a point which had escaped consideration, but his delegation would be glad to examine it. He suggested that it might perhaps be left to the discretion of the Committee. [55] Mr. CATES (United States of America) thought that the point might be left to the General Conference. It was not possible to guard against every contingency. [56] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that a reference to page 7 of the Annex to document 6C/ PRO/6 would show the similarity between the United Kingdom draft resolution and the resolution on the same subject adopted by the World Health Organization. [57] Mr. STONE (Australia) proposed that, in sub-paragraph (a) (ii) of the United Kingdom amendment (fourth line), the words “its Com- missions” should be omitted and replaced by the following: “and such of its Commissions as the General Conference may, from time to time, indicate”. COM MIT TEE [58] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) accepted that proposal. [59] Mr. CATES (United States of America) asked whether it was the Australian delegate’s intention that the General Conference might restrict the list of Commissions in which the representatives of Associate Members might take office. [60] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that the point which he had in mind was that the General Confer- ence might, from time to time, vary the list of Commissions in which they might take full part. [61] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) asked that, in para- graph (a) (ii) of the draft resolution, the words “and Committees” should be inserted after “Com- missions”. [62] The suggested amendment having been approved by the United Kingdom delegate, the CHAIRMANcalled for a vote on the whole resolution, including the preamble proposed by the United States delegation and the amendment suggested by the Australian delegate. [63] The resolution, thus amended, was adopted by 17 votes to 0, with 4 abstentions. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Friday, 22 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Tevrik Sacram (Turkey) Report by the Director-General on the Change in Periodicity of Sessions of the General Con- ference (Item 6.7 of the Agenda) (5C/Reso- lutions, 40.8) (document 6C/PRO/7). [1] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on document 6C/PRO/7. [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL made a rapid survey of the problem before the meeting. The United tates delegation had submitted to the Florence Con- ference a proposal for changing the intervals between sessions of the General Conference, whereby the latter would meet every two years instead of annually. After a discussion on the question, the Conference had instructed the Director-General to consult Mem- ber States and to communicate the results of that consultation to the Executive Board, to enable the Board to formulate its opinion at the Sixth Session of the General Conference. [3] The majority of Member States had agreed that it would be desirable to adopt the principle of bien- nial sessions. [4] The altered system would have the following advantages: [6] (1) It would enable MemberStates to increase > | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
697 PROCEDURE their contributions to the Organization’s budget, since they would be spared, in alternate years, the expenses incidental to a General Conference. [6] (2) It would reduce the speed at which Unesco was required to work, not by reducing its activity, but by making it possible to engage in more thorough and long-term action. Spectacular results in edu- cation, science and culture could not be obtained in each single year and discussions at too frequent intervals gave the world the impression that the General Conference was making little headway. Unesco's work would be followed and understood better if it were reviewed and assessed every two years, when the results revealed would be more tangible. [7] (3) The Executive Board and the Secretariat would no longer be burdened with preparing a pro- gramme, budget estimates and a large amount of documentation every year. Under the existing sys- tem, the Secretariat had to turn its attention to the next programme while the Conference was still con- sidering the programme just drawn up. [8] (4) The Director-General, his Deputy, and the heads of Departments or Divisions would be better able to pay visits to certain Member States, so as to bring back first-hand information which would be of help to the Executive Board when drawing up the programme. The frequency of Conference ses- sions at the moment made such visits difficult to arrange. [9] On the other hand, it might be argued against the biennial principle that Unesco was still a young Organization and that annual contacts between Mem- ber States were of help in guiding its work into more creative and fruitful channels, in revealing errors and discovering how to remedy them. That, however, was not a major consideration. As had been seen at the Havana Conference, for instance, it was at Re- gional Conferences that meetings of National Com- missions gave the best results. It would be possible to make up for the lack of an annual General Con- ference by providing greater scope for regional meet- ings between representatives of National Commis- sions. [10] But there was another consideration which the Director-General particularly desired to bring to the meeting’s attention. The problem of biennial sessions could not be considered without taking into account its possible repercussions on the structure of the Executive Board. At the Florence Conference, several delegations, which had received favourably the proposal for biennial sessions, reached the con- clusion that its implementation would place too much responsibility on the Executive Board as at present constituted. It was found that that body would have to take the form of a “Board of Directors”, each of whom would represent his own Government and would receive his’ instructions therefrom. Would not that be a grave danger for Unesco? Might not COMMITTER X-5 such a measure impair the principle of freedom upon which the existing structure of the Executive Board was based? [11] The Executive Board had considered the prob- lem, but had not been able to arrive at a unanimous conclusion. [12] The*Director-General warned the Committee against the danger of discussing biennial sessions without regard to the consequences they would entail, foremost among which would no doubt be a change in the structure of the Executive Board. [13] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) explained why certain members of the Ex- ecutive Board had expressed themselves in favour of altering the Board's structure. If the General Con- ference were to meet every two years, the Secretariat and the Director-General would be faced with a longer working period, during which the Member States would have to keep in touch with the work under- taken, and supervise it. It would therefore be neces- sary for the members of the Board to be increased in number, and for them to act no longer in their per- sonal capacities, but as representatives of their re- spective Governments, from which they would receive very definite instructions. It was with that in view that an alteration in the structure of the Board of the Board had been contemplated. [14] The Executive Board considered, nevertheless, that the question of biennial sessions and that of structural alterations could be considered separately. [15] Count Jacini then read out the resolution adopted on the subject by the Board at its meeting of 12 June 1951 (document 6C/PRO/7 - Adden- dum II). [16] The Executive Board at its Twenty-sixth Ses- sion had adopted the following resolution: The Executive Board Having examined the report of the Director-General on the change in the periodicity of sessions of the General Conference, Considers
(1) that the adoption of the principle of biennial meetings of the General Conference is desirable,
(2) that the programmes and budgets of the Organi- zation should cover a period of two years and that the rhythm of execution of the programmes should be determined by the Executive Board on the proposal of the Director-General,
(3) that the question of modification of the structure of the Executive Board poses extremely delicate and complex problems and that it is not necessarily linked with that of the adoption of the principle of biennial sessions of the General Conference; Recommends therefore to the General Conference:
(1) that it should adopt the principle of biennial sessions of the General Conference by virtue of all the advantages it entails,
(2) that the present structure of the Board should be maintained in order to permit the members to execute the ‘mandate entrusted to them by the General        PROCEDURE Conference in the spirit of freedom guaranteed to them by the provisions of Article V of the Constitution,
(3) that, should the General Conference decide to link the two questions, the study of the modification of the structure of the Board should be continued by the Board during its sessions of the coming year, and that the conclusions of this study should be submitted to the General Conference at its Seventh Session. [17] Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) said that, in his opinion, the changing of the intervals between sessions of the General Conference could be regarded from two separate standpoints—one psychological, the other financial. [18] Speaking from the first standpoint, the Colombian delegate pointed out that over-frequent meelings of the General Conference were wearisome to public opinion and caused a loss of interest in the work of the Organization. [19] From the financial standpoint, he stressed the fact that the sending of delegations to sessions of the General Conference imposed great financial sacri- fices on the small countries which were Members of Unesco. [20] The representative of Colombia agreed with the Director-General’s warning that, before any deci- sion was taken with regard to changing the frequency of sessions of the General Conference, full considera- tion should be given to the possible repercussions of such a change on the Organization as a whole. [21] In his opinion, those repercussions might be of two kinds. In the first place there would be the logical, inevitable changes—a two-year Budget and Programme, and a change in the term of appoint- ment of members of the Executive Board, who would obviously have to be elected for two years, or a multiple of two. [22] Those changes would, he considered, on the whole be advantageous to the Organization’s function- ing. He pointed out that, for instance, the adoption of a two-year Programme would provide a wider field of activity and greater facilities for the work of the National Commissions. [23] Speaking of consequences which, though not inevitable, might result from a change in the in- tervals between sessions of the General Conference, Mr. Bernal Jiménez declared that it would not be a logical necessity to change the structure of the Ex- ecutive Board; the first change did not necessarily involve the second. In his opinion, to change the structure of the Executive Board would be projudicial to the Organization as a whole. [24] Referring to the amendment submitted by the United Kingdom, Mr. Bernal Jiménez stressed that its adoption would entirely alterthe existing character of the Executive Board and would convert it into a Board consisting of Civil Servants. He therefore considered that the existing structure of the Executive Board should be maintained, and pointed out that, at the moment, the governments of Member States did not directly intervene in the Organization’s deci- COMMITTEE sions, except at a second stage, since the members of the Executive Board were not obliged to consult their respective governments on all the decisions they took. The suggested change would, therefore, mean altering the structure of Unesco organically. In conclusion, the representative of Colombia asked the members of the Committee to give very thorough consideration to all the problems posed by the chang- ing of the frequency of sessions of the General Con- ference, since it was a matter affecting the indepen- dence and freedom of thought which were the Organization's main objectives. [25] Mr. KABIR (India) said that his delegation fully appreciated the advantages of holding biennial sessions and would therefore support the proposal, on two conditions. The first was that the budget and programme should also be made on a two-yearly basis, despite the difficulties which that might cause to certain cotntries which had annual budgets Secondly, as regarded the structure of the Executive Board, he was largely in agreement with the Colom- bian delegate. The real difficulty arose over the method of electing the Board members. The Indian delegation felt that their election by the General Conference as its representatives was a very satis- factory system, whereas to make them the represen- tatives of their Governments would be a retrograde step and would inevitably lead to difficulties. When there were 64 Member States of Unesco, how could
18 be selected to represent them all? He could understand the selection of 18 persons, but not of 18 States, which might entail political com: plications. Again, if the members of the Board were government nominees, they would be much more tightly bound by the policies of their Governments and would have continuallyto refer back on individual issues. Even as it was, members of the Board were not wholly free. All the delegates to the Conference were nominated by their Governments, and the latter were therefore able to influence the composition of the Executive Board through their delegations. In many cases it might well be asserted that it was the Government that decided which member of its delegation should become the member of the: ecutive Board. [26] There was nevertheless a facade of apparent liberty and independence, since members of the Ex- ecutive Board came to it as representatives, not of their Governments, but of the General Conference, and they therefore retained freedom of action within certainlimits, a point which was of great value, both to the Board and the Conference. That freedom would tend to vanish if nominations were made by governments, and that would be a greal loss to Unesco, and would tend to hamper the work. Those disadvantages would become even more marked if the Conference met only every two years. [27] Mr. MAROUN (Lebanon) considered that the    PROCEDURE Director-General and the Chairman of the Executive Board had put the problem very clearly. He stated to the Committee the conclusions which, in his opinion, were to be drawn from the Member States’ replies to the Director-General's enquiry (documents
6C/PRO/7 and 6C/PRO/7 Add.1): [28] (1) It seemed clear that all Member States regarded the question of biennial sessions as linked with that of modifying the structure of the Executive Board. [29] (2) With the exception of four or five coun- tries, the Member States appeared unable to express a firm opinion on the subject. Most of them were inclined to shrink from the considerable changes that seemed to be implied by any alteration in the fre- quency of sessions of the General Conference. [30] The Director-General, while favouring, in principle, the idea of biennial sessions, had none the less emphasized the serious consequences that might result from its adoption. Mgr. Maroun wished to thank him for that, and considered, for his part, that it would be unrealistic to reach a decision regard- ing biennial sessions without considering the prob- lem of modifying the structure of the Executive Board. [31] The system of biennial sessions might present certain advantages, but it should be borne in mind that the role of the General Conference, as defined in the Constitution, was to “determine the main lines of work of the Organization”. It was for the Conference to guide the Executive Board and the Secretariat. [32] Remembering that Unesco, which at first had
34 Member States, now had 64, it had to be admitted that the rapid increase in membership was to a great extent due to the annual meetings of the Conference, which provided opportunities for personal contacts and exchanges of ideas, and after which everyone “felt like a new man”. A change in the intervals between Conference sessions would be a threat to the Organization, for Regional Conferences of Nation- al Commissions, however effective, were purely regional and could be no substitute for the General Conference. [33] The Colombian delegate had raised the ques- ton whether a modification of the structure of the Executive Board would inevitably result from the change to biennial sessions. In Mgr. Maroun’s opi- nion, the one would necessarily follow upon the other. And alterations of that kind in the Constitution re- presented a grave danger to the Organization—a danger that so young an institution should avoid at all costs, [34] The Lebanese delegation therefore considered:
(1) that the problem of biennial sessions could not be Separated from that of a change in the structure of the Executive Board; (2) that the alteration of the frequency of sessions of the General Conference was unacceptable. COMMITEE X-5 [35] Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) said that the Costa Rican National Commission for co-operation with Unesco considered ‘that it was necessary to adopt the biennial system for sessions of the Con- ference. [36] In support of that opinion, he stated that there were financial reasons in favour of biennial Con- ferences, especially in respect of countries whose economic structure was not very sound. [37] Furthermore, one year was too short a time for preparing reports on the work of the National Commissions, since in the usual way those Commis- sions drew up work plans covering a period of several years. [38] Referring to the suggestion that biennial ses- sions of the General Conference would lead to a loss of contact between the National Commissions and the Executive Board, Mr. Trejos Dittel said that, in his opinion, the Executive Board could draw up an- nual reports that would serve to guide the various National Commissions in their work. Biennial ses- sions of the General Conference would not, more- over, necessitate any change in the payment of con- tributions, which would be paid annually, as in the past. [39] The representative of Costa Rica said his dele- galion was opposed to the modification of the struc- ture of the Executive Board, since the existing struc- ture gave members a freedom of thought and action which would be curtailed if the amendment sub- mitted by the United Kingdom delegation were adopted. [40] Mr. Trejos Dittel put forward some further arguments in favour of biennial Conferences, and said that the adoption of the system would be of great advantage to the Regional Conferences; it would also enable Unesco to pay greater attention to the specific problems of individual countries. [41] In conclusion, he said that his: delegation, while favouring a change in the frequency of the General Conference, was opposed to any alteration in the structure of the Executive Board. [42] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that his delegation had been greatly impressed by the argu- ments presented by the Indian delegate in the early part of his speech. For a number of practical rea- sons, the United Kingdom delegation was convinced that a change in the frequency of sessions was in the best interests of Unesco. Anyone who had ever had to administer public money, to be responsible to elected representatives, or to plan long-term projects would agree that the longer the free run, the more effective his work. He therefore considered that biennial Conferences would be a revolutionary change for the better and his delegation would support the proposal with all its strength. [43] Mr. Ward regretted, however, that he was unable to endorse the Indian delegate’s reservations      X-5 PROCEDURE concerning the structure of the Board. While it could not be said that a change in the latter would inevitably follow from a change in the frequency of the sessions of the Conference, the United King- dom delegation nevertheless believed that it was important to consider how the strength and authority of the Board could be increased so as to enable it to cope with the additional functions and responsibilities which would be bound to fall upon it. Like Mr. Ber- nal Jiménez, therefore, Mr. Ward thought that such a change would be a logical, necessary and inevitable consequence of a longer interval between sessions. He pointed out that other international organizations had solved the problem of selecting their teams from Government nominees. Nor did the United King- dom delegation see anything illogical in the mem- bers of the Executive Board being representatives of their Governments. All members of the current meet- ing were, in fact, representatives of their Govern- ments and had their instructions from home. That being so, what objection was there to a control exer- cised by the representatives of other Governments? Mr. Ward believed therefore that, if members of the Executive Board were representatives of their govern- ments, Unesco would have the best of both worlds. In British parliamentary procedure there was a strong tradition that an elected member should exercise con- siderable discretion. The same applied to the nominees of governments, who should similarly be able to reconcile their duty to their governments with their duty to Unesco. He therefore felt that the fears of the evil consequences of a change in the Board’s structure had no real foundation, and that, whether or not the next session of the General Con- ference was called on to decide on a change in the structure of the Board, such a change would sooner or later be essential. [44] Mr. CATES (United States of America) said that the whole problem had been most carefully con- sidered by the United States member of the Executive Board, by the National Commission and- by the Government authorities concerned. As regarded the holding of biennial sessions, the United States strong- ly supported the principle, for reasons which were well known. The United Kingdom delegate had ably set out the reasons why a change in the structure of the Board was necessary. It should be borne in mind that, under the Constitution, the Board would continue to represent all the Members of Unesco and the General Conference, and it was therefore to be hoped it would continue to act as their trustee within the instructions of the General Conference. [45] Being an inter-governmental organization Unesco needed the backing and strength of Governments. The World Meteorological Organi- zation had been quite recently set up because, although a similar organization had existed for 70 years on a non-governmental basis, it had felt the need for additional support from Governments. If COMMITTEE the members of the Executive Board of Unesco were representatives of their Governments, they would have greater authority to deal with the problems that arose. [46] Mr. Cates agreed with the Indian delegate that the budget and programme should be drawn up ona two-yearly basis, and, for that reason also, it was important that the Board should have the full backing of Governments in its more important decisions. [47] The United States delegation strongly supported the United Kingdom resolution contained in docu- ment 6C/PRO/7, Add. 1, page 8, but proposed the following two amendments:
(1) Under A, add the following sentence to para- graph 1: Fach State should be represented by a person selected in consultation with its National Commission or co- operating body.
(2) Substitute for B: The members of the Executive Board shall exercise the powers delegated to them by the General Conference on behalf of the Conference as a whole. [48] Mr. Cates did not see why, because Govern- ments appointed members of the Board, the latter should have less responsibility. He therefore con- sidered that the Conference should approve both the principle of biennial sessions and that of a change in the structure of the Executive Board. [49] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) said that, during a previous discussion, he had already touched on the question of altering the structure of the Executive Board, from the point of view of principle. He would not, therefore, revert to that point, but would deal with the concrete aspect of the problem, stating the opinion of a small country, of which there were many among the Members of Unesco. [60] Switzerland favoured the principle of biennial sessions, but would accept it only on condition that it did not entail any modification of the structure of the Executive Board in the manner indicated by the United States and United Kingdom delegations. The members of the Executive Board, who represented the General Conference, should remain independent of their respective Governments; that was essential to the satisfactory functioning of the Organization. [61] A change in the structure of the Executive Board would have two deplorable consequences: [52] (1) The members of the Board would no longer be free, but would receive instructions from 4 Civil Servant in their own country, who would not necessarily be the person best qualified for the pur- pose. Furthermore, as everyone knew, instructions given by any Government department were always inspired, in practice, by the Ministry of Finance. What would become of Unesco if it were made dependent, from the outset, on the verdict of      | | | | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
701 ‎امل AE Government departments, delivered from a political and financial angle? [53] (2) If the members of the Board were to receive instructions from their Governments, that would imply diplomatic exchanges of views before each meeting, and a consequent danger of bargaining which would have repercussions on Unesco’s work. [54] The suggested change of structure would re- duce the members of the Executive Board to mere puppets, and would drive the Board into adopting resolutions prepared by Government departments and through diplomatic conversations. Such a change would crush Unesco’s cultural independence and even its very spirit. [65] The Swiss delegation was therefore opposed to a change in the structure of the Executive Board. It thought that consideration might be given simply to increasing the number of the Board’s members. [56] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) was sure that every- one realized the serious nature of the problems raised by the question of biennial sessions of the Con- ference, especially after Mr. Piaget’s statement in regard to them; he would like, nevertheless, to ex- plain the standpoint of the French delegation, and his own personal view. [67] Mr. Seydoux did not think there could be any further doubt of the close relationship between the problem of biennial sessions and that of a change in the structure of the Executive Board; in that connexion, he recalled the opinions expressed by Austria, Canada and Italy in their replies to the Director-General's enquiry, and the statement made by the United Kingdom delegate, which left no possible doubt as to the changes that would be involved. [58] The French delegation felt obliged to make certain reservations in regard to those modifications. It did not regard as convincing the United Kingdom's argument that the suggested changes had already given satisfactory results in other international organizations. Unesco was not like any otherinstitu- tion. It was in touch with scientists and artists, who set great store by independence. It was true that, as the United Kingdom delegate had said, the members of the Board were at once the servants of their Governments and of Unesco. But in certain cases a choice had to be made, and a member should then be able to consult his conscience and not his Govern- ment. The members of the Board should be able to act freely, subject to the general directions issued by the General Conference. Only in that way could the confidence of intellectual circles in Unesco be retained. [59] If the proposed alteration were adopted, it might lead to the increasing estrangement of those circles which took an interest in Unesco. [60] The United States delegation had submitted a draft amendment which constituted a compromise between the standpoint of the United Kingdom and
010777 X-5 the other supporters of government representation on the Board, and the views of those who opposed such representation. That proposal had not as yet been given sufficient consideration. [61] Mr. Seydoux thought it might be advisable to ask the Executive Board to reconsider the whole problem of biennial sessions, with its possible con- sequences, and to present a detailed report on the matter to the General Conference at its Seventh Ses- sion. [62] On behalf of his delegation, therefore, he sub- mitted the following draft resolution: The General Conference, Having noted the report of the Director-General on the replies of Member States to the request for their opinion concerning a possible change in the periodicity of ses- sions of the General Conference, Realizing the complexity of the problems involved, Resolves To instruct the Director-General to undertake, in agreement with the Executive Board, a further study of all the implications of the suggested reform, particularly as regards its effect upon the structure of the Executive Board, And to report on this matter to the General Conference at its Seventh Session. [63] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) said that there were two separate aspects of the problem under discussion. [64] He was glad to note that there was hardly any divergency of views with regard to the question of biennial sessions of the General Conference, and re- called that when the matter had been raised at Flor- ence the Cuban delegation had expressed itself in favour of the biennial system. [65] With regard to the modification of the struc- ture of the Executive Board, Mr. Blanco suggested that, before any decision was taken on the question of a change in the frequency of sessions of the Gener- al Conference, it would be advisable to ascertain clearly whether it would necessarily entail a change in the structure of the Executive Board. [66] The Cuban delegation did not consider that the two questions were interdependent, and formally proposed that the point to which Mr. Blanco had drawn attention should be decided first. [67] The representative of Cuba favoured maintain- ing the existing structure of the Executive Board, which was well adapted to the aims and principles of Unesco; and he asked that the Committee should vote on the proposal he had just submitted. [68] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) felt that the delegations of the United Kingdom and the United States of America, which had played an important part in the drafting of Unesco’s Constitu- tion and had a very large share in the intellectual responsibilities and the financial burdens of the Organization, would take into due account the uneasi- ness to which the changes they recommended had given rise.     X-5 PROCEDURE [69] Their plan was inspired by the wish to ensure that the Organization would not find itself at a loss if, owing to the introduction of biennial sessions, it remained too long out of touch with the various Governments. But the Executive Board should always represent the General Conference ‘and be responsible thereto. It should be considered, objectively, whether an Executive Board recruited by the new method would be better qualified to represent the General Conference and would be equally responsible to it. Mr. de Berredo Carneiro did not think it would be. [70] The members of the Executive Board did, of course, represent their Governments, since they had been chosen from among the delegates. But certain members of the Board had already found themselves in the position of voting for resolutions that had beenrejected by their Governments. It would there- fore seem imprudent to embark on any modification of the Executive Board, which was an essential feature of Unesco and had proved its value over a period of five years. [71] Mr. de Berredo Carneiro considered that the question of modifying the structure of the Executive Board should be postponed to a later date, so that the ultimate decision, based on full documentation and on ripe and thorough reflection, might thus express a unanimous view and not merely a wish formulated by two delegations. [72] Mr. de Berredo Carneiro therefore suggested that the principle of biennial sessions should be considered first and that the question of possible changes in the structure of the Executive Board should be deferred to a later session. [73] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) felt that, since Unesco’s aim was to promote understanding among MemberStates, there could be no better way of achiev- ing that aim than by holding Conferences annually. He appreciated that annual Conferences threwa severe strain on the Secretariat and did not permit its mem- bers to travel as much as desirable to help Member States in formulating their plans, and he wondered whether the Director-General and the Executive Board could not devise a system whereby that excessive strain might be avoided. If that were not possible, it would be necessary to have biennial Conferences. [74] Mr. Sharif was opposed to some of the implica- tions involved in the United Kingdom proposal. Article V of Unesco’s Constitution embodied two important principles: (1) one-third of the members of the Board should retire by rotation, and (2) there should be a break after two terms. The Constitution thus provided an opportunity for the association of all Member States in the government of Unesco. On the other hand, the resolution of the United King- dom delegation sought to modify that Article of the Constitution by allowing the right of re-election to every Member State on the expiry of its term. If sessions were biennial, there was no doubt that the Board would have to face heavier responsibilities. It COMMITTEE was, therefore, all the more necessary that the Board should be constituted in such a manneras to inspire confidence in all Member States. [75] Mr. Sharif strongly supported the French pro- posal for reconsideration of the whole problem. [76] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) shared the anxiety expressed by Mr. Piaget. He thought there was no real reason to alter Unesco's Constitution, and that there should be no departure from its Article IV.D.9, which provided for annual sessions of the General Conference. He supported the French proposal that the whole question of the biennial system should be referred to a later session. [77] In his opinion, there was a danger that the suggested changes might place Unesco's work on a political footing, for Governments were not all alike, and some of them might be tempted to intervene unduly in the decisions of the Executive Board. [78] Furthermore, Mr. Lhérisson pointed out that the Government of Haiti, though it had at its dis- posal only the limited financial resources of a small country, had never considered that it was making a sacrifice in sending a delegation to Unesco each year. [79] Mr. Lhérisson therefore urged the Committee to refrain, for the time being, from an experiment whose consequences had not yet been fully and seriously examined. [80] Mr. MAMELI (Italy) confirmed the attitude adopted by Italy in replying to the Director-General's enquiry. If the principle of biennial sessions were accepted, it would necessarily entail a modification of the structure of the Executive Board in the form of increased governmental representation—such as had already been carried out by certain of the Spe- cialized Agencies, more particularly by the Food and Agriculture Organization. [81] Mr. STONE (Australia) said that the Austra- lian delegation viewed the principle of a change in the structure of the Executive Board not as the cor- rection of a fault, but rather as the creation of a newinterim legislative body to fill the gap between sessions of the Conference; that was to say, it was a proposal to create a standing executive council of the general Conference. It would be a supreme deli- berative and executive body, immediately and organically related to Member States. [82] However pessimistic the view taken by mem- bers of the political arrangements in their own and other States, they should remember that each Mem- ber of Unesco had voluntarily chosen to dedicate itself and part of its resources to the task of defend- ing the intellectual inheritance of mankind. It should therefore not be assumed that those Members would use those resources as instruments for the manipulation, for the prostitution, of Unesco. There was some inconsistency of thought in the assumption
703 PROCEDURE that countries could not trust each other as Member States, and in their individual and several dedication to Unesco. [83] The Australian delegation considered that the United States amendment to the United Kingdom draft resolution was a great improvement on the original. It had intended to propose the addition of a provision requiring the States represented on the Executive Board to permit a permanent assignment to be given to their representatives on the Board, and Mr. Stone still thought that suggestion should be incorporated in the United Kingdom resolution. [84] Mr. Stone also thought that too little weight had been given to the point that, far from weakening the Board, the fact that its members would be representatives of Governments would greatly streng- then it. It would moreover, make the implementa- tion of the programme in Member States easier and more effective. [85] It was tempting to yield to the French pro- posal for postponing the whole matter, and there were indeed good grounds for doing so, but the Australian delegation was unable to support such a course, because it was convinced of the thoroughness with which the Director-General and the Executive Board had already considered the question. His delegation would therefore either vote for the United Kingdom proposal, with the proposed amendments, or vote altogether against the principle of biennial conferences. [86] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) said that the Mexican delegation and the Mexican Government considered that biennial sessions of the General Con- ference would leave more time for the National Com- missions to carry out their work, and that con- sequently it would be advisable to change the fre- quency of sessions of the Conference. On the other hand, his delegation could not accept some of the consequences that appeared to follow from the adop- tion of such a change. The Mexican representative Supported the French delegation’s proposal that the Executive Board should make a detailed study of the problem under discussion, so that, when the biennial System was put to the vote, the delegates would have a clear idea of its inevitable repercussions on the Organization as a whole. [87] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) had been greatly stirred by Mr. Carneiro’s appeal, which he thought opened a possible way to agreement. The United Kingdom delegation would be delighted if a decision could be reached. Sir John wished to give notice that his delegation might put forward, at the Committee's next meeting, a resolution in two parts, by the first of which the Conference would accept the principle of holding biennial sessions, with the necessary change in the Constitution, while, by the second, it would invite the Director-General and the Executive Board to examine, in consultation COMMITTEE X35 with Member States and National Commissions, the question of whether any change should be made in the structure of the Board, and to report on the results to the General Conference at its next session. [88] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) considered that the proposal put forward by Sir John Maud, while very attractive, was somewhat dangerous. It represented a compromise, which, if adopted, would force the Organization to introduce little by little, in the course of future sessions, all the changes originally proposed. [89] Mr. Seydoux felt more and more convinced that, if the principle of biennial sessions were adopted, the structure of the Executive Board would inevitably have to be modified. He strongly urged the Committee to refer the whole question to the next session of the General Conference. [90] The CHAIRMAN remarked that the meeting had revealed a strong current of opinion in favour of biennial sessions, but that, on the other hand, a number of delegations had expressed hostility to the idea of changing the structure of the Executive Board. [91] The Chairman asked that the proposal sub- mitted by the Cuban delegation should be put before the Committee. [92] The SECRETARYread the text of that pro- posal: The Procedure Committee considers:
(1) that the adoption of the system of biennial ses- sions of the General Conference does not involve any change in the structure of the Executive Board;
(2) that such a change is not advisable. [93] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) empha- sized that all the proposals put forward at the meet- ing bore on matters of vital importance to the Organi- zation and required serious consideration. He therefore asked that copies of those proposals should be circulated to all members of the Committee, to enable them to reach a decision at the next meeting. [94] That suggestion was adopted. [95] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) made an explanatory statement concerning the resolution he had submitted in his previous speech. The Cuban delegation did not oppose the logical consequences entailed by the adoption of the biennial system, such as those enu- merated by the delegate of Colombia. His resolution referred solely to the appointment, by Governments, of members of the Executive Board. [96] Mr. CATES (United States of America) sup- ported the United Kingdom proposal as clarified by the Cuban proposal. The United Kingdom draft resolution dealt with two distinct problems, which Mr. Cates hoped would be kept separate.      COMMITTEE 704 X-6 PROCEDURE [98] The discussion was adjourned until the next [97] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama), speaking on a point meeting.of order, reminded the meeting that, under Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, no proposal could be put to the vote unless it had previously been circulated to all the delegates. م م س The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m. SIXTH MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Report by the Director-General on the Change in Periodicity of Sessions of the General Con- ference (continuation) (document 6C/PRO/7 and Addenda). [1] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the draft resolutions submitted by Switzerland (docu- ment 6C/DR/40), Cuba (document 6C/DR/42), the United States of America (document 6C/DR/43), and the United Kingdom (document 6C/DR/49). [2] In reply to a comment by Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon), the CHAIRMAN pointed out that the French delegation’s proposal to defer discussion of the question until the Seventh Session of the Gen- eral Conference had not been formally presented to the Committee in writing. [3] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested that the right course would be first to discuss and vote upon the Cuban and Swiss resolutions (docu- ments 6C/DR/42 and 6C/DR/40). The Committee could then go on to vote upon the United Kingdom resolution (document 6C/DR/49). If the absence of the French proposal in written form meant that the French delegation had decided not to press its views, then the Committee could vote at once upon the four resolutions which had been submitted in writing. If not, it would have to take the French resolution. before the others, since it was entirely incompatible with them. [4] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) said that, for the moment, the French delegation did not wish to press its draft resolution, but would bring it before the Committee if the various other motions did not obtain an adequate majority. [5] Mr. CATES (United States of America) con- sidered that the two questions of biennial sessions Mr. Tevrix SAGLAM (Turkey) and the modification of the structure of the Ex- ecutive Board could be considered separately. A discussion on the desirability of biennial sessions would not necessarily entail examination of the con- stitution of the Executive Board. If the meeting shared his view,it could first vote on paragraph (1) of the United Kingdom resolution and then go on to discuss the second paragraph. If it voted affir- matively on the second paragraph, it would auto- matically have registered its desire for a change in the structure of the Executive Board; if it did not discuss that paragraph, the Board would remain as it stood. [6] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) seconded the United States proposal. He considered the ques- tion of biennial sessions entirely separate from that of the reorganization of the Executive Board. [7] Mr. STONE (Australia) considered it preferable not to separate the two matters. separated, it was desirable to discuss the position of the Executive Board first; otherwise, there might well be a gap in functional control between sessions of the General Conference. Unless the opinion of the delegations generally could be obtained regarding the desirability of reorganizing the Board, the Australian delegation would be unable to support the principle of biennial sessions. [8] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported United States delegate’s proposal to consider the two questions separately. [9] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) agreed that it was advisable to separate the question of biennial ses: sions from that of the Board's structure, Ven though they might eventually be covered by a single resolution. If they had to be the ° . — " m s c c