CHAPTER 1 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE FIRST MEETING Monday, 18 June 1951, at 4.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Joree MañacH (Cuba) Nominations for the Office of President of the General Conference. [1] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) nominated Mr. Howland Sargeant, Head of the United States delegation. [2] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) wished to suggest, before the Nominations Committee proceeded further, that at a time when the Conference was meeting at Unesco's Headquarters in Paris, in a country which was the very embodiment of the prin- ciples contained in Unesco's Constitution, it would be appropriate to nominate as President of the General Conference the distinguished leader of the French delegation, Mr. Lapie. He therefore requested that his own nomination be withdrawn and proposed the name of Mr. Lapie. [3] Mr. MONTEL (France) explained that Mr. La- pie, Minister of Education, had been detained in the provinces by the elections. Mr. Montel knew, how- ever, that Mr. Lapie would feel extremely grateful to Mr. Sargeant for his proposal, but would wish to decline the honour, as France had already had her turn in presiding over the Conference. Mr. Montel therefore begged the Committee either to confirm the nomination of the Head of the United States delegation, or to select a President from among the many eminent leaders of delegations present. [4] The nomination of Mr. Howland Sargeant as President of the General Conference was confirmed by acclamation. Nomination of Seven Vice-Presidents of the General Conference. [5] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) nominated the fol- lowing countries: France, Egypt, India, Iran, United Kingdom, Uruguay and Yugoslavia. [6] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) had no objection to the Lebanese proposal, but wished to nominate one country from Latin America: Brazil. [7] Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines), while not objecting to previous proposals, felt that the Far East should be better represented, in view of the size of its population. He therefore nominated Indonesia. [8] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama), in the interests of geographical distribution, nominated Cuba as ‎عد presentative of Central America. [9] Hussein Belgium. FAWZY Bey nominated(Egypt) [10] A vote was taken, with the following result: France, 45; United Kingdom, 39; Egypt, 34; India,
27; Indonesia, 23; Cuba, 20; Belgium, 19. [11] The nomination of the following countries was therefore approved: France, United Kingdom, Egypt, India, Yugoslavia, Tran and Uruguay. The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.