GENERAL 010“ NINTH MEETING - Friday, 6 July 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Howranp Sarceant (United States of America) Time-Table of Meetings. [1] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) presented a provisional time-table of meetings for the Confer- ence, which was adopted, with minor changes, as follows: (a) Programme Commission: Friday 6 July, afternoon; Saturday 7 July, afternoon (if necessary); Tuesday 10 July, afternoon (discussion of the report). (b) Friday 6 July, morning and afternoon;
9 July, morning (discussion of the report). (c) Administrative Commission: Friday 6 July, morning; Saturday 7 July, morning and afternoon (if necessary); Monday 9 July, afternoon or Tuesday
10 July, morning (discussion of the report). (d) Procedure Committee: Saturday 7 July, morning; Monday 9 July, morning (joint meeting with the Budget Committee); Tuesday 10 July, morning (discussion of the report). (e) Budget Committee: Friday 6 July, morning; Saturday 7 July, morning; Monday 9 July, morning (joint meeting with the Procedure Committee); Tuesday 10 July, afternoon (discussion of the report). (f) Nominations Committee: Monday 9 July, afternoon. (g) Plenary meetings: Tuesday 10 July, after- noon (from 3 p.m.); Wednesay 11 July, morning (from 10 a.m. and, if necessary, a short afternoon meeting at 3 p.m.). [2] The Committee decided that the new Executive Board would thus be able to meet on the afternoon of Wednesday, 11 July, immediately after the closing plenary meeting. Official and External Relations Commission: Monday Order in which Reports of Commissions and Committees should be Presented at Plenary Meetings. [3] The Committee decided that the reports should be presented in the following order:
(1) Report of the Nominations Committee for the purpose of the election of members of the Com- mittee on Reports of Member States, and of the Budget Committee for the Seventh Session.
(2) Committee on Reports of Member States.
(3) Official and External Relations Commission. Administrative Commission. Procedure Committee. Programme Commission. Budget Committee.
(7) Oral Statement by the Observer from the Vatican. [4] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) announced that the observer from the Vatican had asked to make an oral statement at a plenary meeting during the discussion of the Programme Commission's report. [5] That request was in conformity with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, and there was a precedent: at the Florence Conference, the observer from the Vatican had spoken on Unesco's work at one of the later plenary meetings. [6] Having regard to the Rule and the precedent mentioned, Mr. MAMELI (Chairman of the Official and External Relations Commission) seconded the request. [7] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission), whilst having no objection to the request, did not see why the statement should be linked with the Programme report. [8] The CHAIRMAN said he would ask the observer from the Vatican whether he had a special reason for wishing to speak on the Programme; if not, he would suggest, on behalf of the Committee, that the observer should give a short address at the beginning of the plenary meeting. [9] That proposal was adopted. Contribution from Austria. [10]; Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) announced that several applications had been laid before his Commission, in particular one from Austria, desiring the Conference to reconsider the decisions taken regarding contributions from Member States. In Austria’s case, the contribution had been very sub- stantially increased. He had promised to bring
261 GENERAL Austria's plea to the notice of the Committee, while observing that it seemed unsafe to create a precedent which might give rise to a number of similar claims. [11] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) con- sidered that such a dangerous precedent should certainly be avoided. [12] The CHAIRMAN noted that the Committee was unanimously in favour of upholding the decisions already taken on Member States’ con- tributions. Resolutions Presented by the Executive Board. [13] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) read out three draft resolutions presented by the Executive Board. [14] The first, regarding the development of a
20-year programme for achieving peace through the United Nations (document 6C/DR/82), was referred to the Official and External Relations Commission. [15] The second (document 6C/10), approved by the Executive Board on Mr. de Berredo Carneiro’s proposal and designed to associate Unesco with the celebration of the fifth centenary of the birth of Christopher Columbus and Isabella of Castile, was referred to the General Conference and the Pro- gramme Commission. N COMMITTEE 111-10 [16] The third draft resolution (document 6C/DR/
83) concerned Unesco’s contribution to the action of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies in Korea; it was referred to the Programme Com- mission. Publications Sent by Spain. [17] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) informed the Committee that the Spanish observers had sent a series of publications to the Secretariat for distribu- tion. He asked for instructions in the matter, as some of the publications did not deal directly with education, science and culture. [18] The CHAIRMAN considered that the Secre- tariat should on no account distribute documents, from no matter what source, which were not directly related to Unesco’s aims. [19] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) suggested that, in the circumstances, the Spanish observers should be asked to distribute the documents themselves. [20] That proposal was adopted. The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m. TENTH MEETING Saturday, 7 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Howrann SARGEANT (United States of America) Letter to the Director-General from the Czechoslovak Chargé d’Affaires in Paris. [1] The CHAIRMAN explained that he had called an extraordinary meeting of the General Committee to consider an urgent matter, calling for an im- mediate decision. [2] The Director-General had received a letter, dated 6 July 1951, from the Czechoslovak Chargé d’Affaires in Paris, writing on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Czechoslovakia. [3] The letter raised two problems, the first of which concerned the General Committee. In the first part of theletter, the reasons for Czechoslovakia's absence from the Sixth Session of the General Con- ference were given. It wasalleged, in the first place, that Unesco had ceased to be the Organization con- ceived by its founders as one which would contribute to world peace, ensuring respect for justice and human rights, and secondly, that Unesco no longer served its Member States impartially. [4] In the second part of the letter, the Czecho- slovak Chargé d’Affaires made certain accusations against a member of the Secretariat. The Director- General had placed that second matter before the Executive Board. [5] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) stated that, at a private meeting held that morning, the Board had appointed a working party to carry out an investigation and report back to it.