| | |   TIEN PLENA EY MEETINGS 156 ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 25 June 1951, at 10.48 a.m. President: Mr. HowLAnD SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Tribute to-United:Nationsurorces in: Korea. UA 156 Presentation of the Budget Estimates for 1952. Budget Committee.Administrative Commission and by the Director-General . Reports of the Statement
156 Discussion of the Budget Estimates tor 1952. Speechess by the delegates of Australia, United Kingdom, Brazil, Peru, India, United States of America, France, Canada, Mexico, Union of South Africa, Nether- lands and New Zealand Tribute to United Nations Forces in Korea. [1] The PRESIDENT — Honourable delegates, as we open our plenary meeting this morning, at the start of the second week of the Sixth General Con- ference of Unesco, 1 wish to report to you a request made by the General Committee to the President of the Conference, namely that you should be reminded that today, 25 June, marks the first anniversary of armed aggression in Korea. The General Committee has asked us to note the deep significance of this day for the United Nations and for Unesco. [2] The Secretary-General of the United Nations pointed out to us in his opening address last week, that one year ago, on 25 June 1950, the United Nations made a great decision. For the first time in history, a world organization met armed aggres- sion with collective force. That action has ad- vanced collective security. This day has a meaning for Unesco also. The Executive Board at its meeting last August pledged the resources of Unesco to the task of giving all possible aid and assistance to the action undertaken by the United Nations in Korea in educational reconstruction, as well as in develop- ing understanding and support among the peoples of the world for the efforts of the United Nations to advance human rights, collective security and the rule of law. Certainly, fellow-delegates, here was a war which was first launched in the minds of men. It is a struggle in which the principles of the Unesco Charter are deeply involved. I would therefore ask you, in the name of the General Conference, to rise and to give one minute of solemn and silent tribute to those men who are now fighting for the principles which are so deeply implanted in the hearts of each one of us as we meet to resume our labours today. I will ask you then to join me in rising.
162 [3] I thank you for your reverent observation of this historic anniversary. I hope, as we come to our deliberations this morning, that each one of us will remain profoundly aware not only of the solemnity of the day but of the tremendous significance of the task to which we all of us here are dedicated. [4] This morning we come to Item 13 of our Agenda and I will first call upon the Director- General for what he has told me will be an extremely short presentation of the budget for 1952, as the prelude to today’s full discussion of this item of our agenda. Presentation of the Budget Estimates for 1952. [6] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translated fromthe French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, as the President of the Conference has just told you, I am going to confine myself at this meeting to submitting to you officially the docu- ments which will form the basis of your delibera- tions today. These documents are 6C/5 and Adden- dum 6C/5(2). They contain the budget estimates drawn up by the Secretariat for the draft programme submitted to you by the Executive Board, whose Chairman will communicate to you his Board's comments upon them. This year the Budget Com- mittee met before the General Conference to ‘examine the budget and make its report. You have already received copies of the report, which will be formally laid before you this morning. Similarly, the Ad- ministrative Commission has been considering budgetary problems from the angle of the various methods the Conference might choose for financing the 1952 Budget. It therefore seems to me that, for clearness’ sake and in order to ensure a successful   — — m e E S , ‏ ب ا * x , » » Д н т н о — v e , x к V o + + < A
157 Ses Bu me the mix [6] Gen the of 1 [7] ecu Mr. the yo the   rep( fa I wi red Sev4 bee cost text [9] the ing the you you pard Und The whi But bej inte edud It rega tho fur to H the [10 un you the cond fide Gen with deve pre to 1 [11   + он ый ‏ ر س ج و ماج E E E E E E L E E E E E T Y T I m m , ъ x , N
157 PLENARY Session, I should defer my explanation of the 1952 Budget until you have officially received the com- ments of the Chairman of the Executive Board, and the reports from the Budget Committee and the Ad- ministrative Commission. [6] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Director- General for his opening remarks and I will call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board for a report of the comments of the Board. [7] Count JACINI (Italy), Chairman of the Ex- ecutive Board — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow delegates, in accordance with the usual procedure I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the Executive Board, the report on the Director-General’s Budget Estimates for 1952. [8] I need not remind you of the contents of this report with which you are doubtless thoroughly familiar, as it was sent to you several months ago. I will only add that the figures have been substantially reduced as a result of your decision not to hold the Seventh Conference in Montevideo; they have also been changed owing to the world-wide increase in cost of living. Therefore paragraphs 4 and 6 of the text signed by me should be altered accordingly. [9] As the Director-General has just reminded you, the Executive Board has taken up its position regard- ing the report in a resolution. I read it to you at the conclusion of the speech in which I presented to you the Director-General’s report. I will not waste your time by repeating it; I only wish to quote two paragraphs which have a direct bearing upon Unesco’s financial position: The Executive Board recognizes the financial burdens which weigh upon Member States at the present time. But they believe that no effort on behalf of peace can be judged negligible if its immediate result is to develop international co-operation and understanding through education, science and culture. It recommends that the General Conference, having regard to the achievements shown in this Report and to those promised from plans already set in motion, should furnish Unesco with sufficient funds to enable its work to be pursued and its influence maintained at least at the present level. [10] These two paragraphs make further examples unnecessary. Let me only say to you—repeat to you—that the Executive Board has closely followed the Director-General's work and hisefforts to achieve concentration, and that the Board has every con- fidence that the Conference will provide the Director- General with the means for continuing his work and with directives which will ensure that this work will develop towards the concentration urged by all the previous speakers. In this hope I have the honour to lay the report before you. [11] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of MEETINGS 11-1 the Executive Board for his remarks which provide essential background data for our discussion of the provisional budget ceiling. I will now call upon the Chairman of the Budget Committee for presentation of his report. [12]! Mr. BENDER (Netherlands), Chairman of the Budget Committee — Mr. President, fellow delegates, I have a few remarks to make in presenting the Budget Report (document 6C/BUD/1), which I believe, you all have before you. As you know, the original estimates were $9,666,500, a figure which, owing to recent price increases, later had to be increased to $9,984,500, exclusive of the funds asked by the Director-General for the implementation of the Technical Assistance Programme. As the Chairman of the Executive Board pointed out, this figure will have to be adjusted again because of the decision taken regarding the seat of the next General Con- ference. [13] A few remarks on the work of our Committee. We found it a great advantage to be able to meet one week prior to the opening of the General Con- ference. All chapters and sub-chapters of the budget estimates could be carefully reviewed, though our report mentions only those parts of the budget on which we had comments to make. In our final re- port, we hope to submit to the General Conference some further observations on the methods we need, and, perhaps to offer some suggestions for the work of future budget committees. : [14] Mr. President,it has been our constant concern to keep strictly within our terms of reference, and not to discuss questions which fall within the com- petence of other commissions and committees. However, we felt it our duty to investigate whether, by slightly modifying work plans and operational methods, efficiency could be increased, funds more wisely spent, and economies thereby effected. The report we hereby present comprises a short preface, the salient point of which is that it was the Com- mittee’s considered opinion that substantial reduc- tions in the present budget can be achieved only by modifying the programme or by major decisions on such matters as the seat of the next General Con- ference—a decision which has meanwhile been taken—or the readjustment of local and other salary scales. Nevertheless, we believe that re-examination of certain items may lead to some economies, ac- cordingly, in the second part of our report, we made certain general observations which are illustrated in the third part, containing specific remarks on the separate sections and sub-sections of the budget. May I respectfully request the three main commissions of this Conference, especially the Programme Com- mission, to bear our remarks in mind when discuss- ing the work plans for 1952. [15] We had an excellent Rapporteur in Mr. Gui- gnolet who is quite willing today and during the future work of the other commissions, to assist the
11-1 РЕ А КОХ General Conference and these commissions, with any necessary advice on specific points. [16] We hope that our report will be helpful to the delegates and that although it is a modest business document, it may contribute to the ideas and the high purposes of Unesco. [17] The PRESIDENT — Fellow delegates, you have heard a very modest report from Dr. Bender, the Chairman of the Budget Committee, but let me remind you that this report represents a solid week of work prior to our ownarrival at this General Con- ference, and I know that in your countries, as in my own, the work of the financial and budget experts is seldom the most popular work, but is often the most important to the ultimate success of a Con- ference; I am therefore glad that by your applause you showed how you appreciated the very hard work of the Budget Committee and its Officers, and I am sure that we shall want to have the helpful advice of the Rapporteur in some of the future Commission meet- ings. I will now ask, in order that we may have a full factual background for our discussions today, for a report from the Chairman of the Administrative Commission. [18] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium), Chairman of the Administrative Commission — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, at the request of the General Committee the Administrative Commission at its meetings last Friday and Saturday examined some urgent points as this was necessary if they were to give their opinion before the Board began its discussion of the
1952 Budget at a plenary meeting. I am going to read to you this preliminary report which we have kept very brief but which I believe, contains all the essential information you need. If, later on, addi- tional details have to be supplied to my Commission, the Rapporteur will be able to pass them on to you as well. Mr. van der Straten-Waillet here read out document
6C/ADM/17. [19] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Commission for his report, and I want to tell my fellow delegates that here again, under his able chairmanship, the Administrative Commission has provided some of the essential factual information, but only by making a very real sacrifice. They have worked, I know, during the week-end, and at one time it looked to the General Committee as though they might not be able to com- plete their task, but they have, and we have all been furnished with a printed copy of the report just presented to you by Mr. van der Straten-Waillet, Chairman of the Administrative Commission. The Director-General will now present his more detailed comments, on the 1952 Budget. MEETINGS 158 [20] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, before embarking on what I wish to say to you this morning, I have the sad task of announc- ing to you the death of a great friend of Unesco, Mr. George Oikonomos, Permanent Secretary of the Athens Academy. On behalf of the Secretariat I have immediately sent condolences to the Greek delega- tion to this Conference, headed by Mr. Photiades, who is a member of the Executive Board and was on Unesco’s Preparatory Commission. I am sure that the whole Conference will wish to express its condolences to Greece on the loss it has just sus- tained. [21] TI am very grateful to you for allowing me to speak at this particular stage in the debate, after the distinguished rapporteurs of the Budget Com- mittee and the Administrative Commission, for this gives me an opportunity to make some explanations to the General Conference, not only with regard to the budget estimates I presented to you a few moments ago, but also with regard to the Budget Committee’s observations on the estimates, the recommendations of the Administrative Commission for financing the budget, and, lastly, the decisions already taken by the Conference itself on matters directly affecting expenditure and income during the coming financial year. [22] I propose to group my explanatory remarks under two main heads. In the first place, I should like to explain certain features of the budget I have submitted to you, as it appears in document 6C/5 (II), and in this connexion I shall reply briefly to the observations of a general character which preface the Budget Committee's report. Secondly, I shall apply myself to showing exactly how the decisions taken by the Conference, and the resolutions of the Administrative Commission, affect the budget total. [23] As regards the first point, let me say at once that the main idea which guided me in drawing up the budget was the firm intent to reserve the maximum resources for those activities which have to do directly with the execution of the programme, and to keep administrative expenses and general costs as low as possible. That, in my view, is the most striking feature of the budget. If you compare the totals of Parts II and IV of the estimates (General Administration and Common Service Costs), with the total of Part IIT (Programme Operations), you will see that the proportion of administrative ex- penditure and general costs to direct programme expenditure, which was 28.8 per cent in 1950, and
28.3 per cent in 1951, has fallen to 23.38 per cent for 1952. It is also worth noticing that this per- centage would be appreciably lower if certain personnel costs affecting the Secretariat as a whole had not been included for the first time in Part II of the estimates. e N s a T A r e h á N i ‏ ا— د ج ح »    + ч у T o n T m d e e N e N i c e i i i A J T V E T V U — М а n T
159 PLENARY [24] This considerable reduction has been achieved by reorganizing the administrative services of the Secretariat, which the need for centralized control would in any case have made desirable, and by strict economies in the general services. These last economies would have been still greater if they had unfortunately not been largely swallowed up by the rise which took place at the end of
1950, and particularly at the beginning of 1951, in the cost of certain essential supplies like coal and paper, in telegraph charges, and the cost of maintenance. I think that the Conference will wel- come with satisfaction this check on administrative expenditure and general costs, which has been one of my chief preoccupations since I assumed office. I should, however, state that I consider that the limit of our possibilities in this direction has now been reached. I am convinced that we could not go beyond this point avithout gravely compromising the general efficiency of the Secretariat, and especially the functions of co-ordination and control which devolve upon the central organization. That is matter to which I should particularly like to draw the atten- tion of the Conference. [25] I do not intend to embark upon an analysis of the way the various appropriations in the budget are divided up. I shall content myself with referring you to the introductory remarks on this subject in the opening pages of document 6C/5 (II), but would at the same time emphasize that the relative impor- tance of the various appropriations has been determined by the programme resolutions, and that, in consequence, the budget is only the translation, as it were, into concrete form of the programme itself, taking into particular account the importance or urgency of the different projects. [26] I now come to the observations of the Budget Committee, to whom I should like to pay a well- deserved tribute for the care and responsibility with which they have conducted their fortnight’s ex- amination. Among these observations there is one you will not be surprised that I should especially like to bring to the attention of the Conference because, on the one hand, it falls essentially within the province of the Committee, and on the other hand, it is of great importance for the future course of your work. This observation is as follows: It appears to the Committee that substantial savings could not be effected merely by a critical examination of the budget estimates, but rather by modifying the programme resolutions and the plan of work. [27] If I understand this statement aright, it means that the Committee is of the opinion that the budget estimates reverting to programme resolutions are not exaggerated and that it is only by a decision regard- . ing the terms of these resolutions or the modes of giving effect to them, that is to say, by a decision on the programmeitself, that we could hope to MEETINGS 11-1 make any considerable saving. That would mean excluding the possibility of arbitrary cuts in the appropriations requested by the Secretariat, unless and until there is a Conference decision on the pro- gramme. [28] In the general remarks which preface the Budget Committee’s report, there are some on which the General Conference probably could not pronounce an opinion before they have first been discussed by the appropriate Commissions. That is the case with points 5 and 6, which are in the first place the con- cern of the Official and External Relations Com- mission, points 3 and 7, which come within the province of the Programme Commission, and point 4, which has to do with the Administrative Commission. [29] I shall therefore limit myself here to some preliminary observations. For instance, I should like here and now to warn the General Conference against the hope, implicit in point 2 of the Budget Com- mittee's report, that the National Commissions in their present state are capable of relieving the Secre- tariat of a considerable part of its responsibilities. The reports furnished by Member States, which are at present being examined by one of our Commis- sions, and the speeches made to this Conference dur- ing the discussion on my Report, have left me with the impression that, apart from some praiseworthy exceptions, the National Commissions have not yet reached the stage of development which would qualify them to carry out the investigations and re- search which at present devolve upon the Secretariat. I should like to point out the disadvantages of having the same piece of research carried out simultaneously by two different methods of investiga- tion, one through the channel of the National Com- missions, diverse as they are in composition, and unequally equipped with the means of action, and the other through the collaboration of experts or international non-governmental organizations. If we did that, we should run the risk of arriving at results which bore no relation to each other, and consequently would not permit us to draw scien- tifically valid conclusions. [30] As regards point 3, I think that only good could come of having the contracts with international non-governmental organizations examined with the closest attention by the Conference, as they are at present by myself. But there again, I should like to warn the Conference against false hopes. Indeed, it seemed to emerge from the discussion on my Report that the collaboration of these international non- governmental organizations is not merely one of the most effective means of action for Unesco, but also one of its major objectives. In consequence, I feel that the majority of the Conference would not be disposed to agree that we should proceed to make, as suggested, a substantial reduction in the subventions if the total number of contracts is maintained, or else reduce the sums envisaged for contracts, whilst asking the international organizations for the same m e m = s E a — — — :
2   IT-11 PLENART services, if the subventions’ total remains as at present. [31] Point 4 calls for several comments on my part. In thefirst place, as regards the increase in personnel costs, this does not exceed $72,000, which is con- siderably less than the automatic increase resulting each year from the right to salary increments based on length of service, an increase which amounts to some $200,000. Moreover, the Budget Committee seems to be under the impression that the services rendered by members of the staff of the Secretariat, and those rendered by experts and temporary con- sultants, are interchangeable. In fact, that is not the case. By definition, experts and consultants are used for a limited period on certain specific ques- tions to the exclusion of all others, whereas the members of the staff must have a general competence in a particular field, enabling them to render many and varied services of a longer duration. Here we are dealing with two quite different kinds of work issuing from expenditure that is complementary. As for reducing our recourse to experts and consultants, it is my duty to state that we cannot increase the burden of work which at present weighs upon the Secre- tariat. I can say that to you all the more easily be- cause the Executive Board as a whole, and several delegates to this Conference, have been so kind as to express, in terms which affected me very much, their appreciation of the devotion and ability of the Secretariat. I think that, considering the recruit- ment difficulties I am constantly coming up against, the Secretariat, which shows a decrease of 17 posts for the financial year 1952, as compared with 1951, has pretty well reached the limit of what can be required of it. [32] Then, as regards the use of regional centres, I should like to remark in the first place that only one of these exists at present—the one at Havana for the Western Hemisphere. This centre has been con- ceived hitherto simply as an information and liaison service, and not as a service capable of taking direct part in the execution of the programme. As for the Science Co-operation Offices, their function, as their name implies, is limited to liaison activities in the field of science. We could not therefore ask either of these to undertake research outside their province and for which they have not adequate staff. It is true that the eventual enlargement of these services figures among the questions which the Conference is to debate. But in the budget I have drawn up, I could deal only with the present state of affairs. [33] I come now to the budget total. When I drew up document 6C/5 (II) last January, this total amounted to $9,666,500. The increase in prices which has taken place since that date has obliged me to review my estimates, a step which I justify in document 6C/5 (II) addendum. This addendum estimates the effect of the rise in prices at $318,002, which brings the budget figure up to $9,984,502. [34] Since then, the General Conference has decided MEETINGS 160 to hold its Seventh Session in Paris. This decision has the effect of reducing Part I of the budget estimates by $437,000. [35] The sum total of the budget as it stands today is therefore $9,547,502. This figure represents what should, in my opinion, be the cost of carrying out the programme presented by the Executive Board. I recall in this connexion that the Budget Commitiee has stated that no considerable saving could be effected without modifying the programme, and the few reservations they made to that statement seem to me at least open to argument, as I have just pointed out to you. [36] The Administrative Commission has been con- sidering the question of financing the budget, and it deserves sincere thanks for the imagination and understanding which it has brought to this task. Indeed, its recommendations, if adopted by the Gen- eral Conference, should be of considerable assistance to us. In any case, before considering their import, I should like to appropriate the remark made about them in the Commission’s report: The Administrative Commission would like to make it clear that the above resolutions are valid only for 1952. It draws the attention of the General Conference to the danger of imagining that expedients of this kind, which are non-renewable in character, will always be at our disposal to compensate for the non-payment of a certain percentage of annual contributions. [37] Indeed the measures recommended, like those adopted at Florence, are exceptional. They provide an immediate remedy for the situation created by the non-payment of certain contributions, but they do not do away with this situation, which remains with all its disadvantages. If the General Conference adopts these measures, it should not regard them as entirely satisfactory. They only put off the evil day. [38] Having said that, and with the reservations I have mentioned, I associate myself with the rap- porteur in supporting the recommendations of the Administrative Commission, which at least rescue us for the time being. These recommendations are as follows: [39] 1. In the light of the experience of past years, the Commision estimates at 7.5 per cent the proportion of contributions whichit is reasonable to suppose we shall not recover. 1 should explain that if this estimate is accepted, it will constitute a directive to the Executive Board and myself for financial com- mitments which, once undertaken, cannot be abandoned. [40] 2. The Commission recommends the adoption of measures to secure revenues amounting to $640,000. Moreover, in a paragraph which I shall read out presently, the Commission recommends that $640,000 should be used to make up for the anticipated non- payments, so as to secure a “true” budget, that is to say, a budget which will enable us to carry out the programme adopted by the General Conference, т т н
161 PLENARY without the Executive Board being obliged in the course of the year to make cuts because expected re- venues have not been received. Finally, the Administrative Committee recommends a revision of the scale of contributions, along the fol- lowing main lines: (a) The contribution of the United States of America is fixed at 33.33 per cent. (b) Argentina is granted the facility of paying its contribution in French francs as well as in United States dollars and in sterling. (с) Lastly, the contributions of newly-admitted Member States have been fixed in such a way that their total amounts to 5.34 per cent of the budget. [41] Such are the recommendations of the Administrative Commission. In reality, these recommendations go much further, for if you consider the paragraph to which I alluded just now, and which I ask permission to read out, you will see that the Commission’s report contains an implicit re- commendation about the budget total. Here is the paragraph in question: The Administrative Commission recommends therefore that the General Conference adopt a budget figure which will enable the Director-General to carry out in full the programme agreed by the Conference, without allowing expenditure to exceed the amount which may reasonably by expected to be received from Member States by more than the total of non-contributed income, that is to say, $640,000. In other words, if I understand this sentence aright —it is rather complicated—the Administrative Com- mission recommendsthat the $640,000 should be con- sidered as equivalent to the anticipated non-payments, and as these non-payments are estimated at 7.5 per cent, it follows that the Administrative Commission envisages a true budget whose total should bear the same relation to $640,000 that 100 bears to 7.5, that is to say, $8,533,000. [42] I should like you to allow me to make two observations at this stage. The first is that the Administrative Commission has set out to establish a true budget, that is to say, a budget where revenue exactly balances expenditure, whereas within the framework of the financial rules which were in operation when I drew up my budget estimates, I could do no other than produce an approximate budget, that is to say, a budget containing an element of doubt as to the exact total of revenues. [43] Besides, I do not know whether it was within the Commission’s mandate to propose a budgetary ceiling which should properly be decided by the General Conference in plenary session. But since a figure has been put forward, even though only by implication, I should like to tell you, so that you may know the exact position, what this figure means for Member States and for the Organization. [44] For Member States: if we take into account the new scale of contributions, this figure means for MEETTUM OS : 11-11 all the old Member States taken together, a saving of $122,662, to which must be added a saving in their contributions to the Working Capital Fund of $160,200, that is to say a total of $282,862. [45] That means a reduction in the contribution of all the Member States, with the exception of the United States of America, which is not affected because a new rate of contribution fixed, I repeat, at 33.33 per cent, entails, by comparison with the former rate of
35 per cent, a decrease slightly less than that which would accrue to all Member States as a result of the entry of new States into the Organization. [46] I nowpass to another aspect of the situation —to wit, the effect on the Organization itself. For the Organization, the figure of $8,533,000 represents a step backward compared with the level of activities established at Florence, when the General Confer- ence voted a true budget of $8,200,000. In fact, although the proposed figure is $333,000 above the total of the last budget, we have to take into account the extra burdens which have to be borne by the Organization as a result of the increase in payments to staff due to salary increments based on length of service, and also of the general rise in prices. [47] Here I cannot omit to remind you of the resolution adopted by- the Executive Board and com- municated to you by the Chairman of the Board during the discussion on my Report. That resolu- tion stated in particular that: The Executive Board, Recognizing the financial burdens which weigh upon Member States at the present time, but believing that no effort on behalf of peace can be judged negligible if its immediate result is to develop international co-operation and understanding through education, science and culture, Recommends that the General Conference, having regard to the achievements shown in the Report and to those promised from plans already set in motion should furnish Unesco with sufficient funds to enable its work to be pursued and its influence maintained at least at the present level. [48] Moreover, fixing the budget at $8,533,000, compared with a suggested budget of $9,547,000, means a reduction of $1,014,000, that is to say, a reduction of 10.5 per cent. If this reduction were to be spread equally over Parts II, III and IV of the budget estimates, it would mean that the programme would have to be cut by 10.5 per cent. But I have already told you that I do not think it possible, without very grave risk to the efficiency of the Secre- tariat to make any appreciable reduction in Parts II and IV. Consequently, the reduction you would have to make would have to apply almost exclusively to Part III, and in that case, it would not be 10.5 per cent of the programme that would have to be cut, but 13.9 per cent. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what a budget of $8,533,000 would mean in terms of the programme.
11-1 04 [49] It is not for me to give an opinion once more about the value of the Draft Programme, which has been submitted to you by the Executive Board. I can however, bear witness to the care with which it has been worked out. I can also assure you that it represents the normal development of work already in hand, and I can state, on the strength of what I have seen in the course of my travels, that it cor- responds to the actual needs of the peoples concerned. I will add that the delegates of Member States have proposed some 40 amendments or additions to the programme. The additions and amendments are at present being scrutinized by the Executive Board. Although this scrutiny is not yet complete, it has revealed that up to now these new proposals entail increases in the budget which though not con- siderable, are also not negligible. [60] This then, ladies and gentlemen, is the situation with which you are confronted. I wanted only to clarify it, without defending any particular thesis. But I cannot close without telling you that the decision which you are about to take is of the utmost importance not only for the present, but also for the future, of Unesco. [51] I shall take care not to intervene in the discus- sion, which is essentially your responsibility. It seems to me, however, that you have the choice of four solutions, all of them based on solid considera- tions. [62] First, you could adopt as the true budget the estimates I have submitted, less the anticipated non- payments of contributions (7.5 per cent) bearing upon the part of the budget exceeding $8,533,000, that is, $9,471,000. [63] Or you could adopt the figure implicitly recom- mended by the Administrative Commission, of $8,533,000, which reduces the contributions of Mem- ber States but has the obvious disadvantage of mark- ing the first retrograde step in the development of the Organization by the standard laid down at the Fifth General Conference. [54] Thirdly, following the recommendation of the Executive Board, you will desire to furnish the Organization with the necessary resources for the maintenance of its activities at the level they had reached, when, at Florence last year, you voted a true budget of $8,200,000. Taking into account the gener- al rise in prices, which, according to the estimates it is possible to make at present, may be reckoned at $318,000, and the annual increase in the payment of staff, due to salary increments based on length of service, which amounts to $200,000, the figure cor- responding to the Florence figure may be taken today as $8,718,000. If you retain it as the true budget total for 1952, it will mean that the old Member States, taken together, will have to increase their contributions by $52,000, from which must be sub- tracted the sums placed to the credit of these States in respect of the contributions they are asked to pay into the Working Capital Fund. MEETINGS 162 [55] Even then, in my view, you will be doing no more than ensure for Unesco its essential minimum, and the Programme Commission will find itself obliged to make considerable cuts in the Draft Pro- gramme submitted by the Executive Board. [66] A fourth solution may be considered. Instead of voting a ceiling, the Conference would fix two out- side limits; a maximum equivalent to the revised “estimates 1 have proposed, viz. $9,471,000, and a minimum corresponding to the Budget adopted in Florence, plus the automatic increases due to the rise in prices and to staff payments viz. $8,718,000. The Conference would instruct the Programme Com- mission to decide in favour of each Resolution on its merits and the total it arrived at would determine the size of the true Budget of the Organization for 1952. In that way the Programme would preserve its regulative function, while offering, from the budget- ary point of view, a wide margin for discussion. Instead of making budget cuts a weapon against whichthere is no appeal, the budget discussion would turn on the respective value of the different Reso- lutions. I am not suggesting this fourth solution in order to secure higher appropriations, but because I have the same respect for the principle that aims should determine policy, as I have for the desire expressed by Member States to save money. Gentle- men, I submit myself with confidence to your judg- ment. [57] The PRESIDENT You have heard the Director-General, in his usual clear, straightforward manner, present his observations on the reports of the Administrative Commission and of the Budget Com- mittee and, lastly, the four alternative solutions he considers possible. We now have before us the factual background which permits us, in this plenary meeting, to discuss intelligently the decisions that we hope to reach by the end of today. The delegate of Australia has requested to speak on these observa- tions and I call upon him. If other delegates wish to speak, would they please inform the Secretariat. Discussion of the Budget Estimates for 1952. [68] Mr. MILLS (Australia) — Mr. President, my Government, after prolonged examination of this matter, has given our delegation instructions which oblige us here to make certain observations that may be regarded by some delegations as severe. Accord- ingly, I must preface my remarks with certain information, testifying, I am sure, beyond the doubt of anyone here, to our constant and whole-hearted participation in all aspects of international co- operation, whether in Unesco or elsewhere. [69] Last year alone my country contributed no less than $1,400,000 to the budgets of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. In addition, since the end of the war we have voluntarily con-      P D P T R I ب و د ‎ I L , J U E P E — — n e е е е —
163 PLENARY tributed over $60,000,000 to various forms of inter- national relief. This year we have contributed to the United Nations Technical Assistance Programme and, as is well-known, we are undertaking, under the Colombo Plan, continuing commitments to our neighbours in South East Asia. [60] The countries of other delegations, we know very well, are confronted with ever increasing budgets in the United Nations and in the Specialized Agencies. The fact is that we are reaching the limit of possible diversion of our resources lo international pro- grammes. This is a hard fact which has already been recognized by the General Assembly in urging the Specialized Agencies to stabilize their regular budgets through the elimination or deferment of less urgent projects. It is precisely with this end in view that the Australian delegation will engage upon the task of fixing the budget ceiling. Once this ceiling is fixed, it will be the responsibility of the Pro- gramme Committee and of this Conference to ensure, by the establishment of an order of priorities, that the permissible total is not exceeded. [61] The Australian delegation can point to no less than 75 programme items, in respect of which criti- cism may be made. This is not the place to go into detail but I may mention a few of them which also have a central place in the report of the Budget Com- mittee. For instance, conferences of experts and others are convened on a lavish scale. Of 71 mentioned in the Draft Programme, 42 are for meetings of five days or less. There is a strong tendency to engage consultants to do work which might well be done by the Secretariat from its present resources or by non- governmental organizations, yet there is no cor- responding reduction of Secretariat personnel or of travel by the latter. On the contrary, both tend to increase and certainly to cost more. [62] Projects are included which are not of urgent international concern or which, because of existing political conditions, cannot be successfully concluded. [63] In all probability, there is some duplication of effort by more than one Specialized Agency. There is a 21 per cent increase in subventions and a much greater increase in contracts with international non- governmental organizations. [64] Publications costs have soared but not suffi- cient precautions have been taken to reduce wasteful expenditure on that item. [65] The decision to hold the Seventh Session of the General Conference in Paris has already effected considerable savings. With the application of a strict System of priorities, to enable expenditure to be con- centrated on activities that are essential if Unesco’s aims are to be furthered, it should be practicable for the Organization to work under a ceiling of $8,500,000. [66] The Australian Government proposes that the budget ceiling should be fixed by this Conference at $8,500,000. This figure represents stabilization of the budget at a level of about $8,000,000. MEETINGS 11-1 [67] Our instructions, indeed, are to press for the stabilization of the budget at this level for a period of some years, subject, of course, to appropriate increases for rising costs. I should like to remind delegates that the Chairman of the Executive Board, in the Board’s report on the estimates for 1952, stated unequivocally that the special financial measures approved in 1951 for making good defi- ciencies in Members’ contributions cannot be repeated. This means that if, as is estimated, Members’ unpaid contributions in 1952 will amount to 7.5 per cent of contributions due, the total amount available to be spent under our ceiling of $8,500,000 would be $8,500,000 less $600,000, that is $7,900,000. It is the Australian Government’s view that correct budgetary practice, approved by the Executive Board in its report on the budget estimates for the present year, should be strictly respected by this Conference. [68] The Australian delegation feels that the pro- posal made by the Administrative Commission cannot be supported if we are to adhere to correct budgetary practice. Indeed, it would entail exactly what the Chairman of the Executive Board has declared cannot be repeated, that is, further recourse to the special financial measures used in 1951. In effect, it would necessitate a waiver of some of our financial regula- tions. Rather than do this a second time, it would have been better to proceed by amendment. The practice of setting aside financial rules, though the Conference's power to do so is undoubted, in our opinion weakens the authority of all other financial rules. [69] Accordingly the Australian delegation has sub- mitted in writing a resolution in the following terms: In view of the financial problems now confronting Member States: In view of the recommendation in the United Nations General Assembly that the budgets of the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations should be stabilized, and In view of the importance of adhering to proper bud- getary practices: The General Conference decides: That Unesco’s total budget for 1952 shall be provi- sionally fixed at the amount of $8,500,000; That within this provisional total the expenditures for the year 1952 shall not exceed the amount of contribu- tions actually received from Member States. [70] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Australia for his remarks. He has formally moved a proposal and, although we are to continue with our discussion this morning, in order to keep our- selves from getting too involved with these motions, I shall now ask whether anyone seconds the motion by the Australian delegate. It is seconded by the delegate of the Union of South Africa. [71] I have now received requests to speak in this order: the United Kingdom, Brazil, India, the United States and Canada. I will therefore call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom. e n р е н ح ى ‎ N N h t ش ا ‎
11-1 PLENARY [72] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. Pre- sident and fellow-delegates, if you will be patient with me, I would like to explain some of the consider- ations which have influenced my Government in the United Kingdom, in trying, like all governments in democratic countries, to decide what the people want. [73] We have decided, in my country, that one of our main contributions to maintaining and strength- ening the peace of the world is to be prepared, and I do not wish to argue—it would be most inappro- priate—whether we are right or wrong in that; but my people are united in their determination to be so prepared in the military sense that they can do, on all future occasions, what they are very proud to be doing at this moment in Korea. That means that a part of my country’s resources have to be laid aside for the damnable work of building up armaments and military strength. [74] Secondly, we are determined that, in our effort to be prepared, we shall also continue that indispensable complement of defence: maintenance and development of our health and our power to help other people in positive as well as in negative ways. To do both those things, we have most seriously to set ourselves to the austere task of restraining inflation inside our country, to prevent that rise of costs going any further than neces- sary—one of the embarassments which we in Unesco are now experiencing, and to which the Director- General and the Executive Board have referred, when they explained to us that every thing already costs more than it did a year ago. [75] In order to berealistic and effective, both in the negative defence of the peace and in the positive procurement of a juster world, we have had to submit every item of public expenditure to the most ruthless scrutiny. Of every department we have had to ask: Can your estimates for next year be reduced? Let me say without further explanation that almost every department in my country has had to reduce its budget for this year as compared with last, however, immensely important for the people of my country the particular expenditure of that depart- ment may be. I mention only the Housing Depart- ment and the Health Department. There have been reductions in almost every part of our government expenditure. But, in certain cases, we have decided that to maintain, or very slightly to increase, the amount that we expend in the succeeding year, is justifiable in spite of what I have been saying. [76] To mention two examples of reduction, we have had to reduce for the coming years the capital expenditure which was planned on our universities, and we have had very substantially to reduce the amount of expenditure planned for the British Council. As examples of what we have decided to maintain, but not increase in the way that we would like, I would mention our education estimate and the work of a body which is our little domestic Unesco, which we call the Arts Council, which has MEETINGS 164 built itself up in the last five years, and was ready to go forward, to spend more than in the past, in fertilizing the field of the arts, of theatre and music, and all the other parts of a civilized life. [77] Reverting to our problem, in the past we have had, we delegates from the United Kingdom, at almost every Conference, the odious task of sug- gesting a reduction in the budget proposed by the Director-General with the support of the Executive Board. And in the past, we have felt it necessary to say that some reduction, in our view, was right in the interests of Unesco, that in order to build more firmly the foundations of Unesco, it was wise to go more slowly than had been suggested. [78] This year, Mr. President, for the first time, I have this pleasure at least, that I do not put forward that argument. We in my country are satisfied that the foundations are now so much more firmly laid than we thought, in the past, that we would dearly like to see the budget of Unesco in- creased, for the reasons which the Director-General has so eloquently given. Nonetheless, reviewing this particular part of the expenditure of my people, we have come to the conclusion that the budget of Unesco should be $8,500,000 for 1952. That is to say, we felt that there should be a slight increase over the figure of $8,200,000 that was fixed in Florence for
1951, but that there should be no greater increase. Where we do not agree with our Australian friends, why we do not support the motion that is before us from Australia, seconded by south Africa, is that we feel, in the light of the enquiry which has been made and the report that has been given by the Administrative Commission, that it is necessary and reasonable, for the year 1952, for us to recognize that, whatever budget figure we fix, there may be a shortfall of some 7.5 per cent in contributions from Member States. All of us here, I think, must act on the assumption that every Member State will do its utmost to pay in full the contribution which is due from it, whatever the budget on which we settle. But it is only realistic to face the special facts of the present situation, as they were faced by the Florence Conference, and to recognize that, if we simply voted a $8,500,000 budget and if we did what the Austra- lian delegation says we should do and limited the Executive Board and the Director-General to ex- penditure which will come in from Member States in respect of their contributions to that $8,500,000 budget, it would only be reasonable, at this stage, to accept the advice of the Administrative Commission and believe that we might find that only $7,900,000 were contributed, and that expenditure would have to be limited to that figure. We are prepared to accept—and we have supported in the Administrative Commission—the proposal that those $640,000 odd, which we are told may be available in addition to the contributions from Member States in 1952, should be regarded as expendable, in addition to the con- tributions which in 1952 will come in from Member    o _ o = . : \ ح ب ‎ A , — — W O J E , е е е е я е е н ь f n ,
165 A States. We therefore think that the budget total can properly be fixed by Unesco at $8,500,000, on the understanding that that would represent a spending budget of $8,500,000, even if the gloomy prophecies are fulfilled and some $600,000 of contributions which should—and which we hope will—be paid, will in fact not be paid in respect of 1952. [79] To conclude, Mr. President, my delegation feels most strongly that the special project of funda- mental education, which we shall be discussing at a later date, is cardinal to the plan which Unesco should lay at this Conference; and it would only be fair for me to say that we think those plans should be laid and that project should be launched, without the expectation that governments will be able to find additional sums in 1952 to supplement theirregular, compulsory contribution to the programme. We therefore feel that an additional reason for allowing the figure of $8,200,000, fixed for 1951, to rise to $8,500,000 in 1952, is our firm resolve, that this Conference shall, if possible, find a way of launching the project in fundamental education, even though it has to accept the fact that it cannot rely on addi- tional contributions from governments in 1952. We hope that by one means or another—with the funds of the Technical Assistance Fund and perhaps of foundations and outside governments, supplemented by a proportion of the regular budget, but without unbalancing the regular budget by any large diver- sion of funds for the special project—we shall be able to launch that project in a realistic mood. [80] My last word is this. Whatever decision this Conference takes, whatever the budgetfigure decided by this Conference for 1952, my government and my people will loyally and happily abide by it. They will pay their contribution in full, at whatever total the budget may be fixed. And it is in that mood that I have thought right to lay before you—and 1 thank you for your patience in listening to me—the reasons which have influenced us in coming to a conclusion which we would dearly like not to have come to, and in saying that we do not feel that Unesco can fix for 1952 the budget which the Director-General he asked for. [81] We believe that here, among friends, we can expose our feelings and our hearts without any fear of misundertanding, that no one will feel, because I have spoken as I have, that we have anything but the most profound confidence in the Director-General and in Unesco. We also believe that everybody in this room who has to speak, whatever figure is spoken for, will also share our feelings and that, when we have decided the figure, we will make the best of it; if necessary, we will adapt the programme to make the best possible use of whatever figure this Conference decides to ask of the peoples, the
64 peoples, who make up Unesco. [82] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the MEETINGS 11-11 United Kingdom and I now call upon the delegate of Brazil. [83] Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I would like to ask you to examine the very principle of the ceiling which we have been asked to fix at the present stage. Any physiologist would tell you how absurd it is to think that the problem of the efficacy of the Budget suggested for implementing our programme can be solved by fixing what is usually called the Budget ceiling. Any physiologist would tell you that the problem must be considered from an entirely dif- ferent angle and would suggest that at this stage you must consider the floor or basic minimum budget for performing Unesco's work efficiently and effectively. It is quite useless to have a given sum to carry out a set piece of work if this sum does not correspond with the force needed to unleash the machinery that must be set in motion if the work is to be accomplished. This minimum but in- dispensable sum, without which it would be vain to make increased efforts to achieve the smallest result, and beyond which it would be equally pointless to go, is the floor we are asked to settle now. Later we may have to consider whether we can exceed this minimum, without which we are condemned to inertia, to a vain show of activity. It is to prevent an organization like ours from committing such a blunder, Mr. President, that I ask you first to change our terminology; in the name of the Brazilian dele- gation Iask you to examine immediately the floor for the Budget before us. Then I shall ask you, even though the numerical exactitude of the figures liable to slight fluctuation has to be checked by each of our Committees; and even though the sum of $8,718,000, which according to the estimates, is the basic mini- mum to ensure the functioning of this Organization along the lines settled by the Executive Board in pursuance of the recommendations and directives of the previous Conference—then I shall, as I say, ask you, once the Programme Commission has discussed each problem in minute detail upon this base or floor, and once this draft submitted by the Executive Board has been revised in the light of the Director- General's explanations, to settle what can be called the Budget ceiling. But for the moment let us confine ourselves to its base and let that be the minimum proposed to us by the Director-General. Mr. President, I submit this proposal to you as a formal resolution from our delegation. [84] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Brazil. He has made you a formal proposal. I again ask if anyone seconds his formal proposal? It is seconded by the delegates of Mexico and Cuba. [85] Mr. Ventura García CALDERÓN (Peru) — [Translation from the French] I second the E E c i ó ó l — €
11-1 PLENARY interesting proposal made by the Brazilian delegation, to fix the figure at $8,700,000. [86] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Peru, who joins the delegates of Mexico and Cuba in supporting the Brazilian delegate’s proposal. I now call upon the delegate of India. [87] Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — Mr. Presi- dent, fellow-delegates, in the general debate on the Director-General’s report, we all came forward and gave our enthusiastic approval of the work which Unesco has done under his leadership, and also wished him well with regard to the continuance of his work. I take it that the same spirit of apprecia- tion and encouragement should follow him in the discussions on the general budget. We cannot adopt a stick-and-carrot policy. We have also demonstrated ourfaith in the work of Unesco. The greatest enemies of mankind are not only ignorance and want, but passion and prejudice. Here in an Organization like this, we are called upon to view social, economic and political questions in the same spirit of objectivity with which we view intellectual problems, to which the world owes so much. Therefore the least we can do for the Director-General and the Secretariat and for the General Conference, is to enable him to con- tinue the work which he has been doing, even if we are not in a position to expand it a great deal. The Florence figure was $8,200,000. The increases in living costs, together with the increments which fall due to the Secretariat officials, were put down at half a million dollars. That is the figure which the Director-General gave for higher cost of living, plus the increments which fall due. If $8,200,000 is the Florence figure, and if the natural increments are said to be somewhere about half a million dollars, it will bring the total figure up to $8,700,000. [88] The figure that has been put forward by Sir John Maud on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation is $8,500,000, but he made it clear that that $8,600,000 should be an effective budget figure, it must be a spendable budget and there should not be any diminutions in it on account of the non- paymentof contributions by MemberStates. In other words, he said that, if there were any deficit, it should be filled up by taking the $640,000 from the figure which the Administrative Commission has recommended to us. If, therefore, we support the figure of $8,500,000 proposed by Sir John Maud and waive the financial clause so as to make the amount of $640,000 available to the Secretariat and the Director-General, we shall have a nominal budget of $9,2000,000. The general deficit from non-payment of contributions is reckoned to be 7.5 per cent. The three figures before us are, therefore, the Director- General’s figure of $9,400,000, the nominal budget figure of $9,200,000 and an effective budget figure of $8,500,000. I have no doubt that in the Programme Commission incidental things might arise while the   MEETINGS 166 budget is under consideration, and that it will be possible to keep expenditure at least at the level of the Florence Conference itself. Why should we always assume that 7.5 per cent of contributions will remain unpaid? The Director-General is now arousing a great deal of enthusiasm for the work of Unesco and we think he might be able to reduce this figure. So if he gets those contributions and if he also has the expendable amounts from savings made last year, he will be able not only to carry out the programme but also to expand it where necessary. I have great pleasure in supporting the motion which Sir John Maudhas put forward. [89] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate from India. I now call upon the delegate of the United States. [90] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I should like to address myself first to the proposal put forward by the delegate of Brazil to the effect that we should change our intended procedure, and instead of voting a budget ceiling at this time for the precise instruction of the Programme Commission, substitute therefor a range of budget figures. I think that may be a very constructive suggestion for some future Conference. I am afraid, however, that this time it would throw our proceedings into considerable con- fusion. If it was intended to adopt that procedure this year, it would be better to have started with the knowledge a week ago. [91] I would next like to address myself to the observation made by the Director-General, as to the effect on Member contributions of a budget figure of $8,500,000. He observed and it is true—that the United States contribution of 33 per cent to a budget of $8,500,000 would permit the United States con- tribution to remain at about its present level. That is a consequence which is a consequence which my government looks upon with considerable favour. He said that other members would receive a reduction in their contribution. That is true. Due to the effect of new members coming in and due to the fact that the United States reduction is not its full propor- tionate share of the new member credits, there would be some small surplus which would go to reduce the contribution of other Members in total. But I emphasize that this is in total. There is a very considerable number of Members whose contributions are now fixed at the floor percentage of .04. Their contributions would not be reduced and their contri- butions would rise to support a budget of even $8,500,000. [92] Finally, I would like to address myself to the preoccupation of the Director-General with main- taining, in 1952, the level of programme activity to be achieved in 1951. I am sure that this preoccupa- tion strikes a sympathetic chord with every delegation here. However, my delegation cannot agree that a | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | [ [ | [ | J   » " S e r r e s g r r r ب و م ‎ V E P E S T E , ك ع ك ‎ A E E T E F T C E , F U — _ m r —
167 PT ENARY budget of $8,700,000 is necessary for this purpose, and we will support a budget ceiling of $8,500,000 as being completely adequate for this purpose. [93] My delegation advocates a budget ceiling of $8,500,000, in the first instance, because we believe it wise to follow the recommendations for sound financing made to us by the Administrative Com- mission. The Administrative Commission recom- mends that the programme for 1952 should be one which can be financed from the funds available, and carried out in its entirety; and that the expen- diture in 1952 should be limited to the total of income which may reasonably be expected to be received with respect to that year. The Administrative Commission further recommends that the General Conference should avail itself of the opportunity of devoting, to the financing of the 1952 budget, resources to the amount of $640,000 which will become available from sources other than assess- ments for 1952. The Administrative Commission, finally, notes that the deficiency in contributions for
1952 will be about 7.5 per cent of whatever assess- mentfigure is adopted. [94] As we know, if we are to accept the recom- mendations of the Administrative Commission, that is, if we are to adopt a budget figure which can be translated wholly and completely into activities car- ried out and expenditures actually made, then we cannot adopt a budget in excess of $8,500,000. With a budget figure of that amount, the deficiency of 7.5, or $637,000, is just equalled by the $640,000 addi- tional resources to be available. Any figure larger than $8,500,000 would produce a gap in our means of financing which could not be filled by any other means now foreseeable. The Director-General has said that these special means of financing proposed by the Administrative Commission will rescue us in
1952. They will rescue us only if we adopt a budget ceiling of $8,500,000. Any gap in our financing would add confusion and a disturbing unreality to the programme decisions which we are about to take, because we should be forced to take these decisions with the knowledge that the means of carrying them out would not be at hand. [95] I said at the outset that I did not believe a figure higher than $8,500,000 was necessary to maintain the 1951 level of operations. 1 am not pre- pared to recognize that price rises experienced during the current year to date, require $300,000 additional funds in 1952. [96] If we are interested in a comparison of 1951 and 1952, we must realize that these same price increases, to the extent of $100,000, have already been absorbed in the 1951 budget, which would mean that any additional amount required in 1952 would be considerably reduced. Nor are we convinced that the organization must for another $200,000 to cover within-grade salary increases. These within-grade salary increases are only one facet of the total cost of personnel administration. As can be seen from MEETINGS : 11-1 the budget estimates, the Organization is experiencing an inordinately high rate of personnel turnover. A high rate of turnover means that personnel costs are higher than necessary, as the Organization is constantly forced to spend its funds unproductively in order to attract new people to replace those departing, and, in particular, to meet the expenses of recruitment, installation, and separation pay. These total personnel costs can be reduced by improved personnel management that will attract to the Organi- zation and retain persons of the highest calibre from the various Member countries. [97] We have yet to consider at this Conference the question of salaries and allowances. Several of the possible alternatives before the General Conference may produce savings in salary expenses below the amounts now budgeted for that purpose. Beyond that, the Budget Committee has suggested at several points that we can achieve economy through improved organization of work and improved work plans without injury to programme operations, if we only have the determination to do so. So I speak with the greatest conviction when I say that a budget of $8,500,000 can maintain and enlarge the effective- ness of Unesco’s programme. [98] I hope very much that the majority of other delegations will join with me in this conclusion. We are all strong supporters of Unesco and we all agree, I am sure, that a Unesco programme, well oriented and strongly moulded around the several basic tasks of the Organization, will merit our support of that programme to the amount of $8,500,000 in 1952. After the budget decision is taken, my delegation will join with you in making every effort to see that the total programmeis so designed as to warrant that expenditure. [99] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the United States and now call upon the delegate of France. [100] Mr. MONTEL (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, no one will under- estimate the importance of the decision we have to make. On it depends, I will not say, Unesco’s life, but certainly its health. That is why I now wish to remind you of the position of the French delegation described a few days ago in a speech by its Head, Mr. Lapie, Minister of Education. We all wish to see the Organization grow and develop. But in these hard times we accept the temporary arrest of its growth and we know we must mark time. But by “marking time” I mean the continuance as a whole, of all Unesco’s activities. Certainly its activities can only be continued if its budget is sufficient to cover both increases in salaries and in the cost of living. Reckoning in this way we arrive at the figure of $8,700,000, and this is the figure which France will vote for. Allow me to remind you that a few days ago the Head of our delegation said to you: Е н е е е
1-11ل There will, nevertheless, be plenty of arguments for reducing this sum; some States, I know, quote the needs of rearmament as a reason for maintaining the present figure—which, in view of the general rise in the cost of living, would actually amount to a reduction. But it is, perhaps, precisely at moments when States are rearming their people that they have the least excuse for neglecting their sacred duty in the field of education, science and culture. The need for self-defence must not be made a pretext for sacrificing everything that makes life worthwhile. An example must be set by the inter- national community. Things will of course be difficult for Unesco during these years of armed peace, and we shall be compelled, against our will, to stabilize our activities to a certain extent. But the Organization must nevertheless, during 1952, have sufficient funds to enable it to continue to operate on the same scale as hitherto. Well, gentlemen, if we do accept this figure of $8,700,000 enabling it to operate as hitherto, we shall be imposing a total increase of $66,000 on Member States taken as a whole. Surely the world can sacrifice $66,000 for the maintenance of peace, as our President so eloquently said to us in his speech just now. [101] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of France and I now call upon the delegate of Canada. [102] Mr. D'Arcy McGREER (Canada) — Mr. Pre- sident, fellow-delegates, it is perhaps unnecessary to say that the issue before the Conference at this moment is that of balancing Unesco’s needs for funds to carry out its programme of work against the availability of those funds. [103] On the one hand, we have before us a list of projects which the Director-General feels should be implemented during the coming year. He has stated his belief that the level of activity attained by the Organization during the present year should be maintained during 1952. On this assumption, he has drawn up his estimates of expenditure. Rising costs have had to be taken into account, and his original estimates, which allowed for a considerable increase in prices, have had to be revised upwards. The recent wise decision of this Conference, so unselfishly accepted by the delegation of Uruguay, to hold the Seventh Session of the Conference in Paris rather than at Montevideo, has reduced the estimated expenditures by $450,000. This has relieved the situation considerably, but the total requested by the Director-Generalis still considerably higher than last year—$9.6 million as compared with $8.2. [104] This request of the Director-General is based upon the assumption that 7.5 per cent of the assess- ments will not be paid. While it cannot be denied that the amount of unpaid contributions remains a gerious problem for Unesco, there is reason to believe that it may not be as large as the Director-General feared when drawing up his budget. The recent payments of arrears by certain Member States, and MEET TN GS 168 the admission of five new Members should reduce the probable size of unpaid assessments. [105] Furthermore, the Administrative Commission has just recommended to this Conference that certain non-recurring funds which will be available, should be used to offset the expected shortfall in the payment of assessments. If the Conference accepts this pro- posal, it will be possible for us to reduce the budget ceiling by the amount required to take care of this anticipated shortfall. In other words, the budget ceiling may be set at a considerably lower level than that originally anticipated and still provide for a level of activities roughly equivalent to that attained this year, after allowing for the increase in prices experienced during the year. [106] I should say, Mr. President, that the Cana- dian Government is most reluctant to see the Confer- ence adopt for a second time this dangerous ex- pedient of depending upon the use of non-recurring funds to balance its budget. We feel that this merely postpones an issue which must inevitably be faced by this Organization. We therefore attach great importance to the concluding paragraphs of the resolution proposed by the Administrative Com- mission, which warn of the dangers inherent in a dependence upon these funds, and which urge the adoption by this Conference of a set of principles for the determination of priorities for the guidance of the Director-General and the Executive Board, in presenting a programme and budget to the next Conference. [107] Because of a desire to meet the Director- General's request that the level of activities reached in 1951 be maintained in 1952, and in the hope that this Conference will take steps to prepare the way for a more realistic approach bythe next Conference, the Canadian delegation is prepared to support a budget ceiling of $8,500,000. [108] Canada. Mexico. The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of I will now call upon the delegate of [109] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, the Mexican delegation has listened with great interest to all that has been said here. Moreover, it has carefully studied the problem and is prepared to second the Brazilian delegation’s proposal to fix Unesco’s budget ceiling for 1952 at $8,718,000. [110] Firstly, because the adoption of such a figure will fix the normal budget ceiling at the same level as that of 1951. Secondly, the 1952 programme corresponds more closely to realities; it shows that new efforts have been made to concentrate the Or- ganization’s activities: projects which might be taken into consideration at a later stage have been set aside in favour of more urgent ones. Any reduction of the budget ceiling would seriously jeopardize a programme drawn up on these lines. O P W E G , W E , e n e e Д н — m r r t G r ب ل ص ح ن ‎ S W J T G T W E »
169 PLENARY [111] As a member of the Executive Board, I can assure you sincerely that at the meetings of the Board we have always endeavoured to avoid any rise in the budget ceiling. We realized that, although the important work of the Organization would justify such a rise, the present world situation does not permit it. After careful reflection we made a reduc- tion and retained only those projects considered to be absolutely necessary, but without sacrificing the possibility of maintaining the level of activities reached in 1951. This does not mean that Unesco’s programme has changed, but, as it is more con- centrated and gives priority to the most urgent matters, it should not be reduced. The distin- guished delegate of India pointed out that the fact that almost all delegations have praised the programme is equivalent to a more or less tacit agreement to grant the funds necessary for its execution. [112] I should like to add that in the modern world, where increasingly close international co- operation is being established in all fields, it is indispensable that an increase of the credits necessary for the exercise of such co-operation should be provided and approved. As has been clearly indicated, the grounds for such an increase are the needs of a world in which there is great material want and the rights acquired by a staff with each year of service. This increase must correspond to such needs and rights if the execution of Unesco’s programme is not to be seriously endangered. [113] In conclusion, I wish to approve, and I ask you all to approve, the figure of $8,718,000 as Unesco’s budget ceiling for 1952. [114] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Mexico for his observations and I will now call upon the delegate of South Africa. [115] Mr” van 2YL (Umon of South Africa) = Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the Director-General’s very able speech last week on the 1952 budget and again listening to his speech this morning, in which he asked for an increased budget, one feels very inclined to vote for a sub- stantial increase. Experience, however, has taught us that where budgets and money matters are con- cerned there is only one sound approach, and that is an objective approach based on experience, one which views the budget under consideration in the perspective provided by the budgets of other inter- national organizations, as well as that of the national situation. Against this background, Mr. President, the 1952 budget as proposed by the Director-General and supported by the Executive Board, becomes a rather disturbing factor. [116] Let us review for a moment our present situation and what has happened during the past few years. As early as 1949, strong representations were made by many delegations to ensure some stabi- lization in the Organization’s budget. This was MEETINGS 11-11 repeated at Florence. There, as we know, the budget was fixed at a figure reasonably commen- surate with that of the previous year, namely $8,200,000 as compared with $8,000,000; in effect, the budget was some $600,000 higher but it was fully realized at the time that the methods of appro- priating this additional sum could not be repeated every year. Recourse was had to this means of financing, solely because of the unwillingness of governments at that time to increase their contribu- tions. This all points to the desire of Member States for a measure of stabilization in the budget, now that the Organization is on a full working basis. That this desire is fairly general is borne out by the debates in the United Nations General Assembly and in the Economic and Social Council on the need for eliminating overlapping and the application of priorities in the programmes of Specialized Agencies. [117] In our opinion, these debates made it quite clear that Member governments were not disposed to increase their contributions to Unesco or to the other Specialized Agencies. It is with some concern, therefore, that we read the proposals of the Director- General and the Executive Board for a budget costing well over $9,000,000. That this present session of the General Conference is fully aware of the impor- tance and the necessity of keeping its budget within reason of the figures, is borne out by our decision, much against our inclinations, to postpone acceptance of the very friendly invitation of the Uruguayan Government to hold our next session in Montevideo. This decision will save nearly $500,000 but we are still left with a budget well over $9,000,000. Now as I have already said, in view of other commit- ments of Member States, and of the importance of striking a balance between national and international expenditure on education, science and culture, my delegation cannot support this figure. [118] Our Director-General, the Executive Board and many delegates have pointed out that it was up to Member States to put into effect the Unesco pro- gramme; the emphasis should be on expenditure in the national field. We should ask ourselves whether Unesco would not be defeating its own ends by continually raising its demands on Member States. The State Departments and National Commissions dealing directly with Unesco might even risk a certain amount of unpopularity with their treasuries and their national supporters by pushing Unesco’s demands too far. In view, therefore, of these many obligations to the United Nations and other Special- ized Agencies, my Government feels that the time has come to consider placing a limit on the amount of its contribution to international organizations. We had hoped that this Conference would consider stabilizing the budget at a figure in the region of $8,200,000. We realized, of course, that this would probably have meant an effective budget of some hundreds of thousands of dollars less, should some Member Governments fail to meet their obligations h s
11-1 PLENART in full. Nevertheless, we are of the opinion that the essential parts of the programme submitted to us by the Director-General could be carried out even at this reduced figure by economizing wherever possible, and applying an effective system of pri- orities suggested by the Economic and Social Council and submitted to us in document 6C/PRG/2. We had expected that, in presenting a programme to the General Conference, the Executive Board would have indicated the priorities to be attached to the individual projects of the programme. This, however, was not done and the Programme Com- mission, presumably, will have to perform that task. We feel that if this procedure is followed, no difficulty will be found in confining the budget to the figures suggested. [119] Finally, I would like to say, however, that we do not want to ignore the rising costs due to the Korean war and the programme of rearmament. If, therefore, the General Conference feels that a budget of $8,200,000 as we originally hoped to establish would curtail the programme unnecessarily, my Government would not be averse to a reasonable increase to meet these circumstances. Should this increase, however, take the budget to a sum ex- ceeding $8,500,000, my delegation is instructed to reserve the position of my Government in the matter. I would therefore support the Australian proposal to fix the budget at $8,500,000. As for those Member States who do not pay their share, this will, of course, reduce the budget by a certain amount, and we feel that the suggestions made by the Budget Committee would cover that sum. [120] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the Union of South Africa. I will now call upon the delegate of the Netherlands, and so that there may be no mistake, I am calling upon Dr. Bender as the delegate of the Netherlands, and not as the Chairman of the Budget Committee. [121] Mr. F. BENDER (Netherlands) — Mr. Presi- dent, fellow-delegates, I will be brief, as the dele- gate of the United Kingdom has so eloquently pointed to the great problems we now have in our countries, in his country, in your countries, and in mine, in connexion with the deplorable necessity of rearma- ment. The increase in defence expenditure has meant the curtailment of several other activities in our country. I am thinking of activities under bilateral agreements, under the agreements of the Brussels Pact, and of others to which the Head of our delegation has referred, all of them, we consider of very great importance. Nevertheless, our country is prepared to keep its contribution to Unesco at the same level. It is prepared not to reduce that contribution and I can assure delegates that it was hard to persuade the Ministry of Finance to accept this proposal. What we cannot do, however, is to increase our contribution. We therefore think MEETINGS 170 that the figure of $8,500,000, proposed by the delegate of the United Kingdom, is reasonable, we believe that it will enable the activities of Unesco to be carried on at about the same level, and we believe that the contributions of Member States do not have to be increased—all this on the understanding that we use the non-recurring funds for the budget of 1952, so that there will be an actual spending budget of $8,500,000. Accord- ingly, on behalf of the Netherlands delegation, I would like to support the proposal put forward by the United Kingdom delegation. [122] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the Netherlands. Before calling on the delegate of New Zealand, and other intending speakers, I should like to suggest that we adjourn after we have heard our next speaker, so that the resolutions proposed may be put in writing, for delegates to have before them when they come to vote. If you agree, we could reassemble at 4 this afternoon. I now call upon the delegate of New Zealand. [123] Mr. W. MASON (New Zealand) — Mr. Presi- dent, fellow-delegates, I should like to say at the outset that the New Zealand delegation agrees with the delegation of the United States of America that it would be most unwise at this stage of our discussions to introduce the new principle proposed by the Brazilian delegation, and supported by one or two other delegations, that we should discuss a mini- mum figure rather than a maximum figure. Further- more, it seems to us such a principle is unsound and unbusinesslike. While respecting the ideals which moved the Brazilian and other delegates, we feel that it is not businesslike to consider the mini- mum we are to spend when discussing activities for the year ahead. [124] New Zealand, in common with many other countries, has, at the moment, large and varied international commitments, and, in common with other countries, has defended the principle of stabi- lizing the budgets of the Specialized Agencies, by the deferment of less important projects. In our view, the United Kingdom proposal for a budget of $8,500,000 together with the special financial arrangement recommended by the Administrative Committee, meets the Director-General's wishes of maintaining the present level of programme activity. There is certainly no question of a 10.5 per cent reduction of that activity. As the distinguished delegate of India so clearly pointed out, there is a difference of approximately $200,000 only between the United Kingdom figure of $8,500,000 and the Director-General’s figure of $8,700,000. As he pointed out, and as the Budget Committee has also pointed out, it may well be possible to effect eco- nomies in the estimates to cover this. [125] With regard to the objections raised by one or two delegations to what they consider a breach - — э т у ج ج ح ‎ I R F I L S T т Р е у V A T T T W , T T I ج ح ك ح ‎ я N к т —     o a e e n | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ' | [ Г | a
171 PLEN AR Y of sound budgetary practice, namely, the application of certain sums which become available this year to offset possible non-payment of contributions, the New Zealand delegation would say that it has always been the practice of Unesco to refer the details of what is to be the sound financial practice of the Organization, to the Administrative Com- mission. The Administrative Commission yesterday considered this question of making this additional income available, and it resolved by a very large, I should almost say an overwhelming, majority, to approve the application of this principle for the
1952 budget, that is to say, to make available these sums to offset a possible deficit in the payment of contributions. No one can foresee what the position will be in 1952 and no one at this point can legislate MEETINGS 11-12 for the budget of 1953. I would recommend to the Conference, Mr. President, fellow-delegates, that we confine ourselves to considering what is most ex- pedient for 1952. [126] In conclusion, the New Zealand delegation would like to reaffirm that it supports the United Kingdom proposal for a budget of $8,500,000, the understanding being that this will be an effective working budget. [127] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of New Zealand, and we will bring to a conclusion our plenary meeting of this morning with his remarks. The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. TWELFTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 25 June 1951, at 4.22 p.m. President: Mr. HowLAnD SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Discussion of the Budget Estimates for 1952 (conclusion). Speeches by the delegates of Cuba, India, Lebanon, Egypt, Switzerland, Uru- guay, Belgium, United States of America and France. by the Director-General Fixing of Provisional figure for 1952 Budget Discussion of the Budget Estimates for 1952 (conclusion). [1] The PRESIDENT — This afternoon's plenary meeting is open. As soon as they are available, you will receive copies of the resolutions moved this morning by the delegates of Australia, the United Kingdom and Brazil. These have been prepared so that, before voting you may have before you in writing, the proposals put forward so far in the course of this discussion. This afternoon, the dele- gate of Cuba has asked to be our first speaker. I also have a request from the delegate of India. Would any others who wish to speak please notify the Secretariat. I call upon the delegate of Cuba. [2] Mr. Mariano BRULL (Cuba) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, Mr. Director- General, fellow-delegates, I am going to be as brief as possible in my remarks concerning the two topics   Comments
178 of discussion now before this conference. On the one hand, we have the proposal of the United Kingdom, on which other delegations of the British Common- wealth are in agreement, and on the other the Brazilian proposal regarding the ceiling for the budget under discussion. The first thing which strikes us when looking over the sum proposed by the United Kingdom is that it has undoubtedly been based on the figures of the last budget with the addi- tion of a more or less elastic sum for the purpose of rounding off a budget of $8,500,000 which provides for a possible increase in appropriations during 1952 for the services and work in progress. Other con- siderations suggested by the programme seem to have been left out of this estimate for the reason that we are dealing with new work and especially a whole conception, an entirely different way of carrying out the programme compared with last year, and so we are obliged to concern ourselves with concrete sums as far as possible. In looking over the proposal of