OER AN AND EX TER NAT RELATIONS of the Director-General’s representative to defer discussion until the following day; he expressed his satisfaction that the Regional Conference at Havana had provided Unesco with a basis for the possible establishment of other regional offices. [69] It was decided to consider item 10.4.2, to- gether with item 10.4.3 of the agenda for the meet- ing on 29 June. The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m. THIRD MEETING Friday, 29 June 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameri (Italy) Report of the Director-General on the Means and Degree of Decentralization Deemed most Advisable in the Field of the Organization’s Activities (5C/Resolutions, 9.92) (continuation). [1] The CHAIRMAN stated that, together with the report on decentralization (item 10.4.3, document
6C/OXR/4), the Commission would have to discuss items 10.4.2 (document 6C/OXR/3) and 10.4.4 (document 6C/OXR/15) relating to Unesco’s Re- gional Office in the Western Hemisphere and to the recommendations of the Havana Conference, as well as the draft resolution presented by the Cuban dele- gation (document 6C/DR/30). [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated in the first place that he would favour, not so much “decentral- ization”—an inappropriate term for an organization whose activities were world-wide—but rather the adaptation of the whole programme to the special needs of the various regions of the world, without thereby in any way implying a change in the general programme or structure of the Organization's head- quarters. Contrary to what certain Member States might have thought, such a policy could not lead to a reduction in the numberof experts required at headquarters. There should be no misunder- standing on that point. The so-called decentral- ization policy was bound to be costly in practice, because the headquarters staff would have to do additional work in order to control the activities of the regional offices. [3] With regard to the Field Science Co-operation Offices, the report was perhaps not sufficiently clear, owing to the fact that the Executive Board’s decision to present it had been taken belatedly. It would be for the Programme Commission, together with the Official and External Relations Commission, to consider whether the Science Co-operation Offices should be converted into the future regional offices or not. [4] If the Commission were to decide, in principle, that regional offices should be set up, it would be difficult, for financial reasons, to give effect to such a decision during the current year, and, if those offices were not to remain a pious hope, a con- siderable increase in the Organization’s budget would have to be expected at the next session of the General Conference. [6] Once the financial question had been settled, there would remain the problem of defining the regions. Expressions such as the “Middle East”, “South-East Asia” or the “Far East” had become out of date, and the Programme Commission was in receipt of proposals to replace them by listing in each region those countries with similar cultural, social and economic conditions. It seemed useful to set up a joint committee of the two Commissions to re-group the various States. [6] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) also thought that the term “decentralization” was inappropriate to Unesco's world-wide coverage. It might be better to speak of adapting Unesco's work to the specific needs of certain regions of the world. As for the definition of regions, the Belgian delegate entirely agreed with the Director-General. The whole problem was, incidentally, governed by financial considerations and, in view of the figures given on pages 21 and following of the report (document
6C/OXR/4), it “might well be asked whether it would be possible, at that stage, to put the project for the establishment of regional offices into effect. [7] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) agreed with the Director-General on the question of terminology. Unesco's work wanted, not “decentralizing”, but rather extending and stimulating. Admittedly the o o — ‏ م ت ت C E L e В е Е я о о о д е     VI-3 ORF ICT OL TR countries which were most anxious for the setting up of regional offices were those which had not yet reached the cultural level of other more advanced countries. Unesco’s role was, however, precisely to help themto raise their cultural level. [8] Whenever an organization needed direct con- tacts with individuals—and that was particularly true of Unesco—it seemed necessary to set up regional centres, as the World Health Organization had realized. As for the definition of regions, it was true that the geographical terms still in use were outmoded. There were, however, other possible criteria, such as the linguistic element, which might be used as the basis for a definition. [9] The Lebanese delegate considered that, in view of the importance of the project for establishing regional offices, all Member States might be asked to increase their contributions to the extent of the small difference between the figure of $377,074 in the 1952 budget and that of $475,000, proposed for the 1953-1954 budget. [10] Mr. LUCET (France) thought it would be more accurate to speak of ‘de-concentrating” Unesco's work, not so much as regarded legislative powers and administrative work, which would still have to be done at headquarters, but as regarded the programme Departments. Unfortunately, the plan for extending regional activities would encounter the most serious financial difficulties, since the increase in expenditure required was more than the $100,000 mentioned by the Lebanese dele- gate, as was shown by the report (document 6C/ OXR/4, pages 21 to 24), according to which appro- priations would have to rise from $308,620 in 1951 to $660,000 in 1958. Under existing conditions, it appeared dangerous to undertake such long-term obligations. Nevertheless, the Director-General’s request that the Havana Regional Office should be somewhat enlarged might be met. [11] Mr. STONE (Australia) agreed that the Director-General was correct in laying stress on the need to ensure continuing coherence in Unesco's main work, stated in the most universal terms. To be effective, that work had to be adapted to the needs of the different regions, which would have to be suitably defined. The best method of adaptation was the stimulation of the National Commissions, a process which should continue at an accelerated pace. [12] During the discussion of the Natural Sciences programme, two principles had been adopted:
(1) that centres should be established where they could serve specific local interests, and (2) that they should be financed primarily from the resources of the area concerned. Mr. Stone wished to issue a solemn warning against departing from the prin- EX TERN AS RELATIONS 408 ciples, as well as against indulging in a proliferation of organizational machinery, instead of concentrating on carrying out the substance of the programme. In view of the financial problems involved, he would recommend the Commission not to proceed to the establishment of any further regional offices for the time being. [13] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) considered that, in view of the budgetary problem, a choice would have to be made. The Programme Commission was at the moment studying various projects, among them the publication of a cultural and scientific history of mankind, which would involve expense comparable to that of decentralization. It therefore seemed that it would be useful if the Official and External Rela- tions Commission contacted the Programme Com- mission, so that a choice might be made between two equally useful projects which could not be put into practice simultaneously. [14] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that the problem was not really as simple as that. The adoption of a budget ceiling by the General Confer- ence involved cutting the programme to the extent of some $829,000; new proposals from Member States retained by the Executive Board would require a further expenditure of $32,600, so that altogether $861,600 would have to be deducted from the draft programme. Accordingly, the elimination of a project for publishing a cultural and scientific history of mankind could not alone suffice to redress the balance. [15] Under existing conditions, it seemed that the Commission should confine itself to the following decisions:
(1) A decision of principle in favour of the establishment of regional offices, its practical execution remaining subject to budgetary consider ations.
(2) The adoption of a formal recommendation aimed at persuading Member States to increase their contributions with a view to putting the plan into effect.
(3) Consideration of whether or not the Field Science Co-operation Offices should be absorbed in the newregional offices. The budget estimates in the report had been made on the hypothesis that certain appropriations for the Field Science Co- operation Offices could be transferred to the Unesco Co-operation Offices. If the two institutions were to exist side by side, far larger appropriations would be needed. [16] In conclusion, the Director-General reaffirmed that he was wholly in favour of a regional adapta- tion of the programme, for which purpose regional offices seemed necessary. At the same time, a mere decision of principle, devoid of financial under- takings, would do more harm than good, since care r m l f F T N
409 OF ET CTA LN had always to be taken not to make promises which could not be kept. [17] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) remarked that the reason why certain National Commissions were not sufficiently active was the low cultural standard of their countries. As regarded the funds needed to set up regional offices, the solution proposed by the Italian delegate seemed worth considering, as well as the possibility of asking Member States for additional contributions. Taking it all in all, it might be said that, before publishing a history of culture, it would perhaps be better to give the peoples the means to read it. [18] Mr. CATES (United States of America) agreed entirely with paragraph (ii) of the conclusions on page 25 of document 6C/OXR/4: decentralization was the most important task, but the point to be decided was whether it should take place on a regional or a functional basis. Much work was already being done in the field. Was it possible to justify expenditure on regional offices rather than on bureaux for specific projects which could not be controlled from headquarters? [19] His Government's policy with regard to decentralization might be summarized in four points:
(1) Greater emphasis on field work was desirable as a means of increasing the impact of Unesco on the man in the street.
(2) No resolution concerning organizational expansion should be accepted unless it were accompanied by detailed plans for making the re- solution effective.
(3) Further study would be necessary to determine what could be expected either of centres of the type opened in connexion with fundamental education and scientific co-operation projects, or of regional offices.
(4) The opening of any further regional offices should be accompanied by a simultaneous reduction in headquarters staff. [20] Accordingly, Mr. Cates hoped that the Com- mission would defer taking a decision on decentral- ization until a later session. [21] Mr. MANACH (Cuba) stated that, although his intervention referred to the Havana Regional Office, his remarks were in no way flavoured by local sentiment; the question was one of principle. He called attention to the fact that Article IV D.11 of the Constitution stipulated that “The General Conference shall set up special and technical com- mittees and such other subordinate bodies as may be necessary for its purposes.” Both the Constitution and the Conference held in Mexico established that principle, and the experience of the Organization to date showed no justification for departing from it. [22] Arguing in favour of a decentralization of Unesco’s activities, the Cuban representative declared EXTERNAL RELATIONS VI-3 that the Organization’s universality did not lie in its administrative machinery, nor in the source from which its working directives issued, but ratherin its philosophy and in its ability to evolve criteria valid throughout the world. [23] Only in so far as Unesco was able to diffuse its work so that it had local repercussions in different parts of the world could it flourish and take root in the cultural life of nations. [24] Mr. Mañach said that he had not intended to introduce a note of pessimism, but only to be realistic. Experience, however, had shown that National Commissions were not able alone to sustain and stimulate Unesco’s work. They lacked co- ordination and continuity and it was therefore necessary for constant supervision to be exercised by headquarters staff. Regional bodies could also serve as distributing centres for material supplied by the Secretariat and sometimes even print that material, thus saving the Organization money. If they had their own administration and sufficient funds, as well as a concrete programme of activities, they would preserve their efficiency. [25] Reverting to the case of the Havana Office, the Cuban representative, mindful of its scanty resources, said that with a reduced staff and a lack of material, better results could not be expected. Forty thousand pesos was not sufficient to co- ordinate Unesco’s work adequately in the United States and all over Latin America. [26] Mr. Mañach asked the Organization to do more for the Havana Regional Office, since that ex- periment was a testing ground for the principle of decentralization of Unesco's activities. [27] Mr. MORISSEAU LEROY (Haiti) suggested that the term “decentralization” should be aban- doned in favour of “establishment of regional offices”. [28] As for the financial question, it seemed that the setting up of regional offices would involve not expense only, but also certain savings. Theofficials of a regional office could travel to the countries in their region at less cost than officials from Paris. Haiti lived in perpetual cultural isolation; while not wishing to abandon French culture, to which it remained faithful, it nevertheless needed contacts with its neighbours. [29] The Cuban proposal seemed to call for an entirely different decision from that relating to the more general question of setting up new regional offices. [30] The Haitian delegation fully supported the Director-General’s proposal to set up a Joint Com- mittee of the Programme Commission and the Official and External Relations Commission to study that problem. [31] M. KRUYT (Netherlands) made the point that Unesco could simplify its task by functional    VI-3 orxrérir AND decentralization. He considered that great savings could be made by delegating responsibility for large parts of the programmeto non-governmental organi- zations such as the International Council of Scien- tific Unions. [32] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) the following draft resolution: proposed The Official and External Relations Commission:
1. Recommends that the General Conference signify its agreement in principle that Unesco should resolutely and with all the means at its disposal support every endeavour to adapt its activities to the cultural, scientific and educational needs of the principal regions of the world, in accordance with its Constitution;
9. Considering the budgetary difficulties at present facing the Organization, it recommends that the exten- sion of existing regional offices and Field Science Co- operation Offices, as well as their later increase in number, be postponed until better time;
3. Recommends that the Science Co-operation Offices shall not be systematically converted into regional offices, since they have a specific mission to fulfil;
4. Recommends that a more realistic terminology be adopted, and proposes, in order to avoid ambiguity, that the terms “deconcentration” or “regional adaptation of Unesco’s activities to the needs of Member States” be used in place of “decentralization”. [33] Mr. ATTAGARA (Thailand) said that, if decentralization meant simply that staff members were to be sent from headquarters to different parts of the world, the budget might not need to be increased, but the Organization’s efficiency would certainly fall. On the other hand, if the regional offices were to be additional to the central office, it was clear that much larger contributions would be needed. Although his country would welcome the establishment of a regional office, he believed that further study was necessary to avoid duplication of functions. [34] Mr. CARRERE SAPRIZA (Uruguay) held the opinion that all the speakers heard thus far had displayed an exalted sense of universality. [35] Referring to the role that regional centres and the Field Science Co-operation Offices could play in the effort to strengthen the Organization, the Uruguayan representative gave as an example the Regional Office in Havana. He thought there could be no adverse criticism of the work it had done with its limited funds. He advocated closer relations be- tween the regional centres and headquarters in order to implement their programmes more efficiently. [36] Mr. Carrere Sapriza informed delegates of the valuable assistance lent by his government to the Latin American Field Science Co-operation Office at Montevideo: the results obtained by that Office were most satisfactory. Enumerating aspects of the work of that Office, the Uruguayan represen- tative mentioned the different meetings and con- EXTERNAL RELATIONS gresses it had organized and pointed out that the success achieved was due to fine co-ordination and co-operation among the various Latin American countries. [37] With regard to the proposal of the Belgian representative, Mr. Carrere Sapriza was in favour of maintaining the regional centres and strengthening them. [38] Those regional centres already in existence were living examples of the efficacy of the system. The Uruguayan delegation fully endorsed the prin- ciple of a decentralization of Unesco’s activities. [39] Mr. SALEH (Iraq) supported the principle of the establishment of regional offices. He hoped that they would lead to understanding of the aims of Unesco in parts of the world where there was, for the moment, little appreciation of its ideals. If delegations were wholeheartedly determined to institute those Offices, there would be no budget problem. Nevertheless, some preliminary study would be necessary with regard to the location of the offices. [40] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it would be useful for the Commission to set up a small work- ing party to work with the group appointed by the Programme Commission. The working party could base itself on the draft resolution just sub- mitted by the Belgian delegation. It might agree on the principle of setting up Unesco centres in regions distant from headquarters, draw up a list of States under regions, and study the problem of relationships between Field Science Co-operation Offices and Unesco Co-operation Offices. [41] The Cuban delegate had said that the Havana Office had done good work, although it had a tremendous task and too small a staff. The Secre- tariat was proposing to add two experts to the staff of the Office, and hoped that the Conference would provide the necessary funds. It might, however, also be a good thing to reduce its jurisdiction, 50 as to make it more effective. The Director-General therefore proposed that the activities of the Havana Regional Office should be restricted to the following countries: Cuba, Haiti, Dominican Republic, and the countries of Central America—Mexico, Venezuela and Colombia. [42] At the same time, if the budget made It possible, the Montevideo Field Science Co-operation Office might be transformed into a Regional Co: operation Office for South America, serving Uru- guay, Brazil, Argentina, Bolivia and Ecuador. [43] The functions of the Havana Regional Office should mainly be directed to stimulating the activi- ties of the National Commissions in implementation of the programme as a whole. Regional co-oper- ation offices should intervene only in certain ques tions, such as technical assistance or the fundamental education centres.
410 E T T T I A T T . S E L S P . S T ح ح ا ‎ |     OFFTCI AL AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS [44] The Director-General thought that, instead of postponing the extension of regional offices to better times, the General Conference might ask the Ex- ecutive Board, when preparing the draft programme and budget for 1953-1954, to provide for increased contributions from Member States, to enable the plan to be put into effect, as that seemed to be the wish of most members of the Commission. [45] Mr. COSTA DU RELS (Bolivia) said that Unesco's main objective was to imbue the minds of men with the collective ideal of peace and concord. From that point of view, the establishment of regional offices would do untold good. Like Uru- guay, Bolivia was using every endeavour to maintain cultural contacts with other South American coun- tries, and was most gratified at its relationship with the Havana Regional Office. Nevertheless a reduc- tion in the sphere of influence of the regional offices was undoubtedly desirable, so as to make them more effective. [46] The Bolivian delegation thought it would be useful to take the Belgian proposal as a basis for drawing up a resolution. [47] Further discussion was adjourned to the next meeting. The meeting rose at 17 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Saturday, 30 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameui (Italy) Consideration of the Director-General’s Report on the Functioning of Unesco’s Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere (Item 10.4.2) (document 6C/OXR/3). Report by the Director-General on the Means and Degree of Decentralization Deemed most advisable in the Field of the Organization’s Activities (5C/Resolutions, 9.92) (Items 10.4.3) (document 6C/OXR/4). Consideration of the Recommendations sub- mitted to Unesco by the Representatives of the National Commissions of the Western Hemi- sphere at their First Meeting at Havana: Item proposed by Cuba (Item 10.4.4) (document
6C/DR/30). [1] Continuing the discussion of the three items (which were taken together), Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) said that there was general agreement on the principle of adaptation to the needs of the various regions; the only obstacle was the financial burden involved. Although it appeared from document 6C/ OXR/4 (pages 21 to 23) that an additional $69,000 would be required in 1952 and some $100,000 more m each of the subsequent biennial periods, the cost was not high, considering the advantages to be gained. The Field Science Co-operation Offices were already regarded as Unesco branch offices and were consequently unable to concentrate effectively on their purel; scientific work; it was therefore essential to strengthen them so as to make them true Unesco regional offices. Furthermore, there would be notable economies on headquarter’s expenditure, more particularly in items such as travel. Mr. Chan- diramani therefore wished to submit a resolution defining the functions of regional centres, approving the creation of two new posts for the Havana office, recommending the recruitment of staff during 1952 for an office in South-East Asia, and authorizing the Director-General to devote up to $100,000 a year towards the establishment of an efficient network of co-operation offices. [2] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) reverted to the Belgian draft resolution (document 6C/DR/72). He considered that the time was not appropriate to continue with the expansion of the schemeof regional offices, but that any funds which might become avail- able should be devoted to strengthening the Havana Office. He wished to delete paragraph (3) of the Belgian resolution on the ground that, while the Field Science Co-operation Offices should certainly continue in existence, it was unwise to have parallel organizations in any single region. With regard to   E E R R o S