11-6 ; PLENARY MEETINGS 84 SIXTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 20 June 1951, at 3.62 p.m. President: Mr. HowrAnD SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Discussion of the Director-General’s Report (continuation). Speeches by the delegates of Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Pakistan, Mexico, Uruguay, Italy, Liberia, Denmark and Thailand . . E 84 Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). [1] The PRESIDENT — The Sixth Plenary Meeting of the General Conference is now open. This after- noon our first speaker will be Mr. Parra Pérez, the distinguished Head of the Venezuelan delegation, former President of the Republic of Venezuela and Ambassador in many important capitals of the world. [2] Mr. PARRA PÉREZ (Venezuela) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. -President, ladies and gentlemen, the Venezuelan Delegation does not wish to take up much of the Conference's time. It feels, however, that it should take advantage of the discussion on the Director-General’s report to men- tion a few points which the Venezuelan Government considers particularly important and which can be discussed in detail in the Commissions. Some of these points have already been effectively dealt with by previous speakers, and I need therefore only touch on them very briefly. [3] I should like first of all to express my country’s appreciation of the remarkable zeal and competence with which the Director-General has fulfilled his task in the year that has elapsed since the Conference at Florence. I associate myself entirely with the tributes that have been paid to his report. [4] In general, the Venezuelan Government ap- proves the concentration effected in the programme and the form in which it is presented. It considers that the most important problems with which our Organization has to deal lie in the realm of education, and it is anxious to stress this point of view. It is certain that, without co-ordination of the work of Member States and without the guidance and ad- ministrative assistance which the Organization can give, little progress will be made either in funda- mental education or in any action designed to uphold the dignity of man. These questions are all closely connected. The new literate will not be equipped to live a richer life either to his own benefit or to that of society, unless, together with the skills of read- ing and writing, he also learns to develop his mind and his character, any more than physical fitness can be attained by anyone who has not learnt to look after his body. There are thus many problems which can only be solved by a double process of imparting knowledge to the individual and training him to take his place in society. The Director- General has, so to speak, achieved a synthesis of these two ideas, in presenting us with a special pro- gramme of fundamental education whilst emphasiz- ing the need to enforce in every possible way the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Vene- zuelan Delegation will support the special programme of fundamental education. It is prepared to vote in favour of the resolutions on this subject for which costs are shown within the present budget, even if, to its great regret, it thus becomes necessary to re- duce the funds allocated to other branches of the Organization’s work. [6] Another point which the Venezuelan Govern- ment wishes to stress is technical assistance. It is anxious that Unesco should continue to co-operate in the execution of this programme in accordance with the general lines laid down by the United Nations. My delegation approves in principle the proposals made, or which may be made, for the allocation to this activity of funds taken from the ordinary budget, or for the addition to such funds of part of the amount due to Unesco from the sum set aside by the United Nations for technical assistance for economic development. My delegation also thinks that no further requests should be made to the governments of Member States for contributions for this purpose. The Venezuelan Government, in any case, could add nothing to the very considerable contribution that it has already made to the United Nations in this respect. [6] This will not, however, prevent Venezuela from continuing to give its help in matters requiring inter- national co-operation, provided that such action does not lead to neglect of national activities with the same object in view. The latter are numerous and urgent; they demand the allocation of ever-increasing   fund Mini
7 grati Cent that and of si My in tt or b prop for trair shou of t Ame thes ping For Cult Org: Mex rega seve cern with Une do 1 ont the drav opp! in [8] grav get, gati Stat are the plai said less But to [ viev it sl are shor [9] pro] fere link the My of t to t [10 so     | es PLENARY funds and take up a great deal of the time of the Ministries concerned. [7] The Venezuelan Government is particularly gratified by the establishment of the Patzcuaro Centre, of which greatresults are expected. It believes that this experiment will prove very profitable and will lead to the establishment at an early date of similar institutions in other parts of the world. My delegation will therefore support any proposals in this respect that may be made by other delegations or by the Director-General. We are in favour of the proposal that an interval of time should be fixed for the installation of other regional centres for the training of experts in fundamental education. It should, however, be pointed out that some activities of this sort have already been launched in Latin America by the Organization of American States, and these should be borne in mind so as to avoid overlap- ping, or even clashes, between similar programmes. For instance, next September the Inter-American Cultural Council, provided for in the Charter of the Organization of American States, is to be set up in Mexico, and one of its committees is to study, as regards the countries of the western hemisphere, several of the problems with which Unesco is con- cerned. I am, for various reasons, well acquainted with the working agreement that is in force between Unesco and the Organization of American States. I do not think that this is a suitable moment to dwell on the subject, but my delegation is most anxiousthat the considerations I have just mentioned should be drawn to your attention. There may be an opportunity for explanation during the discussions in Commission. [8] The Venezuelan Government would view with grave concern any increase in Unesco's present bud- get, and its attitude will be explained by the dele- gation. The contributions demanded of Member States for international organizations at the present are enormous compared with those required before the war. The Venezuelan Government does not com- plain of this; as regards Unesco, it may indeed be said that the annual budget of the Organization is less than the cost of half an hour's bombardment. But it cannot be said that Member States” capacity to pay has increased to the same extent; and, in view of the growing needs of the various countries, it should be realized that the financial burdens they are now carrying are as heavy as they can possibly shoulder. [9] The Venezuelan Delegation will support the proposal for two yearly-sessions of the General Con- ference. This question is not, in its view, necessarily linked with a change in the nature and structure of the Executive Board as laid down in the Constitution. My delegation is therefore prepared to vote in favour of the draft resolution on this subject to be presented to the Conference by the Executive Board. [10] The Venezuelan Government is convinced that, so long as the National Commissions for Unesco MEETINGS 11-6 are not fully aware of the important part they are called upon to play in Unesco’s work, the Organi- zation is bound to be too much taken up with administrative work and its influence on the outlook of the peoples of the world will in consequence be limited. For this reason, the Venezuelan National Commission has lately been reorganized and has undertaken a number of noteworthy activities, as will be seen from the final text of the report on the subject contained in the second volume of Member States’ Reports, to be published by the Secretariat after the Conference. [11] Tt maybe said that all the educational schemes undertaken or planned by the Venezuelan Govern- ment are in harmony with Unesco’s aims, on which they are based. The Government's action in this respect is truly praiseworthy, but the delegation has no time to give details on the subject in plenary session. [12] In accordance with the recommendations put forward by the Regional Conference held lately at Havana, the budget which will come into force in July next will contain an item to cover the expenses of the permanent secretariat of the National Com- mission. [13] Such, ladies and gentlemen, are the remarks that my delegation wishes to make on the Director- General's report. In conclusion, I should like to say that my government has full confidence in Unesco and views its future with optimism, in spite of the grave problems by which the world is now beset. [14] The PRESIDENT — I thank the distinguished Mr. Parra Pérez, Head of the Venezuelan delegation, for his cogent remarks this afternoon. I now call upon Mr. Ribnikar, Head of the delegation of Yugoslavia. [15] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men: I should like to make a few general observa- tions on the draft programme for 1952. The Yugoslav delegation finds that as a whole it marks a long step forward as compared with programmes for previous years and I make this affirmation with the keenest pleasure before beginning my brief statement. The new programme is conceived far more realistically than any so far placed before us. It is better adapted to Unesco’s actual capacities and better dovetailed with the activities of other United Nations organi- zations working in the cause of peace and intellectual co-operation. We wholeheartedly approve of its markedly realistic character and gladly pay tribute to the Executive Board and the Director-General. [16] Obviously this draft has not been produced without a concentration of activities entailing the sacrifice of many which, we know, were often too academic in character. As the introduction tells us, this concentration has been achieved on a basis of priority criteria adopted and recommended by the — ыы
11-6 PLÉNAWT Economic and Social Council. We are sure that these criteria will be of value to all the Specialized Agencies in drawing up their programmes of work. But, as we are now dealing with activities peculiar to Unesco and with the many and varied problems it has to solve, we believe that one single test should be applied—that mentioned in Resolution 9.113 of the Fifth Session, where the guiding motive of Unesco’s work is set out. In particular, we read here that the Organization's various activities should “tend more directly towards the maintenance and consolidation of peace” (of course, “within the frame- work of the United Nations and its other Specialized Agencies”). With this test as a basis we must in every instance ask ourselves: “Does the proposed activity contribute directly or indirectly to the cause of peace?” And, according to the answer, we must decide upon its advisability or urgency. I feel sure that today we are still agreed on the necessity to apply this test before all others. [17] Of the two main themes that run like a leit- motif through the new programme, the first—action in the service of Human Rights—can be taken as contributing in greater or lesser degree to the main- tenance of peace, and this the Yugoslav Delegation is ready to support without reservation. With regard to the second main theme—fundamental education in under-developed countries—clearly this activity can only make an indirect and long-term contribution to the cause of peace. But, in spite of this, we approve it in principle and hope that in practice it will lead to new forms of intellectual co-operation. In its main outline we also approve the twelve-year fundamental education project, although we cannot agree with the methods proposed for carrying it out. [18] When we talk of direct action in the cause of peace, we think chiefly—as we emphasized last year— of the need to win over to such action hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of teachers, scholars and artists, for they are the people in every country re- sponsible for working out Unesco’s programme, and without their co-operation our activity could never succeed, nor be brought home to the youth of a nation, nor to the great mass of its people. And we know that, if Unesco cannot reach the people, its results will be negligible. [19] At Florence last year we proposed a conference for intellectual co-operation in the service of peace, believing that it would provide Unesco with sugges- tions on the best way of using the services of the various international associations and organizations of scholars, teachers, writers, artists, journalists, and so on, in active co-operation with Unesco. True to this belief, we have organized our National Commis- sion so that it shall resemble, in form and method, a people’s organization. We have called in represen- tatives of all the national associations and organi- zations in various fields of work, not only those for intellectuals, but for young people, workers and MEETINGS 86 women, all of them elected on strictly democratic principles. I do not want to make any suggestions on this point, but I am convinced that with national commissions elected on these lines we could achieve better than in any other way the aim we had in view when, last year, we proposed a conference of re- presentatives of national associations. In a previous report by the Director-General it was stated that many national commissions, whose status had been for- mally established, had not yet undertaken any real work in the service of Unesco, and that in these cir- cumstances it would be idle to think that the Organization could in the near future depend entirely upon the commissions to ensure the spread of its activities on a world scale. If the national com- missions were everywhere composed of freely chosen representatives from national organizations and associations, I feel sure that they would give Unesco the strong support to which the Director-General re- ferred in his report. [20] Perhaps you wonder why I am stressing the question of national commissions. It is because I believe that Unesco will have to work more and more on a national basis. As far as strictly scientific work goes—in pure science, for instance—the same general scientific method can often be used in all countries. But the same method cannot be used everywhere for primary or fundamental education. Modes of life differ too much from one country to another, and even from one area to another in the same country; economic, social and political development varies so much that we must discover the method appropriate to the particular situation in each country. This cannot be done from a “centre”, even a “regional centre”. It must be done within the country itself. For this reason we believe that groups of funda- mental education specialists cannot be trained in such centres. And we believe that in its suggested de- centralization policy Unesco will soon be obliged, if only for practical reasons, to complete the process and give most, if notall, of its attention to the activi- ties of national centres. Seen in this perspective, the problem of preparing the national commissions for more important and responsible work becomes, in our opinion, extremely urgent. [21] For the same reason we believe that it would be a mistake to found international centres and research institutes, particularly if they are to do research work in social science, where there is a wide divergence of views and ideas on method. Inevitably the work of these international centres and institutes will be unilateral and will tend to impose views not held by all the member countries. That is why we think Unesco must use the comparative method in its surveys and investigations—which, speaking in practical terms, means that it must assign the essential part of its research work to national bodies who will each apply their own method (or must help to form such bodies if they do not yet exist). The    ض | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [ | E‏ Ë‏
87 PLENARY resultant analytical ard comparative studies would enable most valuable ge1eral conclusions to be drawn on each problem. [22] It would be a greve error, prejudicial to inter- national co-operation, vor Unesco to make a stand upon any one scientific method, any one philo- sophical conception, any one ideology. Besides, what ideology could Unesco arlopt that would allow it to develop international co->peration whilst deferring to cultural independence and national sovereignty? In this age we are witnessing the conflict of rival ideologies—and the conflict is no less bitter for being based upon extraneous circumstances, upon the particular form of economic development in the world today. [23] In this struggle between ideologies fighting for exclusive supremacy, there is to our minds, only one course for Unesco to follow: it must adapt its activities, not to an ideology, no matter what it may be, and, above all, not to an outworn ideology, but to the realities of social existence viewed as im- partially as possible. By right guidance as well as practical action Unesco must prove that it can and will be realistic. And, in this case, to be realistic means to be effective, to consider the real needs of Member States as characteristics of their civilizations. To be realistic also means to develop cultural co- operation between nations, strenuously suppressing domination by any one group—the main obstacle to all co-operation. To be a realist means to resist being swept away by the visionary idea of a universality claimed as “absolute” by Unesco; to come to grips with the facts of human relationships as they are, and in this way to contribute to the maintenance of peace between nations. [24] Unesco’s activities grow from yearto year. Its material and technical assets fall regrettably below the needs of Member States. But the increase in cultural co-operation under Unesco’s auspices bears witness to man’s growing faith in the United Nations and to his strengthened belief in international solidarity. That is why we must banish pessimism from Unesco. We believe peace can be achieved in spite of all, for experience shows us that, though men may not always have a common ideology, they can often agree upon practical plans. By following the path of realism, by aiming at objectives, the im- mediate value of which all men acknowledge, Unesco will end by fulfilling the hopes inspired throughout the world on the day that it took up its task. With unqualified pleasure we see that that path of realism has become Unesco’s path. [25] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Head of the delegation of Yugoslavia for his remarks. I am particularly happy that he has reminded us that we should banish pessimism and, in fact, believe that peace is possible despite all hindrances. I now call upon Mr. Sharif, Head of the delegation of Pakistan. MEETINGS IT-6 [26] Mr. S. M. SHARIF (Pakistan) — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my delegation 1 wish to associate myself with the warm tribute paid to the Director-General, to his qualities of imagina- tion, intellectual coherence and dynamism, so aptly described by our distinguished President. The Re- port of the Director-General shows steady progress in the realization of Unesco’s aims; an increasing membership and a growing collaboration between the Member States are sure indications of Unesco's vitality. The policy of concentration and consolida- tion, of giving priority to projects, such as funda- mental education, free and compulsory schooling and scientific research, which have a direct bearing on the welfare of mankind, is concrete evidence of Unesco’s endeavour to promote mutual good-will and understanding among nations. The Director-General, wisely guided by the Executive Board, and ably assisted by the Secretariat, has every reason to be proud of Unesco’s achievements. [27] The aim of Unesco is to promote the cause of peace—a cause which has the full support of Pakistan. We firmly believe that the defences of peace, to be lasting, must be built on strong spiritual forces. We have developed an ideology which lay inherent in our civilization. The main principles of our ideology are the same as those of Human Rights, so rightfully acclaimed by the peoples of the world, who have joined the United Nations and to which Unesco is pledged. Three of these principles stand out as guides to our present activities and future plans; these are the principles of universal brother- hood, tolerance and social justice. In the few years of our existence we have progressed far in translat- ing these principles into practice. To give just a few illustrations, we have adopted these principles as the basis of our educational planning and we have in- corporated them in our curricula and textbooks. We have adopted the principle of adult suffrage with equal rights for men and women. We have enacted several laws to promote the principle of equality of opportunity in the social and economic spheres. We have decided to wage a waron illiteracy and ignorance, and we are trying to find ways and means of giving all our people free primary education and of expanding and increasing the number of institutions where higher education will be within the means of all who have the aptitude for it. We have undertaken numerous development projects, calculated to raise the living standards of our people. We are not unmindful of the difficulties which stand in our way—centuries of neglect, ignorance and lack of funds which are indeed formidable obstacles. However, we have high hopes and are determined to promote projects, which will translate into deeds the principles of universal brotherhood and social justice, for we are convinced that a society modelled on this pattern offers the best guarantee against internal and external strife. My delegation will
11-6 PLENARY therefore support such resolutions submitted to the General Conference as are calculated to promote these principles. First, there are proposals to disseminate information about Human Rights. The propagation of such knowledge is a necessary prelude to the practice of these principles and it is my delegation’s earnest hope that the nations of the world will give concrete shape to these rights in the not too distant future. Secondly, there is a proposal for the creation of a world network of fundamental education centres. We agree with the Director-General that as long as more than half the world remains illiterate and ignorant, no true understanding is possible among nations of the world. This proposal therefore has our wholehearted support. My delegation, however, feels that the scope of the project and its tempo need to be increased. We feel that six Centres, as pro- posed, would be quite inadequate to serve the needs of all the under-developed countries of the world, and we would press for a larger number. We also feel that the establishment of these centres should be speeded up. We appreciate the difficulties of finance, but it should be possible for Unesco to devise a plan for securing the necessary funds for so important a project. [28] Again, there is the Technical Assistance Plan, to which my delegation attaches very great impor- tance. It was our good fortune to have the Director- General in our country recently. He was able to see much of what we are doing, to appreciate our hopes, our successes and our limitations. My fellow dele- gates must have heard him mention these in his speech. He knows that while we have the will and the enthusiasm, we suffer from a lack of technicians and technical equipment. These are very serious obstacles to the proper development of our resources. What is true of Pakistan is equally true of several other countries in similar circumstances. If war is to be avoided, and goodwill promoted among nations, it is essential that technical assistance, in the form of personnel and equipment should be provided for these countries. We listened with great interest to the brilliant speeches delivered this morning by the distinguished heads of the United Kingdom and United States delegations. In these, they referred at some length to the necessity of contributing towards the economic betterment of under-developed coun- tries. They mentioned the far-reaching point 4 pro- gramme, the Colombo plan and other similar pro- grammes. These are heartening enough but their implementation is not always speedy. We realize that Unesco, with its limited finances cannot under- take ambitious schemes of technical assistance. But there is no reason why Unesco should not impress on the United Nations the imperative need for provid- ing such assistance on a large scale. It is my dele- gation’s sincere hope that the United Nations will be able to actin time in this important matter. We are grateful to Unesco for the technical assistance it has given us, but when it is borne in mind that MEETINGS 88 Pakistan is the youngest of all nations, and that it has had a mere four years tc develop, the assistance we have obtained has hardly touched the fringe of our problems. [29] In the literature provided to us I find numerous references to regional activities. It is true that the projects undertaken by Unesco should be linked to local needs and requirements and culture, but my delegation wishes me to utter a word of caution. Undue emphasis on regionalism is likely to promote regional grouping which will militate against Unesco’s ideal of securing complete understanding among all nationsof the world, and not merely among groups of nations. My delegation would therefore like to suggest that Unesco devise a plan whereby all Member States would have opportunities of being associated, at their option, even with regional activi- ties. [30] To conclude, Mr. President, in the short period of our existence, my country has had to face insuperable difficulties and to go through tribulations and sacrifices unknown to history. We have come out of our difficulties with courage and determina- tion. We are now set on tasks of development and reconstruction. We sincerely hope that Unesco will give us the necessary measure of sympathy and understanding for Pakistan, with its ideals, its re- sources in men and materials, can be a source of great strength to the peace of the world. [31] The PRESIDENT — I thank the distinguished Head of the delegation of Pakistan for his remarks and I now call upon Mr. Castro Leal, the Head of the delegation of Mexico. [32] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, there is no doubt that, of all the Specialized Agencies set up by the United Nations for the organi- zation of international co-operation, Unesco is the most complex, covers the widest variety of subjects and has the most promising future. [33] It would be comparatively easy to define the aims and scope of international collaboration in basic economic matters, in the formulation of uniform standards to govern important branches of national life, in the co-ordination of governmental and pri- vate activities that may be of world-wide interest or for the avoidance of clashes between public services which, by their nature, are bound to go beyond national frontiers. But Unesco, in addition to its well-defined sphere of action, has a mission to fulfil. In its campaign for the advancement of peace, it must reach the minds of men, and it must do so through education, science and culture. Through this Agency, whose creation is a credit to our times, systematic co-operation between the nations of the world in matters of the mind is to be organized for the first time in history. To lift ideas on to a higher plane, to guide men’s thoughts aright, has thus, for      w h T I F T U T A S E E E E T E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E T E E E E E A A I —
89 PLENARY the first time in history, become the aim of inter- national action. The domain of education, science and culture is immense, and so, from the beginning, it was difficult to arrive at a definition of Unesco, and to decide on its nature and functions as an organ for inter-governmental co-operation and on its pro- gramme and activities as a Specialized Agency. At this early stage, its form was indefinite, its pro- gramme was slow in fitting in with action under- taken at the national level, its activities—necessarily very varied—became dispersed. As time has gone on, however, Unesco’s form has become clearer. And what is very important is that this definite shape has not emerged as a result of mere paper schemes and administrative work but as a result of practical action, in the field, to deal with the prob- lems which it has to solve. [34] If we can say in all truth, as has already been said in this assembly, that Unesco’s work during the past year has been successful, this is because its action has been more definite and more con- centrated. An important fact emerges from the Director-General’s report for the past year and from the draft programme for 1952; Unesco is now de- finitely in touch with actual situations and is thus able to lend its resources to assist in the solution of such national or regional problems as lie within its sphere of action. The enormous field of education, science and culture has become more clearly defined. Through practical action, it has been possible to determine which are the most important and urgent problems which need constant attention and which can be dealt with as occasion arises. Concentration of effort is now an established practice. [35] Unesco can already show practical achieve- ments in some of its vast fields of activity, Before the minds of men can be influenced, some means must be found of reaching those minds. And half the world’s population is still in need of elementary instruction in reading and writing. The establish- ment of the Fundamental Education Centre at Patzcuaro proves Unesco’s awareness that, for its cam- paign for the improvement of cultural standards, the first step is to train the necessary workers and produce material. It is a great satisfaction to me that the name of Mexico is associated with Unesco’s first achieve- ment in the domain of fundamental education, and I should like to express my gratitude to Mr. Trygve Lie, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his kind words on the assistance afforded by the govern- ment of my country to that Centre. The special project now being considered by Unesco for the creation of a network of fundamental education centres, in various parts of the world, shows clearly that Unesco’s present resources are inadequate for its intensive programme. In order to set up the six centres mentioned in that project, Unesco will have to seek funds outside its regular budget. [36] Unesco has put education, science and culture at the service of peace. Two examples of this MEETINGS 11-6 action may be mentioned: firstly, the studies on the race question, which show that there is no scientific justification for making a distinction between men on account of race; and secondly, the studies on the idea of history as narrating the progress made by the community of mankind in its efforts to attain the common good. [37] Unesco’s closer touch with actual situations, which we consider to be a very important result of its past year’s work, has also clarified certain ideas. Universality was at times a vague concept, apt to be confused with uniformity. Unesco is now clearly aware that the world is made up of many diverse elements—that what is needed is not uniformity, whether of peoples or of cultures, but harmony, as the Director-General said in his speech; that each region should develop its own way of life, in harmony with the others. The meeting of the National Com- missions of the American continent, held at Havana, illustrated the soundness of this idea. [38] We must not pass over in silence what Unesco has done in the matter of human rights. The increas- ing efforts made by the Director-General to ensure that the Declaration of Human Rights shall become more widely known are entirely justified. The rights of man are at once the alpha and omega of culture; they constitute a moral rule worthy to be followed, and should serve as a guide and inspiration to the world’s great cultural institutions. I should like to mention the enthusiastic co-operation afforded by the Latin American countries in the campaign for the dissemination of knowledge about human rights. [39] Now that Unesco has got to grips with actual conditions, it is clear that its financial resources are inadequate for the task it has to fulfil. We realize, of course, that there is financial stringency on all sides but Unesco should at least have a budget large enough to enable it to continue its present activities. Prices have risen all over the world, and if Unesco is to maintain its present level of work its budget must be increased to take account of that rise. But I should be sorry if cold figures were the final criterion applied by the Conference. Unesco ought not to remain on a fixed level. The more important we consider its work to be, the more we should be pre- pared to face the need for future increases in its budget. Owing to present circumstances, govern- ments are having to expend exceptionally heavy sums on preparation for war, but this does not justify a reduction in expenditure to ensure peace. And a share of that expenditure for peace should go to Unesco. We hope that the achievements of the past year and the proposals for 1952, which will convince governments that Unesco is now engaged on well defined and practical projects, will also make them wish to provide the Organization with the necessary resources, whether budgetary or extra-budgetary, to enable it to carry out both its regular programme and its special schemes.   il
11-6 PLENARY [40] The PRESIDENT — I greatly appreciate the remarks made by Mr. Castro Leal, Head of the dele- gation of Mexico, especially his remarks concerning the special projects in fundamental education, for, since the Regional Centre opened at Patzcuaro, he has had an opportunity to see the pilot project actually in operation in his own country. I next call on Mr. Zabala Muniz, the distinguished Head of the delegation of Uruguay. [41] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) — [Transla- tion from the Spanish] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I must apologize that my remarks will be extempore, but what I have to say on behalf of my delegation is so short and simple that I think I can dispense with a prepared speech. We have seen the draft programme proposed by the Executive Board and heard the Dierctor-General's admirable speech, and the Uruguayan delegation is now only waiting for the Commissions to finish their work before determining its own views on each and all of the questions with which we have to deal. I should, however, mention two matters which clearly de- monstrate the position adopted by my delegation as regards Unesco’s work. From the universal nature of the Organization, its projects must necessarily be on a vast and ambitious scale. But in the very extent of those projects there is an inherent risk of vague- ness. This is how we would propose to counteract that risk. The Uruguayan delegation is prepared to support all the institutions set up by Unesco that have not been definitely proved by experience to be unnecessary. These institutions have been work- ing for so short a time that it cannot be said that they have failed. We have in our country a case in point: the Field Science Co-operation Office at Montevideo, whose work is eminently successful, although it has been in existence only a very short time. [42] The Government of my country intends to make available to it all the means at its disposal for the use not only of our country, but of all others that might benefit from its work and resources. I should add that this does not mean that we shall be opposed to new Unesco projects; on the contrary, we should be favourably disposed towards any scheme designed to strengthen Unesco’s action and extend its good influence in the world. A distinguished speaker at this assembly has said that Unesco has to choose between the throne and the altar. It seems to me that the choice Unesco has to make is somewhat dif- ferent—between the cultured élite and the ordinary citizen. The Uruguayan delegation wishes to stress the need for Unesco to intensify every branch of its activity that relates to the ordinary citizen or is directly beneficial to him. [43] For this is the sum of all our aims, from the beginning. We have faith in man and in his bound- less potentialities; we have faith in all men of all countries. Our own country, though small, affords an example of what can be done by Unesco’s efforts   MEETINGS 90 to advance the cause of peace, to foster brotherly co-operation between men and to improve physical and moral standards. It is a matter of pride in our small nation not to make any distinction between men on account of the nationality they had before coming to our country to find useful employment in an atmosphere of peace. No one who is prepared to work by our side for the common good is questioned about his religious opinions. Political persecution is unknown among us, and victims of that persecution are offered an asylum within our frontiers. We believe in peace and the greatness of humanity and are prepared to devote to them all our spiritual and physical strength. For this reason, Mr. President, I feel free to say that the Uruguayan delegation feels itself at home in an assembly of this kind. [44] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Head of the delegation of Uruguay for his address. We might all take to heart his concluding remark that we believe in peace and the greatness of mankind. I should now like to call upon the representative of the dele- gation of Italy, the Senator and former Minister Count Alexander Casati, at present President of the Italian National Commission. [45] Mr. CASATI (Italy) [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the complete intellectual integrity and noble imagina- tion found in the man who has thrown himself unsparingly and whole-heartedly into the task before him, combined with the unflinching realism of the report in front of us, once more permits, or rather obliges, me, in the name of the Italian delegation, to express to the Director-General our admiration for the tireless activity which he devotes to Unesco, despite difficulties and disappointments. Reading the pages of his report and listening to his summary of it, I was reminded of Benjamin Constant’s medita- tions in his Private Journal on some words of William the Silent which appealed to Mr. Torres Bodet and were quoted by him. Constant wrote: “In doing our duty we cannot go wrong, for the result, whatever it may be, cannot affect what we had to do.” In this instance a substantial result has been achieved and—considering our wellnigh illimit- able task and our very limited means—a successful one. [46] I wish to avoid going into details of the report and into the particular problems which fall within the province of our commissions, or indulging in useless elaboration or generalities. I will therefore limit myself to two questions which claim our atten- tion because they are big problems, and urgent prob- lems. The first is that of the national commissions and the constant close contact which must be maintained between Unesco and Member States. Mr. Torres Bodet was indeed right when he said during the Florence Conference—and I hope I can       ا م ك ح ا ا ل ج ا د — —   - W E n ° .
91 PLENARS say it now without danger of wounding understand- able susceptibilities—that Unesco’s weakness comes not from an excess of international resolutions, but rather from a lack of national resolutions to put them into effect in each country. But I believe that, to encourage the realistic action incumbent on Member States if we are to urge along this path governments harassed by day to day affairs, the National Commis- sions, whilst maintaining active association with Unesco and furthering a policy of expansion for Unesco itself, must remain closely tied to the States whose offspring they are, and try to become the conscience of Unesco within those States. [47] Here we are already touching upon the pro- gramme, and this raises the other question which particularly interests and absorbs me: that of decid- ing the sequence of priorities and spread-over necessary, if there is to be a concentration of effort without retreat from our principles, or from the aims that are the justification of Unesco’s existence. [48] To my mind activities will become more effective the more they are specialized. Of course, we proclaim the universality of culture; but there are different stages of culture with different needs to be satisfied. We believe it is logical that a resolution should have a certain effect in one country and not in another. [49] Therefore we believe that Unesco should work, not only on an overall programme for the whole world, but on more specialized programmes which would take account of the more specialized needs of different parts of the world. We are, of course, strong supporters of the fundamental edu- cation project, but we also think that the basic and essential problem of Europe is a different one. The problem of Europe is to a great extent the problem of its intellectuals, not only intellectuals in the highest sense of the word, that is to say, all men of learning, but also the problem of young intellectuals who have not yet been able to prove their worth, and thereby reach a point from which they can face life with confidence. It is not difficult to realize that the problem of European intellectuals is the most acute problem, when we think of the streams of refugees thrown out upon the world’s highways because they are guilty of wishing to think their own thoughts in countries where to think is itself a sin. [60] The Italian delegation concedes that an effort must be made to solve this problem: perhaps even by reducing other sections of the programme and increasing activities to support the effort which these intellectuals can themselves make to spread the idea of freedom. The Italian delegation will bring some practical suggestions to this purpose before the appropriate Commissions. Here let me only observe that the concentration of Unesco’s efforts on fewer objects is not a weakening of its activity, but a strengthening of it, a consolidation. And even on this point Mr. Torres Bodet, as always, comes to my aid. Has this programme of concentra- MEETINGS 11-6 tion not been his own programme ever since the General Conference in Beirut and from the earliest day of his directorship? At the 1949 Paris Con- ference, when speaking in favour of concentration, he said that the fundamental education campaign was alone sufficient to justify Unesco’s existence. To this let us add the support given to the Association of Universities and to schemes for exchanging persons and books. For several years we have collected information on all activity in the realm of education, science and letters; we have sent experts out into all parts of the world, we have summoned to Paris cultural representatives from every country. We have con- ducted research, printed innumerable documents, formed committees, arranged seminars and called conferences everywhere possible. We have a right to be proud of our record on that score. But if our work is to be successful we must not imitate the farmer who harvests his corn andstores most of it at home in his granary. The harvest we have gathered in Unesco is already large. Documentation and infor- mation—we have them in plenty. Now it is time for Unesco to go out amongst the nations, in the name of that freedom which is peace, bearing to them through education, science and culture, the light of a world that is tolerant and respectful of the rights of others, a world international law and moral solidarity. [51] We need a guiding idea, T would even say a guiding ideal, in choosing Unesco's future activities: the Florentine ideal of a broader humanism, which inspires us in Paris, the famed home of reason, where next year, with Italy's assent, that master of arts and sciences, who is a master to us all—Leonardo da Vinci—will be commemorated. May his name be for us a symbol. [52] The PRESIDENT — I thank the distinguished member of the Italian delegation for his remarks. I now call upon the Head ofthe delegation ofLiberia, Mr. Massaquoi. [53] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) — Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen, human action is charac- terized by three essential qualities; (1) knowledge,
(2) volition and (3) freedom, which are therefore called the “principles” of human action. All three must be present in an act before it can be regarded as human. But human action is controlled by reason and will, and will in turn depend on intellect; it is a psychical appetite and it desires only that which is known and what the intellect presents to it as desirable. Hence knowledge is a necessary condition to human action and a perfect human act, therefore, is one of which we have perfect knowledge and which is perfectly under the control of the will. [64] According to St. Thomas Aquinas, the end of man is the maintenance or realization of the in- dividual, or the life of the individual, or the self.
11-6 PLENARY Therefore, the goal of man, who is his own guide, and the shaper of his own destiny, cannot be self- maintenance or development but the attainment of those ends which he is naturally fitted to attain, the performance of such acts, the adoption of such means as will ultimately secure him the unity of all appetites within him. These appetites, as we have seen, all tend naturally and primarily towards an object outside themselves and outside man. Natural pro- gress therefore, in the case of these faculties, means movement, not to a higher condition of the self, but to a fuller and fuller attainment of objects beyond the self. Man's final objective end, therefore, cannot be a condition of the self. But, one may enquire, is not knowledge also a condition of the self? Does it not merely afford us increased power of mind, more general information, a more refined culture or some other inner condition of the soul, and, therefore, is not our objective end an inner state rather than any outer object? But the end of thinking cannot be the inner power to know nor the inner habit of know- ledge, that is, knowledge possessed but not actually in exercise. The power to walk, to sing, to eat is useless if it does not lead on to operation. But our final end is to be attained through knowledge. And since, as we have said, external things, as objects of cognition, are more fundamental in the order of nature than any internal state, it follows that our final objective end will be external. The final objective end of man, therefore, is attainable through knowledge only. Hence it is, ladies and gentlemen, that the founders of Unesco were right in their con- viction that all human acts begin primarily in the minds of men and that therefore it was in the minds of men that we were to sow the present in order to reap the future. [55] The Director-General in his report on the activities of the Organization which now forms the subject of this discussion made the following significant statement: To an increasing extent, Unesco is emerging from the initial phase in which the chief problems were those of organization and method. Those problems are still far from being perfectly solved; none the less, they no longer retain their previous urgency and predominance. From now on the important thing is not so much how Unesco should be run, but what it can do. [56] The Director-General further stated that the most accurate pointer to the present position of the Organization now is the measure of our progress in co-operation between the Organization, the sovereign States, who constitute the membership of the organi- zation, and the independent specialists. The logical inference to be drawn from the two statements is that from now on Unesco must commit itself to a programme of action based primarily upon the principle of tripartite co-operation between the organization, its Member States and the independent specialists—those independent specialists who have MEETINGS 92 pledged their services to the task of implanting and nurturing the idea of peace first in the minds of men, and who must have themselves, as a prerequisite qualification, imbibed those principles which alone will make them the true and competent torchbearers of the idea of international solidarity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is in this particular field of action that Unesco's greatest tasks lie—the selec- tion of specialists who have faith in the common man and who, in the language of Euripedes, the Greek, would be competent thus to acclaim: And avert thine eyes from the love of the wise, That have honour in proud man's sight, The simple nameless herd of Humanity Hath deeds and faith that are truth enough for me. [57] If the independent specialists must be one of the main tools with which Unesco is to carry outits programme in education, natural and social sciences, cultural activities, mass communication, exchange of persons, rehabilitation, technical assistance for under- developed areas of the world, etc., then in the lan- guage of the Messiah, he must be the “salt of the earth” and take care not to lose his flavour in order that he may not be thrown before the feet of men. Those intellectuals and specialists are like the Presi- dent of Ethnic Affairs Incorporated of New York, who has so little knowledge of and feeling for the native African that, in his article in the New York Times “Governing in Liberia”, he described President Tubman of Liberia, one of the greatest Africans of our age, as a tyrant, and, in his stead, acclaimed a traitor and a Moscow-inspired agitator as the true Gandhi of West Africa, as the true liberator. They themselves are traitors to the cause of world peace, and Unesco must beware lest, in constructing the edifice of peace in the minds of men, it is not employing tools that will construct the type of edifice that was built in Korea, Germany and Greece, edifices that were doomed from the beginning, and freedoms that had to be fought for all over again at the cost of thousands of human lives, misery and want. Unesco needs only that kind of specialist, that kind of independent specialist, who will not permit his individual concept of truth to betray the cause of universal justice and peace. [58] The Director-General, in the report now under review, also sounded a similar chord when he pointed out that: Unesco more than any other institutions, needs the sup- port of public opinion, for its mission can be fulfilled only in the minds of men. . . . But the world of today is very different from that which our founders foresaw. The tragic divergencies in outlook that now divide the peoples are leading them even further from the ideal of man’s intellectual and moral solidarity which is the core of Unesco’s philosophy. Peace daily demands a greater effort of mind and will, of faith and of charity. For our generation there is no easy path to peace; it will be a long hard climb. —
93 PL NAHE [59] But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this does not mean that we are to view the future with pessimism; “there is nothing new under the sun”; man has faced greater problems than the one we are now facing, and at times when there was less unanimity of purpose and less material force at his command. “Sure, the darkest hour of the night is but the dawn of day.” [60] Count Jacini, our indefatigable Chairman of the Executive Board, quoted the Director-General as having said that “Unesco is but the sum of the co- ordinated efforts of all the Member States and their active participation in the execution of the pro- gramme”. When the nations of the world met and decided that there can be no lasting peace unless it rests upon the support of the peoples of the world, a peace which counts upon the solidarity of mankind, this decision, to my mind, placed the primary re- sponsibility for the realization of such a radical re-orientation of man’s efforts for world peace, upon those freedom-loving nations of the world, who would be willing to subscribe to the lofty principles laid down in the preamble of the Constitution of Unesco. If this is true, ladies and gentlemen, why, then, should an organization comprising about
60 nations, allegedly peace-loving nations, some of whom annually spend millions of dollars to maintain armed forces for the purpose of defending them- selves against attack by a hostile force; an organi- zation of States whose policy, aims and convictions are to avoid war by first constructing in the minds of men the defences of peace, since, it is in the minds of men that wars begin; an organization whose basic programme aims at .the ultimate ex- termination of ignorance, disease, poverty and low standards of living, the four vermin that have from millenium to millenium undermined and thwarted the cause of human freedom and understanding—I repeat, why should such an organization not receive greater material and moral support from its Member States than the annual pittance of some $9,000,000 and the faint gestures of goodwill and co-operation which it has in the past received? Why? Is it because we do not believe in the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind, or are we inclined to feel that the sacrifice essential to the maintenance of such a glorious undertaking is too great for us to bear? Or do we intend to give up the task after we have felled the trees, cleared the field and put our hands to the plough? Ladies and gentlemen, posterity would then regard us as the vainest of men that ever had trod life's rugged path. [61] Our main answers to these questions, when viewed from the standpoint of the programme for
1952, with all its ramifications, may be framed. as follows:
(1) The creation of a Reserve Fund within a pe- riod of five years, in addition to the Working Capital Fund, to which every Member State should con- MEETINGS 11-6 tribute proportionately until the fixed sum or ceiling required for this purpose has been reached.
(2) The continuation of contributions by every Member States to the Working Capital Fund.
(3) In the event of a change from annual to biennial sessions, slightly to increase the contri- bution to the Working Capital Fund in order to provide for whatever shortages might occur.
(4) The organization of a Unesco Fund Drive among the National Commissions and the non- governmental organizations of the world co-operating with Unesco, for raising funds for Unesco’s ordinary budget as well as for the Reserve Fund.
(5) The creation of a permanent Ways and Means Committee to study the entire problem of Finance. [62] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Liberia, poor as it is, is willing to give—and to give generously—within her limited material resources, towards the financial support of Unesco’s programme, because we have implicit confidence in its aims, in its spirit of co- operation, in the sincerity and devotion of its Director-General, and in all those great minds which, since the founding of this Organization, have laboured selflessly for the maintenance of this bastion of peace and justice to all, regardless of race, colour, creed or sex. The world depends upon Unesco and Unesco can depend on Liberia. [63] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Head of the delegation of Liberia for his generous remarks and for his specific proposals for the programme of Unesco. I now call upon Mr. Blinkenberg of the Danish delegation. [64] Mr. BLINKENBERG (Denmark) — [Transla- tion from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In the name of the delegation of Den- mark I wish first to express our admiration for the report presented by the Director-General, Mr. Torres Bodet, and described by him yesterday in a most excellent speech, during which he gave a masterly summary of the results obtained, the difficulties at present encountered, and the short- and long-term aims of Unesco's work. We note with great satis- faction the work accomplished during these last few years, in which the activity of our Organization has become less nebulous and more concentrated. It has begun to bear its first fruits. Its achievements are already large, its future promise larger still. We are all convinced that its work is heavy with promise and that one day its vital importance for the future of civilization will be acclaimed by all. [65] Having said this (very briefly, no doubt too briefly, but our President has asked us to be brief), I too want to pay tribute to those who merit it, for the excellent preparatory work they have done for this Sixth General Conference. The draft pro-
11-6 PLENA gramme does really present the whole picture of Unesco's possible activities and the facts on which to base our policy. This programme has already been discussed to useful purpose by the National Commission of Denmark, meeting under the Chair- manship of our Education Minister, who expresses his deep regret that he cannotbe here, as he had hoped, to lead our delegation. [66] The reflexions I have to make mostly derive from the preliminary discussion in our National Commission. It seemed to us that the proposed pro- gramme called for some comment and that, al- though we readily agreed with the majority of its items, there were others which left us in doubt or evoked criticism. As this meeting is really the opening of a discussion, I will not defer these criti- cisms which, I am sure you will recognize, only spring from our interest in the health of the Organi- zation. [67] First, 1 would like to say that the pro- gramme’s greatest project—and, if circumstances are favourable, it will be a landmark in the history of mankind—is the project of fundamental education. ‘We intend to support it enthusiastically with what- ever means our little country will allow. We are not led to this decision by some vague ideal of the brotherhood of man or by some slightly more pre- cise idea of the essential conditions for democracy. We are led by very practical experience in our only colony, Greenland, where for some time we have been teaching the local people reading and writing in their own language (to which we have given a written form) and in Danish. We have watched these primitive people acquire culture and, little by little, self-government. Here is a most instructive experiment in changing the destiny of a small colony of human beings. [68] We know that we can interest a large section of the Danish people in more work of the same kind on a larger scale. To begin with, our elementary school-teachers, our high-school teachers and our adult educationists will doubtless be interested and will be able to interest their pupils. Thus Unesco’s ideal—in the form of realistic activity—will per- meate the minds of the rising generation in the primary schools and the workers’ schools, keystones of democratic civilization. [69] A small success achieved by our primary schools last year in unpretentious reconstruction (a school in Greece) showed us a path to follow, a way in which we could make Unesco’s work known and understood, and could thereby teach young people to co-operate in it. [70] Perhaps I need not say that we have equal faith in the importance of the work done by Unesco for the development of adult education in countries where primary schooling is already compulsory. [71] Our own particular interest in the problems of fundamental education does not prevent us from realizing that Unesco must concern itself with many MEETINGS 94 other forms of cultural activity. The building or rebuilding of primary, secondary and high schools, of libraries and museums in backward or devastated countries; the strengthening of cultural ties be- tween countries by appropriate practical methods, such as the exchange of teachers, students and scien- tific equipment, and finally by the co-ordination or founding of scientific organizations which demand international collaboration if they are to succeed— all these are essential parts of this vast undertaking. To read through Unesco’s draft programme for 1952 is to gain some conception—and it almost makes one’s head reel—of the vast need and the vast pos- sibilities for cultural activities on an international scale. [72] Here I want to emphasize the distinction I have just made between needs and possibilities. For now I come to the criticism that our delegation wishes to make on the proposed programme. We feel that we must firmly insist on the need for a spirit of acceptance. Probably the programme has already evoked such a spirit in its drafters, but we think they must go further along that road. With alarm we watch Unesco’s budget climbing to dan- gerous heights, while in our own national science and education budgets there are insistent demands for sacrifices and retrenchment. Those who draw up our budgets and who also have to decide upon our contribution to Unesco, will find it difficult to accept retrenchment on the one hand and expansion on the other. These material worries are really serious in our country at present. They force us to a scrupulous and perhaps harsh criticism of part of the proposed programme. [73] Without going into details which we shall have to discuss later, I will just give one example: the very costly Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind, which does not seem to us indispensable, especially at this difficult moment. I might men- tion other publications which could be dispensed with or left to others to produce. Let Unesco re- main the inspiration, the organizer and centre of a specific number of well-chosen international activi- ties; let it send its experts all over the world where they are needed; but in the field of publications let us restrict ourselves to those as obviously useful as the handbook called Study Abroad. And, whenever possible, let Unesco to a much larger extent call for active co-operation from countries directly inter- ested. Those, Mr. President, are the comments to which the proposed programme has given rise. [74] Before finishing I must here explain the cri- ticism made or implied in my remarks by telling you that public opinion in our country has not been completely won over to Unesco’s cause. Unesco’s high principles have no propaganda value in Denmark; they are preached in vain. Deeds are the best propaganda: deeds of which everyone —that is to say, the mass of the people, workers, peasants, small shopkeepers and civil servants—can   . J E : E E ا ل ‎ S E E . E E E
95 grd tic in.
11 Wit [74 coy to thd em be sta ab ing pre for sh [74 cal thi we ou] it tas paf [7] De = [78 sid   тер Pla pre thd rea sid ga in
95 PLENARY grasp the idea; deeds which they will find of prac- tical value; deeds whose reality they will believe in. I am absolutely convinced that realism such as I have described is a condition of any sure success with the public in our country. ; [75] We realize the results that have already been obtained in this direction and we pledge our continued co-operation in the tasks which remain to be done if Unesco is to succeed in all spheres of the work which it has already, for the most part, embarked upon. The struggle against difficulties, both external and internal, may be long. We must be prepared for that. Unesco’s work demands great staying power. There are two divergent theories about the general direction of its activity. Accord- ing to one, Unesco must play an active part in present-day problems, intervene in crises and work for peace. The other maintains that Unesco’s work ghould be indirect and long-term. In this conflict of views we take our stand on the latter policy. [76] Unesco is the non-political organ of a politi- cal organization. It works for peace, but it works through education, science and culture. Therefore we believe that in the most hotly debated clause of our Constitution the last part should be emphasized; it is there that Unesco’s sphere of activity and the tasks before it are laid down in unequivocal terms. A work so vast needs staying-power. We must be patient and confident. [77] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Denmark for his precise and very clear presentation, and I now call upon Mr. Malakul, Head of the dele- gation of Thailand. [78] Mr. L. Pin MALAKUL (Thailand) — Mr. Pre- sident, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation of Thailand, I wish to say, first of all, how happy we are to be with you all here in this great city of Paris. Next, I wish to thank the Executive Board, the Director-General and his staff, for the assistance Thailand has received from this Organization in the past few years. [79] To point out one major form of assistance, I have only to draw your attention to page 34 of the report of the Director-General. As a result of the Unesco Mission in 1949, we have framed a Ten-Year Plan to improve education in all respects from the pre-primary level to secondary and adult education. Unesco experts arrived one after another and, with their help, the project is now being carried out, and, I believe, is already making good progress. After reading the report of the Director-General, Mr. Pre- sident, I cannot help joining the Heads of other dele- gations who have spoken before me in congratulat- ing the Director-General upon the work recorded in MEETINGS 11-6 the report. This naturally covers a wide field, and I am glad to see that fundamental education is given a place of importance. For fundamental edu- cation is really very important. Yesterday, the Director-General told us in his speech that more than half the population of the world is illiterate. Let me tell you from my experience at the Mysore Seminar, that, if you wish to do away with illite- racy, millions of teachers are needed. And when we realize that literacy is only the means to an end, and not an end in itself, the task is even more overwhelming. I know that such a task is beyond the means of this Organization but, if the Unesco of today will do its best—as I am sure it will—the Unesco of tomorrow may achieve the ultimate aim. [80] In my opinion the Director-General's report is very stimulating. Since there is so much to do in this wide world, Unesco, with limited means, may not be able to solve major problems directly. But I believe that much can be done indirectly—as when an international seminaris followed up by a national seminar. [81] May I now tell you how Unesco has in- directly influenced national enterprises? A fortnight ago, on the eve of my departure from homefor this Conference, His Majesty the King of Thailand gra- ciously commanded that a new national system of education be put into force to pave the way for more effective methods in fundamental education. In this we can discern Unesco’s aim and ideal. [82] A clause in the Royal Command reads: “Edu- cation shall be considered No. 1 in the priority list of national enterprises”. Ladies and gentlemen, stimulating work and stimulating reports put stimulating ideas into the minds of men. Before concluding let me draw yourattention to the early part of the report of the Director-General. A Regional Conference of National Commissions for Southern, South Eastern and East Asia and the South Pacific will be held at Bangkok in November of this year. The Director-General expresses his hopes for its success. Let us then make it a success and, as the host country, Thailand will be pleased to welcome delegates from all Member States con- cerned. [83] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Head of the delegation of Thailand for his remarks and I call to the attention of all delegates the kind invitation he has extended to each one of us. We thank you. We have not concluded the list of speakers who have requested the floor this afternoon. Does anyone else wish to speak? As there are no requests the meeting is adjourned. The meeting rose at 17.42 p.m.   A S T s e — — a i o r e E E o