PROCEDURE COMM TT TE TENTH MEETING Saturday, 7 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Tevrik Sacram (Turkey), later: Mr. BHUNTHIN ATTAGARA (Thailand) Amendments to the Rules of Procedure Proposed by the Executive Board (continuation) (document 6C/PRO/11). Number and Election of Officers of the General Conference and its Subsidiary Bodies (con- tinuation). Rure 30—FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMITTEE. [1] In order to dispel any fears which might have been felt, Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- eculive Board) explained that the Board had no intention whatsoever of trying to force a list of can- didates upon the General Conference, which would remain entirely free to take its own decision. In order that there might be no further doubts in that connexion, he proposed that paragraph (1) of Rule
30 should be worded as followed:
1. On the report of the Executive Board, submitted for information, the Nominations Committee shall draw up and present to the General Conference a list of nomi- nations for the post of President and 10 Vice-Presidents of the Conference. [2] Subject to appropriate drafting changes to bring the French and English versions into line, Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) agreed to the amendment. [8] Paragraph (1) of Rule 30, thus amended, was adopted by 16 votes to 0, with 1 abstention. RULE 34—GENERAL COMMITTEE OF THE CONFERENCE. [4] The amended version of Rule 34 was adopted without discussion. RuLE 38—ELECTIONS. [6] The amendment to Rule 38 was adopted without discussion. RuLE 47—ELECTIONS OF OFFICERS. [6] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) explained that according to his delegation’s view of the posi- tion created by the application of that Rule, the exist- ing procedure would remain unchanged and there would therefore be no report or suggestions from the Executive Board to the Nominations Committee con- cerning the appointment of Chairmen of Commis- sions and Committees. As there was no mention of the Executive Board in the proposed Rule 47, it might be presumed that the Board would not be concerned in the appointment of the Chairmen of Commissions and Committees. On the other hand, the Board clearly took the view—strongly supported by the United Kingdomthat if sensible suggestions were to be made regarding Vice-Presidents, it would need to bear in mind possible Chairmen of Commissions and Committees. Moreover, experience had shown that it would be necessary to do so. Nevertheless, Sir John was in favour of advancing slowly and con- sidered that, for the time being, it would be unwise to associate the Executive Board with the appointment of Chairmen of Commissions and Committees. [7] Replying to Sir John Maud, Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Executive Board) emphasized that there was no question of interference by the Executive Board in the election of the officers of Commissions and Committees. The Board’s only wish was to assist the Nominations Committee in its task, leaving it entirely free to take its own decisions. [8] Mr. STONE (Australia) did not believe that the explanation given by the representative of the Ex- ecutive Board had solved the difficulty. If Rule 30 made no mention of the Executive Board in relation to the nomination of the Chairmen of Commissions, the General Conference would not have the advantage of the Executive Board’s advice in their appointment. He suggested a drafting amendment to overcome that anomaly. [9] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought that Rule 30, as amended, made it sufficiently clear that the Executive Board was to play some part in the appointment of the first small group of respons- ible officers of the General Conference. The Pre- sident and Vice-Presidents of the Conference could then join in the consultations on the appointment of the officers of Commissions and Committees, after reaching agreement with the Executive Board, if they wished to do so. [10] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) saw no objection to introducing some sort of unwritten law, making it clear, without ex- plicitly stating it in the Rules, that the Executive Board could make suggestions, for purposes of
729 PROCEDURE information only, regarding nominations for the offices Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen of-Commissions and Committees. [11] Seconding the remarks of the delegate of Bra- zil, Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought that it was enough, for the time being, for the Executive Board to draw up lists of nominations for the offices of President and Vice-Presidents of the Conference. [12] The Greek delegate’s suggestion was seconded by Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom). [13] The proposed amendment to Rule 47 was adopted unanimously. Co-ordination of the Work of Unesco with that of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies (documents 6C/PRO/13 and 6C/OXR/5 Add. 1). [14] The CHAIRMAN briefly explained the contents of the documents and welcomed Mr. McNeil (United Kingdom) to the discussion. [15] Mr. McNEIL (United Kingdom) said that the fact that the discussions in Unesco proceeded with so much agreement wasin itself a great achievement, but he felt bound to express regret at the absence of two delegations. He had always hoped, and indeed still hoped, that those delegations, with whom mem- bers were often in political disagreement, would take their full part in the work of the United Nations at a technical level. [16] While Unesco had so far been fortunate in its senior officers, who had in the past been largely re- sponsible for shaping the programme, that year, on the other hand, the programme had been largely influenced by speakers from the body of the meet- ing. That was a great advance, as only when the programme was formed by the thoughtful behaviour of all members would Unesco have achieved maturity. [17] The United Kingdom delegation welcomed most particularly the introduction into the pro- gramme of the special project for Fundamental Edu- cation and the scheme for Associate Membership. The apathy and opposition to Unesco to be found in some places—not in the United Kingdom—might be partly due to the fact that the Organization had in the past allowed the public to believe that it was in the miracle-working business. It was impossible for any agency dealing with large groups to make rapid or dramatic changes and the United Kingdom delegation was happy to believe that the misconcep- tion would be removed by the directness of the pro- gramme for Fundamental Education. The growth of literacy was slow and that of social and political awareness slower still. The spread of technical information regarding hygiene and agricultural methods would inevitably take a very long time;
0 707117111 TEE nevertheless, it was essential that the obligation to undertake their tasks in those fields should unhesitat- ingly be accepted by the more fortunate countries. [18] The United Kingdom had special responsi- bilities to its non-self-governing territories, with regard to the teaching of the concept of citizenship. His Government had for many years pursued a vigorous policy for the extension of education in those areas, and Mr. McNeil hoped that it would be possible for it to make a useful contribution of ex- perience and advice in that field. [19] The Members of Unesco would need to face the fact that their efforts would be questioned and criticized. They should be constantly aware that joint undertakings through Unesco were no escape from national efforts. Unesco would kindle the fires, but governments and peoples would have to accept the responsibility for feeding the fires once they were lighted. [20] Mr. McNeil begged the Committee to believe that, if that year again the United Kingdom dele- gation had been cautious about the size of Unesco’s budget, it was not merely due to a traditional attitude. There was a limit to the amount of first-class brains, of energy and of ideas available for any single pur- pose. Selection was therefore necessary, and the Uniled Kingdom delegation hoped that it was assist- ing that process in making criticisms of the budget. [21] With regard to Associate Membership, Mr. Mc- Neil recalled that the United Kingdom could not answer for the reactions of its non-self-governing territories to the proposals which had been sub- mitted. It was for the areas themselves to- decide what use they would make of the provisions govern- ing such Membership. Nevertheless, the National Commissions of those territories might be of great value in carrying out the work of fundamental edu- cation. Associate Membership would provide the variety of experience and advice that would be necessary when the areas concerned came to enjoy full Membership. [22] Passing on to the question of co-ordinating the work of Unesco with that of the United Nations (document 6C/PRO/13), he observed that the words “deeming it eminently desirable” in the preamble to the resolution, were an extreme understatement. The work of co-ordination was urgent and essential, and it was extremely important that Unesco should apply itself with energy to the task. The Fundamental Education project would provide a very great field for co-ordination with the other Specialized Agencies. The Member States had a moral obligation to pursue such projects, which moreover, constituted one of the most satisfactory methods of defending demo- cratic practices and institutions. [23] As the Vice-Chairmen were absent, the CHAIR- MAN requested the Rapporteur to replace him in the Chair.    X-10 PROCEDURE [24] Mr. Bhunthin Attagara (Thailand), (Rappor- teur), took the Chair. [25] The SECRETARY announced that the Official and External Relations Commission, in a letter dated
10 July, had requested the Procedure Committee to consider the question of co-ordinating Unesco’s activities with those of the United Nations and Spe- cialized Agencies (document 6C/OXR/5, Addendum
1, section 2) and to report thereon direct to the Gen- eral Conference. [26] The new Rules which it was proposed, in paragraphs (1) and (2) of document 6C/PRO/13, to include in the Rules of Procedure, corresponded to the model rules of procedure A, B and C adopted by the Economic and Social Council’s Adminis- trative Committee on co-ordination in May 1951. The provisions of model rules D and E, concerning deadlines for the submission of documents and resolu- tions of the General Conference, raised rather difficult problems which might complicate the Organi- zation’s work. It was therefore proposed to defer the study of those amendments until a later session. [27] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) proposed that the first paragraph of the preamble to the draft resolution (document 6C/PRO/13) should be replaced by the following words: The General Conference, Desirous of ensuring the closest co-ordination of its work with that of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. [28] The preamble, with the above amendment, was adopted. [29] Paragraphs (1) and (2) of the draft resolution were adopted. [30] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that it would probably be difficult for Unesco to adopt immediately the third part of the model rules, relating to the submission of documents and reso- lutions of the General Conference. Postponement of the matter was therefore proposed in paragraph (3) of the draft resolution. [31] Mr. GROS (United Nations) asked whether it was proposed to refer the matter to the next session of the Conference or, in the vaguer terms of the draft resolution, to “a later session”. [32] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that the Director-General would certainly report on the prob- lem to the next session of the Conference, which would then be in a position to take a decision. [33] Mr. CATES (United States of America) wished to amend the phrase “to refer to a later session” to COM MIST TEE read “to refer to the next session”. Moreover, in his view the introductory consideration did not properly convey the reason for the decision by which it was followed. He therefore proposed that the paragraph should be amended to read: Considering, further, that the proposed revision of Unesco's Conference schedule will require further study of the deadline for the submission of proposals for new activities. That wording would show that the real reason for the decision was the change in Conference arrange- ments. [34] The amendment of the United States delegation was approved. [35] Report on the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies (Item
6.9.2 of the Agenda) (document 6C/PRO/9). The resolution, as amended, was adopted. [36] Commenting on the Director-General's report, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) announced that Guatemala and Sweden, having acceded to the Convention since the Director-General had sent out his circularletter, should be added to the list of Member States given in the second paragraph of the report. [37] Furthermore, Cuba, Burma, Ceylon and Bel- gium hadstated in their replies that they were taking the necessary steps to accede to the Convention and, in the meantime, to apply its provisions as far as possible. [38] In order to hasten the accession of other Mem- ber States, the CHAIRMAN proposed the following draft resolution to the Committee: The General Conference, Having studied the Director-General’s report on the position regarding accession to the Convention on the Pri- vileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies (document 6C/PRO/9), Considering that many Member Stales have not yet acceded to the Convention on the Privileges and Immu- nities of the Specialized Agencies in respect of Unesco, Considering that, to enable Unesco to achieve its aims and carry out its functions effectively, it is essential for Member States to accede to the said Convention and extend its provisions to Unesco, Invites those Member States which have not so far acceded to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies, in respect of Unesco, to lodge with he Secretary-General of the United Nations, at the earliest possible moment, the instrument embodying their accession to that Convention in respect of Unesco, Recommends to those Member States that, pending their formal accession to the said Convention, they should immediately accord to Unesco, as far as possible, the benefit of the privileges and immunities therein provided.        | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
731 PROCEDURE [39] The draft resolution was seconded by the dele- gates of the United Kingdom and Norway. [40] Mr. MILLS (Australia) wondered whether such a resolution would add anything useful to the Director-General’s circular letter. [41] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that a re- solution of the General Conference, which consisted of the representatives of all Member States, would certainly add much weight to the Director-General’s representations. [42] Mr. CATES (United States of America) be- lieved that all Member States were well aware of the need for the Convention. The original resolution, adopted at the Third Session, still stood. If States had not ratified it, they were suffering either from lethargy or from procedural difficulties. As the matter was at the moment before the Congress of the United States of America, Mr. Cates would abstain from voting on any newresolution, since he could not do anything which might give the impression that he was attempting to bring pressure to bear on Con- gress. In his opinion, results could be better achieved by stimulating national legislatures than by passing another resolution. [43] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that, in approving Unesco’s Constitution and particularly Article XII, Member States had already pledged them- selves to grant the Organization the privileges and immunities to which the Convention referred. [44] The question of principle was therefore settled. The only point of the draft resolution was to call governments’ attention once again to the fact that it was important for Unesco that they should accede to the Convention at the earliest possible date. [45] Mr. LUCET (France) seconded the draft re- solution, but wished to suggest a drafting change. In the third paragraph, he proposed to replace the words “it is essential . . . for Member States to ac- cede”, by the words: “it is highly desirable . . . that ”Member States should accede . . .”. [46] Mr. seconded the amendment. SABA (Legal Adviser) [47] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) pointed out that the Director-General’s reminder had been cir- culated only on 28 May 1951, and that therefore it was too soon to approve a further resolution on the same matter. [48] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stressed the fact that all the Conference had to do was to ask Member States to see that their governments took the neces- sary steps to ensure that their respective parliaments agreed as soon as possible to accede to the Convention. COMMITTEE X-10 [49] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought that it was difficult for governmental representatives at the General Conference to adopt a resolution addressed to the majority of Member States. In his circular letter (CL/515), the Director-General had discharged his duty in recalling the matter to them. The letter was of such recent date that there seemed to be no reason, for the time being, to send a reminder to those who had not yet replied. [60] Mr. McNEIL (United Kingdom) considered that no Member State could feel itself unduly hurried, seeing that the principle had been agreed three years before. Furthermore, all Member States had impli- citly accepted the Convention when becoming Mem- bers of the United Nations. The Director-General was therefore not unreasonable in requesting the General Conference to approve a formal resolution asking that the Convention should be put into effect. The United Kingdom delegation had secured the ratification of the Convention by the United Kingdom legislature, and Mr. McNeil felt that other Member States would wish to honour their promises. [61] Mr. TUAN (China) agreed with the views ex- pressed by the United Kingdom delegate. [62] Mr. MILLS (Australia) thought that, if the Director-General’s letter had not convinced govern- ments of the necessity for action, a further resolution was unlikely to do so. He therefore proposed that action should be delayed until replies to the letter had been received. [63] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) made it clear that his Government had no objection to the Convention itself; he did not therefore wish to impede any action which might hasten its adoption. Nevertheless, as he agreed with the Australian delegate, he would abstain from voting. [64] Mr. CATES (United States of America) re- minded delegates that they were not discussing the value of the Convention but the desirability of adopt- ing the resolution before them. They should adopt the resolution only if there was a satisfactory reason for doing so. The argument put forward by the United Kingdom representative—that the resolution was harmless—was not in itself adequate. [55] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) drew the attention of the Committee to the fact that it was not a ques- tion of requiring, but merely of requesting Member States to ratify the Convention. He was accordingly unable to understand the difficulties raised by certain delegations in connexion with the circular letter on the subject sent by the Director-General to Govern- ments. What the Conference was asked to do was merely to support the request, and in no way to make    X-11 PROCEDURE a demand of, nor to impose an obligation on, Mem- ber States. [56] The Cuban Government was in process of taking the action necessary for approval of the Con- vention, and accordingly the Cuban delegation sup- ported the Director-General’s report. [57] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) felt that it was unnecessary to vote on the French amendment. COMMITTEE He would be happy to accept as the English equi- valent of that amendment the words ““eminently desirable”. [68] The amendment was approved. [59] The resolution, as amended, was adopted. The meeting rose at 6 p.m. ELEVENTH MEETING Monday, 9 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Draft Amendments to the Rules of Procedure (continuation). Membership and Functions of the Budget Com- mittee (document 6C/PRO/3). [1] Mr. GUIGNOLET (Rapporteur of the Budget Committee) was happy to state that the arrangement whereby the Budget Committee had begun its work a week before the opening of the General Conference had produced excellent results. The Committee had been able to study each section of the Programme in more detail and with more coherence, owing to the constant attendance, whilst discussion was in progress, of the head of the Department concerned. [2] Mr. Guignolet recalled that, in the preliminary report (document 6C/BUD/1) which it had sub- mitted at the beginning of the session of the General Conference, the Budget Committee had mentioned only decisions that had been reached unanimously, so as to avoid influencing the decisions to be taken by the Commissions. Experience had shown, how- ever, that it would be wiser in future to provide a fuller report, so as to spare the Programme Com- mission from having to examine purely budgetary questions. [3] Mr. Guignolet went on to say that the Budget Committee had considered the question of internal organization and had made suggestions to the Ad- ministrative Commission regarding the re-organi- zation of the Secretariat. He thought it would be advantageous to ask the Budget Committee to ex- amine the budgetary implications “of all the ques- tions submitted to the various Commissions. [4] With regard to the membership of the Budget Committee, Mr. Guignolet thought that the agreed Mr. TEvriK SAGLAM (Turkey) figure of 11 members was satisfactory; discussions were apt to be shorter and more to the point at small meetings, andit was easier to obtain a quorum. He realized, however, that some delegations considered
11 too small a number in relation to the 64 dele- gations attending the General Conference; should the Commission decide to increase the membership of the Committee, Mr. Guignolet suggested that the number ought not to exceed 15 and that, as dis- cussions might become lengthier, the Committee should begin its work 10 days, instead of a week, before the first meeting of the General Conference. [5] The Committee considered, Mr. Guignolet conti- nued, that the time had not yet come to alter the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. For the Seventh Session, it would presumably suffice to change paragraph 3 of Rule 25 of the Rules of Pro- cedure, so as to give the Budget Committee legal status, and to adopt a resolution defining its func- tions. A draft resolution to that effect was given on page 3 of document 6C/BUD/3; it reiterated the draft contained in document 6C/PRO/3, with an addition to paragraph 6, providing for the ex amination by the Budget Committee of the Auditor's report. That examination, in conjunction with verbal enquiries made of the Auditor in the course of meetings, would probably provide explanations of the discrepancies that had come to light between actual and estimated expenditure; it would thus serve to guide the Committee in preparing the esti- mates for the following year. Mr. SANDBO (Norway) drewattention to docu ment 6C/BUR/1 and, in particular, to page 3, para- [6] graph 2A. His delegation fully agreed with the procedure outlined in that paragraph, and he asked