241 СЕМЕНА mittee) was very anxious not to delay the work of the General Conference, and was grateful for the extra two days allowed. [61] It was decided to adopt the recommendation, SECOND COMMITTEE 111-2 made in advance of the Conference, that delegations should be allowed a maximum of 15 minutes each in speaking on the Programme. The meeting rose at 5 p.m. MEETING Thursday, 21 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Organization of the Work of the Session (con- tinuation) (document 6C/BUR/1). [1] Mr. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Com- mittee) said that his Committee would be able to submit its report to the Conference at the afternoon meeting, unless it felt obliged to give further con- sideration to a particularly delicate question, which would require an additional meeting. Should that be the case, there would be no point in submitting the final report until Saturday morning's plenary meeting. [2] The Committee had asked him to inform the General Committee of the difficult problem of China. There were two questions to be settled: the first related to the validity of the credentials submitted by the representatives of the Formosa Government, and the second, to the possibility of allowing the Chinese delegation to vote, despite the fact that China had not paid her contribution. [3] The Committee had arrived at a satisfactory conclusion on the first point. As for the second, it felt that to use discretionary powers for the benefit of a State which had failed to meet its obligations might have considerable repercussions upon the Budget; that was a matter for the General Com- mittee to consider. [4] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed that the Crendentials Committee was not the body best qualified to consider the financial repercussions of the question. He asked the Director-General whether the most correct solution would not be to refer the problem to the Procedure Committee, once the report of the Credentials Committee had been adopted by the General Conference. [6] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that, as legal considerations were foremost in the matter, it Mr. HowLAnD SARGEANT (United States of America) was certainly one for the Procedure Committee to deal with. [6] Mr. LAPIE (France) and Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) supported the United Kingdom dele- gate’s proposal. [7] The General Committee therefore decided that the question of the Chinese delegation’s right to vote should be referred to the Procedure Committee. Admission of New Members. [8] The CHAIRMAN announced that the procedure proposed for the General Conference was the follow- ing: the Chairman of the Executive Board would report on the proposed admission of five new Mem- bers. After the discussion and voting were con- cluded, the representatives of the new Member States admitted would each make a brief speech. [9] The proposed procedure was approved. Seat of the Seventh Session. [10] The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the Executive Board, at its Twenty-sixth Session, had taken note of the Director-General’s report on the place and date of the next Session. He summarized the suggestions in that report (document 26/EX/6). [11] The Chairman pointed out that the Confer- ence would have to come to a decision on the matter as rapidly as possible; he hoped that a report could be submitted to the afternoon meeting. [12] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) said that, soon after his arrival in Paris, he had suggested, in
1-2 GENERAL virtue of a decision reached by his Government, that the Seventh Session of Unesco’s General Con- ference should be held in Uruguay. Since the elec- tions, the new Government had ratified that de- cision. Consequently, Uruguay maintained its offer, and gave an assurance that full hospitality would be extended to all delegates who visited the country. [13] In view of the financial arguments invoked by the Director-General and the comments of the Executive Board, however, Mr. Zabala Muniz would ask the delegates to accept his Government's offer in principle, in the hope that the Eighth Conference would be held in the capital of Uruguay. [14] The CHAIRMAN thanked Uruguay for its offer of hospitality, which was very much appreci- ated by all members. The spirit shown by Uruguay in the matter was, he considered, highly com- mendable. [15] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) wished to assure the delegate of Uruguay that the Executive Board had considered the proposal in the same spirit by which it had been inspired. It was in that spirit of international fraternity that the Conference was preparing to take its final decision on the seat of the Seventh Session. [16] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to con- firm that the delegate of Uruguay had approached him with his Government's invitation. The Di- rector-General had been obliged to explain the financial difficulties which its acceptance would entail, and the delegate of Uruguay, with a gener- osity which only added to the Director-General's regret, had immediately shown that he placed Unesco's ideals and interests above all considerations of national prestige. Both as Director-General of Unesco and as a Latin American, he felt called upon to pay tribute to the exemplary generosity and loyalty unfailingly shown by Uruguay. [17] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) thanked the Chairman of the General Committee, the Chairman of the Executive Board, and the Director-General for their flattering references to Uruguay. His sug- gestion had been made with the sole intention of contributing to the prosperity of Unesco and the efficacy of its work. Though his country was poor from the material point of view, it is not so, spirit- ually, and in that sense it offered its co-operation in the pursuit of Unesco’s lofty aims and in its efforts to serve the cause of freedom and world peace. [18] The CHAIRMAN asked that the Executive Board’s recommendation should be submitted to the General Conference. [19] The proposal was adopted. COMMITTEE 249 Consideration by the General Conference of the Budget Estimates for 1952. [20] The CHAIRMAN proposed that there should be a plenary meeting of the Conference on Saturday,
23 June, for discussion of item 13 of the Agenda: Presentation by the Director-General of the Budget Estimates for 1952; report of the Budget Committee; discussion of the Report; and provisional decision on the total budget figure. He added that, before the discussion could be held in plenary meeting, there would have to be a meeting of the Adminis- trative Committee to discuss the financing of the
1952 Programme. [21] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was entirely in favour of that course. Discussion of the budget ceiling would be very difficult, even after the mea- sures that the General Committee had just adopted, for the discussion depended upon the solution of three major problems: the seat of the Conference, the method of financing the Budget, and the salaries of locally-recruited staff—questions which he would ask the Administrative Commission to consider at the earliest possible moment. [22] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) said the Commission would make all possible haste, provided that the report of the Budget Committee could be made available as soon as it was needed. [23] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that, in any case, the Administrative Commission could proceed immediately to consider the methods of financing the budget. [24]! Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) said that, even allowing for the utmost diligence on the part of the Administrative Commission, it seemed wise to assume that the question of the budget ceiling could not usefully be submitted to the plenary Con- ference until the meeting to be held on Monday,
25 June, which would make it possible for the Ad- ministrative Commission to hold a second meeting in the meantime. [25] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stressed the ex- ceptional urgency of the problem: the Programme Commission could not do any effective work until a vote had been taken on the budget ceiling. He had therefore to urge the Chairman of the Administrative Commission to make every effort to ensure that the General Committee would be able to convene a plenary meeting of the Conference as early as the afternoon of 23 June. [26] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme
243 GENT NAT Commission) urgently requested the Administrative Commission to respond to the Director-General's appeal. [27] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) strongly agreed with the Director-General that it was highly desirable to have some report from the Adminis- trative Commission by the Saturday; he realized that there would not be time for that Commission to submit a full report, but any information it could supply would be better than nothing. [28] The CHAIRMAN, summing up the discussion, said that, if the Administrative Commission met twice on Friday 22 June, it could advise the General Committee the following day whether or not dis- cussion of the Budget could be begun at a plenary meeting of the Conference on the afternoon of Saturday, 23 June. [29]! Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) promised to do his utmost, but urgently asked to be allowed to report to the General Committee, on the morning of 23 June, on whether that afternoon's plenary meeting of the Conference would or would not be able to begin discussion of the problem. [30] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) announced that the Committee's report, comprising about 20 pages, could be handed to the Secretariat that evening (Thursday 21 June). He asked whether the Secretariat would be able to prepare the report for submission to the Adminis- trative Commission by the Friday. [31] The CHAIRMAN confirmed that the report could be ready, in two languages, for the Adminis- trative Commission by the Friday. He proposed that the Administrative Commission should submit, by the Saturday morning, a full enough report to enable the date for the plenary meeting to be fixed. [32] That proposal was adopted. COMMITTEE IIT-2 Request for the Addition of a New Item to the Agenda of the Conference. [33] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) proposed, on behalf of the Executive Board and in accordance with Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure, that a new item should be added to the Agenda of the Conference. The new item would be entitled: “Proposed amendment of the Directives adopted by the General Conference at its Fifth Ses- sion concerning relations with International Non- Governmental Organizations.” [34] The General Committee agreed to transmit the request to the General Conference, which would have to take its decision by a two-thirds majority. Nomination of Members of the Committee on Reports of Member States. [35] The CHAIRMAN said that the following had already been appointed as officers of the Committee on Reports of Member States: Chairman: Philippines; Vice-Chairman: Rapporteur: Greece. Liberia; [36] There were thus seven more members of the Committee to be elected. Reports in good order and of high quality had been received from the following countries: Australia, Belgium, France, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom and United States of America. [37] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) proposed that the Committee on Reports of Member States should consist of the three Members already ap- pointed, plus representatives of the seven countries mentioned. [38] The proposal was adopted. The meeting rose at 11.10 a.m.